GOOD MORNING EVERYBODY. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live and we are early because we've got some jobs data. We've got a lot to talk about. Obviously, we had Nvidia earnings. It seems like Jensen might have saved the market and become Santa Claus for 2025. Let's get right into that jobs data came out about 5 minutes ago and then we'll analyze and see what we've got going on. Here we go. This is September non-farm payrolls. Are up a robust 119,000. 119,000 would be the best since April when we were up 158,000 in the rear view mirror. Well, last month was downgraded from 22,000 to minus4,000. Now, if we look at what's going on with the unemployment rate, it ticked up from 4.3 to 4.4. That was unexpected. 4.4 would uh last time we were at that level. Boy, I have to go back a ways. October of 2021 when it was 4.5%. Now, if we look at labor force participation rate, it ticked up. That's a good thing. 62.4. 4 equals where we were in May. You have to go to April of this year when it was 62.6 to find a higher number in terms of the earnings. Average hourly earnings month over month up 210. That's a bit on the week side. We're expecting up 3/10 up 210 equals where we were in June to find a lower number. You are going in the wayback machine to August of 23 when it was up one10enth. Take a year-over-year perspective. This gets better from 3.7 our last look and expectation to 3.8. 3.8 would be the best since July when it was 3.9 because these have been trending lower. The high water mark though for the year is 3.9 and we've had four months of that. The first three of the year were 3.9%. If we look at the uh hours worked and this is always important. It remains at 34.2. To find a lower number, you're going to January when it was 34.1. And finally, we get U6, the undermployment rate. It was 8.1 our last look. It comes in at 8%. 8% would equal where we were in February. To find a higher number, you're going all the way back to October of 2021. Now, we have initial jobless claims. This is for the week of November 15th. As I said, there's weeks missing. We're expecting 227,000 comes in at 220,000. These numbers do not reflect nervousness in the labor market. They've been very well behaved. 220,000 would be the lowest level of claims since mid July. And finally, on continuing claims, it ramped up just a bit. 1,974,000, and that would be the highest level since uh November of 2021. we see that interest rates had gyrated a bit. Uh but after the
>> Okay, so those are the job numbers. These were the very important numbers that were supposed to come out today. Uh folks, we're looking at essentially an increase of 119,000 jobs, which is quite the number in terms of the uh amount of jobs that we got. Way better than expectations, quite frankly. way way way better than expectations and it's signaling that well we might not have that many issues in the labor market perceptually. I think there's a lot of nuance to this that we'll break down but this jobs data right here 119,000 jobs above expectations of 53,000 uh unemployment rate up to 4.4% above expectations of 4.3% that's the highest since October 2021. Now again, remember that is September, not October. A lot of the announcements we saw, we got a new announcement by this morning in Verizon, uh 13,000 more layoffs. Amazon, UPS, Intel, American Airlines, all those companies that we saw laying off people in October. You know, that that probably counts in the October jobs data because it happened in October. But we don't have that October jobs data. The BLS yesterday, Bureau of Labor Statistics said that we are not going to get that October data. You might be saying, why are we not going to get that data? I don't really have an answer for you, but that is officially what the BLS said. we are not going to get that October data. The November data is going to come out um on December 10th, which is the day of the FOMC. So, the problem here and the reason why rate code probabilities went from 50 to 35% is because the Fed is missing a crucial piece of data for October. However, the Fed is getting a crucial piece of data for September, which is way better than expected. The question becomes, is it enough to say that we don't need to cut rates given that the job market was relatively healthy in September? Uh if we don't know what happened in October, now even though we added 53,000 more jobs than expected, unemployment is at the highest level since October 2021 at 4 and a half or 4.4%. Remember, this was three and a half% at the end of October of of 2023. So, we are up a significant amount since then. If that gets anywhere near 4.7 4.8 obviously we are going to see that impact on the broader economy if we have that many jobs get laid off. Now it's up to the Fed to kind of make a conclusion on how they think of the September jobs report the upcoming November jobs report the lack of the October jobs report and the increase in the unemployment rate. However, is there an argument and we're going to find out today. Is there an argument uh that the market doesn't care anymore? The market doesn't care anymore. I mean, we're going to get into Nvidia earnings, but as you can see, stocks in the pre-market, Nvidia not really budging, up 4 and a.5%. AMD still up 3%, Tesla up 2%, Oracle up 3%, Meta up 2%, S&P 500 up 1.4%. It's down slightly from 673, but still holding 67197. Is there an argument that the Nvidia earnings were so good and so strong, which we're going to talk about, but my goodness though, we needed that type of a quarter from Jensen and boy did he deliver. Uh, were those earnings good enough for the market to overlook this? Or when the market opens, do we dump because of the data being too good, which means we're not getting a rake in. And if we don't get a rake up, we're going to have bigger problems in the economy and then Nvidia is not good enough. I don't know. But in the next hour, we're going to find out kind of how the market goes back and forth on this. Um but nonetheless, this is kind of what we're seeing in the context of this data and this is quite incredible. Oh yeah, you're right. Jobs date is December 16th, not on the 10th. The Fed FOMC meeting is on the 10th. So the Fed's not even going to have the December jobs data or the October job, sorry, November jobs data, which makes this even more complicated because this is the only piece of data they get. I mean, they'll get a couple more things over the next coming weeks like PPI, CPI, etc., But they're not going to get the November report until six days after FOMC. So they literally have to now judge it on the perception of the October report, the September report we just got. And then the increase in unemployment up from 4.3 to 4.6. I mean, it's a difficult thing for the Fed. In my opinion, it shouldn't be that difficult. There's enough headlines to easily say, hey, maybe we like should be cutting Fed probabilities right here from 35 to 39%. At one point, it was at 27% yesterday. So you are getting uh about a 7% boost which is good on the rate cut probabilities but it might not be enough and ultimately over the next coming weeks we're going to get a bit more data. So for those that are just joining the jobs data is 119,000 jobs in the month of September above expectations which is good. Uh we are not getting the October data which most people perceive as bad which would be kind of the warning sign to the Fed to cut rates and unemployment is now 4.4. 4 versus 4.3. Last thing we'll say on the Fed real quick and then we'll get to Nvidia is the Fed minutes came out yesterday and they were not pretty at all. Just being quite frank, I mean most participants in the Fed felt that it is appropriate to keep rates unchanged for the end of the year. Uh only as several of them suggested further cuts and most participants were concerned that cuts could add to the risk of higher inflation. Uh which is another thing that really tanked the rate cut probabilities yesterday to 35%. So the Fed is not on the side of rate cuts. data could change their mind. We're not giving them the type of data that would change their mind outside of the unemployment rate going up by 0.1%. But realistically, you need like a pretty crappy jobs report to get them to think, hey, it is time to cut and that matters more than inflation. And we're going to find out if they end up getting the data or if they end up perceiving the data is going to be enough to cut. So that's what we got on the jobs data. However, it might not matter. It might not matter because Nvidia absolutely smashed. Yesterday was one of the best earnings we have ever seen from Nvidia and they really needed to deliver like they had to put up some big freaking numbers to save this market. And based on the pre-market action, it really does feel we'll see what happens when the market opens. Google trading at alltime highs. Cipher got a new deal in the data center space. Iran, Nebius, all these companies getting a move. Google right there. Look at that. 30435. That's up another 4% after being up 3% yesterday. That's not easy for a company like Google to do. Amcor, shout out to all my folks that got Amcore. That's up 10% in the pre-markets. That is because of Nvidia. Core Wee, wow, I didn't even look at Cor this morning. That's up 10%. Nebus is up 8%. Oracle's up 3%. Meta's back above 600 at 2%. And then the S&P 500 up 1.55%. It really, really feels like Santa Claus is back. And that Santa Claus is dressed as the CEO of Nvidia. So, what did we get on the earnings? I'm sure a lot of people were watching with me yesterday. Thank you for everyone who was here uh with Tanner, Neil, Jose, and I watching these earnings. This was a big one. Regardless of if you own Nvidia stock or not, they really needed to up the ante and deliver in a world in which most of the market feels there is an AI or not most of the market, but the perception of many parts of the market feels there's an AI bubble. Capex is not real. AI is fake. It's not useful. this whole revolution over the past two and a half years is meant for nothing. It's all going to collapse. It's a bubble. Michael Bur yada yada. I mean, you had all these concerns over the past couple weeks, which led to this 4% decline in the S&P 500. And Nvidia delivered 57 billion in revenue. That's up 62% year-over-year. A$130 of EPS, that's a beat as well, up 60% year-over-year. Data center revenue. Street thought they would come in at 49 billion. They came in at 51.2. Up 66% year-over-year. 73.4% gross margins. The most important thing that I got from the quarter was the revenue guide. Street thought they would come in at 61 billion. They came in at 65. It's a 4 billion increase on the revenue guide. I mean, I don't think they beat by four billion on revenue guide in a couple quarters. Like usually they beat by a billion and a half, two billion. This one was a monster revenue beat and I think Nvidia knew they had to show that type of a beat to continue getting the market to not be that afraid about a bubble. Jensen Juan says Blackwell sales are off the charts and cloud GPUs are sold out. Comput demand keeps accelerating and compounding across training and inference, each growing exponentially. We've entered the virtuous cycle of AI. The AI ecosystem is scaling fast with more new foundation model makers, more AI startups across more industries and in more countries. AI is going everywhere doing everything all at once. The first thing that he started off with uh on the earnings call was some people think AI is a bubble. We see it differently. And then he goes on for the next five minutes to explain why we're not in a bubble, why a lot of this is very real. all the different use cases of AI from robotics to way mode to Tesla FSD to agentic workflows etc etc and he basically try I mean implicitly he was telling everyone to shut the hell up and realize that this is a company that is putting up numbers that has never been seen before at a scale and size that can only be dreamt of I mean with the fact that we are living at this time in this market in this economy to see these types of charts the scaling from a billion in revenue a couple years ago to 51 billion every quart. I mean, this is just unbelievable for Nvidia, but we're seeing it. And the question then becomes, is all is this fake? Is all this a bubble? Is all of this hoopla? Is all this just going to randomly collapse? Is there no infrastructure or foundational paradigm for why Nvidia is growing this much? Is it all just deals that are fake and manufactured? It's like, no, there is way more demand than supply. As for Jensen, they are getting the GPU shipped as fast as pos possible. there is a one-year upgrade cycle that they are being very very stringent on to make sure that they uh stay the course for that and they have more demand every single year for these types of products. So, I mean, the idea that we're in a bubble, again, I think those fears are not fully gone, but you needed a type of quarter from Nvidia like we're getting right here to get people to at least start realizing maybe the growth is very real and maybe that growth is not stopping anytime soon. And maybe that growth is having very meaningful implications. And uh Nvidia, I think, you know, said a lot of things last night. We'll talk about them. The number one thing outside of the gross margin expansion, the guidance is that they reaffirmed the $500 billion uh revenue opportunity in the next five quarters. And the CFO, Colette, she didn't just reaffirm the 500 billion. She said, "We believe that 500 billion opportunity will grow going into the next year for 2026." Aka, they're not going to just do 65 billion in revenue. They are going to crush that $65 billion number in Q4 and likely crush the expectations going even further uh going into 2026. And as a result, the streets excited. So upgrades across the board this morning for Nvidia. Evercore buy at 352. Melius buy at 320. KGI buy at 296. Barrett buy at 275. Barkclays buy at 275. Bernstein buy. City buy. BNP buy. JP Morgan buy. Stifl by. Key Bank. Wolf buy. Jeff buy. Goldman buy. Rosenblot buy. Mazuo buy. William Blair buy. Deutsche Bank. Morning Star by Morgan Stanley. Buy. Wedbush. Buy. All of these upgraded from 210 to 215. Well into the 250s. the highest being 300s with Evercore and Melius Research. I mean, every single analyst is like, "Wait a second. What is going on here? These are way better than expected." Simple math on this, and we'll get more deeper into the math as we dive into the numbers over the coming weeks. But if you assume Nvidia is going to do 850 of EPS in 2027, right now they are trading at 22 times earnings. That is not a bubble. That is not 500 times earnings, a thousand times earnings. That is not overly. Someone explain to me how 22 times forward earnings is a bubble or euphoric. Now, you may think Nvidia is not going to put up that EPS growth. Therefore, there is no 22 times earnings because they're never going to get to $8.50 a share in 2027. That's fair. You can disagree with like their ability to generate those earnings. But to say that those earnings multiples are euphoric. I mean, Nvidia would have to be trading somewhere around 27530 to even think those forward estimates are in the 40 to 50 range, which you know, one could argue they deserve a forward estimate of 40 to 50 uh just because the quality of company that they are. But that would be a lot more suited to the argument for the people that are saying it's a bubble because they would be saying look at this multiple two years into future. What if something happens? What if you know the demand goes down? How can they be trading at these levels? They're trading at 22 times. So, it's like it really is not making a ton of sense. And those earnings estimates are only going to go further higher and higher. So, you know, 20 times, 25 times, 30 times. These are not crazy crazy multiples. And as a result, I think that's why the stock is up 5% right here. And the street is getting excited. Here was Jensen yesterday speaking about the next era of chips and what they are doing to work on continuing this growth going into the future. Seven different chips are back in our labs and the bring up is happening across engineering teams. Probably a couple of 20,000 people are working on bringing up Vera Rubin from silicon to systems to software to algorithms. People are working around the clock and this bring up is going beautifully. We're on track to deliver Vera Rubin about Q3 time frame of next year. Continuing our once a year cycle. Vera Rubin is already assured a huge success. Everybody's incredibly excited about it. Can't wait to show everybody. And then one last thing is that the rack architecture, the rack scale architecture is completely revolutionary. It includes a scaleup switch called the MVL link. MVLink72 our fifth gen generation is the only one of its kind in the world. This rack architecture which is incredibly complex started with Grace Blackwell then Grace Blackwell Ultra. It is transitioned to Grace Blackwell Ultra is incredibly seamless. the same rack uh rack scale architecture is going to be used for Vera Rubin and so the supply chain is all used to it this complexity that we enjoyed with Grace Blackwell transition we're now incredibly smooth running and so I think Vera Rubin's going to be just really smooth and and we're going to ramp it really hard
>> so the fact that Jensen is talking about the next evolution of chips the ability to ramp those he says there's 20,000 people at Nvidia working around the clock to make sure that Bear Rubin is ready to get into the next upgrade cycle and the fact that they have demand already lined up from the biggest customers in the world ready to buy that next generation chip. Why? Because you need these models to get better and better and better. You have more and more use cases developing and they want the latest chips to be able to continue accelerating that compute capacity. This is just not a story that's slowing down anytime soon. And I don't know how many quarters we need to continue to or at least to get the street to believe that it's very real and that it's not a bubble. But every time Jensen delivers and he delivers in a very strong way. Now let's talk about Bur. So Bur went on a tweet storm last night and I have some thoughts about what's going on with Bur. But Nvidia answered Bur straight up. So they said in the earnings call, what is Bur's biggest concern? It's about depreciation and the overd depreciation that is leading to the uh restate or the underdepreciation that's re re leading to the overstating of earnings. Nvidia said the A100 GPUs we shipped six years ago. So models from from what feels like a lifetime ago are still running at full utilization today powered vastly by an improved software stack. We have evolved over the past 25 years from a gaming CPU company to now an AI data center infrastructure company. Essentially, they're saying uh with CUDA, with Envy Link, with their ability to have better software updates, which is essentially what we we've been talking I mean, Ticker, you did a great video on this, and he said that the software updates from Nvidia uh position their ability to extend the life cycle of their chips. And that's why they're saying we're not just a gaming company anymore. We are a full-on AI data infrastructure company. And the chips that we shipped six years ago are still fully operational in a variety of different customers. And a lot of those customers can't get their hands on Blackwell because they're not XAI. They don't have first priority. And so they need to use something like the A100. So from that perspective, I mean, I really do think Bur is is gasping at straws here. I'm not saying he's completely wrong. I'm not saying that he can't be right. I'm not saying that we are even out of the woods on Nvidia. I mean, this stock could go down for a variety of different reasons. But at its core, his claim is starting to get a little sus. And you know, the more someone tweets about this stuff, the more I think they're they're they're just trying to make an argument. I mean I mean like literally last night he switched from GPUs to start talking about stockbased compensation. He's like, wait, if we look at Nvidia from 2018 and their stockbased comp and then if we look at the dilution from the stockbased comp, it's like, dude, this is not this is not something that people are going to meaningfully care about. Nor is this a concern that I think the broader institutional investor community has. I mean, like, yes, companies will issue stock. That's how they get the best talent in the world. The growth rate on the top and the bottom line, their gross margins, those are the things that fundamentally matter at at at at the trajectory of the company that Nvidia is scaling at. Complaining about stockbased compensation from 2018 and trying to do some reverse engineering math to be like, well, this means that it's deeply overvalued. It's like, no, dude, no one's going to care. Like if if that's his argument to get the entire AI bubble to collapse by complaining about stockbased comp. It's like you need more people to believe there's a story to Nvidia that continues going higher. That story continues to show on the metrics that matter. That's going higher. Investors will tolerate more stockbased comp. I mean we saw this with Palunteer, right? Palanter had tons of stockbased comp back in 2022. And if you stayed invested at that time at $78, it felt expensive because the stockbased comp, but at its core they were getting the best talent in the world. and now they're growing faster than every other software company, which is why Palunteer has the valuation that it has. Then he tweeted that every company listed below has a suspicious revenue recognition. The actual chart with all the give and take deals would be unreadable. So he's going back to the circular financing argument. Jensen addressed those concerns headon. He said it's not circular financing because those companies have independent revenue, Anthropic, OpenAI, etc. from other businesses or from other customers. So they're not just like we're not just giving them the money, they're giving it back to us, and then we're giving them more money, they give it back to us. Like they are actually charging other people, enterprises and customers across the world for money, but they are using our investment in the meantime to be able to scale those businesses. Number two, he said, "We have a lot." He essentially, Jensen was like, "Dude, we have so much money, we don't know what to do with it." Like, we can't give a dividend. Uh we can't increase the dividend to two pennies. We can't just keep buying back our stock. They did buy back a decent chunk of stock this quarter. They have 60 billion in cash. Like they have to invest it in the overall ecosystem. And Jensen made a point to really explain why they're investing in that ecosystem and supporting that ecosystem. And the third point was a nice shot at AMD, but nonetheless, it kind of proves Jensen's point, which is that we are not giving up equity in our company. We are getting equity in these companies. So, if you want to call things super circular that, oh, this company's only buying your chips because they're going to get a stake in your company, like you can maybe make an argument for that, but again, if those companies can grow, then it's not going to be the biggest deal in the world. Jensen's like, "Dude, we're we're investing in companies and we're giving them some funding to be able to keep executing on their needs and if they do well, we get equity." Aka, if OpenAI collapses or Anthropic collapses, Nvidia is the one holding the bag. They're the one with the equity. So, it's like if Nvidia wants to pump up the bag just to hold it at the end of the day because it's some magic bubble. It doesn't make a lot of sense. And so, Jensen was trying to say like we are also affected by this. So, the idea that we would artificially pump it up just to hold the bag doesn't make a lot of sense. Google right there at 304 in the pre-markets. So, look, I just thought it was an incredible quarter. I thought it was one of those quarters that's very hard to deny. I'm not saying that all the AI bubble concerns are gone. It just the market so far, at least in the pre-markets, is reacting like they're not even that concerned about the labor market or these AI bubble concerns given the magnitude of beats that Nvidia delivered on these earnings. And it is really getting hard, I think, to doubt the type of demand that Nvidia is seeing in every single quarter, especially on guidance. they are continuing to be at an incredible level. So then the question becomes why would you have this type of fear on uh on Nvidia. Now in terms of Michael Bur my my simple answer right here to what's going on with Bur is that I think and I said this a couple days ago but I I really do think it's based on his tweet storm last night. I really do think this is true. I think he misses the glory days of 2008. I really think Michael Bur from a psychoanalytical perspective has been chasing the high that he has wanted to get back to over the past um 15 years. And it's a very special feeling when you're on the island, you're by yourself, you're up against the world, the world tells you you're wrong, and you stick with your guns and you say, "Nope, I'm going to be right." And then you end up being right and you make a billion dollars. I mean, just like as a human being, if we all step back and we think about that and you know what is investing? Investing is at the end of the day where we're dealing with emotion, psychology, etc. like that feeling must have been such a euphoric high that he has never been able to achieve again that as as you know just like from a human nature perspective you would want to get that feeling and he's tried to chase it again he's tried and he's been wrong every time he's tried to he has never had a big short 2.0 Oh, and I think he's looking at the AI landscape. He's connecting the dots around circular financing, valuation, uh, depreciation, yada yada, and he's going back into that mindset of, hey, I feel like I'm connecting the dots just like I was with the mortgage back securities crisis. And there's never going to be an opportunity again, probably for the rest of his life, where he can identify some puzzle that he is now trying to put together and then be able to attach his name to that puzzle as the biggest bubble in modern history. Like if it's not the AI ecosystem, I don't know if there would ever be an opportunity like that again. Now, this is where as an investor, you have to ask yourself, do you actually believe it's a bubble? I think majority of us agree that it's not. And we're looking at the data to back that up. But Bur I think is from a psychoanalytical perspective saying this is my opportunity. This is my shot to be the guy again. And given the advance of social media, the amount of tweets last night after he saw a video go up 7% and he had to combat the narrative just showed me he's getting kind of scared that this narrative is falling apart. And a lot of people are that did believe him over the past couple weeks because the market kind of went down and they were like, "Oh, Bur was right. Bur was right now." Like, dude, this guy was so wrong. Like, what are we talking about? Nvidia just beat revenue guidance by four billion and I'm like afraid of some bubble. And I think he's chasing that high. I don't know if he's going to be able to relive that high, but that's what I think is going on. And you know, as a result, he continues to say the things that he says. Here was Jensen last night on Bloomberg about the quarter that Nvidia had.
>> Samsung are doing a fantastic job supporting us. And all of our systems partners, Foxcon and Quant and Wistron, our packaging partners, everybody's doing a fantastic job supporting us. And we've done a good job planning for a very, very strong year. And we've done a good job planning for Vera Rubin. So sales are off the charts. Nvidia GPUs in the cloud is sold out, but we've got a bunch of black wells to sell.
>> Jensen, what's the road ahead for Vera Rubin? It's one of the
>> We've said for some time now, our forecast for China is zero. All of our forecast guidance that we showed zero. We should start that's the most important thing that she said. She also said that effectively China is a very important market to us. It's very important to United States. It's very important to China. We would love the opportunity to be able to re-engage the Chinese market with excellent products that we deliver and to be able to compete globally. The Chinese market is very large this year. My guess is probably about $50 billion. It's great for the American people that we're able to compete in the Chinese market. It's great for the China market that we're able to provide Nvidia's technology to them. this. Now, all this guidance is without China. And late last night, we got an update from Bloomberg, which is again fueling the argument for Nvidia potentially not being a bubble. The White House is asking Congress, as for Bloomberg, to reject a bill curbing Nvidia exports to China. That came out late last night. Now, this part I'm a little confused on because Jensen or not Jensen, Trump literally on Air Force One a couple weeks ago said that we are not going to have um we are not going to have uh Blackwell shipped to China. I mean, he quite literally said we don't want to ship Blackwell to China. And Marco Rubio was kind of the main guy that convinced Trump to not do this. Um but things have happened over the past couple weeks. What are the main things that have happened? Number one, the stock market's gone down. Number two, uh this affordability crisis started becoming a lot bigger of a thing and you know people started being concerned about inflation and and and and the cost of living etc. and and Trump kind of started losing some steam in the stock market. I think Trump is taking a strategic look at what Nvidia earnings just did to the market. I mean if you're thinking Trump did not see the market last night and didn't see Nvidia beat earnings and the entire market adds almost 700 billion in market cap, Nvidia adding about 300 billion. Trump saw that and I think he's realizing, all right, we got to keep this party going. We got to keep this party party going. And in order to keep this party going, we might have to sacrifice a bit of national security in order to allow Nvidia to start selling chips into China. Now, I'm still skeptical that they're going to get the clearances because again with Trump, you just never know. But based on that Bloomberg reporting, it does seem like uh the the the president or the the White House and administration officials, you got David Sax, all those guys are recognizing how unbelievably vital Nvidia is to every single 401k in the country, how abysmal it would be if this thing collapses and part of it not collapsing and keeping the revenue opportunity as strong as it is. And by the way, without China, it already I mean, without China, they're getting upgrades to $300. with China, you're talking about an extra 20 to $30 billion a year in revenue. I mean, that completely changes the estimates again and likely keeps Nvidia strong. So, I I I think there is an argument that they get China back and if they do, they did they got the Middle East back yesterday. Saudi Arabia signed a deal for 70,000 chips. There's another deal for 600,000 chips that they're getting ready to purchase. Uh all the revenue, all the guidance that we've got so far from Nvidia does not include Middle East. you bring the Middle East back, you bring China back, maybe that ends up really really helping the uh the broader economy. So that's what you got in Nvidia earnings. I mean, let me know in the chat what was your raw reaction when you saw those in Invidia numbers? I mean, it was pretty good. The guidance to me is what got all of us surprised yesterday. And look, the stock deserves a multiple. Will the stock stay at its level? I'll put the green or red pole in the chat. I don't know. There's a lot of different macro things that are going on that could potentially take the stock down. Here's the thing I will say, though. If we go back to 185 or 180 or below 180, I think there's a lot of people, I think there's a lot of people that are going to buy that dip. I think there's a lot of people after seeing these numbers that are going to say, "Wait a second." You know, buying the dip at 185 last week was a bit scary because Michael Bur kept saying there's a bubble. Now I don't know if I believe Michael Bur saying it's a bubble. And these numbers are getting me a lot more excited. So, do think if we get a crazy reaction to the downside for whatever reason, you're going to have a lot more people getting excited. I again, I don't think we're out of the woods. This little correction that we've been in over the past couple weeks, uh, I think we need a lot more data, especially kind of some some analysis from how the Fed is reacting to all this stuff to to to move past this. But maybe maybe the the market moves on based on video earnings. Michael, thank you for the $20 super chat. Feels like the market has been pricing a no December cup for the last three weeks. So now we won't see as much movement around cuts and the market can just react to earnings and stock news. That is correct and that's basically what we got. I mean at least in the pre-markets we got a labor report for those that are just joining. The jobs data came in for September 119,000 jobs. That's above the expectations of 53,000 and we have an unemployment rate now of 4.4% versus 4.3%. Uh highest unemployment since October 2021. You would think the market would potentially say good news is bad news and say stocks are going down because we're not going to get a rate cut. Market doesn't care that much. And maybe it's because they still know that October data is bad and once the Fed sees that, they'll pivot and they'll get a rate cut. But it's not like there was a knee-jerk reaction at all. I mean, you had like a 0 2% move on the S&P 500 when this data came out. And maybe the market is kind of moving on. Now, again, the labor market is very important and I don't think the market can just move on and forget about earnings um or forget about the labor markets and focus on earnings because like the labor market eventually affects earnings. But those Nvidia earnings were so damn good that for the time being the market might say even if the Fed doesn't cut, we don't necessarily need that rate cut to go higher based on these earnings. Now maybe that's wrong. Maybe we really need the rate cut and maybe that's just wishful thinking to think that without the rate cut we can have an end of year rally. But those earnings were strong enough that maybe there's a shot. Maybe there is a shot and we're gonna have to see. Radio, thanks for the super chat. You need to have contrarians in the market to call out suspicious activity. It's good to have a reality check even if these people are not right. 100%. And you know, my perspective on Bur again, I have a lot of respect for the guy. Like I I I really do deeply respect how he called the housing bubble and how he thinks he's way smarter than I am. If we ever had a debate around accounting or stuff, he would absolutely destroy me, right? Like he he is a much much smarter human being than I am in terms of how he thinks about investing, the economy, all that stuff. I just really think that he is missing the time of his life where he was the guy who was right. And now he is choosing this AI bubble because there's probably never going to be an opportunity to like AI again uh to be able to say it is a bubble and then to attach your name to it. Which is why I think he's launching this blog on November 25th and he's going to start publishing content and basically branding himself as the guy who's going to call the AI bubble collapse. and he might be right, but I think the skepticism that he put into the market over the past couple weeks around depreciation and all these different concerns that he has, circular financing, etc., just a lot of those were answered last night by Jensen. A lot of them. And so it's like, I'm not just saying they were answered for saying they were answered. It's like listen to the earnings call yourself and then and make a decision on if you think Jensen actually answered them. Like I'm listening to the whole thing and I'm like, "Wow, he's just like one by one." It's almost like he's subliminally saying, "Hey, Michael Bur had three arguments. Here's my first answer, my second answer, my third. He didn't say it like that, but it kind of felt like he was just one by one picking off the arguments. And I was like, "All right, Jensen's heard the criticism and he is ready to respond." Which is why Jensen is just an incredible CEO. So, we're going to see. We're going to see what ends up happening. But congratulations to everyone. Feels like Nvidia earnings potentially save Thanksgiving. I mean, if we can hold this green, I feel like Thanksgiving is going to be a lot better in the States. kind of sucked over the past couple weeks. Losing hundreds of thousands of dollars on paper, it's not fun. Uh, and getting a little bit of that back feels a bit better and maybe it'll make Thanksgiving kind of okay. So, that's what we got in the context of Nvidia. Headlines across the entire market. Um, Cipher data center plays. Cipher signed a deal this morning. They are green. Look at that stock up 12.17%. All the data center plays getting a lot of love. Cipher specific deal is $830 million. Google is backing them with $330 million and it's uh them securing almost a billion dollars in revenue from Fluid Stack with an additional 39 megawatts of IT load for them to deliver by January 2027. Google is now increasing their investment by 330 million. That's about 1.73 billion for Cipher officially getting that co-sign from Google to continue building out these data centers. And that's helping the applied digitals of the world. That's up 10.5%. The Nebius is up 5%. The core are up 10%. I'm not saying the Neoclouds are out of the woods either. I mean, obviously, we've seen what's happened to the Neoclouds if there's any fears of an AI bubble. But again, if if you're investing in the Neoclouds, and I don't think these are like forever holds. I just think over the next three to five years, there is a massive opportunity in a Nebius, a core, etc. Nebas being the one that I prefer um because of this AI buildout and because the opportunity is so strong for these companies to capitalize on it. So when Jensen says that we have way more demand than supply, when Google says we're investing $40 billion in Texas just to build a new data center, when Cipher is getting the type of backing that it's getting from a company like Google where, you know, Cipher was just a random Bitcoin miner a couple years ago, it really does make you think how strong the demand is and how serious the necessity to build out these data centers is becoming and then all the, you know, third order derivative plays that are going to benefit from these companies. And as a result, uh, I think that's why you're seeing their stocks go green in the pre-market. This is Nvidia's operating income, by the way. 4 billion to 110 billion in three years. I mean, this is this is crazy, dude. But those are the numbers you're seeing and that's why it's very, very exciting to see the earnings report that Nvidia put up. Again, for those that are just joining the labor market data, we added 119,000 jobs in September above expectations of 53,000. Unemployment rate was 4.4% above 4.3. Unemployment is going higher. It's the highest since October 2021. This is a clear sign to me that we need to cut. The Fed officials don't think that's the case as per the Fed FOMC minutes. Hopefully, they will, but it might take some time uh for them to come around and maybe they don't come around. We will find out over the coming weeks. So, now the question is, do we actually hold this pump? Uh in the chat, 84% of you say green. My gut reaction wants to say we're going to hold this pump. Like, could I see us not holding the pump? Sure. I just think the strength of those earnings were so strong and that if we lose the pump, I think there's going to be buyers across the board because they're going to want to get allocation. And again, like the thing that would help us lose the pump is the jobs data. The jobs data came in, the market didn't care. The market's moving on. So now, Bitcoin cared. Bitcoin right there below 90. I mean, even Bitcoin pumped to 92 yesterday based on video earnings. Ethereum back below 3,000. I don't know what's going on with crypto. I just I just don't I feel like I need to get in touch with some more crypto experts so they can help explain what's going I mean I know Tom Le is a structural deleveraging but it's been a lot of deleveraging. It's been been a couple months of deleveraging at this point. So I don't know what's going on with crypto, but I know the equity markets feel like they're ready to go higher. And although crypto tried last night, it's getting rejected right here. But it feels like Nvidia saved the market. And maybe Nvidia can continue to save the market. Triple V, thank you for being here. Thank you for the $200 super chat. I told you guys yesterday, TripleV bought another $100,000 shares at $185 for Nvidia. He now has a million shares uh of Nvidia. He's been acquiring it over the past couple years and yesterday was one of his kind of final buys to round out that 100,000 share purchase at 185. So, I mean, he's been pretty optimistic on the Nvidia story for a long time. And you know, him and Dererick was on the stream back in April. A lot of people were asking for stock recommendations. As Derrick said, the only company I would recommend is Nvidia. And uh I think TripleB is kind of in the same category. It's like there's there's just not that many companies that have the moat that Nvidia has. And as a result, you're seeing the excitement. And also the funny thing about Nvidia, again, Cisco was trading at 180 times in the do-com bubble. Nvidia, the most I got to over the past like year and a half was like 50 60 times. So it's crazy to be able to buy a company that is the greatest company on the planet with one of the largest boats on the planet and it's not expensive. like it it is it is quite incredible. And so, you know, the fears about the yen carry trade and Japanese bonds going up and rate cuts and inflation, all these fears are real. They're important. They should be analyzed. But at the end of the day, it's a stock market. People have to allocate capital. Institutional investors have to put their money to work. And they either stay on the sidelines because they're afraid of Japanese bonds or they say, "We need to get exposure to the most important companies on the planet." And Nvidia continues to prove that it is one of the most important companies on the planet. Uh Walmart, we got Walmart earnings. Let's bring those up. Walmart slightly flat right here in the pre-markets, but we did get a major consumer brand with their earnings this morning.
>> Just coming in with its earnings. Uh we've been waiting for that release. Courtney Reagan is standing by and she has the numbers.
>> Hi Beck. Yes. So Walmart reporting adjusted adjusted earnings here of 62 cents. That's up 7% and it is 2 cents above the streets consensus on revenues of 179.5 billion. That's up 5.8% from last year. Also above the streets 177.43 billion estimate. With one quarter left in the fiscal year, the retailer is upping its fullear forecast for sales and earnings for the second time. Now expecting revenues to grow between 4.8 and 5.1% and for earnings to fall in a range of 258 to 263 cents. and adjusted operating income to grow between 4.8% to 5.5%. That's up from its previous forecast of flat. Now, operating income in this quarter is down 0.2% due to a one-time compensation charge in anticipation of taking its phone pay business public as part of its international business. Now, US comparable store sales grew 4 and a half%. That's bettering analysts 4% estimate. also the 45th straight quarter of growth with broad-based strength. E-commerce grew 28% in the US. That's slightly outpacing the global e-commerce growth. Walmart Connect, that's the advertising business, it grew 33% in the US, 53% globally. I spoke with CFO John David Rainey and asked how Walmart didn't see the same macroeconomic pressure on its results as others have called out. He said, "If there's a little incremental strain on the consumer, they're only going to become more selective to look for more value, going to become more choiceful. We continue to demonstrate that our value proposition is resonating really strongly with our members and consumers."
>> Now, look, this makes sense. Walmart, at the end of the day, if people start feeling some pressure when it comes to um being costconcious, they're obviously going to go to places like Walmart that already have the lowest prices. The fact that they increased their uh fullear estimates I think is quite incredible. Walmart right there 3%. And by the way, Walmart's doing this, at least from my understanding, from what the CEO has said in the past by not putting the cost on the consumer because they really want to keep a good relationship with the uh with the Trump administration and they know that if you know prices go up dramatically, people are going to complain. And so it seems like Walmart's eating a lot of the tariffs at least for now. And or maybe they're dispersing them very small in a very minuscule way across a variety of products. But increasing estimates, beating revenue, beating EPS up 3% going into the holiday season. Not the worst thing for a company like Walmart. And that's actually helping a lot of the defensives like a Home Depot, Target, Lowe's, etc. that have been uh holding up their earnings as well. Now again, Target decreased some of their guidance yesterday. So, a lot of this comes down to how good of a company are you? But it's not like you're seeing broad-based uh big box retailers like slash their earnings and say the consumer sucks. No one's buying stuff. Everyone's scared. You know, we have a real issue. You're just not seeing that. You're seeing that from Chipotle and Starbucks. And maybe that's a problem with Chipotle and Starbucks and that shouldn't be ignored for the overall health of the consumer, but you're not seeing it from a Walmart, which is a very important thing. Uh US labor secretary says 97,000 of new jobs were created in the private sector. As for September, that is good. That's about a little bit more than 50% of the job growth in September, not in the public uh space, aka the government, but rather the private space. He also says manufacturing numbers are not where we want them. Okay. So, you know, and that goes back to Tom Lee's argument as well about ISM continuing to increase or continuing to be contracted below 50, getting that manufacturing index to go higher. And you're seeing a little bit of some of the indices now that we're getting a bit more data show like the redbook manufacturing that we are getting a bit higher but we are not at the level where you know the economy is growing like crazy even though Q3 GDP from the Atlanta Fed says that we're expected for 4.2% growth. We're going to get those numbers in a bit but if we do get four and a half% growth in Q3 that would be incredible. Now Q4 is probably going to be shut down a little bit by from 4% to 2% because of the government shutdown. But overall, if we're going to run this economy hot at 4% over the coming months or years, that is going to be very exciting. Very, very exciting. So, I mean, we got enough recipes right here. We got enough ingredients for the overall recipe of this market to potentially make a move higher today. It's been a while since we've had a real sustained move that's been higher. Also, this enough is why we should go green. Here's Lisa Sue and Ronaldo chilling at the dinner table. I mean, that should be enough. That should be enough for us to go higher. So, I don't know, guys. I think we got a shot. I think we got a shot today. It's been an ugly couple weeks. It would not surprise me if we sell off today just based on the fact that the markets want to whiplash. But everyone was looking forward to this earnings. We needed to see Nvidia. Like, we really needed to see Nvidia give one of those quarters and they did it. And I don't know what more we could have expected. Like I really when I think about like oh they could have done this better. It's like no there's not much they could have done that was that much. Even gross margins were in the mid70s which is what they needed. So as a result hopefully that is enough to keep this market going and we're going to see once we open. Now Bed Bath and Body Works another one of these consumer companies uh not the best. They got crushed on earnings today. They're down about 14% right here. 21% now. Looks like the tariffs are hitting them. So Bath and Body Works right here. BBWI, that stock down about 21%. But again, this is a $4 billion company. If this goes to zero or if like people stop buying scented candles, like I don't think people are going to care that much. So, some of the earnings decline that we're seeing are just not in the companies that really matter and that's why they're getting some more of this pain. Uh BMR, so again, Ethereum getting hit. That's why Bitmine's getting hit. It did pump to 32 last night. Now it's at 30. It's up about 3% right here. Ethereum struggling to hold 3,000. Bitcoin struggling to hold 91,000. So, these are the ones that we're going to have to really see to continue holding on for those derivative plays to get some love. Micro strategy fell all the way to like 187 yesterday. Micro Strategy right here 191 up about 2.5% here a little bit in the in the pre-markets. Uh more companies in the world of AI are growing. So, Swedish vibe coing uh coding startup lovable just hit 200 million in annual occurring revenue just four months after passing a hundred million. Now, I don't have an investment in this company. I'm sure a lot of people don't even know about this company or have an investment in it. What matters is are AI startups that are buying all this compute from the um hyperscalers are they growing at a rate that justifies the level of compute that they're buying which also justifies the level of chips that the hypers high scalers are buying from Nvidia and to go from a 100 to 200 million in four months like this is something we've even even the best Silicon Valley startups in 2007208 we're not putting up those types of numbers and all this is due to AI So, you know, and they have competitors, too. Cursor is a competitor. ChachiBT is a competitor with the whole vibe coding, the idea of assisted uh agentic coders, but the fact that they're able to still put up those numbers just shows the quality of demand, the size of demand that exists for these AI products that have just barely expanded across the entire consumer landscape. I mean, again, we still don't have a real AI assistant. Siri is still not usable yet. And as that continues to get usable, you are just going to see a proliferation of AI, which means you're going to need a proliferation of compute and data centers to power all that AI as well. Uh Tesla Piper Sandler Tesla says uh or Pipler says Tesla FS may be ready to beat most US drivers. Piper Sandler said Tesla's latest full self-driving software may be outperforming the average American driver. They have an overweight and a $500 target, calling the tech impressive and noting a flawless robo taxi ride. The visit centered on efficacy and robot taxi plans with brief updates on Tesla's in-house chips, Optimus robot, and energy storage business. Piper updated its model for Q3 results, but left other estimates unchanged. Aka again another manifestation of the use cases of AI FSD robotics. Even Piper Sandler is like, "Yeah, we think it's very real and we are willing to give Tesla premium right here because of how real that we think it's going to be." It's really incredible, dude. It is really really incredible to see this market. By the way, uh China yesterday is thinking of new property stimulus with mortgage subsidies. So you've got the European central banks that are cutting. You have the Canadian banks that are that are cutting. You have India that's starting to stimulate. You have China that's been stimulating for the past three years. They're now more seriously thinking about stimulation in the context of um mortgages, which again they've been in a property crisis for a long time. The only one left is the Fed. That's not meaningfully cutting in a way that would create a lot of stimulus. Now, I know we might end up uh printing $2,000 checks. Maybe that happens, but outside of giving stimies to everybody, you're going to need the Fed to cut, and it feels like the Fed is trying to cut at a very, very strong level. We have an update from China here as well. China commerce minister met with the US ambassador to China both and discuss an in-depth exchange on vibes on trade ties. statement from China's uh commerce ministry, two sides should manage the uncertainty between trade ties. Okay. Uh Bas did say by Thanksgiving that China deal might officially be confirmed. So it seems like you're having the commerce ministry meet with the US ambassador as they are trying to get this deal officially done. Here was uh the only sellside analyst on Nvidia who has a sell rating on the company, $140 target. Here was his reaction to the earnings and uh here's what he had to say after Jensen's blowout quarter.
>> Jay, I ask you each and every quarter and I'm going to ask you again, is this print enough to get you to change your rating on the company?
>> Uh, no. Short answer, no.
>> Okay. Why not?
>> I I mean, it was a it's an okay quarter. Good quarter. Decent guy, you know. I um I they you know at GTC DC two weeks ago they put out that big big revenue number $500 billion over five quarters in revenue which shocked everybody. Uh they they I think what happened is they got more allocation from TSMC than they were expecting. So that's upside that was more than I was expecting. Um and and but that's floating in numbers now right and you start listing all the all the things that could go wrong with Nvidia that's a longer list than the things that could go right. So, I still think I still think they're challenged. I think I still think this is uh you know, but I I'll give them credit. This is this is a good quarter. I had actually raised my estimates uh last week because I I my checks were telling telling me they'd be doing pretty good. Um it's okay. I I'll give them that. But one quarter, it's it's there's it's more than one quarter game here. I think a lot of times in the investing world, it's important to judge an investment or the perception of an investment not by the people that are bullish, but by the people that are bearish. I don't know what the hell that guy just said. It's more than a one quarter game. Nvidia has been executing flawlessly for over 10 quarters. Like at some point, the arguments be the barecase becomes laughable when you hear stuff like that. And so again, if that's who you want to be on the side on from a bearish perspective, if that that's the only analyst out of 30 that have a sell rating and that's his analysis that it was okay, but it's a more than one quarter game. I mean, again, jud judge a stock by its bears versus its bulls, and I think you'll see the quality of the bears on Nvidia just aren't that strong. All right, here we go. Thursday, November 20th, 9:30 a.m. Thank you everybody for being here. Jensen Hong might have saved the stock market. And maybe Santa Claus is coming to town. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Nvidia up 5% on the day. 1959 that's up 4 and a.5% 19593. Bitmine that's up 3%. Micro Strategy that's up 3%. Walmart that's up 3%. Nebus up 3.4. Cipher up 13%. Goos was pushing 304 right now. It's at 30290 303. So you got a bit of a move on the googs right there. Core's up 8%. Broadcom's up 3%. Amcor is up 5.2%. Tesla 415 that's up 2%. AMD back to 231 that's up 3.4%. 4%. Meta 601 up 2%. UNH is up 1%. S&P 500 up 1.55%. 672 was a very important I mean 670 in general was a very important level to get back at. Uh we're going to have to hold these levels hopefully going into the end of the day. If we can actually close above 670 it would be bullish. We're pushing 674 right here up 1.63%. Robin Hood back up to 121 that's up 2.2%. Palenteer went to 163 yesterday 172 that's up four and a half%. Amazon that's up 1.4. SoFi 2780 that's up 4% on the day. Apple 273 that's up 2%. And then Nvidia trying to hold 195 trying to hold 195. I'm sure there are some sellers today. There's probably some people that were waiting for this type of a move to get some liquidity on Nvidia. There are probably some institutional sellers. In the midst of those people taking profits, I think there are buyers that are going to come in based on those earnings, especially those that have not really allocated to Nvidia. if they were waiting for one more quarter to really think is this story going to go in the right direction last night Jensen might have approved as them and that's racing video up about 5% right there as that's up about 5 and a half% Disney's up half a percent you got the quantum stocks that are moving D-Wave right they're up 3.4% 4%. Carnival Cruise up 1.3 into it that's up 1%. Where is Rocket Lab? That is up 5 and a half%. A lot of these names were down 7 to 8% just on Monday. So they're getting a pretty hefty rebound from here. We got to see if if it can ultimately sustain itself. The VIX, wow, down 16% on the day. So you're getting a lot of that volatility die down. Tesla right there pushing 417. That's up three and a half%. Um Netflix continues to go red because they're likely not going to be buying out um the the Warner Brothers uh the HBO Max company and as a as a result there there's you know the street might be upset that they're not getting that type of content but Netflix not really trading along with the AI names. Micro Strategy right there that's up 3%. Bit mine actually up three and a half even though Ethereum is just above 3,000. PaloAlto they're acquiring another company for a couple billion bucks. I think the street doesn't love that although they had a pretty good quarter in the cyber security space so that's barely down about 1%. And Nvidia, you got a red candle right there trying to defend 193. I think if it can even hold 190 today and close above 190, that would be a win. But nonetheless, it is getting a bit of a dump from that 195 level on the day. INEN, your data center plays are moving. There you go. IN's up 10%. Navitas, I believe, is up about 9%. Nebius right there up about 5%. Uh, Nebius right there. Yep. 5.7% again. Coreweave is also up about 7%. And then Cipher 15%. on the day 15%. Big bear as well up 6%. Even Intel, even Intel today, look at that. 3652. Intel peaked at around 41 a couple weeks ago. Nvidia did make an investment in Intel back in the summer of about 5.8 billion. Intel is green. Applied Digital, did Applied Digital get a deal today up 13%. Or is that just kind of off the backs of Cipher? It might be they got some new capacity. If they didn't, then that's likely Cipher getting a lot of the NeoClouds to be a lot more excited as well. Applied digital, that's great. AMCore 7%. I mean, you're seeing a lot of the semic some semiconductor names continue to run um AMD being part of that as well. AMD right there 4%. Now, Broadcom got a move yesterday because they are central to building Google's TPUs, which have been used to train Gemini 3.0. Broadcom pushing 370, up 4.2% 2% on the day as Googles tries to normalize 300s. Googs tries to normalize the 300s. Yeah, Cipher did get a deal with Google as well this uh morning. Ray Dalio discloses on CNBC that roughly 1% of his portfolio is Bitcoin. I did watch a bit of that Ray Dalio interview this morning. I mean, the number one thing that he's concerned about is our debt. um he's been concerned about that for a while. So it doesn't seem like that's kind of slowing down, but yeah, his biggest concern is that we just have too much debt. And he's right. It's just I'm not sure exactly what the country would do about that. Now, his solution is gold. So for those that buy into the Ray Dalio sort of thesis around overspending and debt, his solution is gold. Gold right there is basically flat on the day 4,81. 4,081 for gold. Grab right there 537. Grab has had some really weird after hours action. I mean, it's had like 400 million of dark orders over the past two days. Uh, yesterday was like 230, the other day was 240 million. So, you are seeing some of those after hours purchases come in potentially based on this idea that they're going to be acquiring Goto going into the end of December. Tesla 420 Tesla 420 Dellores 3.9. I think that's because of the upgrades. I don't think there's any major news. I mean, oh well, Elon did say it's more about XAI. They're signing a 500 megawatt deal with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia yesterday. Um, so that deal is good for Tesla or XAI. Nvidia does not or Tesla does not have a stake in XAI yet, but nonetheless, that could be a positive deal. Tesla getting some love right here, up 385%. Again, I mean, if you believe in Nvidia, you believe in AI, you probably believe that the manifestation of a lot of that AI is going to be in companies like a Tesla. And so Tesla might just be getting a bid based on Nvidia earnings as well. Now, here's one thing I will say for those that have been absolutely annoyed, freaking out, scared, quite frankly, losing sleep at night based on the market draw down, you might want to think of taking some profits here across the entire board. I mean really if the past couple weeks has been hard to sleep and like you might actually need the money or you're just like concerned or you're maybe too heavy on margin. I mean maybe today is the day to not get super greedy and say look I'm going to sell some of my highest cost slot. Maybe I bought Nvidia at 188 even though you know I was buying at 100 and maybe let me get rid of these 188 shares and sell that lot of shares and just derisk especially if you're on margin. You know maybe today's a day to say you know what I want to have a happy holidays. I don't want to be too stressed if the market ends up crashing or at least going back down to the lows of last week because Santa Claus is not coming to town. I don't want to be worrying about it during Christmas. Maybe take some profits. So, it is one of those things to think about. The market is giving you an opportunity. Again, it really does look like we are setting up if the Fed can be cooperative for an end of your rally, but it's also maybe a responsible thing if just from a mental health perspective, you need to delever a bit. Amazon right there 226.90 that's up 1.94%. Robin Hood testing one I mean Robin was at 110 on Monday. So just a massive move on hoodie because of Nvidia and then pounder right there getting to 174. Paler getting to 174. Mitch just wants Nebius at 85 again. Dude I I picked up Nebus at 9245. The more I st this was on. So, the three things I bought on Monday were Nebus, Amazon, and BMR. Um, Nebus has worked out the best so far. And the reason I bought it is because the more I study about Nebius, the more I think they're going to be one of the big Neocloud winners. And I really like their debt profile. Like, it's just a better debt profile than a lot of the other companies and they're way more diversified than the other clouds. Like, they just have a lot of other parts of the business outside of the data center. The data center is why you're buying them. there's other elements of this business that are not fully reliant on data center and they're trying to build their own intelligent cloud. So the the more I see Nebul the more I like it and I do think in this 90 range if it stays there this is not a unattractive opportunity. Google right there 302 and then Cororeweave 8169. Cororeeve 8169. Where is BMR? 29.99. That's kind of flat. PaloAlto basically flat. 198. UNH. This one almost fell below 300 yesterday. This one getting a rebound 312. Jensen is helping pump everything. Everything. I mean, you needed a report that could do that. And they delivered. They really, really delivered. By the way, Verizon said they're going to cut more than 13,000 jobs as they restructure this morning. Verizon right there 4105 as that one goes red. So, you do still have more layoff announcements across the economy. United Airlines, that's up about 2.29%. Applovin, look at that. Applovin up 5% on the day. Not bad. What do you expect from BMR's earnings call tomorrow? I what I am expecting and I I agree with Tanner on this. I know Tanner said this and I 1000% agree with him. We need the share count. If they don't deliver the share count, I'm sorry, but I'm starting to get skeptical of like why are they not disclosing basic metrics for a company? And I think we'll get the share count, but if we don't, I think people should really be question. And I love Tom Lee. He's a friend of the show. He's been on the channel. I respect him deeply. But you cannot get away with not giving people basic information even if the information is bad. And I know that you know that complicates how people calculate the MNA or it makes it easy for people to calculate the MNAV and therefore you know that might be a bare case for BMR but I don't care like I'd rather have more data than not. Tesla right there 420.15. So that needs to happen and if it doesn't happen it is a bit concerning and I think publicly people should start asking questions if we don't get it. But I I assume we will get it. A lot of people think he's going to update the staking. I don't think that's going to happen. From my understanding, staking, the reason he's waiting for 5% is because this the amount of ETH that he's trying to stake is just like not easy to do. Number one. And then number two, when you stake it, it it's potentially locked up for a certain amount of time. And so I think he's waiting for a certain scale S&P 500 highs of days right there 67 370 to be able to stake. So I don't think we're going to get some surprise staking announcement tomorrow. If we do, it's not the worst thing in the world. But more important than not, I think we need the the share count. That would be very important. S&P, she's moving up 10 bucks on the day. I mean, if we can get to 675, that would be a hell of a move. Even if we close above 670, I would be excited as well. Meta, did anyone buy the dip at 580? I didn't buy the Meta dip at 580. I bought the Amazon dip at like 220, but Meta right here 604. You can see the stark contrast between Meta and Google. Google showing a clear path to an ROI from their capex. Meta not showing that yet and the streets giving the premium to Google over Meta at this moment. Meta right there 603 up from 581 yesterday. Um isn't it a gap requirement to have issued shares? Yes, I feel like it's a gap requirement. I mean I I don't explicitly know this, but I'm I think it's a requirement to know the outstanding shares of a company. And we don't have that information yet. Maybe that this is the first earnings they've done since they've gone public again or rebounded. So maybe this is like uh maybe this is why they haven't released it in so long and maybe it'll be released tomorrow. But yeah, that information would be very very important. Amazon right there at 225 and then hoodie at 120. Look, I still think Amazon, by the way, I think I know we got Google at 300. I think we're going to see Amazon at 300 eventually. I don't know if it's next year. I don't know if it's 2027, but it is very hard to imagine Amazon does not end up having the same trajectory as Google because it is one of the best companies in the world. And again, the most important thing about Amazon is the investment they're making in robotics and the efficiency that it's going to create on their operating margins when they really start implementing those robotics investments from a humanoid perspective into the warehouse. I I don't see how Amazon is not a $300 stock one day. So, to me, Amazon is one of the names I've been adding. I've been adding since earnings. I've been adding before earnings. the day that a the internet shut down because AWS collapsed in the northeast. Um like that just kind of validated how serious I think Amazon is and the fact that they've given up the entire earnings move to me feels like it's one of the better opportunities right here. Oracle 229 that's up 1.7. Even Oracle getting a move back today. We are getting some red candles. S&P trying to hold 673 right here. Goldman Sachs that's up today 2.6%. I mean, the Goldman Sachs CEO yesterday just reaffirmed the argument about how much the investment into data centers is critical. Same thing that Larry Fin said. Um, again, this idea of private credit, I'm trying to do a lot more research on it. I will say from the the basic things I've seen, it does feel like there are some issues in private credit. It's hard to imagine there's not any issues in in the uh overall credit markets, but is it a systemic issue that collapses the economy? Like the fact that Bur is focused on the AI bubble and not the private credit issues is also fascinating to me because you would think for a guy like Bur that spots bubbles and like trends and all these different things, you would think private credit is way more similar to the dot era or not to to the 2008 era of of bad loans. But he's going after AI. He's like taking on this entire multi-t trillion dollar industry over credit, which is also a multi- trillion dollar industry, but it's not growing the way that AI is growing. And it's quite incredible because it feels like more of the concerns are in private credit and private equity, not like Nvidia's earnings. But that's what he seems to be more excited about. And I think it's because he's going to get more attention for saying that this is what collapses the entire economy. Duolingo red once again. Dualingo red once again. This stock cannot get a break, dude. This stock not going to break. Tessie 422. Tessie 422 Delores on the day. Is there any other Tesla update? I don't see any other Tesla update. But Tesla getting some love here. Bitcoin's red even with the market going green. Seeing Bitcoin diverge. It's trying to get back to 92,000 90.1 90.9 and then Ethereum just below 3,000. SoFi finally getting back to 28. This thing was at 2550 yesterday again. Some really nice opportunities. Bought this at 2650 a couple weeks ago. Now at 28. SoFi also I like it as a buy going into 26 and SoFi. Amazon. These names have run but well Amazon's not run at all. SoFi's run but they have not had the magnitude of a run of a lot of the other names in their niche. And if they continue to execute on earnings, you know, they should be steady compounders, especially with the rate cutting cycle for SoFi. Tesla right there, 423, new highs of day. New highs of day for Tesla. Um Laura said, "I said that on Steve how I would be way more scared if Bur was worried about private credit, but instead he picked a dumb fight." Yeah, I mean, I would be listening very intently if he was talking. I mean, I'm still listening to his arguments, but if he says, "Hey, private credit's a bubble." Like, that is very reminiscent, at least from a um perceptual perspective, of of 2008, and I and that's up his alley. But instead, he's like, "Yeah, AI is fake." And it's just like, "Okay, that you lose me there, and I'm willing to listen, but it's like a hard argument to defend." Is a hard argument. 673 on the S&P AMD at 229. And let's see if we have any more data coming in. Uh again, we did get jobs data this morning. It did beat expectations. Someone just bought $600,000 worth of calls for TSM. TSMC expiring in December. Uh sorry, expiring in November, November 28th. $300 strike. $300 strike on TSM. Um, Amit, do you think SAS companies are oversold? Yes, I think, you know, I I don't love CRM and Adobe, but you know, obviously their valuations look quite attractive given how much they've been sold off. However, like Adobe yesterday, we didn't even cover this news, but Adobe bought a company called Semrush. They paid like two billion bucks for it and the stock went down because the market's just like, we don't care. Like these types of acquisitions are not exciting. Tesla right there 422. And then Salesforce acquired some company, I think on Monday. I'm forgetting the name of it, but it's like the eighth company they've acquired this year. And none of those acquisitions are helping them grow like more than 10 8 to 10%. So I I think this market wants growth and I that's why Palunteer is getting a premium because a lot of SAS companies aren't growing outside of Palunteer at the level that they're growing at. Um but obviously a safe type of investment theoretically if you don't want volatility is Adobe and Salesforce. But if the the safety goes away because they continue to go down next year because the market just doesn't care about them, they don't become the most safe. PayPal is 60.24. AI killed Semrush. That's another question. It's like why is Adobe acquiring a company that is rooted in SEO when SEO is obviously not going to be the most important thing in the next 10 years. It's going to be um I think they call it GEO, generative engine optimization. Now maybe you know some rush is pivoting and stuff but it's just it's just these acquisitions I think are confusing a lot of the streets right there 424. Wow. She's not stopping. She's not stopping at all. Weeble has earnings today. Do they What other companies had earnings today? That probably is after hours. Uh yes, Weeble and into it. I think Chris will be on for macro Thursday today. So uh we'll cover those earnings and then we'll have Chris on on the show later today. Walmart had earnings this morning. We talked about those earnings. Those were relatively strong. Let's take a look at the heat map across the board. 424 on Tesla. Jack in the Box had some decent earnings, which is why that stock is running. I looked at a little bit of those earnings last night. Wow. Look at this. Look at this, dude. Oh my goodness. It's been a while since we've seen that type of a day. Matt says, "Why is the market up?" Well, there's this guy named Jensen Hang. Let me tell you something. No woman can compare to the happiness that that man in the leather jacket can give me. Like, it's just that simple. It's just no woman can compare to the happiness that that man in the leather jacket gives us. And boy, did he deliver yesterday. 42360 on uh on Tesla like like it's just like I I just like like I like just just like I feel happier when the market's up, right? Like all of us feel a little happier. So it's like and and why is the market up? Well, it's literally because of Jensen is this one man who controls the market and he made the market go higher. Video right there 194. It's that simple. That leather jacket and that man delivering those numbers makes me happy. Amazon 225, Meta 605, that's up two and a half. Bit mine up a little bit. And then Tesla's up. Uh CNC 3576. Some of these other healthcare companies continuing to get hit. Not sure why Micron's down today. I think Micron's just had a crazy run. Uh maybe they got a downgrade, but these guys are up over 200% year to date. So, you know, at some point maybe the market's going to take a little bit of a breather on Micron 21847, but that one's down. Mid, how can you admit that in public? I mean, I'll say it again. Did I stutter? No woman can compare to the happiness that Jensen Wong gives me when he delivers those types of earnings. I think I'm embarrassed to say that. I think I feel weird saying no. Like that's just like, dude, last night was great. Jensen pumping the markets after four consecutive weeks of being down every single day. That was what we needed, dude. That was what we needed. All right, let's see what else we've got going on. Micron right there, 218. Tesla really pushing 424 right here. Trying to get to 425. Um, see a couple other of the headlines. We have the Epstein uh bill, by the way, has been signed. Trump signed it. Trump signed it yesterday. So now, again, I talked about this yesterday. There is a provision in the bill that was passed house that says that if the attorney general thinks there is something that needs to be redacted in the in the face of a national security or be an ongoing investigation, then she is allowed or he is allowed to redact that information. What did Trump announce on Sunday? that there is now an ongoing investigation into Bill Clinton and Reed Hoff and all these guys from the DOJ. So, I wouldn't be surprised if we have a lot of redacted stuff on these files, but at least we're going to get the majority of the files and you're going to get to see more of what's happen. And I mean, the files are so bad that freaking freaking Larry Summers is resigning off the board of Open Eye because he probably knows there more emails coming out that are not uh Robin Hood right there. 11975. That one's slightly down. Bitcoin 90.8. Bitcoin trying to hold on to 90,000. Still red on the day. Dude, Bitcoin again. I'm trying to learn more about what's happening Bitcoin. I don't even think you know the real thing that I think is happening. it. I really do think a lot of the OGs are selling and I know a few of them sold way earlier. Imagine this might be your last chance to get out before downturn and then you have to wait sort of buy and hold mentality. I mean, it's tough when you buy this cent. Why is the mic being weird? Okay, hold on, hold on, hold on. Is the mic stupid, dude? Hold on. Let me fix it. Let me do something. Let's uh let's plug this back in. Okay, let's update it. Okay. All right. What I was saying is I I don't know what's going on with Bitcoin, but it does feel like there's some OG. No. What? Okay. Let me switch back to the other. I don't know why that's happening. Okay. Yeah, let me uh let me take something and fix this. All right, give me a second. Give me a second. I don't know why that's happening. I'm going to switch back to the better mic in a second and then we'll keep going from there. It's good now. Okay, I'll still switch it to the better mic in a second. Anyway, what I was saying is about Bitcoin. It just feels like a lot of OGs are selling and based on all those OGs selling, you know, that's why you're seeing some pain. Okay, I'll just leave it for now. I'll just leave it for now. I'll change it in a bit, but I'll leave it for now. Wow, Nvidia with a rebound. 1957. You had some sellers early on. Look at that V from 192 to 195. Maybe Nvidia getting ready to make that move back to 10 uh back to 200 or at least 197. You broke the mic with the Jensen comment. Yeah, maybe. If only Nvidia made mics. Dude, we gave Nvidia a lot of [__] a year ago for their bad mics on the earnings. Their mics are like legit now. 19550. Okay, SoFi trying to get to 28. Tesla's still trying to break 425 and then a hoodie 120. All of this coming from Nvidia. Uh Matias says, "I agree. 5 to 10 year holders are selling it to institutions who are happy to let it languish." Yeah. I mean, look, if you're someone who bought Bitcoin at freaking a couple bucks, which there are people that did that, and you're looking at 90,000, and Black Rockck's willing to buy from you so easily. I mean, it might be as simple as just saying, "You know what? I'm going to derisk right here. And I think that's happening more more than not, which is creating some of the pain. Fear and greed. Are we at 18? We are at 18. We are still in extreme fear, folks. We are still in extreme fear. Uh, that one is not necessarily changing yet. I mean, it's up from nine yesterday, but still extreme fear. TSSI is up after going down 40%. They're one of Dell suppliers. is that one's going down. Ethereum trying to go up to 3,000. Broadcom also getting a pump. Trump, I think, is going to go live later today. I think there's some more executive orders. Um, have a ton of different headlines from that perspective, but overall market's holding on. APLD, someone just sold about a million bucks of puts for their $20 strike uh January or June 2027. Google market cap is that above Microsoft yet? Google. Yeah, Google just beat Microsoft. Microsoft actually went down today more than Google went up. Look at that. Google right there. There you go. 3.681 trillion. Apple, by the way, yesterday it touched forward. Touching forward again right here. 4.073 trillion on Apple. 274. So Apple up 2% that is now $4 trillion company. Then Google very close to getting to that $4 trillion company. Um but Tesla keeps moving today. I don't know what the headline is on there. There you go. 425. PayPal goes red $60 just by the way I I didn't uh listen to the what is it the fireside chat with Alex Chris, but from what I heard it was bad. It was really bad. It was him basically saying it's going to take a long time for us to recover and uh the consumer's weakening. So I think that's why PayPal's kind of getting hit right here. Tesla right there 425 again the market's just even if PayPal's safe they're sacrificing that for something like Tesla that they know is going to grow. Uh Fed talk Fed's bar says concerned that inflation still 3% AI's likely overall positive near-term dislocation must be careful with monopoly to balance risks need to support the labor market and return to 2% inflation. Okay, so more fears by some of this Fed talk around the idea that inflation goes higher. Walmart, wow, 6% move on Walmart. That's not an easy move. Walmart's almost a trillion dollar company. It's 150 billion away. 850 billion market cap. Walmart does not move as high as it does like today. Wow. Fed probabilities as well. 44%. This was 27 yesterday. Maybe that labor market data in terms of the unemployment report going higher got the market to think that we need to give a better probability to the potential of a rate cut. And that could also be helping Nvidia make this pump. That could also be helping Nvidia pump right here. Walmart CEO is stepping down. That is true. Micron Micron was down 4%. Now it's barely down. Duolingo still down 2%. Meta 604 rebound. Where is Nvidia? Nebia is holding 101. Nvidia 195 195. almost 10 a.m. So, we'll see in 30 minutes if we do have a 10:30 slam. But we are green. All right. So, here's another question. Who thinks um as a spy hits the high of days? Who thinks S&P 7000 is still going to happen by end of year? Yet, Edardini came out today and he said he's still keeping his 7,000 target, although he is a lot more cautious about the AI trade potentially unraveling. I mean, dude, if we close above 675 today, we just touched. If we close above that level and the market stops worrying about rate cuts, or better yet, we get a rate cut, it feels like we have a shot. Feels like 7K is still in play. And we still have a whole another month, dude. Still whole the entirety of December. Look at the S&P. Almost a 2% move. 1.93%. Wow, what a candle. Look at that. She is moving. I I just think the biggest concern for a lot of people over the past couple weeks was if we're in a bubble. And uh based on what Jensen said, we might not be in a bubble. Uh we do have some data. Existing home sales month over month in the United States decreased to 1.2% in October from 1.3% in September. Okay, so you have a decrease month over month for existing home sales. We're getting a little bit more data come in along with the jobless claims. Again, another reason for the Fed to cut. So, that could be potentially bullish data in terms of how the market interprets it. But 675 on the S&P talks about the market like he's looking at his favorite food. Oh my gosh. It's just dude, but like my top three positions are Nvidia, Hood, and Paler. And over the past three weeks, those have undergone some serious downside. And so it's ugly, you know, if you if you have the beauty of the upside on three volatile names, you have to deal with the ugliness of the downside. So it's just nice for a day to see a little bit of reprieve and to have these names kind of normalize. And I'm not saying they have to go back to oldtime highs, but you know, they were getting hit pretty hard. And that's similar for a lot of other names that people were were heavy. Even Oaklo right here up 3% on the day. Bloom Energy, that's up 6%. I I look, I've not looked into Bloom Energy. Um, Chris Camilillo I know likes it. I know a bunch of you guys in the chat like it. Uh, I just really haven't gone through their numbers, but we are looking at more energy plays for next year, especially because energy supply seems to be the issue versus chip supply. Then I think it should be on the list to look at. IQ 4870 that's green. Home Depot that's up a little bit. ARM is up 4%. And then Hood right there at 120. IN look at IN dude 5180 13%. Yeah, BMR as well. I mean, obviously BMR has been very volatile over the past couple weeks and, you know, down a ton of money on that. So, just I mean, BMR is not really showing any massive recovery, but it helps when your other three positions are at least kind of showing some recovery when BMR is down as much as it is. The problem with BMR right here now is like obviously it's contingent on ETH, right? So, I mean, is there something that turns around the broader crypto landscape? Because ETH's not going to 4,000 if Bitcoin doesn't rebound to at least like 110, 115, or at least like a 100 at the very least. So, you kind of need crypto to come back and if that doesn't come back, then you know, the stock is going to be stuck. Same thing with Micro Strategy. But I do think that's why the covered calls on it at least are a strategy to mitigate some of the pain given the premiums are still pretty good. Tesla. Wow. Tesla 427. My goodness. 427 on Tessie. Mid. Do you hold any spy? No, I should start investing in it next year. I need to create a separate Robin account where I just invest in spy. Like I should probably start doing that, but I have not done that. Uh test right there. 427. That one continuing to move. Representative Michael Guest filed a purchase for Monolithic Power. That's another one. Jason actually likes this one. Is this stock up? Monolithic Power. That's up 2%. 43 billion company. All right. So, you're getting some politicians to buy in on that. Um Tesla's the story of the day. Even better than Nvidia as it continues moving. Chris Camilo sold a lot of his Palanteer. Yeah. Well, when I interviewed Chris Camilo when Pounder was 35 and, you know, a lot of people were giving Chris Camilo [__] that he's uh late to the Pounder story because it just went from six to 35. I mean, he had a lot of guts to just be like, "All of you guys are wrong. This thing's going higher." And he was right. But in that same interview, he did tell us that it's a trade for him. It's not an investment. So, for him, he always thought he would have an 18-month trajectory on Palunteer. And, you know, now he's out of the trade. But, I mean, he really did buy when people were afraid to buy. and he did very well. Here is that housing data and then I think we got Dan Niles after this and we'll get his take on what's going on with Nvidia.
>> Carl, existing home sales in October rose 1.2% from September to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of 4.1 million units. That's right along expectations. Sales were up 1.7% year-over-year. Now, this count is based on home closings. So, contracts likely signed in August and September when the average rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage came down for a bit, but as you can see, is now higher. The bigger headline here is supply, which had been gaining all year. It fell to 1.52 million units, down a little less than 1% from September, still nearly 11% higher than the year before. So, it's now a 4.4 month supply, which is still considered lean. And that is why prices are still stronger. $415,200. That was the median price of a home sold in October, up 2.1% from a year ago and the 28th consecutive month of annual gains. Homes are staying on the market longer, an average 34 days, up from 29 last year. That's the longest in six years. Firsttime buyers making a small comeback at 32% of sales, up from 27% a year ago. And sales growth continues to be on the strongest end on the highest end of the market. those of the $1 million plus homes up 16% year-over-year sales of homes priced between 100 and 250,000 flat. Carl, back to you.
>> Again, that data might actually be good for the Fed to think that if the housing market needs to open up, we need to continue uh cutting rates because you're seeing some of the upper uh priced homes getting bought up, but not those basic homes for your firsttime buyer around that$100 to $400,000 range. Terolf, that's up 15% on the day. That went green. EOS, this one diluted by 500 million two days ago. That's up 10%. You're seeing a lot of these names get some love right here. Rock Lab as well. That was up five. Now it's up three. Nvidia still holding 194 and the S&P still at 674 on the day. Okay, here is Dan Niles and here is his take on what Nvidia delivered.
>> Nvidia's GTC conference on October 28th, the CEO said, "We have visibility to 500 billion in data center revenues through the end of 2026." And so when you did the math out, you go, "Wow, that sounds like a pretty strong quarter." And so you had kind of the Goldilocks print where you had about two billion of upside to the current quarter in terms of revenues. But interestingly, they guided about close to three billion above consensus for the upcoming quarter, which tells you that they're really seeing strong momentum. And you can see that in their revenues where two quarters ago revenues were up 56% year-over-year, they just reported up 62 and then they guided to up 65% year-over-year for revenue.
>> Yeah.
>> So that that has to make you feel good.
>> Um earnings estimates for the mag 7 for 26 now are going higher. For the 493 now they're going lower. Does is that how material is that given the weight? I mean, it obviously matters a ton because you've got seven stocks that are driving the market. And the main thing for me and why I thought that things would be pretty bullish through year end was the Fed seemed to say, you go back a couple months ago, hey, we're going to cut any inflation we see is transitory. Now, you've got up to four to five to cents if they do cut. And maybe they don't. That's a that's a coin toss. And so to your point, Carl, when you got earnings estimates moving lower for 493 of them, you got them moving up for seven, that's a very tough picture when you don't have easy money sort of driving everything up. And so I think stock picking as you've already seen with the Mag Seven coming out of this earning season where you've had, you know, really good stuff out of guys like Google, but then Meta
>> Meta back below 600 as well. So Streets not ready to give Meta the rebound right here. 597 on meta,
>> you know, was pretty relatively disappointing um in terms of what they're spending relative to what the EPS is doing. You've got to start, I think, picking stocks because you're not going to be able to have rate cuts driving everything up until potentially you get a new Fed chair in May, at which point the cutting cycle will start again because President Trump will only appoint somebody who wants to really cut rates. uh you know Dan uh having the advantage of having you on with some frequency you you have been saying that you sort of were expecting or potentially wanted to see kind of a a top here a blowoff. We're getting some of that now I guess or the rally into year end but I also remember you I mean you you still have concerns don't you about all the money being spent and the ultimate return on that. Do you still have those concerns or did this Nvidia print, you know, kind of uh in some way uh allay them?
>> No, absolutely. There there two concerns I had. One of them actually I have gone a long way to laying that which is I think one of the most important things they said on the call last night was the CEO said look the chips the A100s the Ampere chips we chip we shipped six years ago and remember chat GPT only came out three years ago. we shipped six years ago. Those are all fully utilized. So the questions have been raised recently about you know the hyperscalers are all extending capex depreciation cycles so earnings are overstated because of that and I've actually done some you know private work on that and it seems like there's a high degree of uh truth to that. So if six years ago processors are being fully fully utilized that's great. The second concern I have though still stands which is how do you have an open AI which is going to have a run rate revenue of 20 billion coming out of this year fund 1.4 trillion in capex. I look at a company like Anthropic which is closer to a hundred billion and they're going to exit the year at about nine billion revenue run rate and I have a lot more belief in that right
>> um the other part is sovereign you know different countries around the world
>> so again some of the same concerns about the startups and their spending commitments but as you can tell Dan really has nothing bearish to say about Nvidia I mean there's just not much to say I mean he's talking about the Fed which is legitimate because the Fed might not end up cutting rates and there's an argument there but there's just not much you can say about the Nvidia earnings. You can point to OpenAI and that giving people some, you know, uneasiness, but that's not necessarily, you know, something that means Nvidia is going to collapse. Nvidia right there 1937 still green on the day. Walmart, that stock 10675, that's up 6% as well. again Netflix I I I really think that the street expected them to make a real big bid for um Warner Brothers and now that they're not doing that stocks down I mean they are saving a lot of money by not doing that so I guess the street was more excited about the investment than not also after a split stocks tend to dump all the time so that could be happening as well um EOS that one continuing to move. Google still moving as well. Google not slowing down. 303 Google, dude. 3 and a half% again. I understand Meta's getting hit and Meta is probably the better value than Google from here, but Street's taking all that Meta money and throwing it into Google. All of it into Google. BMR right there, 2955. That's up 1.2%. I ren's at 52. Wow. I ran 14%. Did not see the 14% move right there on Iran, but you are green right there. Grab getting beat down today. Yeah, not sure why Grabb's getting beat right here. 530 is down two cents. That's one of the names along with Netflix right here. That's going red on the day. Again, I think a lot comes down to that meeting in December for grab and go to, but obviously the street not really giving it a premium even after a day like this. Oscar also getting hit. The subsidy stuff still concerning to the street down about 1.4%. Yeah, the entire AI HPC sector is booming as Cipher, Wolf, all these now again all these names that are up 15 20% on the day. We we've seen the draw down over the past couple weeks. I mean, a lot of these names got hit just as much in a day over the past couple weeks. So, this really is a high volatility game. Like, as much as I'm starting to like Nebius, this thing could be back to 85 in no time for whatever reason, whatever fears people have about data centers. So, really, the volatility of holding on to these names has to be embraced, but the upside is way better just given the overall TAM that they're playing with. I did see the investor day news for XYZ. The stock was actually halted yesterday. Okay, it's up four and a half% right here. They increase their guidance next year or for for like the next three years by a sizable amount. Um got a price target raised to 100 from ASU and uh basically management now expects gross profits grow in the mid- teens for the next three years. They see gross profit rising 17% to nearly 12 billion for fiscal year 2026. and they are increasing adjusted operating income and EPS by 30% to 2.7 billion to 320. I mean, it was a relatively strong investor day presentation. I just don't know if people care that much about Block. It is growing way faster than PayPal. So, if you, you know, ask me for the next five years, what would you hold? It would it would be Block easily. But Block right, they're up 4%. on the day. I just think again when it comes to fintex it's so fire hood dude like these are the two name like if I had to pick two names for like the next decade it's so fire and hood it's not a firm it's not block and those are great names but the companies that are really executing at a very high level I think are so fine Robin met there 599 599 on the day that one's still down MongoDB that one also down 4% or up 4% %. That's up 3.8. Oracle, are we going red? Oracle, we're holding on. Not red yet. Looks like it might want to go red. Shopify also up 4%. Look at that. Again, like does Jensen crushing really affect Shopify that much? I mean, not really. Like, it doesn't really affect Robinet that much either. It's like, but like just the entire market's attitude towards a lot of these names that got sold off is so much happier with a really good Nvidia quarter. I ran up 14% as well. XYD does 5x the revenue of Hood. Yeah, but it's not just the amount of revenue. It's the growth rate, right? Like XYZ has been around for a long time, longer than Hood. Cash App is way bigger than Hood in terms of users. Like look, I know some employees at Square and I told you guys a story. One of the employees that I know, he literally sold all of his stock, all every RSU he gets, he sells and he puts it into Robin and he works there and he's just like, "Dude, this is like Jack Dorsey is not the type of guy you want to go long on for the next 10 years. He's just like he cares about Bitcoin and he's spiritual and he's this and that." Like Vlad is like shipping a product every single month. It's just the leadership and culture of block is night and day even with them even with a sofi. So yeah I I and and by the way their operating leverage is damn near not as good as hood. I mean Hood is pushing 50% operating margins. Block is not at those levels. So yes, maybe they do more revenue, but the rate of growth and the operating leverage is just not the same as uh as hoodie. CRNC, I don't know this company. Small cap is up 50% after earnings, 513 million market cap. This one getting a big move right here. Surren Inc. are these guys in the data center space as well? CRNC, they are up 50%. We are almost into 10:30. We'll see if we do get any bit of a slam. Beat expectations by about 10 million for CRNC. Revenue 60 million, net loss 13, adjusted EPS 19. By the way, here was Sailor a couple of days ago when he was specifically asked about if Bitcoin were to fall 80%.
>> We're not even 1.5 times levered. We're very fractionally levered and our debt that we have is four and a half years out. So we don't really have any trigger points anytime soon and if Bitcoin were to fall 80% we're still over collateralized and we're fine. So so our balance sheet's pretty stable. The company's strategy uh just like an intelligent bank would be to build amplification for the common stock using preferred equity. So the equity never comes due. It's a dividend payment uh declared by the board. It's not a coupon. We can't be in a default. There is no credit default situation from the digital credit that we're selling at this point.
>> Okay. So, Sailor not really that concerned if Bitcoin were to collapse. Again, Bitcoin, their average 74,000 Bitcoin right there at 90,000. A Cleveland Fed president, trans over to them and see if they're giving us any updates on this idea around a rate cut. Steve.
>> Yeah. Thanks very much, Sarah. I am at the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank with the president, Beth Hammock. Uh Beth, thank you for having us here in Cleveland.
>> Steve, we're thrilled that you came out and made the trip.
>> Great. What an interesting conference you're putting on about financial stability. A good time for that, but also good time to talk about the outlook for Fed policy. Uh let's start with the easy thing, which is my question about your takeaway from this morning's jobs report.
>> Um well, we've only had a short amount of time to break down the report, and it's only just one number. Again, we don't make too much of any one individual report. And this one is a bit stale. It's a bit dated because it comes from September. Um, it does look like it was a mixed report, but it's in line with my expectation that we we would see some further softening in the jobs market, which just highlights the difficult time that this is for monetary policy because we are seeing some signs of softening in the labor market, but we're still seeing elevated signs of inflation. And so, we have to balance those two things as we're looking at our dual mandate. Yeah, the the operative phrases have been downside risk to employment and upside risk to inflation. So, let me just probe a little bit further on this issue of downside risk to employment. Um, you got a pretty robust payroll number on the one side, but the other side kind of like the Roarshack test of this thing, which is that they had a an 11 basis point increase in the unemployment rate. Do you does this increase your your downside your concern about downside risk to employment? Again, it's it's one number and we try not to make too much of any one number and I try to round it out with a variety of other data. So, the unemployment rate and this BLS payroll report is the gold standard. So, it's great that we're getting this data again, but we have been complenting it with other data whether it be the ADP jobs data, the war notices that we do a lot of research on here at the Cleveland Fed. Um,
>> your layoff notices, right? Just
>> correct. Those are Yes, those are the large the large layoff notices that come out. Um, and we are seeing that they have been moving up slightly and so that's something we're attentive to and want to keep our eyes on. But we also really importantly spend a lot of time I spent a lot of time out in the district talking with different business leaders and hearing from them about what they're doing. I was down in Cincinnati uh a few months ago, earlier this month I think and we were talking with some business leaders there and some workers about their experiences and what we hear from the workers is that they're holding on to their jobs for dear life if they have them. we are in this slow this low hiring low firing environment. But what I also heard at that same round table was that the money that that they have coming in is just not stretching as it far as it used to. That $30, what used to cost $30 now costs 50. And so they really, you know, that inflationary pressure is still very salient for them.
>> How do you make determinations about what's going on on the inflation side in the absence of data? We've used price stats and without giving a long list of data, do you feel like you have a pretty good understanding of what's happening on the inflation side?
>> I feel like we have a good understanding of what's happening in inflation. Of course, I would love to see the official statistics because those are the gold standard. Um, and we'll be getting those just on a on a delayed on a delayed basis. Um, but but the information that we get from being out and talking to various businesses is really helpful. Um, you know, we were talking with a grocery uh a grocery chain in the greater Cleveland region and they were telling us about how they're managing their prices. They're seeing elevated prices, elevated pressures coming from energy prices and they're thinking about how when they're passing how much that they can pass on to their clients. Um, right now what they told us is that they're seeing much more demand in products when they're offering specials and that if they're not offering specials that thing people aren't coming into the store quite as much. So individuals are looking
>> downward pressure on inflation.
>> It does look like there is some softening in demand. Um but in the aggregate the data that we have on the demand side and on the spending side seems to be holding up reasonably well. So
>> but you're but you're a markets person and I think you come from the standpoint that markets ain't stupid which is a point of view to have and they're not telling us very much about concern about inflation. If you look at market-based inflation expectations,
>> um inflation expectations have been contained which is really a good thing for us. that makes our job at the Fed much easier to do when the markets are thinking that inflation is going to stay and going to get back down to our target. Um, but that's only one factor that we look at. I have to think about how it's impacting individuals and when I'm out talking to workers and I'm talking to people in the district, what I hear is that the pressure from inflation is still really significant and that they're using their paychecks, you know, much more just for food and housing and energy and, you know, gasoline costs and they really don't have anything left over at the end of the month. So, when it comes to thinking about December, um, the way the minutes read was not even evenly divided. It sound like many or even a majority of of of of board members do not want to hike rates. Where do you put yourself in that?
>> Um, I walk into every meeting with an open mind and so we're going to continue to get information. I'm going to continue to do outreach over the next couple of weeks heading into our December meeting. Um, but I I will say what I've been saying, which is that you we're at a challenging time for monetary policy. We have to balance both sides of the mandate. We are seeing some soft.
>> Why can't they just answer the question, dude? Like they're playing with people's wallets here like it's a game with all this essentially gibberish. Like are do you want to cut rates or not? Like like the average American doesn't have time to hear about your dual mandate nuance. Like no, just tell us like let us at least know. What are you thinking? these 12 freaking members that are responsible for every single decision when it comes to the cost of capital. This is getting ridiculous at this point and they're obviously not going to tell us and they're going to keep it a surprise like always and it's just it is one of the most annoying things ever about the Fed
>> happening in the labor market but it's in line with my expectations of what I had thought would happen and on the prices side we see inflation that's still too high and some of the recent indicators that we've seen albeit somewhat stale have been trending in the wrong direction and so to me I think we need to continue to keep policy somewhat restrictive to bring inflation back
>> what are those indicators that you're focused on that are going in the wrong action.
>> Uh if you look at services inflation, yeah, some of the recent prints that you've seen in core services x housing, that's continued to go up. Um if you look at like a three-month average uh over the past three months where that's that's that's been trending upwards.
>> Basically, she's saying no. And the sad thing is the average American does not have time to peace like the fact that when she says we need to be more restrictive, all of us have an understanding of what that means because we're like we're in it every day. But the average person who does not keep up with the Fed, even though their entire life and every monetary decision they make in terms of a house or a car or credit cards, all of that depends on these interest rates. They don't have time to understand what that what she's saying. But she's basically saying, "No, we're not going to cut rates." And it is quite ridiculous given the type of labor market data we're seeing. But this is another Fed president that's on the side of basically saying we're not restrictive enough,
>> not downwards.
>> My colleague Sarah Eisen, who appears to be in a warmer place than we are right now, has a question for you.
>> I don't know. It's not that warm here at uh 7:20 in the morning in Vegas, but it's good to see you, President Hammock, and thanks for for joining the show. Just on I mean, it feels like you lean toward inflation is the bigger risk than the weaker jobs number, and that's somewhat of a hawkish view right now. You know, you referenced the weakening in the labor market. It's not just, you know, the higher unemployment rate we saw today. It's the war notices you said. It's the ADP numbers, like the weekly numbers we got. 200 jobs per week on average is how much companies were shedding. The challenger numbers about October layoffs being the highest since 1994. Isn't it Isn't it the Fed's job to get ahead of some of this weakness and preserve the labor market? Isn't that going to be a harder thing to reverse than say if if inflation is a little firmer down the road when it comes to monetary policy? Well, Sarah, it's great to see you and we look forward to hosting you out in Cleveland at some point. So, you can come and enjoy the cold weather that we have all through the winter and the great snow that we get or lake effect snow.
>> Um, I look, I think when we look at where we are from a labor market perspective, I had been anticipating in my forecast that we would see some further cooling in the labor market and that seems to be what I'm seeing when I look at all those various indicators that you pointed out. Um, it's important that we balance that. We have reduced rates 50 basis points already through the the last couple of meetings. And so I think that we need to maintain a modestly a somewhat restrictive stance of policy um to make sure that we are continuing to bring inflation.
>> That is not answering the she's repeating herself from five minutes ago. Sarah said, "Hey, look at all these indicators. It's obviously showing weakness." Hammock is like, "Well, we need to look at both sides of the dual mandate." You just said that for the past 20 minutes. She's asking you a hyper specific question about other indicators that might shift your mandate to focus more on the labor market over inflation. You can tell they don't have an answer for that. Like that is pretty obvious she does. She's repeating the same [__] She does not have an answer. And as a result of not having an answer, you'd lead to some nonsense around we need to care about both sides of the mandate. Well, one side of the mandate might matter more, aka people making a living. And it doesn't seem like the Fed cares about that.
>> Back down to our 2% objective. It's great that inflation expectations remain contained. Uh but that is a place that that I remain focused that we continue to bring inflation back down to target. And so right now to me uh monetary policy is barely restrictive if at all. And I think we need to make sure that we're maintaining that somewhat restrictive stance to bring monetary
>> mortgage rates are 6 and a half% and monetary policy is barely restrictive. What is like what is happening dude? Like what? Like how is this real? Like it really gets you thinking how these Fed officials did a 180 over the past couple weeks from caring about the labor market to now saying we are barely restrictive really like interest rates aren't the highest they've been in 40 years. That's barely restrictive
>> to bring u inflation back target.
>> I'm just not sure that a lot of folks would agree with you. For instance, in the housing market, I mean it feels very restrictive. Housing affordability has been a problem. The average first-time home buyer now is 40 years old in part because of affordability challenges with higher mortgage rates. We also continue to hear this growing gap between low-income and high-income consumer. The Walmart CFO just told me about it that's getting worse. So, doesn't that feel like restrictive policy that the Fed should try to make things easier for? Well, when on the housing side in particular, when I was down in Columbus meeting with a variety of businesses, there were some construction companies represented and what I heard from them was that the cost of materials and labor is as impactful and is as much of a deterrent in terms of new home production as mortgage rates. They're buying down mortgage rates and so there's been some support that happens on that side. But what I hear all across Ohio um and eastern Kentucky and western Pennsylvania, the various parts of the district, uh is that it's really hard to find laborers, particularly skilled trades, and that that's a place where it's continuing to elevate home prices.
>> Beth, we're here um at the financial stability conference that you hold every year for 13 years.
>> So, she talked to a few This is getting kind of I feel like I'm going crazy. She talked to some construction workers that said the cost of some of their goods are going higher. So, she says we shouldn't cut rates even though Amazon's cutting 30,000 jobs because the cost for some wood is marginally higher, which is a concern. Not to say that's not a concern, but is that a concern that outweighs the massive labor market deterioration that we're seeing? I mean, I I guess the conversation she had with a few construction workers was enough to to get her to change her mind
>> since the great financial crisis.
>> Um, and I I think I got to know you in the 2019 repo flash, whatever. What What do we call that? Do we have any reporions?
>> Repo eruption. Okay. Did you have a little deja vu at the end of October? Were you did you begin to be concerned about what's happening with the tightness in the repo market? Um we expect to see some fluctuations in money markets. Um you know we had Fed funds which is our target rate was squarely within the range. Uh what I would have liked to seen was more usage over the standing repo facility which is a monetary policy tool we put in place to help manage uh manage rates to keep the broad constellation of money market rates within the range the ban that we put forward which right now is 3 and 3/4 to 4%. Um and so it's something that we need to monitor closely. Um, but I'm glad that you brought up the financial stability conference that we're have going on right now. It's really exciting that this is our 13th year that we've been hosting it. Um, we have two great keynote speakers here in Eai Goldstein.
>> Dude, this is the problem with some of the elite of our society.
>> We're hosting our conference for the 13th time of the year, for the 13th time consecutive year in a row, and we're going to have all these fancy keynote speakers drinking their their their fancy Saratoga water as we talk about the state of the economy. It's like they are not focused on the average American and the [__] that's going on in the real world. They're focused on having a good keynote presentation at a conference. I mean that this is unbelievable that this conference to them is is what they want to focus on over like actually figuring out if we need to cut rates or not. And this is why people get mad at the Fed. This is why people think the Fed is completely out of touch with reality here.
>> From the Wharton school is going to be talking about fragility. Oh, the Wharton School. That's some Wow. Thank goodness this keynote speaker is from the Wharton School because that person definitely understands how someone making $50,000 a year is surviving in this country. That I mean that 100% they should be giving a keynote. Let's let's let's let them get the mic and talk for the next two hours.
>> Sources of fragility and financial markets. And tomorrow we'll have the vice chair for monetary policy, Philip.
>> But I want to ask you about fragility because a couple things that you've mentioned, private credit and the AI bubble. Could you take those separately and tell us and and then together the extent to which you have concerns about stability in the financial system from those two sources?
>> Sure. I talked about three things that I called out this morning in my remarks. One one was uh private credit which is a place that I'm spending a lot of time looking at that. Um the second was stable coins and the third was the emerging risks risks from you know easing policy right
>> into accommodative financial conditions. Um AI is something we're spending a lot of time on as well. There's a lot of innovation in the district around AI. Last week I was out in Pittsburgh. Uh meeting with some folks from BNY who have actually their largest US office in Pittsburgh and that is the center of a lot of their innovation around AI and and the focus that they're doing. They showed us some of the tools that they're using and they're really at the cutting edge. When I travel the district broadly, I'm hearing a lot of different stories about how AI is getting incorporated into different workflows. at Ohio State, they talk about making sure that every student is taking classes in AI to think about how they should be using it. And so they're more forwardleaning in it. What I hear most often is that AI is going to be a compliment rather than a substitute to workers. Uh and businesses are using it to help enhance the the customer experience and give them better insights around what's
>> The way I like I think about it is whether or not it's something that's going to keep me up late at night or get me up early in the morning. And and and I I'm a little selfish about this because the only thing I really care about is systemic risk
>> or how much sleep you get.
>> No, no, no. That doesn't matter to me. But here's the thing. Um people can lose as much money as they want going into something, but if it messes up the banking system, that means more work.
>> Okay. So, when I think about this, do you think about the concentrations? Does the AI bubble have a wider uh in impact on the financial system? We woke up to the derivative um explosion in 2007208 and found out it was directly linked to the banking system. Do you have concerns either private credit or what's happening with AI have tentacles back into the banking system that are reasons for concern?
>> Yeah, so the financial markets are not the real economy, but they are an important transmission into the real economy. And so it's a place that I watch carefully. In private credit in particular, um there's a lot to feel good about in private credit markets. They tend to have reasonably stable funding. They've got 7 to 10 year lockups. There's no early redemption features. That means that they can stay in the investments that they have for a long period of time. On the other hand, there is ties back into the banking sector in that there's a lot of lending that's happening. There's been significant growth in the lending that's happening from the banks into the private credit universe, whether it be NAV loans, capital call lines, um, or other sorts of of lending. And what you tend to find in private credit uh because it's outside the banking system is that they use special features like payment in kind. Yes. Um which can increase some of the borrowings that some of the riskiest lenders um or less profitable companies can undertake. And so it's an area that I think we need to watch. I feel generally good about private credit um because of the longdated funds that they have. But you have to remember that many of the investors are going to be endowments, pension funds, and insurance companies. And if we see significant losses for pension funds, I'm not going to feel great about that
>> one.
>> Well, to focus on private credit, maybe instead of hosting conferences and wasting their time, like tell me what's the value of a conference outside of them feeling better about themselves. By the way, our taxpayer dollar is probably paying for this stupid conference. Like, like instead of paying for a conference, maybe they should go out into the world and see what's going on with private credit. Maybe they should talk to people that are being affected by private credit. definitely talk to people that are affected by the actual labor market. But no, our taxpayer dollars are going to Fed presidents speaking with Wharton business school professors during a conference. I mean, I I don't I don't I you don't really get that spicy, but this is genuinely like making me upset because and it's not even about the just the stock market. It's about the idea that she's bragging about a conference and not answering any questions directly without actually explaining what does it mean for UPS to get rid of 48,000 employees. What does it mean for AI, which you know, you would imagine a Fed official would spend some time learning about AI and they would learn about the job. I mean, if the CEO of Anthropic is saying 10 to 20% of white collar jobs will be replaced in the next 5 to 10 years and the Fed is not taking the time to understand that, maybe internalize that, recognize that, hey, maybe that's going to be a lot more deflationary than we think. Maybe there's going to be a lot more layoffs versus the the the growth of the rate of inflation. Even in the short term, if inflation might seem like a bigger concern, maybe in the next four to five years, not four to five months, the labor market is a way bigger concern. And maybe we're going to be late again if we don't take this seriously. But no, we have to have a conference. We have to have a fancy keynote speaker. That's what we got to do today. I mean, this is where Trump is 10,000% correct. When Trump says Powell is not actually looking at what's happening in the economy, I ran, by the way, up 16%. He's right. the Fed chair. And by the way, this is a top down approach. We get a new Fed chair that's actually cares about what's going on in the labor market, he's going to set the culture of the Fed to try to get some of these other officials to actually give a [__] and not spend their time at a conference. Like we we need to focus on the things that are happening. And unfortunately, we don't have the October jobs report, so we don't really understand how bad the labor market was. But even if the October jobs report was positive, you cannot tell me the headlines that we're seeing. Doesn't take a rocket scientist to be like, "Oh, UPS cutting 48,000 jobs." Huh, that everything's okay. You know, and the market's holding up because earnings have been so good. But I mean, the reason we've been seeing cracks in the markets is because if earnings stop being good, and how do earnings stop being good is when people can't buy an additional product on Amazon because they're penny pinching and they're afraid because they just lost their job. That's when Amazon really starts to suffer. And so before that happens, maybe we should maybe we should cut some rates. Tesla, by the way, making a move 428. Tesla, I don't know why it's making this big of a move. Maybe because of Nvidia, maybe because the upgrade, but the market really allocating some capital right here. Up $23, 427 on Tessy, as that goes. Gra for bed chair, dude. I'm just like, it's not even about the stock market. Like, obviously, yes, if we cut rates, will the will the stock market do well? Yeah. Like when we look at the data we've been looking at around credit card delinquencies, auto subprime auto loan delinquencies, student loans, the housing market, and then you have a Fed president say we are barely restrictive. By the way, Google 305 once again really pushing it up 4%. It really makes you think, did did like someone like get all these Fed officials in a room over the past three weeks and tell them to like just completely go anti- uh rate cut? I'm not saying that happened, but it really makes you start thinking because three weeks ago that was not the tone. Three weeks ago, we were pricing in a 100% chance of a rate cut. What changed? Oh, the government shutdown. We couldn't get October data. Okay, that's more of a reason we should be precautious around the idea of a rate. Like, I don't think anything has changed in the past three weeks to say that inflation matters more. Has have have grocery prices ticked up a bit? Yes. But as a Fed official, the incremental increase in grocery prices is not 2022 when we printed 7 trillion and had 10% inflation. Like that that just not comparable. But if that's the argument they want to go for and then say we don't need to cut rates, it becomes I don't know. It becomes kind of crazy to imagine this. Sundar just tweeted. Okay, it looks like Nano Banana uh on Gemini 3 has launched. Yeah, there you go. Nano Banana Pro has launched on Gemini. You can't buy groceries if you're unemployed. That's a great point. That is a very good point. He says it's soda for image generation editing with more advanced world knowledge, text rendering, precision, and controls built on Gemini 3. is really good at complex infographics, much like how engineers see the world. Dude, like, okay, what just popped in my head based on this graphic is imagine the construction industry being able to use AI to like very hyper specifically plan out a project, potentially even building out a data center. And I know there's already visualization tools that do this right now, but you could imagine the productivity and the specificity that a image generation model could create if it could literally build out and generate all the ancillary details of an image before you construct it and how much more productive and efficient that could make an entire project. I mean, there's so many different use cases from these image generation models and they're at their earliest stages and that's another reason for why, you know, AI might not be fake and they might have real implications in the world. Walmart, right, they're up 6.5% as that's green as well. And again, maybe those things happen, maybe they don't. I'm kind of just thinking out loud right here, but like the the idea of the possibility of those things potentially taking place if the AI gets that good is what I think is exciting. S&P basically high of day is at 675. We're not really giving up 675. So that's good to see even with the Fed chair or with Fed President Hammock being like that. And then Google 305. I mean, dude, Google five bucks above 300. I feel like she's trying to normalize 300s. Lot of volume coming on Google. Google now $3.7 trillion market cap and it continues to go green. IRM that's up 17% making a very big move. Even Target getting a little bit of love. How about Weeble? That's up 5%. Weeble has earnings today. Dude, imagine 300's the bottom now for Google. That would be crazy. Okay, we didn't really get a 10:30 slam yet. Maybe it's going to happen at 11:00. We got about 18 minutes till we get it. Looks like the Fed president comments didn't really hurt the market too much. By the way, Wells Fargo said the Fed should cut in December. Wells Fargo says the Fed should cut rates by 25 bips, citing easing inflation and growing labor market slack. Uh they note that hawks may argue against the cut due to above target inflation and solid job growth, but the bank is still sticking with its call while acknowledging it's a close decision. Um, Morgan Stanley no longer expects a December rate cut and now projects three cuts in 2026, January, April, and June from Morgan Stanley. But they're dropping their forecast for a cut for December at the end of the year. Nebia is still up 5%, Tesla still 427, Oracle up 2%. Did anyone buy anything today? Did anyone buy into strength? Did anyone buy more Nvidia? Did anyone sell anything today? I guess is the better question. Did anyone take some profits? I know a decent chunk of us bought on Monday. Um, but I'd be curious if anyone kind of traded anything or took any profits. Scott, thank you for the gift of five memberships. Appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Witchwatch, thank you for the $50 super chat. The Fed is criminal andor intentionally tanking assets. It really does feel like the Fed tends to be detached from reality. Uh, thank you for the super chat. And you know, the average American doesn't have time to listen to this political nonsense going back and forth not actually answering a question. They need to know, right, is their cost of capital going to get cheaper? And it's not the average American's fault for the rise of inflation. You know, that has to do a lot of time with the government and and things that are potentially out of control like a pandemic that causes us to print so much money. So for the Fed to be so disingenuous about just giving an answer, I think is what really pisses people off. Tesla right there, 427. is that is green. I see a bunch of people say we bought some Oscar. Some people said bought BMR. Couple people saying they're thinking of buying Hood. Visa. Visa's actually been doing well. By the way, Google 10 or 306. Wow. Google alltime highs at 306. Visa 325. The Googs right there really doing well. I see a bunch of AMDs. I see some Ubers. I did buy some BMR at 32. Dude, I really thought 32 was the bottom. I was like I was like, "All right, at 32 we're done." And I was at 29. It's dude, BMR has been down 5% for the last six trading sessions. Like today is the one day it's actually up a little bit. It's just every day it has been downhill. So 32 I'm like, well, this is enough, right? It's like, nope. ETH's going lower. ETH right here at 29.86. Uh, I see some Baltimore hoods. Sold some leaps on Broadcom. I don't hate that. Broadcom right there, 6% all-time highs. Definitely doesn't feel like taking profits there is a bad idea. Um, a little bit BMR. Yeah, hard floor is 28. I agree with that. It's simply because I mean Ethereum would have to get closer to 2650 at that point if it violates that level. Maybe it does, but you are seeing it at least try to hold 29 to 3,000. Nebia's right there 99 grab at 536. Netflix still down, although recovering a little bit. And Walmart up 6%. I don't know. I don't think we're out of the woods yet. Uh I do like the market strength even with those Fed comments and the lack of probabilities on rate cuts. Although the probabilities have gone higher, this is all because of Nvidia. This is literally all because of Nvidia, which also, you know, I was talking about this yesterday on the on the uh the Nvidia stream, but if you're investing in the stock market over the next couple years, as much as we want to say like Nvidia is not the only reason and you know, there's all these other companies that are doing well and yet it's like no, it's Nvidia. If Nvidia missed earnings yesterday or they didn't beat with the size that they beat yesterday, we'd be down again. The entire market, everything. And so, I think if you're going to be invested over the next five years, it's Nvidia's market. It's just that simple. The day Nvidia shows a meaningful decline in chips, capex, data center buildout, etc. I mean, that's when we start to probably see a decline. Unless Nvidia's normalized to the point where, you know, it's appropriate for it to like like companies can start declining their growth rates when it's appropriate. But if it happens in like 2028 and the market's not expecting it, that's when things get ugly. So, I think if you're investing, you're essentially investing in a market that is contingent on Nvidia, as much as you may think it's not. And there are ways to kind of hedge against that and hide in different areas. But at the end of the day, like it's either Nvidia goes up or Nvidia goes down and the market falls with it. So if you believe it's an AI bubble, you got to get out of the market because eventually you think Nvidia is going to pop. If you think it's not an AI bubble, you lean into it and you know, you don't have to sort of be levered against it, but you can definitely benefit from the upside of what's going on if you believe AI is real. And again, every quarter, Nvidia just continues to prove why why it might be real. There is an argument. A lot of people are saying Google is catching up to Nvidia. Now, look, I'm not as educated on the TPU GPU debate, and you know, Google is not actively selling TPUs at the rate that Nvidia is selling GPUs, but it would not surprise me for Google, you know, to catch up, get to that $4 trillion market cap. I mean, it's theoretically not that far away from Nvidia. Nvidia is at 4.7. Google's at 3.6. You know, at these numbers, it comes kind of hard to imagine it, but I think it would be healthy for Google to be the first or second most valuable company in the world. It's just the growth rates of I mean, the fact that Nvidia is growing 60%. At their scale, it's just unbelievable. Palinger did get a deal yesterday as well with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. So, we don't have a lot of details on this, but um Pounder and Saudi Arabia inked a strategic defense agreement at a round table. Uh Karp was at the White House a couple days ago uh that included execs from other military contractors. The move comes after Pounder CEO Alex Karp joined more than two dozen business leaders for lunch in Saudi Arabia during President Trump's trip to the Middle East in May. It seems like if the Saudis are buying a ton of chips from Nvidia, they're going to likely need software infrastructure to run the programs and applications that they want to build on top of those chips. And again, the prince has a very long target in terms of 2040 for how he's going to rebuild the country to not be as contingent on oil money. And you know, that's where Pounder software might come in as well. Again, Karp said chips and ontology. And it looks like the Middle East is starting to at least get curious about the ontology part. This was Trump yesterday confirming that $2,000 dividend will happen in 2026.
>> We have taken in trillions of dollars and it's been absol absolutely amazing. We'll be we're going to be doing uh a dividend to the people, low and middle income, moderate income people of at least $2,000. In addition to that, we'll be paying down debt very substantially. It's kind of money we're taking in. And really countries that took advantage of us uh are no longer taking advantage of us. Friends, some of our friends treated us far worse than our enemies on trade anyway. And uh we've got that all straightened out and everybody's happy they respect us again. You know, it's like one of those things. I think they like us better and they actually respect us and it works out much better for us, too. We have taken in trillions of
>> I don't know how they're going to give this $2,000, but they are going to give apparently this $2,000 uh to low and middle inome people. And I don't know how they're going to fund it, but Trump says he's going to fund it. Again, that would be pretty stimulative for the economy if they do do that. Tesla right there, 425. as that one continues green. Now again, does that ramp up inflation? I mean, yeah, you can't print that much money and not have inflation. So, like, that's where you could have a much larger concern, but it's also like Trump says a lot of things, dude. I mean, they have given no details on how this is going to happen. They're calling it a tariff dividend. It might not even be a check. It might be like a tax rebate, which is still stimulative, but it's not it might not be as aggressive as a stim check. So, I think we're going to need a lot more details to see what that looks like. Shopify right there, that's up 4.63% as well. Um, Nebia sliding down a little bit. Yes. Again, what I've learned from holding Nebius is that this is absolutely a volatile name and it can go to 85 the next day or it could go to 110. But the volatility in these data center trades is continuing to ramp up. It's just Nvidia earnings really showed a lot of people that you know the opportunity really might be as massive as the CEO of Nebus says it is. Bitmine 2879 that's a new low 2879 down another 1.3% as Ethereum falls 2.5. Big Bear, how's that moving? Big Bear is up about 7%. It was at 850 a couple weeks ago. That one's gotten hit. What are people thinking about be army? Let's do a sentiment check on what people are thinking. Are people throwing in the towel? Are people thinking it's a tax loss harvest? Are people feeling scammed by Tom? Dude, I saw this picture the other day. Hold on. I got to show you guys this picture. This [__] was hilarious. This picture actually was the funniest [__] ever. This thing was the best, dude. This is so funny. Look, at the end of the day, you can't blame Tom. I know it's easy to blame Tom, but if you bought a stock, you bought a stock. You can't blame anybody. By the way, Whimo, Minneapolis, Tampa, and New Orleans. Minneapolis, Tampa, New Orleans. Those are the three new cities. They announced five cities two days ago. So, Whimo just continues to expand. another bullish argument for the googs. I think if you have a long-term thesis on Ethereum, and I know it's annoying to hear that, but that is what you hold on to in terms of conviction. Um, if you don't have that thesis or you think the crypto markets have peaked, then you start considering what the tax laws sell look like. But from all the fundamental pieces of data that we've looked at, it does feel like there is that long-term thesis intact. It's just the crypto markets go south and everything with it goes south. I was looking at BMR's chart yesterday compared to Micro Strategy. Very similar. I mean, you had to go through about eight months of just holding the lows on MSTR before it had its explosion. And will that happen here? I don't know. But it's also part of kind of the journey for why a lot of these MSTR shareholders did very well long term. Um little bit of 11 a.m. slam. Yes, Nvidia right there 192. We're seeing a little bit of pain right here. Again, even if we were to close at 670 on the S&P, I'd be happy. Be very grateful for an Nvidia 190 or an Nvidia 187 close. So if we get more than that, I think that'd be nice. Unh there 312. Amcor that's still up 5%. Amcor was up 15% last night. Corore up seven. Then Palunteer just below 170 again. Paler 16936 up 2.44. And then Googs at 305. Uh Jayce thanks for the super chat. Brian Armstrong said the Clarity Act should be ready before Thanksgiving. So I think this is the final wash out before legislation gets voted on. That's a great point. Brian Armstrong did say we are getting very close to that legislation. And again, that legislation is going to be incredibly important for the adoption of ETH as we continue to make more momentum. It does feel like a bit of a wash out. I'd be interested in price action if if you know we get the legislation approved and still ETH is and crypto is just stuck. But, you know, maybe that's what the market is waiting for as well. There is some new hope that a major crypto bill could see its first votes in the Senate next month after bipartisan talks around the measure have restarted. Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong was up on the hill yesterday meeting with senators about the legislation. It's a top priority for the crypto industry would define when crypto would be a commodity versus a security. And Armstrong told me that while some issues do remain, he has seen progress. Market structure legislation for crypto is made really good progress. I think we're 90% of the way there. The Senate Banking Committee is also working on their next draft, which we're told is going to get to a markup in December. So, seems like good progress from the meetings that I've had today.
>> Uh there was another representative, Warren Davidson, who is potentially introducing a new strategic reserve Bitcoin bill in Congress as well. This is what he said this morning.
>> What does it do and how do you build it? Well, uh, first of all, the president created a strategic reserve.
>> The audio kind of sucks on this. Sorry, guys. I'll try to find a better version of it. But, uh, essentially, Warren Davidson is saying that he's going to be introducing a new strategic reserve bill for Bitcoin. The the problem with that is that like I don't think I don't think Trump cares about a strategic Bitcoin reserve. I just don't think he cares. He kind of cared when he was running for president, but um you know, he's done a lot of stuff for crypto. I don't think he cares that much about actually buying Bitcoin. Now, maybe they'll consolidate all the Bitcoin they've seized over the past few years, but yeah, I definitely don't think he feels there's enough money to actually allocate. I mean, you can't give out these $2,000 checks and then buy Bitcoin like and pay down the debt. At some point, there has to be a capitulation on one of those things. By the way, Mumani is going to be meeting Trump tomorrow in the Oval Office. That's going to be mustwatch TV if they stream it. Mannani and uh Trump are not the best of friends, although Trump is from New York. Mdani the mayor of New York. So, I guess we're going to see kind of how they interact with each other. I I think Trump would want to make it um I think Trump would want to make it um uh a show like a spe a sk um a spectacle like he would want to kind of get Mumani in the office to berate him and basically you know call him a communist to his face and all that stuff. Like I really do think Trump would want to take that opportunity to show people that you know in his perspective Mumani is not going to be a good mayor but he might actually want to work with the guy and help New York. But I also think he's going to want a lot of publicity by showing them. He might not have the best policies for New York. Cipher right there up 15%. It won't be streamed. We'll see. I feel like I mean Trump announced it on e on uh on truth social. So I feel like him announcing that he's going to be meeting with them. Maybe they end up making that public.
>> Cipher up 14% right here on the day. Walmart's up six. And then Nvidia is up 3.3. Okay, let's see what else we got. Let's see. Let's see what else we got. It's almost 11:00 a.m. Little bit of a slam. Nothing too crazy. Nebas back below 98. Um, well, we got the US labor secretary. Let's get some of their thoughts. they think need to cut even with the jobs date in September being okay.
>> You about the headline numbers. It was a a blowout. We were only expecting 51,000 in our survey and far more than double that is what we got. Um how strong is this economy?
>> Well, 119,000 new jobs. I think that is a solid report for the American people and for the workforce. um we have seen over and over again um you know that we want to have these gains and it's those investments by this administration and this president I think is what you're seeing come online. So this was a solid report uh for these September numbers uh we'll have to see how um November numbers come out in mid December but I think that this is good for the American people. We know that more people are wanting to work and they're actively seeking those jobs. And so it is my responsibility to make sure that we have that skilled workforce. And so I think that you're going to see consumer confidence. And again, with prices coming down, energy prices, gas prices, we're seeing uh, you know, real wages go up, uh, bluecollar wages have gone up um, over the last 60 years. And I think that that's the exciting part of this is that we're seeing people who are wanting to get on the ground, have the skills that they need, and get in that workforce.
>> Secretary Travis Dreamer, you might sound very similar to those who don't want this Fed to cut, that this is a healthy labor market. The president, though, even jokingly yesterday was saying Scott Besson would be fired had he not been able to get this Fed to cut. So, in your view of this labor market, is it strong enough that it doesn't need assistance from the Fed? Well, I think the president has been pretty clear on this issue. Uh we did see the two rate cuts. I think the Fed does need to go ahead and cut again. You know, when I travel around the country talking to businesses, which I have hit 36 out of 50 states on my 50 state tour before, you know, the Democratic shutdown happened, those business owners are wanting to borrow more money at a cheaper rate to invest in their workforce. That is what they're asking. And so I think another rate cut is exactly what we need um to really grow this workforce. I mean we see uh GDP is up 4.2%. I think that that's positive growth and we want to see more private sector jobs come online out of the 119,000 jobs we saw. 97,000 of those jobs have been in the private sector which is way different than the Biden administration when we saw they were all government jobs. So I think we're on the right track. Um, all right. You got the labor secretary saying we need to get these rate cuts. Markets are turning, folks. We're getting some of the red. Nvidia losing 196. S&P, it's up 1.4. I mean, even holding on to half a percent or up.7% would be nice. BMR new lows down to Bitcoin back below 90 11 a.m. I guess uh I guess 10:30 slam has turned to 11 a.m. slam. We are not able to get this trend to be intact. I mean I don't want to act like the trend is gone today because the S&P is still up 1.4, but you're seeing a lot of components of the S&P start losing their gains. So you could see that on the S&P soon unless we get a reversal. Even Tesla 428 to 423. Shopify losing some love. Um Walmart still holding 6%. Nvidia still holding 192 even if it's down from 196. Meta's been below 600 all day. Nebas obviously losing 100. There's at 96. Micro Strategy down 2%. So again, the question, I mean, why did Bitcoin and Ethereum as like your barometers of risk on assets get hit the most at 11:00 a.m.? I don't see a headline, but it could either just be it's 11:00 a.m. or it could be once again this concern about not getting a rate cut, even though that news has been baked in for the past couple hours. Fed probability still 41.8% on a December cut. You did have Morgan Stanley take away their expectation for a December cut. Wells Fargo thinking they still should. I mean, let's do a poll right here. Let's get sentiment from everyone here. If you had to bet if we're getting a rate cut or not, by the way, 85% of you said green for the day versus red. Do we get a rate cut in December? If you had to pick one, yes or no? I wonder if it's 40 60 the same way as the Fed probabilities. Do you think we get a cut if you had to pick? Um, that's 50/40. Yes. 53% yes. 47% no. We should, but Doubtfill Pal's gonna cave. Is he Is Pal actually gonna cave? I mean, you could you could argue he caved in October and he was not happy about it and he let us know how unhappy he was about it 1917 on Nvidia. So again, this becomes the debate now going into the end of year. The earnings were exceptional. It's hard to argue that. Question now is does the market care about the exceptionalness of the earnings and the implications of that or do they care more about macro? I feel like it's a debate between earnings and macro. And Nvidia was the last earnings that we needed. They delivered. They more than delivered. If the Fed doesn't deliver, then maybe macro weighs out over earnings. Pal doesn't want to be remembered as cutting rates and having inflation rise again. That's fair. But I mean, look, Pal's legacy is going to be very, very nuanced because he is the reason for why we have the inflation in 2021. Even though I don't like blaming him because like Trump and Biden printed a lot of money, but nonetheless, Pal should have been raising rates way earlier in 2021. He waited until the market crashed to raise rates, which was the issue. Um, but like he was late before and then 2023, 2024, even with raising rates, he navigated the quote unquote soft landing, if you even want to think it was a soft landing. But the reason his legacy portion is nuanced is because it really wasn't because of him. It was because of AI. Like if CHBT didn't come out and we had all this capex spend with companies that didn't care about interest rates like Google and Meta because they were spending on capex, you wouldn't have had the markets do as well as they did. And also a lot of the job growth in 2024 was two things. Number one, a lot of immigration. We had a lot of public sector jobs. And then number three, um a rebound from the co jobs that we lost. Bitcoin low of day 89.2. too. So if inflation increased a little bit for the next five months because of Pal cutting rates, is that really going to change his legacy from what's happened over the past five years? I don't think so. Especially because I mean look realistically he missed it in 21 and with the whole transitory thing that that is going to be I think one of the defining metrics and then he kind of alleviated it over the past two years but realistically AI gave him a big boost. I mean, it was nothing like Vulkar that just completely smashed it. Granted, you know, inflation was 10% in 2022. Now it's at like 3%. So, it's not like Pal has done a horrible job. It's just now if he's so obsessed that it becomes 3.3% instead of 2.8 because it's not going back to 2% by the time he retires in May. Is that really going to hurt his legacy? Is that what he's that concerned about? I would hope that's not his biggest concern. Uh, Bitcoin again losing 80,000 right here or losing 90,000 8970 touched 88 for a second. SPY is now starting to go down as expected. 672 still holding 1.4 on the day. Yeah, Bit Mine is sitting on 3.5 billion of unrealized losses on Ethereum. That was uh discussed yesterday. I mean, the one thing I think that people are upset about when it comes to Bitmine is that the timing was off like really badly. I mean, you you know, he's bidding it at the same thing with Sailor, right? Like, you know, Sailor was bidding over the past couple months at 110, 115, 118, and you know, now it's down. The majority of the ETH that was bought was at 44,4500. And so to get the timing that wrong on the ETH buys, obviously it hurt the timing of people who bought BMR stock as well. But that is what I think people are the most upset about. And do you blame Tom Lee for that? I mean, it's crypto. It's volatile. Goes up, it goes down. It's hard to get anything at the bottom or, you know, sell at the top. But at the level of scale that he executed this endeavor, it was just not good timing. And unfortunately that is what has created this this downside on it. Uh [__] still up two that was up four and then Oracle that's up half a percent. Um okay let's see what else. Soft Bank is investing three billion in OpenAI for a data center. Yes, saw that news this morning. Uh Microsoft also is going to be investing in that data center. So they've got more and more data center investments. We have the Google news this morning as well with Cipher and Wolf Rock Lab right there that goes red on the day 4322. Um let's get a little bit of market coverage on what's going on with Nvidia. CNBC as the green banner which we're still green but by the afternoon it might be a red banner if we keep dumping
>> today after going down you know 600 billion of market cap in a few weeks. So you you sort of have this overlay of caution around that side of things. And of course, we did get a little bit of a jolt of u if not enthusiasm then reassurance from the stale jobs report from September saying job growth did not completely stall a couple of months ago. And maybe that means we can live with a jump ball decision or maybe a less than 50/50 chance of of a Fed rate cut in December. By the way, you still have more than 50% uh odds assigned to either December or a January rate cut. We're coming up to about two month window ahead of the January cut. We could just roll forward this whole scenario out there. Just the way we're rolling forward the S&P 500 and NASDAQ earnings estimates. We're through the quarter. Guess what? The four quarter forward is now three months further into the future. That's how bull markets try to keep feeding themselves. But I do think we're still getting tested on a lot of these premises that got us up to those highs of 6,900 in the S&P.
>> Although I would argue, Mike, that the higher unemployment rate actually feeds rate cut odds going higher in December. And the fact that this is our last employment report before that December Fed meeting actually increases the odds of a cut. I know we heard Beth Hammock say the opposite, but she's not a voter last hour. You know, Mike, as far as Nvidia and and just how much it makes us all feel better, do you think it ends the debate over, you know, higher credit costs and funding concerns over the massive spend of the AI buildout for more than just a day or two here?
>> I don't think it ends the debate. I think it buys it some time. and we have some breathing room here. And I think really anybody who who was looking closely at it recognized that there was not like this moment of reckoning that was right ahead of us. it was much more about what are we building toward here exactly how are we structuring all these investments and really how do we value these companies like the the hyperscalers uh that had gotten to this point by being you know asset light their magic free cash flow machines and now all of a sudden if Nvidia is right that we're very early in this whole thing and be building AI factories and sustaining them is going to be multi-year from here what does it mean for the financial profile of these companies that we got used to not really having to worry about constant reinvestment into real assets. I think that's a big picture overlay. It's really a question about the
>> I mean look again the implication of Nvidia earnings as they're saying in regards to the capex trade is not incorrect. It's just S&P another red candle. It's just the market's trying to figure out does that matter um versus the rate cut or versus the labor market. Now here's the question. How low do we have to go to get some buyers to come in aggressively on a name like Nvidia? Like, do we have to go back to 180? Do we have to go back to 175? Or is this kind of where the bleeding stops? BMR continuing to get wrecked, dude. Down 2.7%. Ethereum, very little bounce, but still down decent chunk. Two 30% drop should be good to get buyers. Oh my goodness. You can't blame Jensen here. You can't blame Jensen. He did what he had to do. There's not much more he could do with it. Now it's up to look at Robin going down. It's up to the market now. It is up to the market. And see, the other thing is people are people are getting tired of buying the dip, dude. People thought over the past couple weeks this was enough of the dip. But if it just keeps dipping after they buy it, might have some of those people just sell those shares and take the little profit they have and just wait. Uh, Zalinski's office says he received a peace plan draft from the US. So, this was a headline that went under the radar yesterday because of Nvidia earnings, but apparently Trump approved a peace plan between Russia and Ukraine. It's a 28 point peace plan. We don't have a lot of news about it or a lot of updates, but Zalinsky received the draft yesterday. The plan reportedly gives both sides security guarantees to secure a lasting peace, which is bullish. Don't know if the market's going to care too much about that, but it's good to see any low geopolitical stability across the across the world. The market started going down last week the minute the Fed sounded like they were not going to cut. So, it doesn't matter if we get a cut or not. Well, I mean, if the Fed does cut, then that would be the pivot, right? the market would start getting excited uh and and reverse kind of their initial reaction to the expectation of not getting a cut. But the qu I mean you got you we we watched for 15 minutes the hammock the president and then one of the the the Cleveland presidents speak about it and she's more concerned about the Wharton School professor's keynote at her fancy conference than she is about the labor market. Like I legit think she woke up this morning and probably cared more about the keynote at her conference going well over the labor market. And that to me is why people hate the Fed because these are people that are responsible for the cost of capital which is central to every single decision Americans make indirectly or directly. And I'm sure she woke up this morning and she was more concerned about making sure that everything logistically was set up for her fancy conference, not for the fact that people are losing their jobs and going delinquent on credit card debt because rates are too high. And I feel like that's what's really pissing off the markets right now. All right, folks. Let's bring someone on to the show for a Thursday market open special. Well, I didn't tell you guys this person was joining the show. I wanted to leave it as a surprise, but because uh because he had some extra time this morning, he's going to join us in what feels like a few months since he's been on the market open. He kind of started his own YouTube channel and he got a little bit too famous to come back on my channel. You know, 10,000 subs in like three weeks. But nonetheless, I'm happy he's making an appearance here today. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing to fear. The milkman is here.
>> What's going on?
>> That's a good intro, right? It's a good intro.
>> Never fear, the milkman is here.
>> Okay, your mic is in the wrong spot. You You got the wrong mic.
>> Um, the mic should be fine. Hold on.
>> I think you're just connected to the computer versus like your actual external mic.
>> The external mic is not in here for some reason. Hold on. had a great intro, geared it all up, really, you know, put some effort into introducing the guy. [__] mic is not working. Goodness gracious, dude. At the same time, S&P loses 670 669 66967 on the S&P. This Mike is lactose intolerant. Goodness, dude. All right, there he is. I think you're better now. You should be.
>> I don't think I'm better now.
>> I'm not.
>> All right, I'll let you figure it out.
>> Hold on.
>> 669. All right. Now, we are dumping on the S&P up from the top. 675 to 669. Wow. Bitcoin, dude. Who is selling? Nvidia just lost 190. Nvidia just lost 190. Dude, who's selling their Bitcoin? Like, isn't this [__] supposed to be the like hedge against the money printing and [__] Why are people selling it? Like, isn't it supposed to be the thing that like goes to a million a coin? Why are people selling it? It's not at a million a coin. It's 88,000. Where's the fear index? Yeah, let's check that. Fear and greed. Um, we were at 18. We are at 16. So, we're down a little bit. Down a little bit. I don't think there's much steam left for retail. I feel I'm exhausted buying the dips and I'm going to take a break for a few months to build back some stacks. You know that I'm happy you had that comment. That is very real. That comment is very real for so many of us. Like there's only so much of the dip you can keep buying until you have to just like save up some money. And also if you keep buying the dip and the dip keeps going down and you know you want to have some disposable income on the side to pay bills and stuff then you you stop allocating to the dip. So the whole buy the dip mentality definitely can fade if the ecosystem of it just doesn't reward people for buying the dip as much as as much as before.
>> Steve, we good or not yet?
>> We're good.
>> Perfect. We're good.
>> Yeah, I had to reset my computer.
>> Okay, so um you know, we're going to talk about Nvidia earnings, which we'll get into. We do have a market that's taking a little bit of retracement right here, but I think we'll get started with Nvidia 196 to 189. Just your raw thoughts on those earnings yesterday and and then can you also give some context on if you think the market is appreciating the results they put up?
>> By the way, I pulled a you
>> What'd you do?
>> I when I texted you, I had just gotten out of bed.
>> You slept in today?
>> I slept until 10:50. Wow. When's the last time you You usually wake up at like seven or 6:30 every day.
>> It is so amazing. Like I'm having my coffee. Feel like the day is already gone. This is freaking great.
>> Okay. First, I only wake up at 10 or 11 on weekends. Obviously, not on weekdays, but
>> I could get used to this.
>> Yeah. Well, it's relaxing to just wake up and not have to do anything. Um, all right, Nvidia, what do you think from that quarter last night? I am so excited to write my post today on X. I'm going after people.
>> People as in the Burries of the world. Are those
>> I'm going after the Bears.
>> So that quarter was that good.
>> This was the best quarter I've ever seen from any company. Period. Hands down. Full stop. Full stop. I mean, that type of growth year-over-year at a company that big that posted 57 billion dollars. I mean, I said it last night. I think Palunteer's quarter was one of the most incredible quarters I've ever seen from a company. And when I think about it and I put the sheer numbers in because you know that regardless of my feeling on the valuation of Palunteer, what they did in Q3 was incredible.
>> Yeah.
>> Nvidia being the company that it is, generating over 50 billion, and then coming out with their numbers last night with 63% year-over-year growth and then guiding for 65 billion. I mean, it just goes to show you that this is not a bubble. Everything that the hyperscalers have told us is correct. You can't discount their backlog. You can't discount how the Neo clouds are growing and the fact that all cloud chips are sold out and Nvidia cannot make chips quick enough. And it does not seem like this is slowing down. And this has been a story of acceleration quarter after quarter. And the bears still still think that AI is a bubble because they feel that they have to be contrarian and can't just go along with the story and get on the train with everybody. I mean, it's it's the people that are the Debbie Downers of the world. And I'm not saying that because everybody should have a good time, but follow the data. I mean, nobody is going to convince me in their right mind that Jensen, Elon, Zuckerberg, Nadella, Jasse, and Synindar are incorrect. These are the top CEOs. These are the brightest people in the world, and they are all telling us that we need more chips. This is the foundation of the future, and this is where capital is being spent. Why are we going to try to fight that? Why are we not saying don't fight the tech CEOs the way that we were saying don't fight the Fed,
>> right?
>> Like I'm going to make that a thing. Don't fight the tech CEOs.
>> I think it is a legit argument to make. I think some of the concerns after the earnings, even with a lot of the bare tweets, are not as legitimate. Uh obviously, everyone's wondering right now why you think the market's not rewarding it. Do you think there's something else going on, the Fed or the markets just being the market?
>> Yeah, look, I said that they could have an amazing quarter and sell off. I mean, I just looked at what the market's doing for the first time. I thought Nvidia would have been up more, but you know what? Okay,
>> it was 20 minutes ago, right?
>> It's selling off. I said this could be a sell the news moment and we need to get the Fed out of the way. The Fed's going to be an overhang on the market. People are legitimately worried that the Fed is not going to cut rates. The Fed is being ridiculous. And this is why people hate the Fed. And in an environment where you're losing jobs, you need to cause the capital to come down. And let's not forget, it's not the people that are decillionaires and centaillionaires and the top 1% that feel 22% interest rates on credit cards. Those aren't the people that it hurts you because they're not carrying a balance on their credit cards.
>> It's the people that make a 100 grand a year, that make 80 grand a year, they make 60 grand a year, that feel the crushing power of high interest rates. And when you go buy a house, there is a real difference. I mean, if you wouldn't mind pulling up a mortgage calculator and just putting in $500,000 loan, do it at 3.2% in that monthly payment. And for people who are not part of the ultra wealthy, that difference can be going toward other bills and quality of life. And this has been my argument the whole time with the Fed. Steve, do do you think do you do you feel that the Fed understands the labor market is bad, but they're not getting the data because of the shutdown? We didn't get the October jobs report to think to to to see how bad it is, and they're not willing to cut rates on an Amazon or UPS headline until they get that data. And do you think that might be the resounding reason for why they end up not cutting?
>> I'm not going to speak for the Fed. I think that they're out of touch. That's what I'm going to say. I believe the Fed is out of touch because they're not working in the real world and they're not friends with people that are in the real world. They're in a bubble. They're in a silo. That's where I really am on the Fed at this point. And you know, there is an argument that low rates is why housing has gone up in price. That's not necessarily true considering we've had interest rates high and we've seen record sales on homes.
>> We have a supply problem and in order to get a supply problem down, you need lower rates so the builders are incentivized to build. So do this at three do 3.2%. Because a lot of people were buying homes at 3.2%. And what's the monthly payment?
>> 2100.
>> All right. Now, do 6.2%.
>> This is on a $500,000 loan. 3,000.
>> Yeah. Difference of 900 bucks a month. That's 10,800 a year. That's real money.
>> That doesn't taxes or anything else. I mean, and that's just one thing. That's just mortgages. It makes a big difference on credit cards. It makes big difference on lending to businesses. You want an environment that is not restrictive. And at 3%, the banks will still make money, but you know what? There'll be a lot of freaking jobs out there because people will be incentivized to build businesses.
>> Do you do do you think if you had to pick by the end of the year, do you think the market can can overcome no rate cuts because Nvidia's earnings were that good? Or do you think rate cuts matter more?
>> No, I I really think rate cuts matter that much because we are at a point where rates are still too high. So you think even with that quarter that you think is the best quarter in history, it's not going to be enough for the market to
>> No, I don't think so because I think people are very scared about job loss, companies cutting more jobs, and I think the only way to try to combat that is by lower rates. You got to get that in the headline, and you got to get people willing to borrow. You need small companies willing to borrow. I mean, does it really work for profit margins to borrow money at 7 8 9% on a business loan?
>> I wouldn't think so.
>> I mean, you really need that at four or 5%.
>> By the way, guys, this might be another reason why we're getting hit. Uh, one of the Fed presidents is warning of a market drop. Fed Governor Lisa Cook, this came out at 11:10, so literally 15 minutes ago when we started seeing the pain, warned that high valuations in stocks, corporate bonds, housing, and leverage loans increase the risk of a sharp market decline, though she said the financial system remains resilient. She highlighted liquidity risks tied tied to hedge funds growth. Cook added that AI could both improve and destabilize markets, noting that its impact requires a close watch. She did not comment on rate cuts.
>> Well, look, she's not wrong in one area. When you're on margin and you leverage yourself and you end up losing your job, you very well could be in a position where you do not have the liquidity to backs stop your positions and you may have to sell into weakness. And that's something else that is not good. I mean, so many people are on margin. I really don't think that freaking margin's good. I really don't. I've never used margin and I don't understand what this fascination what margin is. Like people need to stop taking as much risk and that's a big determining factor. We could see a tremendous market selloff for no reason other than people getting margin called.
>> Well, and we saw that with crypto with the 20 billion margin liquidations in October. But the other thing is if rates don't come down, I mean the cost of capital continues staying high, which means those cheap margin rates that people were used to at least three years ago. I mean, that's not going to come back. So, oh, I agree with you. And I think a lot of that leverage in the system coming out is healthy, but it also could be the reason for the downturn. Nvidia right there trying to get back to
>> Think about this. If you have an account that has 250 grand in it and a brokerage firm is going to give you 100k of margin and you start getting on the opposite side of using that margin. How many people actually have 100 grand to backs stop it in cash?
>> Good point.
>> I mean I get it that there is a big appeal if you can play the game of well if I allocate it like this I can get a 10% distribution from different ETFs and the margin's only going to cost me 5% so there's a spread there. Sure, I understand the math behind it, but I also understand the risk behind it, too. And to me, it doesn't make sense. And there's probably a lot of people on margin that shouldn't be on margin that can't backs stop it.
>> Uh, what do you think based on your earnings estimates, Nvidia should be trading at? I mean at a sort of
>> I'll bring it up for you is I was playing around with it last night with Tanner and I think the numbers are really just so bullish for Nvidia.
>> That's right here. 418 Shopify losing 2%. Big Bear still up.
>> Nvidia's freaking numbers just got taken up so much. Their [__] numbers for 2027 EPS have gone on from $89 to $860 to $9.34 this morning. So, I need to update my table very quickly.
>> Wait, 934 for 2027. There's some analysts thinking.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> That's that's definitely going to decrease some of these multiples.
>> Oh, it's going to that's going to destroy these multiples. Give me a moment. Google losing 300, Micro Strategy losing 4%, Ethereum new lows, Bitcoin, it looks like it wants to lose. 88 got very close. It was at 88.1 um and then bounced to 88.6. Now, Nvidia is not completely dumping. It hasn't gone red for the day. It's still holding on by about three bucks. So, if it loses those three bucks, maybe you start to see some more pain. But, you do have people coming in again. Again, I think those Lisa Cook comments, guys, that's whenever a Fed president gets afraid about market valuations. I mean, literally JPAL a month ago said something similar and intraday the market went down. So, that could be a reason.
>> President Trump, put me on the Fed, please.
>> What is it?
>> President Trump, put me on the Fed. I'll stop everything in my life. Put me on the Fed. Well, I think if you were on the Fed, I think you would actually care about the labor market, not a fancy company.
>> 100%. I'd be a better Fed president than any of these people. I truly believe that.
>> All right. So, now Nvidia is now the second cheapest stock in the Mag 7 based on the new numbers. And let me let me share a different screen real quick so I can actually show everybody the numbers. So, and these are not my numbers. Once again, these are the analyst community. And you have 32 analysts saying $9.34 for 2027. And I know it says 2028, but look at the month. It's January. They do not report on a calendar year. Their Q4 ends at the end of January. So when you see January 2026, that's really the 25 year because 11 out of the 12 months were in 2025. So that is why I call it 2025, 2026, 2027 because this year is going to end in three months. So this number was 8009 yesterday morning. It became 865 after earnings and is now 934. And there are 32 analysts. This is the average that just got just got taken up. Okay, so now when we go to the actual numbers, this just made Nvidia cheaper than CocaCola. Oh, wait. I'm sorry. I shouldn't say that. I put a different share price. This just made the same price as Coca-Cola at 189. Coca-Cola and Nvidia are trading at basically the same freaking price.
>> 20 times earnings
>> for 2027 earnings. And Nvidia has over 100% EPS growth in the next two years.
>> This just can't scream bubble. This
>> There's no bubble here. I'm sorry. There isn't.
>> We just lost the 50-day moving average on the S&P. So, look, the the the fact that stocks are falling in the face of these earnings means I think I agree with you, Steve. This really has nothing to do with Nvidia. This is some
>> No, it has nothing to do with Nvidia. I mean this is and really think about this everybody when you look at these numbers okay if you put Nvidia 225 okay it's 24 times let's I'm going to highlight Nvidia 24 times at 225 you can put it at 250 26 times it's still cheaper than Apple at 250 a share this is what I was saying about Alphabet when I said Alphabet's fair value was around 295. Well, we just got to where my said my fair value was, just a little past it. Nvidia, where it is now, is trading at under 21 times forward earnings. You're telling me you'd rather buy Costco and Walmart than Nvidia? And also at Nvidia's current price, does it in all seriousness, does this look like an expensive market when the market is forward looking? When Broadcom, Apple, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Nvidia, and Meta all trade under 30 times forward earnings. I mean, you have a market now where Meta is trading at 17 and a half times. To me, that's not expensive. And I don't know why people are thinking this is expensive. Well, it's not and I think those numbers really do highlight that if any market weakness persists S&P right there 667. It it is not about I mean it's not about we were at 675 video was at almost 197 and then the Fed started talking. This has to be more a macro thing than a bubble concern thing.
>> The macro is not good. I will tell you that right now. Look, all the people that are trying to play this off like AI isn't a problem and all this stuff, they're wrong. AI is going to be a problem in the job market. I'm sorry, but I am deathly worried about what the job market becomes in the next 10 or 15 years, but that doesn't change the fact that these companies are trading at attractive valuations. One thing does not have to do with the other. Now, our elected officials need to figure something out for AI and jobs, but that has nothing to do with the stock market. And everybody needs to separate those two things.
>> Okay. So, what do you think is uh the solution to this if we don't get a rate cut or do you just think nope S&Ps? I think get ready for some pain and I am gonna be a buyer of certain stocks I want to own more of in the face of that. I mean I really thought Jensen saved the holiday season and now we have Fed members coming out and just being crazy. It's no crazy is that's one word. I mean these guys are being unbelievable. You you didn't listen to one of the Fed presidents today, but when she was asked about stuff, she started talking.
>> No, I don't I don't care. Like, they're being ridiculous. And you like I'm going and looking at Coca-Cola right now, and I'm going to I'm looking at their earnings. Coca-Cola beat No, no, no. Don't put that on. Let me share a different screen. Like, let's stop talking about tech for a moment, and let's talk about regular companies. Coca-Cola beat earnings and beat revenue this quarter. Okay, they beat by 4 cents unnormalized. I mean, let's look at Pepsi. Pepsi missed on actual, beat on normalized. I don't know why. I'm going to say it's probably some tax thing like Meta. They beat on revenue. What did J&J do? Same thing. Beat on normalize, beat on revenue. I mean, these companies are beating on revenue. There's money being spent. So, this is not a market that's expensive. And then also, where else are you going to put money right now?
>> Well, so let me let me ask you this question right here. Someone says in the comments, emit the market is worth 67 trillion. The US GDP is 30 trillion. That's a basically a 2x ratio. Why would the market not be expensive there? Um are we saying the stock market in a whole that is companies from overseas also
>> I believe yes yes overall global stock market
>> okay so what the global stock market shouldn't be bigger than the US GDP which is one country
>> my answer also would be it's about the earnings you're paying on the if you believe if these stocks stop growing it becomes grossly overvalued but Nvidia keeps delivering the goods and so does meta so does Google. So if that earnings is not slowing down, then yes, you can pay a premium, but you're not even paying a premium. Like 20 times earnings, it's not really a premium.
>> I am going to find a chart on S&P earnings. Give me a sec.
>> Pounder 164, S&P 664, Bitine down 5%, new low for Bitmine, Ethereum 2870, Nebius loses its move to 105, Google loses 300, Tesla loses 430. I mean, these stocks went vertical in the morning. They kind of consolidated and now they're getting hit. And the S&P is very close to going red, which would complete a lot of the pain we're seeing in day. Uh, Nvidia 187, we do have some Amazon news right here on a data center. We'll keep going from there.
>> That is already underway in the state. And together, they really mark this next phase in Amazon's push to scale AI campuses across the US. But the big question with these builds is whether there's enough reliable power to keep them running. Energy Mississippi will be supplying electricity leveraging grid capacity powered largely by natural gas and nuclear to support the site. Now this AWS expansion, it is one of multiple hyperscale campuses in development across the state and also part of this broader effort to position Mississippi as an emerging hub for generative AI customers. It also comes as Amazon deepens its relationships with both anthropic and open AI. AWS remember just committed to building a dedicated compound to support OpenAI's compute needs. Guys,
>> I'm just your thoughts uh about geography here. Obviously, we've talked about Louisiana and the Rocky Mountain West, but uh this is spreading a little bit. Yeah,
>> precisely. And that's why you're seeing names like Meta, Google, Amazon, and XAI all building in that quadrant. So, it's Louisiana, Arkansas, and Tennessee that has very hospitable geographies. It's flat land. It's uh I mean it's power that's more competitive in its pricing compared to other parts of the country. And at the same time, you also have very welcoming lawmakers. And so there's advantageous tax laws that have made this a real bright spot for these hyperskll compute uh buildouts.
>> Good job.
>> All right, Mackenzie, thank you. Our coverage from Las Vegas continues after the break here.
>> All right, Steve, go ahead. All right. So, this is a 90-year chart of the S&P 500 PE ratio. We're trading around 30 times. Is that expensive for the S&P? Historically, a little bit, but not really. I mean, 2020, we're trading at 36 times. I think we have a way better market than 2020. I mean 98 we were at 32.6 times. Got way better market than 1998. I mean you want to talk about where the bubble was? It was at 46 times. And it's a much different market than that was. I mean these companies are so much bigger generating so much earnings. I mean, when you actually look at the S&P earnings, there's a chart of it over here. Um, S&P 500 earnings history. I mean, yeah, the market valuation is going to change. Think about this. You were trading around 46 times when the S&P's EPS was 51. Now, you got EPS around 225. You tell me that trading at 30 times is overvalued. I don't think so. When you see how much earnings expansion there is in the actual S&P 500, I mean, I just don't think people are looking at the actual metrics behind the market.
>> Oh, I agree. It it really doesn't feel like it's a pure expensive concern about the market. It feels like it's a Fed issue or or a macro issue on rate cuts. Um, Broadcom right there 362 that's down 2%. S&P still 664. Bitcoin 88. Nvidia is 23 cents away from going red on the day. Incredible. Absolutely incredible.
>> Yeah. I mean, they're I wouldn't expect announcements not to come out. The administration is going to look at this and be like, "All right, what do we need to do?" You can't tell me they're not having that conversation right now.
>> 100%. 100,000%. Well, I I think again the administration, one of the headlines last night from from from Bloomberg was that the administration is thinking of um allowing Nvidia to sell to China because they know this party's got to keep going and China's going to help the party.
>> You have midterms coming up. You're not going to have the market in a downward trend for earnings. I mean, for midterms, that's just not happening,
>> right? And if you do, you know, you're
>> and look, this doesn't make sense to me. This just not does not make sense to me when I look at all of the data. And I don't think that you have people looking at all the data that are making decisions. Now, the only bare case that I will get behind is we are going to see AI and robotics create a landscape where we're going to see more job cuts. and we don't have other jobs for people to go into and it's going to create uncertainty. That's the only bare case that I can get behind in my mind because
>> But that's the reason to cut rates, right?
>> Exactly. It's exactly the reason to cut rates.
>> Do you think there's any other reason we're going down outside of the the Fed or do like do you think there's any
>> No, I think it's the Fed. I said that the Fed being hawkish at this point and it was a mistake to wait till September, it was a mistake to say that we need to be data dependent in the face of a shutdown. And it is a mistake to be hawkish and toy with the idea of keeping rates the same when they came out in September and made the case for two more cuts through the end of the year. You know, for what reason? And here's the big thing. For what reason? Powell's done in May. So, what are they going to do? Just hold hold rates and be wishy-washy. And then you have a new Fed chair come in who is super doubbish and next summer we just get a bunch of rate cuts? Like, what are we doing? This isn't the beginning of his term. You're not wrong. You are not wrong. Rocket Lab right here, 41.44. That's down five. You're seeing prices that you kind of saw yesterday when things were really getting ugly.
>> Yeah, but I'm sorry. And I love the people that are in Rocket Lab, but did this company ever deserve to be a $40 billion company?
>> You are making a point that is fair even when Rock 75.
>> Think about it. 550 million of revenue.
>> It's a fair point. doesn't even make money. Like, the company doesn't even make money. And I don't care that the idea is amazing or they're one of the only companies that could do rockets or what they're doing on a technological standpoint. I get it and I applaud them. But being at $40 billion, think about some of the other companies that are $40 billion companies. I mean, there are pockets of the market that are expensive and did not deserve to be up there.
>> I I I I don't think you're wrong about that. There are some names that and I said the same but hood at 150. I didn't think it deserved to be there. Uh the velocity of the downturn because of the macro, not because of earnings because Rock Lab had a great earnings, I think is what's pissing people off, but then again, maybe they weren't supposed to get that multiple in the first place.
>> Some of these multiples are crazy. Absolutely crazy. Did Ollo deserve to be up there? Did SMR deserve to be up there? The Palanteer deserve to be up there? did hood. I mean, there are companies that are expensive, and I'm not saying they're not great companies, but they're expensive. And I think that that is overshadowing what the biggest companies in the market are doing. Look, you can't have Meta at 17 times forward earnings and have Rocket Lab at freaking 40 billion. You can't have Meta at 17 times or Nvidia at 20 times. And look, Palanteer, where is Palanteer?
>> 163.
>> I mean, what what was Palanteer's year-over-year growth in Q3?
>> 63.
>> What was Nvidia's?
>> 62 or something like that.
>> Okay. So, are we going to say that the 1% difference makes Palanteer at 118 times 2027 earnings viable compared to Nvidia at 20 times? No, look,
>> I'm just saying that there are things about the market that are creating an overall story that has nothing to do with other companies. That's all I'm saying.
>> I agree there. There are obviously names like you got a lot of quantum names, nuclear names, Oak, like a lot of this stuff ran up like crazy.
>> So, so I agree with you there. It's just when you see like a Meta or an Nvidia get hit the way they're getting hit and then obviously it's going to take a rocket lap down way more than than that that creates an ugly storm for a lot of people.
>> And look, a lot of people that are in Nvidia have an average of 110 to 120. So
>> yeah,
>> are we really complaining that it's at 189?
>> No. And I I I don't
>> I agree. I don't think there's cost to complain for I mean, even if we even I you and me said if we even stay at 185, we'd be happy after earnings. It's just the the rugpull that seems to happen almost every day where we go up and that's I think what's really emotionally
>> I mean I I don't know if we can say that Alphabet at 299 is a rug pull or Amazon 223 is a rug pull. I mean we can say
>> Amazon definitely Amazon at 260. That one pulled everybody. Google, you're right.
>> Yeah. I mean look, Amazon 223. I mean I it's still I think undervalued but we're not seeing it at 150. Look there are companies that need to come back to reality and there are companies that deserve to be higher but that's every market and it's getting frustrating but look there are still great companies out there and we need to get some things done. You need the war to end overseas. You need lower rates and we need to have the Fed start cutting that period.
>> Bitcoin losing 88 87 right there. Steve, what are you thinking about BMR? Are you buying the dip? How are you navigating this one?
>> Yeah, I mean I will be buying the dip next week. I already said that. I have some things coming in next week and next week I'm buying Ethereum. I'm buying BMR. Look, my investment case on BMR was I have no idea what it's going to do. I want to get in in case it keeps going up, but if it goes down, I'm ready to buy more because my investment thesis has not changed. Now, if everybody is wrong, I'm going to be one of those people, but I'm going off of where the largest companies are building out stable coins, and I'm going where legislation is being crafted and signed in for stable coin adoption. And my premise is that that is going to burn Ethereum and make Ethereum more expensive, which is going to be bullish Ethereum and BMR. Now, I want to hear tomorrow what the hell they're doing on staking and their share count. So, I mean, if everybody liked BM, let me take that back and say myself. If I like BMR at 45 and my investment thesis hasn't changed. Why would I not buy more if it's on sale? Everybody runs for the hills. I love the the memes that I love or when you have SoFi at $5 and nobody wants it but SoFi at 25 and you have a line through the door trying to get in. I mean, if you think about SoFi, how down that was. that went from 22 down to the teens down to legitimately five or six dollars a share and I was bullish on it and then it started going up again and now we're at 25 or so. I mean why would why does BMR have to go up in a straight line? A lot of people bought SoFi in the teens and we're down 60% and did not sell. It's the same thing. The difference is BMR doesn't have financial statements. So you are not able to crunch numbers. You have to go with an investment premise. But if your investment premise was not what I said and it was just simply I think crypto is going to go up without understanding it, you probably shouldn't have bought BMR.
>> Yeah. Essentially making the argument that you've got to have a long-term view on this stuff. And if you don't have a long-term, which is, you know, a rather basic argument, but it is the argument when you deal with market volatility. And if you lose your thesis, I think your point is okay, get out, right? Like if you lose your thesis, take the loss and move on. But
>> yeah, if you lose your thesis, get out. But nobody should be investing without actual thesis or doing the research.
>> Agree.
>> I mean, I do an insane amount of research. Insane. If you saw how much research I actually do, it's an insane amount. I understand everything I'm in and I have an investment thesis for everything I'm in. And I I'm sure like myself and probably Steve in his younger years and plenty of people in chat, you've bought something without doing the research. I've definitely done that.
>> Absolutely.
>> But then you also have no one to blame but yourself. And you have to take accountability for that. And I've taken losses many times on buying something that I had no idea about. But it is what it is. But if you really do have a SoFi level conviction and you see it go down to five bucks or Palanteer Hood at that time, that's where you have to have your understanding of why you're holding. If I shared my screen and showed how many spreadsheets I have sitting in my Google Drive, it's over 200.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, that's that's why people respect your analysis, right? That's why people actually listen when you try to make a case for an AR for a stock.
>> I mean, can you bring up a chart, Sofi, please? Do like a two-year chart. Oh, I just use that as an example. Look at that. You're telling me that there wasn't a ton of pain?
>> Went from 21 to 424 and No bought the bottom by remember he bought at four bucks.
>> Yeah.
>> Then it got to 15, came down to 10.
>> And people are freaking out that SoFi is down. Well, yeah. It went from 32 to 26. Who gives a [__]
>> You know, like just zoom out again. I This is my exact point. A lot of people were down a lot of money on these big drawdowns and it stayed in a really bad place for a while. Eventually, it got rewarded for being a great company and putting up numbers. This happens in investing and the thesis with SoFi only got stronger even though the share price did not for a long time. Hood was the same thing when Hook bring up Hood because I'm sure there's more people that are interested in Hood than Zofi. Bring up a all-time chart of Hood. That was not a good period for Hood and look at what it's done. Now, we can argue that it's overvalued or undervalued, but the bottom line is there was a lot of people that got smoked with Hood that stayed through it. Nvidia, by the way, going red officially after those earnings. And that is why you're seeing the market really go red right now. S&P is 18 cents away from going red.
>> Yeah. And now we're going to have people come on CNBC and talk about the AI bubble. And now I'm going to have to write a huge thing that pisses people off. And it's just
>> I don't understand how people cheer for the market to go down. Unless you are actively buying, you should not want the market to go down because you don't want people getting crushed. For those wondering why, if you're just joining and you're like, why is it happening? My best guess is we got two Fed speakers today. Both of them relatively hawkish. Rate cut probabilities continue to be below 50%. lack of labor market data. Put all that together, it feels very at least obvious that we're not going to get a cut. And that right now matters more than Nvidia based on what the market's telling us. Uh speaking of video, real quick, let's get an update on the depreciation debate from last night and then we'll keep going from there. This debate around how many years AI chips are actually useful adding some fuel to those bubble fears. Nvidia CFO weighed in on that last night saying that chips they shipped six years ago are still fully utilized today. It's a good topic for our dear DBosa in today's tech check. Hey D.
>> Hey, good morning Carl. So that's right. CFO Colette Crest, she tried to put the depreciation debate to bed, but she may have actually raised even bigger questions. She essentially said that Nvidia chips, they last longer than most people assume, six years and still at full utilization thanks to its CUDA software. But what does full utilization actually mean? running isn't the same as creating economic value. And that is where Michael Bur comes back in throwing cold water on the whole idea. He posted on X that extending useful life confuses physical utilization with value creation. He likens the A100 chips to airlines that keep old planes around for holiday overflow. Yes, they fly and they're full, but they're only marginally profitable and they're not worth very much at all. Now, Jensen Hang has basically admitted this. last March that you can keep old GP.
>> So maybe I'm stupid, but if you have a new plane that is full of seats and no seat, like every seat taken flying, and you have an old plane fully booked with no seats, empty flying, how is it less profitable?
>> Well, that's what Jensen's argument was.
>> It's the same revenue.
>> It's the same revenue coming in. It's actually more profitable because the plane already paid for itself. Well, yeah. And Jensen's point was that the chips are still being used as long as there is a useful life to them. If the chips aren't being used, you depreciate them. But if there's if they're being used, you can't depreciate them at the level. Guys, I understand depreciation schedules and everything, but if you have a 100 seats on a plane at $100 a ticket and you have a brand new plane or a old plane that still you can do the math like I is working, but they become almost impossible to sell once the next model shows up. This was at GTC. He said that Blackwell, its latest generation, is so much more powerful than Hopper, the previous generation, that quote, you couldn't give hoppers away. He said there's only a few circumstances where they're even fine. That's the word he used, fine. Now, in the current moment where supply is tight, old chips, they will get used. But if that imbalance changes, and this is sort of the question on everyone's minds, does that value drop very quickly as well? The risk for investors is this uncertainty. If you do not know how long these chips stay economically valuable, you cannot properly model capex or margins. You can't model the AI cycle with confidence. Meanwhile, guys, I know we talked about Google's TPUs yesterday as a longerterm alternative to Nvidia GPUs. If the market is struggling to understand the economic life of Nvidia hardware, Google's bet is just to build its own. It just dropped Nano Banana Pro this morning. Its new image model powered by Gemini 3, which runs on TPUs, not GPU infrastructure. in investors. They continue to pile into this trade, this vertical integration story. Google shares still up nearly 1% today as the tech trade overall sort of softens.
>> Now again, Jensen had a lot of answers to a lot of the concerns around depreciation yesterday. S&P wow 660. Market doesn't care. Market doesn't care. Rocklab potentially. Wow. Palunteer 160, Robin Hood one. This is some serious sell action. We're seeing like serious VIX is 26. Yeah, V.
>> Yeah, now you're having stop losses get hit. Algo's taking over
>> 100%. Like at this point, VIX just spiked up. BMR is down six. Nebas was at 105 last night, 91. Google was at 3052. I mean this is absolutely force selling and alos taking place right here. Yeah, you probably have a bunch of CTAs dumping as well which are commodity traing trading advisors. I mean you have a lot we haven't this I mean I know we've had some red days over this is like this is some I guess just the velocity of the cell here is is up there which theoretically might be the time it bounces unless the bottom just fully falls out. S&P getting a very small bounce at 659. Robin Hood 110 to 111 pounder 160 to 161 but still red. Nvidia 18570 reverse Vshape reverse V micron right there down 7% as well on the day again like and and and to your point Steve did anything happen in Nvidia earnings? Did anything happen over the past two weeks in the AI trade outside of Oracle debt for all the high-tech names to get sold off? Like no. If anything, Nvidia reaffirmed why they deserve their multiples and many of their multiples like Google, Meta, Amazon are not expensive. So, I think this really has to do with the Fed guys. That's that's my best bet at least.
>> Fed and margin.
>> Fed margin, stop losses. I mean, the margin in crypto, I don't even I don't even want to know how much margin is still stuck in the system. Tomley's argument has been we're deleveraging. It's like, okay, but we delever from 5,000 ETH to 20850. I mean, if we still have more leverage in the system, then who knows how aggressive it's going to be. Yeah, Austin makes a good point. The Oracle debt was also 5x overs subscribed. The credit default swaps going up is just a lot of these firms buying protection on the debt, which is normal. But Amazon 10x oversubscribed, Meta 5x over subscribed, Google oversubs subscribed, Oracle over. It's not like it's not like the market's like, "Oh my god, we we hate the debt. They might not love it, but that's not like, hey, Nvidia's a bubble. Oracle's taking out debt." Like, that's not the argument here. The argument is we're not getting a rate cut. I really think that is the argument. I mean, do we really need to go through all the biggest companies and put up how much debt they actually have versus cash on hand and versus their profitability? Because if we do that exercise, people are going to find out real quick what the actual story is.
>> Yeah, 100%. 100%. Probability is now from 43 to 37. And that changed in real time. It was 43 like 10 minutes ago. So again, those rate cut probabilities going down.
>> Hey, they're ridiculous,
>> dude. We almost had a fun Thanksgiving.
>> Maybe this reverses next week, but
>> I mean, people are saying pees are too high. I don't know about that. I mean, 20 times forward earnings for Nvidia is not high PE. I mean, it's just it's crazy talk. Poundingers PE is high. Robin Hood's PE is high. Rocket Lab's PE is high. So those stocks going down and I say this as a shareholder of all of them. Like I understand why they're I can't argue with Steve when he says it probably Rocket Lab didn't deserve to be 70. I like Yeah. But Nvidia, Meta, Google, Micro, those names getting hit. Unless you think that the the names that have like hundreds, 200 pees are like comprising the majority of the market, which the only one that has a really big market percentage is Tesla that has a very aggressive PE.
>> So, I want to do something very quickly. I I just thought of something that will make people kind of understand why Nvidia is not trading in a high valuation. Give me one sec while you're doing that. So, yes, the Japan conversation is real. We talked a little bit about a potential yen carry trade. Uh Japanese 30-year bonds hit their highest level again last night. Uh could there be a little bit of a wind out in the trade? I mean yes. Um I don't know if it's definitely happening. I think you know I would have to do a lot more research into it but obviously Japan printing their money and I mean even even one of the officials of Japan central bank last night they said that we are we are struggling with maintaining our currency while maintaining our interest rates uh USD over JPY by the way at 157. So you are seeing that tick up as well. And obviously, you know, when you print $10 billion and you have a jet debt to GDP ratio of 230%. You're going to have two issues around currency and interest rates. And you're not really going to have a easy solution to those two problems. Is that the extent of what we saw in August 2024 with a a windown? I don't know. But yes, it absolutely could be part of part of the problem. Uh let's get a little bit of coverage right here and we'll keep going from there.
>> Very important about the delevering in the system. So so where do a lot of institutions and specifically hedge funds lever up? Well, number one, they access the repo market which has been very wonky lately. But more important, you know, the yen long borrowing yen go and buy risky assets. I mean, the 10-year JGBs have gone from 1% this year to 175. So, on a percentage basis, it's a massive move. And so, I think you have this delevery in crypto. I think you have some hedge funds and institutions that are offside in this yen, borrowing yen. And so, that you have this liquidity sucking out of the market. And I feel like with Bitcoin, as liquidity comes out, Bitcoin is Bitcoin gets hit with the bit or crypto in general. And so to me, until we get this stabilization and the liquidity, and I think crypto will be the first sign of that, I feel that the market as a whole is saying there's something else happening because to Steph's point, I mean, Nvidia's numbers were great. Okay, they were great period in stock. Why hasn't that been able to carry the market even higher? I do think there's other things at play that we as investors are hard to see. And I think this delevering in the yen and also in the still the wonkiness of the reverse repo market is is adding to this negative sentiment across the market. So Joe, I want to come back over to you. Um right now we're looking at Nvidia trading lower and this is a question I've been asking since about 5:00 this
>> Nvidia compared to Verizon, Altria Group and Philip Morris. Nvidia at 155 trades at a cheaper valuation than Philip Morris. Nvidia at 125 trades almost at where Altria Group is. Nvidia at 100 trades at 10 times forward or 11 times forward earnings. Nvidia is not going that low. Again, I don't think it's actually going to happen. People calling for those levels is crazy. And where Nvidia is right now under 20 times forward earnings with 100% EPS growth over the next two years, you can arguably say this is trading in value territory with an explosive growth stock compared to where Philip Morris is trading. I just don't think people are really grasping where old school companies are trading, what their forward growth is, and where big tech is. Big tech should not be getting hit like this.
>> Well, we are absolutely seeing a systemic selloff right here. I mean, unless we get a bounce, we have violated every moving average of this. If we don't get a bounce soon, this is one of those days where it feels like the bottom is falling out. We had a couple of those days, but this one
>> most people have no idea what's going on. Most people that hold stocks hold it in their 401s. They're not selling their freaking S&P index funds.
>> This is all alos and freaking stop losses.
>> The the average American right now is not opening up their Schwab account and selling.
>> The average American is in a meeting right now or doing emails.
>> Yes. Just like I would be doing if I didn't take the day off. Like most people are at work.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. That's the other thing. Like a lot of people like how many people do you actually think sold their freaking S&P 500 index fund today?
>> Especially after those earnings. Like how many people even if they glanced at Nvidia were like, "Oh yeah, tomorrow's a great day to sell." It's like even if that's the right move in the short term, no one would logically think that unless you just think it's all a bubble, but the majority of people don't. They just like, oh, Nvidia, yeah, I should probably own it and they're delivering the goods. So, this absolutely feels institutional and maybe some retail panic, but more institutional than not.
>> Yeah, we just need to get through the next couple of weeks and we need a Fed cut. That's what we need.
>> Well, here's the other thing. You think, okay, if Donnie T were to intervene here, how do you think he intervenes? Like, what could he possibly do? I think it would just be trying to force the Fed. This is kind of like the market forcing the Fed to cut more than anything.
>> Fire panel,
>> dude. I wonder, you know, a couple months ago, people were saying that would destabilize the independence of the Fed.
>> Absolutely. You fire Powell at this point. I don't think he would go that far though. I don't think he would. I don't think he would actually do it. I think the markets would freak still freak out if he fired. I mean, unless the markets really hate Pal, which I'm sure they do, but I don't know if they hate him enough to actually let him get fired.
>> Get Get freaking Waller in there,
>> dude. Waller, there was a clip of him the other night. He was talking at some dinner and he he had he had attitude. It was just like, what are you guys not getting about this? And the fact that the entire market and economy is held up by three or four other people that simply have a different perspective, but they have the majority of the votes. And so, as a result, we don't get cuts. It is just crazy to see that play out. Paler 159, SoFi 26, Hoodie loses 110 for the first time in the past month. Nvidia loses 185. Micron down nine, Tesla's very close to going red. Olo down 10, Rock Lab 87 cents from losing 40. BMR 2682. I mean, Ethereum is just getting destroyed. Bitcoin's getting destroyed. Uh, Google somehow holding green. Micro Strategy destroyed. Nebby is destroyed. Targets down one. MongoDB was up five. that lost it. Dual lingo 167. I mean, that one just keeps going down. Netflix 107. See, like again, a lot of these names are also just going down for the hell of it now. I mean, there's not that much of a difference.
>> Yeah. Are people really getting rid of their Netflix subscriptions?
>> Oh, no one's like Netflix was 114 yesterday. It deserves to be 107 today for what? Unless it never deserved 114, which you can make that case, but it's also not like Netflix was 214. We're not talking about, you know, we're not talking about 2021 valuations here in some sectors. Sure, but those sectors have already got hit aggressively. Like Netflix was at $700 in 2021. So, if you want to say, well, look at Oaklo, that's a sign of frothiness. Yes, it's a sign of frothiness, but not in the most one of the most media companies on the planet, which is which employs a lot of people. So, I mean, I I don't think you're seeing that crazy bubble in a variety of different names.
>> No, I I I just didn't stop sharing.
>> All right, let's get a little bit more coverage and uh yeah, at some point people are going to start buying. At some point, this dip is going to get bought. Remember, dips get bought. So, I'm really not worried
>> in a certain regard. I said to Scott several weeks ago, I would not, if you didn't own Nvidia, I wouldn't be reaching for Nvidia when it was 195ish. If you were long, I would maintain your position. I would have rather have bought Nvidia on a breakout above that new all-time high, which it did not achieve after reporting earnings last night and subsequent price action this morning. So, I think I want to maintain that that discipline. Uh to answer your question succinctly, if you don't own Nvidia, no, I don't think I would be buying Nvidia exactly right here. I'd rather see some strength reflected with a breakout above a new all-time high. There's your confirmation and if you don't own it, I would rather buy it there.
>> Yeah. By the way, JP Morgan out with a note today saying that uh retail investors, they bought Nvidia every day this week going into earnings. There's a lot of confidence by the retail.
>> They sold it last night.
>> Steph, similar question to you. Let's go beyond Nvidia, some of these other second derivative plays. It sounded like you would say you would buy Palanteer on this this pullback or a Vertive or an Eaton on these pullbacks.
>> Well, Verive, Eaton, Quana Services, GE, Verova, Rockwell Automation, all of them. I own all of them. I like all of them. very much. You know, Verdive was my choice on Worldwide Exchange.
>> Great show.
>> Your awesome show uh for between now and the end of the year. I still think that Verdiv is going to do well between now and the end of the year. This is an air pocket. This is an air pocket and they're selling the entire theme at this point in time. But this is where you kind of go in and you look and you buy on the weakness, especially when you have orders and backlog to the degree that you have in all of the names that I just mentioned, 40, 50, 60% in terms of growth in orders and in backlogs. These numbers I've never seen from an industrial company. But all that being said, the one that I'm buying is not on the industrial list. It's Meta because that stock is now down 25% from its highs. And I think we are seeing monetization from their AI spend. I know AI spend is a lot. Cathex is much more than we thought, but they are seeing ad impression growth of 14%. They're seeing pricing up 10%. I said yesterday on the show video time spent up 30%. That is ROI by definition. And so to me now the stock is trading at 18 times forward estimates growing revenues at 26% which I think is sustainable and I think it's overdone. So that's the one I added and I bought Microsoft brand new when it dipped on its quarter and I do think Amazon is absolutely a buy because on the retail side they are one of the halves versus the have nots. It's Walmart, Costco, Amazon and I don't think Amazon gets credit for their retail business. I know we're talking about AWS for this name. People like to talk about that. They accelerated that growth as well.
>> So, look, these arguments are real. I mean, these are not bad arguments. It's just ugly.
>> I mean, Stephanie Link is one of my favorite commentators on CNBC. She makes a lot of sense.
>> S&P new lows of the day 658. 658 657.
>> This is definitely deeper than Nvidia earnings. This is not Could you imagine if Nvidia didn't have a good earning?
>> Oh, I said that if Nvidia didn't have good earnings, we were down five six00 points on the NASDAQ, not that S&P.
>> I mean, it's just it's just it's incredible, dude. You have the single best quarter in history. And boom. Fear and greed. Let me see. We were at nine yesterday.
>> So, here's the real question. Are people betting that Nvidia is not going to do 65 billion in revenue next quarter?
>> No. I I I I really don't think any of this has to do with Nvidia.
>> I agree.
>> It this is all the Fed. I I I can't logically think Nvidia was at 197 this morning. It doesn't go from 197 to 184 because people looked at the 8K a little differently from last night. This is I I agree with the chat. This is panic selling. This is alos triggering algos to Steve's point. Margin calls, stop losses and um institutional deleveraging. Oh, and this Japanese yen carry tra. I mean, like, yeah, I mean, if you got some hedge funds that are wound up in a massive yen carry trade, they've obviously got to sell to cover their short.
>> Can you bring up the Atlanta Fed um GDP index? Where are they at? Because one of my fears was that we're going to find out that we just started a recession six months from now.
>> They're at 4.2 for Q3.
>> They are at 4.2. They're still at 4.2.
>> Yep. 4.2.
>> Interesting. Now Q4 they're estimating well at least the White House is estimating 2%. Because the shutdown took off few points.
>> Yeah. I mean look a lot of people are worried about jobs. That's the big thing right now. There's nothing else to worry about except the labor market. It's the most important thing. S&P now down 1% on the day. Bitcoin I mean, I am curious how Micro Strategy navigates this. Their average is 74. You're at 86.
>> You know what they're going to do? They're going to issue more freaking debt to buy more.
>> Dude, I don't know if they can still do that. I think they've done so much preferred equity. Like I don't think the last one they did, they said if we will guarantee to pay you 10% a year and they did some creative engineering on what they would have to do to guarantee that 10% a year, but I don't think he's got more debt to give out. Maybe he does, but at some point Bitcoin's got to reverse. Like this doesn't work.
>> Why? But why does Bitcoin have to reverse?
>> No, I'm just saying for sailor's sake it has to reverse.
>> Oh, for sailor's sake. But I mean, what's the re and this is more a Steve verse Bitcoin thing, but why should Bitcoin even be here? Where's the utility except for store value? Where's the utility?
>> It is a counteryclical trend against the debasement of fiat currency. Obviously, it's not because everybody that tried using the argument that it's a hedge against inflation or a hedge against this or a hedge against that, it certainly isn't reverse correlating and going up when the markets are going down.
>> Yeah. I mean, we are worse than where we were last Friday and on Monday. This is brand new low for the I mean it's almost like the S&P wants 6,500. Seems like that's I mean if we lose that then then we're going back to October 10th levels. Now granted if we get the jobs report and the Fed is more likely to cut maybe this reverses but at this point I don't even know how much of that the market wants to see.
>> Um
>> why this is a liquidity issue. It has to be it has to be margin calls. It's got to be people not being able to back stop it with cash. And look, at some point this is going to stop. Does it stop today? Does it stop tomorrow? Does it stop next week? I couldn't tell you.
>> But at some point this is going to get bought up.
>> Dude, AMD is $10 away from going below 200. Like, did everyone just wake up and not hear Lisa Sue say 35% growth next five years? This is not real selling. I I refuse to believe this is everyone realizing we got to run for the hills. This is absolutely systemic. And I agree it will stop, but no one knows when.
>> Yeah. But in all fairness, AMD is still up 50% over the past year.
>> Well, see, and that's the thing, and people get annoyed hearing this, but it's true. And I have to internalize this myself on names like Nvidia Pounder Hood. These names are up, Robin. It's still up 200% this year. Like
>> most people weren't buying AMD at 200.
>> That's correct.
>> Most people weren't buying pounds here unless you admit at 150.
>> I was buying at 150. Yes.
>> I'm just saying like most people weren't buying these companies here. So all you're see
>> become less.
>> On the contrary, a lot of people were when they ran. I mean that's when FOMO was high, right? Like I'm sure there's people that bought pounder at 195 before earnings because
>> I don't know who the hell was doing that.
>> I think there's more people than not. Same thing with Hood at 150, Rocket Lab at 65.
>> I think a lot more people were buying pounds here when it went down to 70 or 75 and then it just did a round trip back to 125.
>> Correct. Correct. I agree with that. But there were people Tesla goes red that did buy the highs and obviously that could be forced selling right here.
>> Yeah. I mean
>> someone buy at 195. Someone has to buy rock lab at 70.
>> Well, I get it.
>> No,
>> at some point this is going to find a bottom.
>> 656 got a little bounce to 658. Nvidia bounced on 182 to 183. It's done a couple of these bounces. It would have to at least get closer to 186, 187, I think, to think it's done. For everyone saying, is hoodie a buy? Right now, I think the only concern with Hoodie is crypto. Like, at the end of the day, they're diversified, but if Bitcoin's going to like 70,000 or something, unfortunately, Robin Hood's going to get hit with that. Now, it will be a great long-term buy because I just have so much conviction in this company. But unfortunately,
>> crypto is correlated. Ethereum 2870 2820 guys, can you fix this please? Oh my dude, Thanksgiving was going to be so much fun. We were covering the portfolio, you know, getting some turkey. Still have a few days though. We got a week. We got a week to see if we can bottom and reverse. I mean, what is fear and greed going to go down to four like it was in April? Are we like are we playing this game now? At some point, you you should see a stop. And I can understand if Nvidia earnings sucked today and like you just had more of pain, but Nvidia earnings did not suck. Coreweave, let me check. Cororeweave. Horweavee is 74. Coreweave is up 10%. So it's only down 1%. But um it lost the 10% move on core. Nabius 90. This is starting to feel like 2022 again. The only difference is I think the Fed's not well the Fed is not hiking and earnings are good, which was different in 22, but the Fed doesn't start cutting. That might be as bad as hiking.
>> Can you do me a favor? Can you bring up just a chart of the QQQ and do a one month and then a one year? All right, we're where we were at the beginning of the month. Now do a one year. I mean,
>> it's not that ugly.
>> It's not that ugly, guys. Obviously, it feels like it, but
>> it's really not that ugly.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you go out five years, it's even less ugly.
>> Well, again, that's the NASDAQ's basically doubled over the past five years from 250 to 600. And so the the the problem is and I think this is just you know something all of us have to grapple with everyone has got ingredient expects it to keep going higher and
>> not realistic
>> which is not realistic but but but to give some credit to to people that think like that the earnings have been good enough to imagine that it should go higher but at some point it maybe doesn't want to. It's just when Nvidia crushes and then everything goes higher and everyone's like, "Oh, okay. So, we're back to the schedule." And then it gets ripped away from you for a rate cut or for, you know, that's where people start thinking that this this game is not getting as fun. But if you showed me that five-year chart five years ago and said this is where the Q's would be on Thursday, November 20th, I mean, like, no one would ever complain about that. Look, I'm going to say something that's going to piss a lot of people off, but maybe a lot of people are better off in an index fund because a lot of people are probably spending way too much time focusing on individual names, staring at charts all day, and freaking out on days like today. And when you just think about an S&P 500 index fund, are you really that hurt today?
>> No. No, dude. It's down half a percent.
>> I mean, think about that. It's down half a percent. If you had 100 grand in S&P 500 index fund, you're down freaking 500 bucks.
>> Huh, that's true.
>> So, it's a lot of names that are getting crushed, but the overall indexes are strong. And part of the big difference now is we have so much information at our fingertips and people stare at this all day and there's a lot of leverage being used and in the grand scheme of things the markets are still up a lot this year. A pullback sucks. Your accounts don't have the same number but you know what it's healthy to have pullbacks. It is not healthy to see things go up in a straight line. Correct.
>> Yeah. And as much as you know people can say it's cop to it to say it's healthy but at its core it is healthy. If the if it stops around here maybe goes down another two 3% maybe 6250 are the lows and then we rebound that gives you a lot of longevity to a rally versus if we at 7500 tomorrow like that. That would not be healthy. 7500 just straight up moonshot. In fact that would be way more reminiscent of the dot bubble. Like I was I was reading one take last night that said um if Nvidia just settles into this price and doesn't go up to 230 even though it probably deserves to get that multiple there's a much less of a meltup chance which is good because that meltup is what led to the do having a very climactic top and then crash
>> and it would be fine because are people really going to complain if Nvidia goes to 215 next year?
>> It's still up a tremendous amount.
>> I would not be upset. If Nvidia stays in the 180s for a while, I really could care less. You know, does it deserve to be higher? I think so. But considering that it's start, where did Nvidia start the year? I mean, you're still up a lot this year on Nvidia.
>> Forget the stock market. The labor market isn't healthy. I think Steve and I would agree with that.
>> Nvidia started at 134 this year. And yeah, the labor market is the biggest headwind right now.
>> Well, that's why we're spending time talking about the Fed cutting because we all are assuming there's issues with the labor market. So, the Fed not cooperating with that.
>> Obviously, the labor market eventually catches up to earnings in market.
>> Pull up a one-year chart of Nvidia. It looks like it wants to trade in a range of 175 to 200,
>> which by the way, that's what Nvidia did in 2024. Stayed at 120 to 140 for a while.
>> I mean, it looks like it wants to trade in a range of 175 to 200.
>> Nvidia didn't move for a long time and then in April it collapsed because of the tariff stuff and then it just went on its prolific run, but that was because the whole market ran. So, it's it's used to staying stable for months at a time within a $20 range.
>> And I'm gonna leave it with this.
>> Is this as scary as CO?
>> No.
>> And did we rebound off of CO?
>> We did.
>> Is this as scary as April?
>> Um, no.
>> And did we rebound off of April?
>> We did indeed. So you got a little bit of pain. So what at some point this is going to rebound.
>> No, I agree. I agree. And and and you know this is not Trump saying we're going to get into a trade war with 150 countries. This is the Fed saying they're not going to cut. Which is why even if price action feels the same, it's not the type of fear because that in April, we were all hoping Trump would change his mind, which he did. In this case, we're hoping the Fed changes their mind, but the Fed changes their mind on a rate cut seems not as scary as Trump changing his mind from a trade war with the entire world. All right, last question for you, Steve. Last question for the chat. I'll be back on the market close. Um, if I if you were going to buy the dip today for anyone in the chat, Steve, if you want to give me two or three names that kind of look attractive right here, if you were going to buy a dip,
>> Meta, Microsoft, Amazon,
>> Microsoft at Wow. 481, Meta at 587 and then Amazon are below 220. We are below 220. 219 on Amazon.
>> I'd agree with all those. I would agree with all those. I see a lot of the same names right there. Meta, Amazon, Hood, IBIT. I mean, yeah, Black Rocks ETF obviously becoming a lot more attractive to people. Melly got hit today. Melly and C Limited. A lot of these international stocks got hit. Melly, wow, down 7%. So, a lot of those names as well on sale. All right, folks. Uh, I'll be back on the close. Uh, I think we'll have Chris on today and so we will get into what else is going on the macro. We'll get his thoughts. We have a couple of earnings into it in Weeble. I know things look ugly after that Nvidia report. One thing that I can leave you with is that it feels more about the Fed, not about the AI bubble. Feels like Nvidia made sure to show people there's not really an AI bubble, which means it is up to the Fed now to cooperate. If they don't, it seems like we keep going down. If they do, then maybe this changes or we're probably gonna have to find some time going into the end of the end of the year to see what the Fed says. All right, that is it for us. Steve's Twitter right here. You can follow him. His YouTube is in the link as well or in the description.
>> And then we'll be on at 9 tonight and we'll do a recap. Yeah, I'll be on with Steve tonight as well. All right, everybody. Thank you guys. I will see you on the market close later, everyone. Bye, everybody.