Hello my friends. Today is October 4th and this is Markets Weekly. So this past week looking at the broad equity indexes doesn't seem like that much is going on. We have people whispering of an October and the market did trend up a little bit though historically October has been a volatile month. Gold and silver also trended higher. Did have a notable down day on Thursday but those losses were recouped on Friday. Now the big news the past week of course was the government shutdown and related to that the lack of the monthly non-formms payroll sprints. So today let's talk a little bit about what private measures of the labor market are saying and secondly let's talk a bit more about the government shutdown. All right. So every time in every let's say era the the market cares more about some things than others. When inflation was high, the market cared most of all about um about CPI and in prior errors, it cared most about things like money growth and so forth. Right now, we are in a period where the market cares most of all about employment and that's because that's what the Fed is focusing on. Now, over the past few weeks, it's become clear that the labor market is deteriorating. Now, inflation is still a little bit above the Fed's target, but the Fed has signaled that it's worried about the labor market cut rates last month and is guiding towards two more cuts this year. Uh, unfortunately, we did not get the monthly non-formance per last week and so the market is kind of flying blind and so is the Fed. However, last week we did get some other reports from the private sector about the state of the labor market. So we do have some things to go on and who knows maybe going forward with uh more concern about public data sources maybe there will be greater reliance on private data sources and to be clear this is not something that's new. I remember that after the financial crisis and we were doing Huey, many people were thinking we would have imminent hyperinflation did not trust the inflation prince it pointed to things like you know the billion price project or shadow staff or something like that and were were confident that actually hyperinflation was happening. It's just that the government was lying about it and of course that was all nonsense. However, we do have some reputable measures of um well estimates of how the labor market is going. So, let's talk about those. First off, we have the ADP uh monthly uh employment report that they put out. So, ADP is a large payment processor. If you work in the private sector in the US, there's a good chance that you get your weekly paycheck processed by ADP. They have about 26 million uh employees in their service. So, it's a it's a pretty big sample of how the labor market is going. Now, the estimates were for the ADP print to show say 50,000 in jobs growth. they actually showed a loss of 30,000 jobs last month. Again, it's a huge huge upset. Now, a big reason for them is that they've revised their model, also updated their model to take into account the big benchmark revisions uh from that we got uh last month. So because of those benchmark revisions showing that overall the economy has created fewer jobs than expected that affected their model and so it gave us negative 30,000 print. They mentioned that if not for those revisions they'd have say 40,000 more which would give them let's say a 10,000 increase in jobs but of course that would still be below estimates. So overall obviously a disappointing print but it's just one measure. So let's look at other measures. another payments processor, paychecks. It doesn't give as granular details and they're they're also a sizable processor cover about 10 million employees in the United States. Also, they produce this index and also they have wage growth as well according to their index. Again, uh it doesn't look like the job market is doing very well. And if you look at their wage gains, it also seems like it's been steadily decelerating and let's say increases roughly about 3% annual rate. So nothing to write home about. Now other prints that we get are from the ISM survey. So these are diffusion surveys. What what what happens is that uh they're given a survey and asked to say that no are things better, worse or the same than last month. It doesn't measure magnitude al only measures direction. And according to the ISM surveys, uh if you look at the employment sub component, it's all below 50. That means employment is getting worse. So basically all the private sectors of employment that we get the past month all show that the labor market continues to do poorly. Now I think it's really important to note that these measures of employment don't correlate very well with the non-formals data. So habitually people usually ignore the ADP prints. However though directionally directionally they seem to move they tend to move in the same direction. So the nonfront perial sprints when we eventually get it probably won't look very good. Now uh one thing to note is that you have a lot of people looking at this and just say shrugging it off and saying you know this is all due to supply side issues. I have to say because of the crackdown in illegal immigration, that's what's infecting the job sprint and that is definitely part of it. Uh but it's also pretty clear though that there's a demand component because if we suddenly have less supply of labor, you would expect that the price of labor, so wages to go up, but that's just not happening. So definitely a demand component there as well. Now, one thing that I thought was super interesting the past week was that when we had the poor jobs market data from ADP, the market actually went up, the stock market went up, the bond markets, you know, priced in more rate cuts, so rates went lower, but the stock market actually went up. So that seems to be a tell that we're in a regime where bad news is good news whereas normally you would say that hey we're increasing the probability of a recession maybe that's not good maybe stocks should sell off but it seems like there's a class of investors who think that bad data more red cuts market go up. So that's an interesting shift in the regime and that that that's volatile that could change at any moment but that seems to be what's happening at the time at the moment. So that leads us to my next topic the government shutdown. So what happens during a government shutdown? So this is different from the debt ceiling issue. So periodically we go into debt sealing issues or government shutdowns. The last shutdown we had was during Trump's first term, and that's when the president demanded um border wall funding in exchange for uh government funding didn't work well for him. That shutdown went on for over 30 days and eventually he caved. But a government shutdown is when Congress and the legislature can't agree on whether or not to have a bill to continue to fund the government. The government can access the debt markets. It can issue treasury debt, no problem. Uh it just doesn't have the authority to spend the money. And that's what we're arguing towards right now. Now, when the government can't agree on, you know, to have a bill to continue to finance the government, then the government just shuts down until it gets a bill. Now, during a shutdown, there's a division of employees between iness essential and non-essential. non-essential employees go home. Um there's about let's say 7 800,000 of these. Uh but um they're basically on furowed or holiday or something like that. But don't worry, they are not paid at the moment. But when the government resumes, they get back pay. So the economic impact of this isn't super large. You can say that workers that would have gone to local restaurants to get lunch, now they're not doing that. And so the local restaurant will suffer. But in so far as the workers having money to spend, you know, they're they're going to skip a paycheck, but they'll get that in back pay. So, it's not that big of a deal. Essential workers will continue to work. So, that's like the police, the military, uh, airports, and it looks like a lot of the national parks will continue to function as well, which is great because I would hate to be a tourist, fly all the way over to the United States, go to Yellowstone, and and find out that it's closed. So it seems like the impass right now has to do with health care. So the Democrats would like to have renewal in a lot of the tax uh credits or the credits that support health care or Republicans want those to lapse. Now the argument Democrats give is that these healthc care subsidies are going to impact a lot of Republican voters as well. And that's totally true. you know, poor people are part of the Democratic party and part of the Republican party. And if the Republicans continue with their, you know, not wanting to renew these healthcare subsidies, a lot of their own voters will be impacted. And so they feel that this is a good political issue. The messaging from the Republican side is that well, the Democrats are trying to shut the government down because they want to give benefits to illegal immigrants. And honestly, that there's some truth to that as well. some of the funding uh does go to illegal immigrants in emergency circumstances and that is kind of a very unpopular point. There's a perception uh that uh Democrats are giving benefits to illegal immigrants. We've seen that over the past few years when illegal immigrants are uh given uh lodging and hotels and food and so forth and that's been unpopular since many poor Americans uh are feeling the pinch. So the shutdown according to the betting markets can go 17 days although the people that I listen to who are really politically plugged in suggest that it will resolve faster than expected. Uh the big problem of course is that well from the Republican side you know nobody wants to cut healthcare. From the Democrat side historically speaking when you're trying to shut down the government as a negotiating position it it's not politically popular. So that's why President Trump had to cave in 2018. And this time around, the Democrats of course are aware of this. There's no fallout immediately. Stock market continues to up. A lot of central service continue to function. So there's really no urgency to end it. But as this goes on, I think there's more pressure on the on the side that's not willing that's using this as a bargaining chip to to cave. Now, why is this an issue? So this seems to be a hold. This seems to be driven largely by minority Senate leader Schumer of the state of New York. Now earlier in the year there was also the prospect of a shutdown. Senator Schumer caped very quickly back then and that drew a lot of criticism from within the progressive wing of the Democratic party and he is sensitive to that. A lot of people in the Democratic party are looking at all the things that President Trump is doing. They're very worried and they really want their leaders to stand up and do something about it. Now, another wrinkle in this is that uh Senator Schumer, Senator of New York, is facing a potential challenge by progressive star Alexandria Alaziocortez in 2028. So, it seems like some people think that he might be facing some pressure to act a bit tougher and appease a bit more of the progressive elements in his constituency. Otherwise, you know, maybe he'll he'll lose in 2028. and AOC is a very formidable uh political star and of course she's part of the progressive wing. So uh looks like we're going to just kind of hold this until probably we get some kind of resolution. My best guess is that this will get resolved next week and when that happens uh I think the markets will like it and maybe uh traditional safe havens that were perceived to benefit from this like gold and crypto might might have a pullback. Now, one thing to note though is that, you know, one of the reasons why you can have uh this end quickly is that you you kind of want the some kind of forcing mechanism. So, it looks like we're not getting big complaints from people. Looks like we're not getting good complaints on the market. So, it could also be one of these weird circumstances where uh unless the market goes down, we won't have a resolution. And so, but when we do have a resolution, the market go up. So, it's kind of silly like this. Anyway, we'll find out next week. So far, it doesn't seem to be a big deal. And again, this can drag on for a long time. Last time it lasted more than 30 days. Right now, it's only been three. All right, so that's all I have prepared for this week. Talk to you all next week.