Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
This video
I want to talk to you about feminism.
Or feminism
certainly
This is a topic that is very likely to cause controversy.
The reason I want to talk about this
The cause was a girl
She shared her story with me a few days ago.
She a year ago
Joined some radical online feminist communities
Initially, she agreed with this.
But as she observed and reflected on these communities...
She began to have some doubts.
As a result, when she expressed her opinion...
He was subjected to cyberbullying by others in the community.
This still haunts her.
So
What phenomenon did she observe?
First, she discovered
Although in these communities
Everyone is claiming to be pursuing women's liberation
The banner of rebellion against patriarchy
But in the air
Yet, a suffocating atmosphere permeated the air.
An atmosphere of mutual censorship
A vast and detailed set of charges is prevalent here.
For example, male chauvinism, misogyny, female rivalry, and pampered wives, etc.
However, in many cases
The target of everyone's attacks is not the external patriarchal system.
for example
If a woman wants to marry a man
That's the behavior of a "spoiled wife".
That is, willingly degenerating into slaves of the patriarchal system.
If she wants to dress herself up nicely
Or want to pursue a certain boy
It's about pleasing men.
Competition between females and brains
These highly aggressive words
It's not meant to insult men.
Instead, it poured onto the woman.
Under such high-pressure moral judgment
These groups
More and more strange rules and regulations have emerged.
Outsiders couldn't understand at first
But upon closer examination...
It has a rigorous and closed logic.
for example
They oppose women using cute avatars.
They even oppose having long hair, wearing skirts, and wearing makeup.
Because this is a manifestation of serving in the U.S. military.
They believe
These women's outfits are essentially...
Catering to the male gaze is objectifying oneself.
Therefore, the only solution is to cut your hair short and wear unisex clothing.
Deliberately erasing female characteristics
That is true awakening, transcending base desires.
Some of the rules are also strange.
For example, not allowing pets.
The logic here is that a woman who owns cats and dogs...
It's a simulation of being a mother.
This is actually
It is to satisfy women
Motherhood constructed by patriarchal culture
Since even owning a cat is wrong...
Having an intimate relationship with a man is naturally even more sinful.
In this narrative
Heterosexual marriage, having sex with men
Even having sexual fantasies about a certain man
All of these are betrayals of the collective interests of women.
for example
They call married women "marriage donkeys".
It means being driven by one's husband like a donkey.
They believe
Women are natural victims in this structure.
Marriage system
It is patriarchy
A typical manifestation of the enslavement and persecution of women
Therefore, if a woman
Unaware of their victimhood
Instead, they violated these rules to date and get married.
So when she experienced domestic violence and infidelity
Or some other unfortunate event
They will receive no sympathy.
This is similar to the saying, "Thoughts must be worthy of suffering."
For example, the famous blogger Papi Jiang from a few years ago.
She posted a Weibo post about becoming a mother.
She is holding her child in the photo.
Being a mother is tiring
However, she was attacked by many people in the comments section.
For example, some people felt sorry for her.
He said he felt sorry for her.
Mingming is such an independent and outstanding woman
He embarked on the donkey's path
Some critics said there was no need to feel sorry for him.
She brought it on herself.
Some people also said
Since she is married
So it means selling one's uterus.
Core Values
In the field of literary and artistic works
They also have a very radical set of values.
That is extreme admiration for the strong and hatred for the weak.
For example, regarding Lin Yihan's novel
Fang Si-qi's First Love Paradise
It contains unhealthy ideas
It is a "vulnerable woman narrative" that leads women to self-destruction.
Because of this novel
It shows a girl's complex psychology towards the perpetrator.
In Lin Yi-han's words
This is a story about a young girl falling in love with her seducer.
Under immense trauma
Victims sometimes force themselves
Rationalizing the harm suffered
This is a completely understandable idea.
But they saw this as a sign that she wasn't a strong enough female lead.
They believe
A woman facing sexual assault
No fierce resistance
Did not protect yourself
Without hatred
There were even attempts to rationalize it.
Then such people deserve to suffer.
This forms a perfect closed loop.
To resist male oppression
They took the lead by using even stricter standards.
oppressed himself
It also oppressed its own kind.
So
Is there some underlying psychological and sociological law?
To explain this seemingly misogynistic...
Is it actually a case of misogyny?
We can learn from history and reality
Have you found similar cases?
This is the topic we'll be discussing in this video.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topics you'd like to discuss or consult with me about?
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
So before we discuss this topic...
Let's broaden our perspective.
Returning to the origins of feminist theory
As
In her book "Feminism," Li Yinhe outlines...
Feminism is not monolithic.
In the long river of history
They can be broadly divided into four major schools.
Liberalism, Socialism, Radicals, and Postmodernism
Let's first look at
liberal feminism
This may be the earliest and most mainstream school of thought
It originated in the 18th century.
Western middle-class women's communities
Enlightenment thought advocates that all people are born equal.
Everyone possesses equal potential for rational thinking.
The French Revolution will
The slogans of liberty, equality, and fraternity have spread throughout the world.
However
The reality is that women are excluded from social life.
therefore
Liberal feminism believes
Women should enjoy the same rights as men.
Strive for equal opportunities with men
The liberal viewpoint can be expressed as
In a fair society
Everyone should receive
Opportunity to realize one's potential
Men and women should have equal opportunities to compete.
They believe
Barriers in social structure
It can be overcome by personal effort
Women appear less capable than men
It's because they didn't receive the same treatment.
Educational opportunities
Therefore, liberal feminism opposes gender differences.
Emphasizing the commonalities between men and women
Demanding equal employment rights
The right to education and the right to vote
Let women enter the public sphere like men
Compete fairly with men
However, this viewpoint was later opposed by socialism.
Or rather, a Marxist feminist rebuttal.
Socialist feminists believe liberal feminists are too naive.
That's too elitist.
She simply made a small number of elite women the leading ladies.
But it ignored countless women from the lower classes.
Struggling on the assembly line
Then they said they weren't working hard enough.
This is actually a tacit acceptance.
The capitalist system is rational
A typical example is
early 20th century
French feminists met to discuss
Should maids be given one day off per week?
As a result, those middle-class families who employed maids...
feminists
With overwhelming advantage
The proposal to give maids a day off was rejected.
so
Socialist feminism believes
You women's image as leading ladies
It is based on the exploitation of women at the bottom of society.
Therefore if
Without overthrowing the capitalist economic system
and the concept of private property
The status of women will not improve
However
By the 1960s
A new faction emerged
It criticizes both liberals and socialists.
This is radical feminism
Radicals said
The socialists are not radical enough.
You believe you only oppose capitalism
It's still too conservative.
Not thorough enough
Because in places without capitalism
Men still oppress women
then
Radical feminism puts forward a bold viewpoint
Gender oppression is the oldest form of gender oppression in human society.
The most fundamental form of oppression
Other forms of oppression
For example, racism, class oppression
All of these are related to gender oppression.
Radical feminism believes
Men and women are fundamentally different
A person who is aggressive and evil
Throughout history, women have been ruled, oppressed, and exploited.
Therefore, personal problems are political problems.
To be aware of all the oppression one suffers
Both originated from gender hierarchy.
This divides the world into victims and perpetrators.
Oppositional views
This led to separatism
In other words
They believe that women should think well
You have to completely abstain from men.
Separation from patriarchal society
Create an all-female space
Women should date other women.
Radical feminism claims
Our own school of feminist theory is the purest
Completely untouched by patriarchal influence
However
This thoroughness leads to a strange conclusion.
That is, since under any system
Oppression of women will occur in all of these situations.
Therefore, the reason for women's oppression is not class.
Rather, it is due to physiological structure.
Some radicals believe
Female physiological structure
This led to
Women are more likely to do things that are subservient to men.
For example, a woman has a uterus and wants to get pregnant.
And breastfeeding, childbirth, etc.
This makes women more prone to becoming emotional and tender.
Emotional
This could lead to being controlled by men.
Similarly, male aggression
This is also because men have physiological factors such as testosterone.
In *The Dialectics of Sexuality*, Firestone points out...
The maturation period for infants is very long.
This made the decision.
Infants need to rely on adults for a long time.
They especially depend on their mother's breast milk to survive.
at the same time
Childbirth weakens a woman's constitution.
This forces them to rely on men for survival.
Therefore, women's liberation depends on a biological revolution.
And a series of related technological advancements
This revolution
Not only should infants be raised without breast milk.
Furthermore, the birthing process must be separated from the uterus.
Only in this way can women's dependence on men be truly eliminated.
However, if they think
Only by stopping women
Exercising female-specific physiological functions
Only when women can achieve equality
She was actually subconsciously...
It acknowledges a core logic of patriarchy.
The male body is standard and superior.
A woman's body is incomplete and a burden.
Or rather, those characteristics they perceive in women
For example, having emotional needs, being sentimental, being gentle, etc.
This is itself a sign of weakness.
It has original sin.
However
Isn't this itself an extremely misogynistic logic?
This is like saying
To eliminate racial discrimination from white people
We can invent a technology
Bleaching the skin of all Black people
This has indeed eliminated discrimination.
But this is achieved by eliminating the identity of the person involved.
To achieve
This explains
The case we mentioned at the beginning of the video
That is, those radicals on the Chinese internet.
They believe
Just one woman
Possessing those mainstream-recognized feminine traits
Injury is inevitable.
Therefore, it is necessary to use technical means or behavioral regulation.
Make yourself less like a woman
There are also some more radical feminist factions.
Even believe
It's all because
Women in ancient times did not fiercely resist male oppression.
This led to the overall domestication of women.
The woman's genes have deteriorated.
This logic sounds terrifying.
Like some people
Accusing those who struggle to survive under tyranny
Why don't you people resist?
Not resisting means you've already developed a servile mentality.
So all the suffering you've endured is deserved.
More should be killed
that's why
Many of them appear to be champions of resisting oppression
Groups pursuing independence and liberation
In the end, it was the oppressor who most identified with him.
Radicals dislike
It wasn't actually a specific woman.
Rather, it is that vulnerable one, the one who needs to be cherished.
Self with emotional needs
so
When they saw
The vulnerability revealed by Lin Yihan in her novel
I saw a mother holding her child and complaining of being tired.
or
When I see an ordinary girl putting on makeup and dating
You will feel angry
Because these images reminded them
The soft parts of a woman's body
This can also explain
Why this theory
Often only a portion of separatist lesbians
Or in groups that have experienced extreme trauma
Resonate
For more women
That is, those who have a father, boyfriend, husband, and son.
And in life
For women who have a certain emotional connection with men
This theory of complete separation from men
It's hard to accept.
For radical feminism
Another common criticism is that
It absolutizes and essentializes female identity.
Radicals like to say
Women all over the world share a common destiny.
Our common enemy is men.
But this presupposes...
Gender oppression is faced by all women
The only or most fundamental oppression
But let's imagine such a scenario
A couple who left their hometown
From inland areas
Young couples who go to Guangzhou or Shenzhen to work
They all do very low-level jobs.
For example, women working on assembly lines in electronics factories.
Men work as construction workers or security guards.
The foreman or manager of this electronics factory
It just so happens to be a local woman
But this female leader
They don't think everyone is part of a women's community.
instead
It may have revealed strong discrimination against these female workers.
For example, mocking these female workers for coming from rural areas.
He likes to steal things and has no sense of hygiene.
And when this female worker returned home after a long day's work...
Seeing her husband looking exhausted at the construction site
So they comforted each other.
Let's all curse those unscrupulous bosses!
At this time
If a feminist comes out and says you need to wake up
Although that female leader discriminated against you
However, she was also poisoned by patriarchal society.
She as a woman
Under a patriarchal factory management system
There was no other way.
But ultimately, she is your ally.
Although your husband treats you well...
But ultimately, he is a beneficiary of the patriarchal system.
So that you can be his maid for a long time in the future.
I think this woman heard these words
I will never feel understood
I just felt it was arrogant.
They tried to use gender as the only yardstick.
To measure the complex world
But it ignored class
The huge gap brought about by profession and region
Speaking of this
We have already given a brief introduction to liberalism
Socialism and Radicalism
These three major feminist schools
If we take a step back
Examine them from a more macro perspective
You will find
Although their theoretical starting points are very different
But in treating women as a political subject
When mobilized
They all, more or less
There is a tendency towards collectivism.
That is, attempting to define a standard image of womanhood.
To suppress each specific
Living female individuals
We can try
Rank them by their degree of collectivism
First, liberal feminism
This faction is the most vocal about individual rights.
In history
It has also effectively promoted tremendous progress in women's rights.
This is certainly undeniable.
But its collectivism is implicit.
because
It presupposes a standard template for successful women.
For example, getting a job at a prestigious company, becoming a senior executive, and earning a high salary.
Pursuing the same level of success as men, etc.
Although this template is not explicitly stated
But it created an invisible pressure.
if
You choose to be a housewife content with the status quo.
Or be an ordinary, unambitious employee.
You seem to be an unqualified modern woman.
You're not improving enough.
This is a kind of implicit elitist discipline.
Next is socialist feminism.
The level of collectivism here is much higher.
In their narratives
I am first and foremost a member of the exploited class.
Secondly, it's about myself.
My suffering is not just a personal experience.
Rather, it is a footnote to structural oppression.
Therefore, if I focus on personal little joys
Or pursuing a personal aesthetic that transcends class narratives
It is often regarded as a kind of
The degeneration of petty-bourgeois sentiment
It was even considered a betrayal of my class stance.
The highest degree of collectivism
Undoubtedly a radical
In their view
Gender is more than just identity
It is also a class
It is a camp in the war.
As we analyzed earlier
To win this war against men
Every woman was drafted into the army.
Your body, your hairstyle, your sexual orientation
Your entire way of life has been weaponized.
All must submit to the overthrow of patriarchy
This highest collective goal
When these thoughts
Defining gender as a person's highest status
When the highest priority identity is
When a person always tries to see things from a collective perspective
When defining the goal
This can easily lead to the suppression of individuals.
Because in reality
Free from class, race, age, and educational background
The so-called total liberation of women
It doesn't actually exist.
The Liberation a Poor Old Woman Needs
A liberation needed by urban white-collar workers
Possibly completely different
Even a woman's core needs at age 20
and core needs at age 30
They are also completely different
And when we always want to define a unified...
Women's collective interests
And they believe that the interests of the collective are paramount.
When the liberation of the collective takes precedence over the liberation of the individual.
Once put into practical operation
All of this can easily become a kind of
Interference and control over others
It may even evolve into a new form of hegemony.
Because who defined the so-called collective interest?
Whoever has the right of interpretation
A set of standards for progress and reaction can then be established.
then
A small group of the earliest awakened vanguard
The regulations began to be stipulated
Which behavior represents the direction of historical progress?
For example, not getting married or having children.
Which one goes against the tide?
For example, getting married and having children.
This is precisely what empowers the collective.
Legitimate interference in personal life
The right to reshape one's thoughts
This moral standard
This extends into the most private personal sphere.
This is like the old days.
Like the theory of class struggle that is expanded indefinitely
There will always be someone who accuses others of revisionism.
It is impure.
Then came the constant factional struggles.
With their definition of the bourgeoisie
Becoming increasingly broad
Ultimately, it evolved into wanting to live a slightly better life.
Wear a nice dress
You then have a bourgeois style
This way of thinking
It always requires human intervention.
Creating a contradiction between a priori and absolute.
Even in reality
That specific person wasn't that bad.
She should also be defined as a victim.
Then, in the guise of a savior or vanguard...
Go to save and awaken her
This logic
Almost every community in Chinese society
and in ideology
In other words, everyone is very enthusiastic about setting moral standards.
To forcibly transform and awaken others
Instead of first trying to understand, listen to, and see the other person
Then someone might ask...
Anthony's views and attitudes on women's liberation
What is it?
We'll leave this topic for next time.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
for example
You want to discuss a certain article or a certain passage with me.
A certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you'd like to discuss your life experiences with me.
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend it to everyone
Go check out other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!