Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Monday, October 27th. We are live. It is the first market open coming to everybody uh from someone who is now officially 28 years old. It's actually the day the day that you all have been wishing happy birthday for for the past 364 days. Today is actually the day uh for for us to have my birthday. You know, it's so funny that this thing became a meme. It's like it's it's it's it's like I don't even know how it became a meme of just wishing someone happy birthday, but it came it became a meme to such an extent that Tom Lee thought it was my birthday back in August because a bunch of you guys said it and I don't know if he's going to see my actual birthday today and what he's going to say, but there we go. We're live and um officially 28 years old today. Thank everybody for being here. We got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. We got this China US trade update which obviously is very important for the markets and you can see right now in the pre-markets we are greeny green. It's the best birthday gift I guess you could ask and alltime high across the market. Maybe pounding push for 190 today which would be very nice. We got a bunch of different macro updates that seem to be pretty bullish in regards to rate cuts coming up. Uh labor market data and a few other things that seem to be at least helping the way we have some of this pre-market momentum which is also really important. Uh and then we have earnings. We have a couple of earnings in the pre-market that are pretty important to talk about. We'll talk about some earnings after the close as well. But tomorrow we got SoFi, PayPal, and UNH in the morning. And then after that, you've got Amazon, Apple on Thursday, Microsoft, Google, and Meta on Wednesday along with rate cuts on Wednesday. The FOMC decision. There's a 96.7% chance we're going to get a rate cut. So, it is just going to be a wild, wild week. Uh it's a week for everyone to lock in. This is a week where, you know, portfolios can really take some massive swings hopefully to the upside. At least right now, we're experiencing to the upside. I mean, I think the majority of people here probably are recovering anything they lost over the past couple weeks in the pre-markets alone, potentially even even hitting new all-time highs in the portfolio. So, very very very exciting stuff. We got a lot to get into, a lot to get going, and I am excited to be here uh for another day to to talk to everybody. Yes, we have Amcore earnings after the bell as well. So, we'll get into all that and uh we'll see all the other earnings we have later today. Again, thank you everybody for the happy birthday wishes. I guess I'll just take like a couple minutes right here and just say something and then we'll get into we'll get into the market open. First of all, I I just um I'll get to all the super chats at the end as well so we can just do them all at once at at the end of the show and um I can individually thank everybody. But look, I am very very very grateful to be in the position I'm in. I think as you get older, you start reflecting a little bit more on your life. This book about Karp is coming out. I read this entire book over the weekend and uh you know, it's about his life. It's an autobiography on Karp. And so as I was reading this book on someone who has fundamentally changed my life, much less changed so many of our lives and you know one of the reasons I'm even here today is because I I I chose to take a chance on analyzing his company. It really made me reflective about my life and just thinking about what has happened over the past 28 years. Um and more than anything I thought about what has happened over the past four years which is you know this entire community being built. I think I think one of the most intrinsic elements, the most objectively intrinsic things that we can all agree on as a species is that all of us need community. You know, whether you're Democrat, Republican, no matter what race, gender, it's like at the end of the day, you need a community for some level of meaningful happiness. It's really hard to just be individualistic your entire life and only care about yourself. uh because because all the gains of life, whether it's through through professional success, financial success, it's hard to celebrate it if there's no emotional gains. And a lot of those emotional gains come from celebrating your wins with a community. And so, uh I I I just think one of the things I'm the most proud of over the past 28 years that I've been able to do is is somehow develop a skill set that would be necessary to cultivate a community and then over the past four years have the work ethic to to build this community to be where it is today. And I would not be here, if I don't say this enough, I would not be here without you guys. I would not be here every morning. I would not be able to be in this position. I would not get the opportunities I get to to be invited to these events from all these uh you know, companies that that want to talk to me. I would not be able to be invited to go do podcasts with all these CEOs unless there was there was an audience that cared. And the fact that you guys cared and the fact that you guys have been so happy about my journey over the past four years, I mean, it's it's it's it's I don't even know what to say. It is it is the journey of a lifetime. And on a day like today, as you get older, you start to get really really grateful over the things that you've done in your life. And you really want to make sure that you let people know how grateful you are because time is fleeting. We don't know how much time we have on this planet. That's the uh that's the what is it? That's the paradox of getting older. It's like you're celebrating life, but at the same time, you are getting closer to the end of life if we're just, you know, being objective about it. And so I think in these moments it's really really important to just let people know how much you care about the journey that you've been on and and how much you appreciate the support that they've had on that journey. Even if they've not been on every part of that journey and even if they've not been affected by every part of the journey, the fact that they've been part of it is it it just means the world and there's there's really uh there there's really not many words to describe that. So there we go. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. If it's your birthday as well today, happy birthday to you as well. I think I see a couple other people that say it's their birthday. So, pretty incredible. 77s says I'm 38 today. I love it. 2838, we're here. We're alive. Thank you all for the super chats. I'll read them towards the end of the show so we can get through everything. But once again, deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply appreciate from the bottom of my heart all of you guys allow me to live my dream every single day. Man's talking like he's 70 years old. Are you dying of it? No, I'm not. But just like look, I I really do want to make sure people understand how grateful I am. This is a very privileged position to be in this situation. Uh and and I know I've worked my ass off to get here, but no matter how hard you work, you still you need a little bit of of luck on your side in terms of, you know, you need people to laugh at your jokes, and you guys laugh. You guys really do laugh. I mean, there's a lot of people on YouTube that try to go live and get people to laugh at their jokes, and no one cares, and you guys care. Now, one would argue you're laughing at me, not with me. But the point is, as long as there's a laugh, it really doesn't matter. And so, the fact that you guys choose to laugh and choose to be here, it means a lot. It really, really, really means a lot. And I wish I could thank each of you in person one day. So, so, you know, we're getting closer to 2026. I'm going to have more details on the meetups. Hopefully, a lot of people can come to those meetups. And, uh, I can individually thank every single person in person for for being part of this community. I mean, this community is is is the reason why I'm I'm happy to be doing what I'm doing. I mean, I am happy to be alive on a daily basis because I get to do this. And the fact that this could bring any level of happiness to the people that are part of what we're doing every day, it just means the world. It really truly it it means everything to me. All right, let's get started. Thank you everybody for being here. Let's get into it. What do we got going on? Well, we're green. We are greeny green and we are even more green than where we were last night. We had 68205. We're at 680272. Tesla's up 1%. Palanteer's up 2%. Hoodie is up 3.1% potentially making its way back to 150. Grab back above $6. Google 264. Google signed a big deal with Anthropic. It was confirmed over the weekend. Massive level of TPUs are going to be or going to be purchased by Anthropic. So, that's really helping Google price right now. Reddit's up 3%. Amazon, shout out to everyone who bought Amazon with me. 213, 215, 217, even 222. I mean literally there like it's just been a great opportunity over the past couple weeks and you got Amazon moving higher 228. Hopefully we can crack that 230 level before we get into earnings. Uh Nvidia back to 190. Very nice to see pounder 189. Maybe pounder and Nvidia are going to be twins today. You got pounder right there. 18904. Micro strategy is up. AS is up. Him's back above 50. Roblox is up. Crowd Strike is up. Coinbase is up. Coreweave is up. Rocket Lab is up. Nebus is up. Look at that. 12195 on Nebus. Ren is up. I mean, it's just a massive, massive day, which to be honest, look, is very green for a variety of reasons. Could I see a little bit of a sell-off, a little bit of people taking some profits? Of course, we're already seeing that. Some of these pre-market prices are lower than where they were last night. So, I don't think that should scare anyone if we see that. But the trend is on the right side, and we're going to spend a lot of time today talking about the trend from a macro perspective and geopolitical perspective, and ultimately the conclusion on where I think this market can go over the next coming months if we continue this trend. SoFi, I did buy another 500 shares on Friday. I didn't go live on the market close. Um, honestly, I just I just really wasn't feeling the best in the market close. And that that was another thing I forgot to mention. Like I I I posted I I wasn't going to go live on the market close. And the amount of comments underneath that post that uh you know just said, "Dude, we love you, but you are part of our schedule and uh we hope you get better because you know, missing the market close is something that actually affects our lives because we you know, we we we want to have that part of our life." I mean, that means a lot. Now, there were a lot of other comments suggesting that my throat was hurting because I was on a grinder date. And that's that's that's for another conversation. Those were those were those were about 20% of the comments. But the other 80% of comments, which is very very nice, and it was very very humbling to uh to know that I really wish I want I could go live. I just I felt horrible, dude. I don't know what was happening on Friday, but I felt if I couldn't give my full 100% then it wasn't worth going live. But um look, I bought another 500 shares of SoFi on Friday. I I I couldn't say anything because I didn't go live, so I couldn't announce it. But $3010, my average is now $29.5. I mean, let's see if Noto can give us that 35 level. Have a,000 shares. And we're going to see tomorrow morning what happens with SoFi and if uh if we can keep going from there. New Bank is up, Door Dash is up, Delta's up, JD is up, Oaklow is up, you've got And that is up. Big Bear AI that is up. A lot of the momentum stocks that took a bit a big a bit of a draw down over the past couple weeks, those are starting to recover a bit. So, it's pretty much an everything rally. AMD 259. It is pretty much an everything rally. The only thing that's down is gold, which is actually bullish because you don't want a riskoff asset rallying while the market's rallying because it tends to be a little wonky. Now, granted, gold is down a couple percentage points after being up 60% for the year. But it does signal maybe there's a little bit more risk on versus risk off. And I know gold is conventionally seen as riskoff, but maybe after the 60% rally this year, gold is now risk. But you are seeing a little bit of weakness in some of the commodity trades which potentially is good for the equity markets as more of that money maybe transitions into taking more risk. More risk means more of these risk assets that we all own like tech stocks tend to do a little bit better which is very exciting to see. Rare earths are down today and the reason rare earths are down is because it does look like based on what Trump said and we have a couple clips to watch uh that they are getting to an agreement on rare earth metals and minerals which means the demand for the domestic suppliers of those rare earth stocks. I mean that demand is still going to be there. It's just not going to be potentially at the level that it was three weeks ago when we thought that China and the US were decoupling. And so that's why those stocks are down. I can see them recovering. I don't know if they get back to all-time highs anytime soon, but nonetheless, uh, it is good for the broader American supply chain if we have China supplying rare earths. And, you know, that's good for the broader equity markets as well. So, yeah, not so rare earths on a day like I mean, you know, they were rallying because we thought we were not going to be friends with China anymore. If we're going to be friends with China, which it seems like we are, then they probably wouldn't rally. But outside of that, you got a lot of other risk on assets that are just getting momentum and it is very, very exciting. See, Lululemon is up. Is that actually up? Lululemon. Wow. Lulu's up 5%. I mean, dude, it's going to be hard to find unless we get a bit of a selloff today. It's going to be hard to I mean, this is a broad-based market rally. We're getting into the end of the year. Let's get into some of the reason for why we are seeing this broad-based rally. But I'd be very curious to see if we actually end the day red or green and if we can hold on to this momentum and what stock lose a little bit of steam. Let's do that poll right here in the chat. Green or red to end out the day. I mean, I think it's going to be a green day. I I I could see a little bit of a sell-off towards the middle of the day, maybe taking some profits from the all-time highs, but I I don't think this is enough momentum to the downside given how many of the narrative catalysts have started to come in the direction of the bulls and if those continues, you know, we probably continue to get a bit more a bit more green. All right, so let's get Lulu partnered with the NFL. Really? Okay. Well, there you go. Lulu and the NFL. I guess that's enough to pump up the stock. So, I mean, they definitely needed something different. Yeah. Lulu is partnering with the NFL to launch an apparel collection for all 32 NFL teams, huh? Okay. I mean, the NFL is hot right now. You got advertising on the NFL reaching all-time highs. You have the prediction markets being massive for the NFL. So, looks like Lulu is tapping into some of that mind share, and that should be helping them as well. All right, so let's get into a bunch of the talks we have. First of all, what's going on with China? We got a lot of quotes by Bent over the weekend and a lot of this stuff is pretty bullish. Here is what he said and here is why the markets are rallying based off his comments in regards to China.
>> This was the fifth meeting that I've had with my Chinese counterpart, the vice premier Julie Fun and we covered a wide range of issues and I think we've reached a substantial framework for the two leaders who will meet in Korea next Thursday. So uh you know on the on the table the president had given me maximum leverage when he threatened 100% tariffs if the Chinese impose their rare earth uh global export controls. So I think we have averted that. So the the tariffs will be averted and we have a regular meeting regular quarterly meeting uh with the Chinese. uh it was scheduled for November 10th or before November 10th. I don't think we will have to have that. So uh we have been rolling the tariffs quarterly. So we agreed on that. We also agreed on substantial agriculture purchases for US farmers. We agreed that the Chinese would begin to help us uh with the precursor chemicals for this terrible fentanyl epidemic that's ravaging our country. So I would say that it was a very good meeting overall.
>> So I mean you're hearing it right there from Basent and then not only did Basent say that the Chinese embassy and the US this is what they said yesterday. Uh both sides agree that the strategic guidance of the two heads of state they will make full use of the Chinese US economic trading consultation mechanism maintain close communication on respective concerns and promote the healthy sustainable development of economic and trade relations to benefit the two peoples and contribute to global prosperity. So, I mean, you've got the Chinese basically agreeing with Bent right there that we are going to be uh working with the US to actually make a deal happen. And then you've got Trump confirming that uh negotiations are going so well or at least initial talks are going so well that he's going to be meeting Xi pretty soon either in China or in the US.
>> We pretty much agreed that I'll be going to China.
>> When is that?
>> In the earlier part of the year.
>> Okay. and presidency will be coming into maybe Washington or Palm Beach or someplace sometime after that.
>> So if the reason we had a 3% draw down on October 10th was because of the China tweet around the United States basically saying hey China's being aggressive with rare earths and we're not going to buy their soybeans yada yada and now that reason seems to be all but not as relevant. It doesn't mean we have a deal yet but it does mean it looks like we have a framework for a deal that will result in something friendly. I mean, Trump's literally inviting Xi to the White House. I really I don't know, maybe I'm being naive about it, but on no November 1st or October 30th when they meet in South Korea, uh Trump is on his way back from Malaysia as we speak. I think he's he's actually went to Japan last night, so he should be coming back to the US in in a couple days. Um it's hard for me to believe that after all these productive conversations that Bent has had that they're going to end up with no deal, especially towards the end of the year. Trump knows the midterms are coming up. Trump knows this is the end of his first year as being president. I mean you want to get some landmark legislation. Obviously big beautiful bill was the the most important thing but the next big thing is locking in these trade deals with China, India etc. We already have Japan, South Korea, Europe. If we can lock it in with the major nations, I mean not only would the markets like it, but that could also be very productive for the broader health of the economy. And given we are running up a deficit, we do need the trade deals to contribute to GDP growth. So I don't know, dude. It feels like we're going to have some fun towards the end of the year. November tends to be one of the best months of the year as well. Uh so now you've got the trade deal catalyst, you've got the broader earnings catalyst that we'll talk about in a second. And then you've got November being better than expected. I mean, and then you got the rate cuts coming up where, you know, there is a lot of money on the sidelines at the end of the day. As that money gets to the sidelines, uh you know, it's going to have more of an incentive to potentially get off the sidelines if we continue to get rate cuts. Seems like there's a shot. Seems like there's a shot. We could have a really, really strong end of year. And it looks like that could be what's playing out right now. So, that's what we have in the context of the China updates and doesn't look like that's slowing down at all. Thank you again for all the happy birthday wishes. Deeply, deeply appreciate everyone for the wishes. Your boy is now 28 and uh we're going to keep working. We're going to keep working every single day as usual. All right, so that's what we had for China. Let's get into some of the other stuff we got going on. First of all, Paler, uh, there was rumors over the weekend that Pounder was going to be signing a letter of intent with Poland. It officially is confirmed. Pounder just tweeted, "We are committed to Poland and proud to deepen our partnership with the Ministry of Defense. Today's agreement paves the way for Pouncer's AI enabled defense technology to begin rapidly supporting the country's armed forces as they innovate at the forefront of an increasingly complex threat environment and strengthen Poland's position as a sovereign leader in defense. Technological collaboration between Palier, the Polish armed forces, the Polish defend industry, and the rapidly growing Polish defense startup ecosystem will make Poland a pioneer and leader in AI for defense. Uh, I think this is really exciting because last week you had a $200 million contract with Lumen, which is another commercial government provider pounder, you know, really inching a multi-year partnership. The the CEO of Lumen was on Fox Business and said, "Alex came into our room and said, "Don't pay us until we can show you the value." and he showed us the value and that's why we're now paying him hundreds of millions of dollars for the company software and it looks like Palantry is taking that same approach which is the value is downstream from actually showing the impact of the software and they've probably shown their software over the past couple months to Poland and now Poland's Ministry of Defense wants to take a more productive approach working with Palanteer makes sense I mean at at the end of the day with everything going on in Russia Ukraine a lot of the Baltic states obviously want to take more precautionary measures has worked with many of them including Lithuania And it looks like they now have an official partnership with Poland. I mean, look, the stock is about 80 cents away from an all-time high. I think there's a world where we can crack it. We're going to see at 9:30 when the market opens if it ends up getting dumped and or if there's a bit of u resistance right there. But yeah, for all the people that are Polish in the chat, I see a bunch of people that are from Poland. It looks like Pounder might be potentially uh powering the entire operating system for the Ministry of Defense. So very very exciting for Pounder and it looks like that is another good deal. Uh Robin Hood, we got an upgrade on Robin Hood 161 for Hoodie. Uh and the reason we got 161 is because of earnings updates. So you've got Compass Point. They raised their price target from 105 to 161. And here's what they said. Our 3Qbida forecast is 6% above the street and we expect Hood to disclose October trends pacing well above fourth quarter expectations. If we annualize our forecast, transaction revenue is only 2% below consensus for 2026. Fourth quarter offers additional upside quarter quarter alongside higher prediction market volumes, crypto fee pricing, and staking revenue. Staking is one of those things that's not really baked into a lot of analysts assumptions yet. While Hood trades at a premium of 62x or 2026 EPS and 43xida, we're comfortable with our buy rating as long as revenue EBIDA continue to exceed expectations. We increase our price target to 161. Our 2026 EPS is 7% above the street with a meaningful room for upside if recent trends persist. Very nice to see that you're getting another price target from Robin Hood, especially going into 2026. One of the concerns I think a lot of people have with Hood is that if we do end up in a crypto winter, if we end up in a little bit more of not a bearish market, but a lack of volatile market to the upside, Hood's transaction volumes won't be as strong. Bitcoin right there 115, Ethereum above 4,100. If that doesn't happen in 2026, and I'm sure we're going to have some draw downs in 2026 of 10% 15% that just tends to happen every single year. But if the broader trend is intact and you know maybe we end out the year 7,000 maybe we are much closer to 8,000 by 2026 then Robinet's probably going to be a pivotal player and those prediction markets are also probably going to be very very important for the company to continue to do well. So you're getting some excitement right there from uh or excitement right there from Robin Hood and that's also leading to some of that pre-market action. I mean look if we see 150 it would be very exciting. I do think this 150 run would be a bit more healthier and it's not just for Robin Hood. I think a lot of these stocks, including a Nebus that took a nasty hit from 140 all the way down to 96, Robin Hood from 150 all the way down to 120, the fact that they're now gapping back up even though they're not fully at all time highs is very healthy because the market got a lot of the froth out of the system. So, you got a lot of the sellers to leave, which is good. Uh, and then number two, uh, you have earnings coming up. So, if Nebus and Hood can crush earnings, which I think they will, they not starting at all-time highs in terms of making a move higher. are starting at levels that are depressed from all-time highs, which actually makes it easier to get to new all-time highs. It just just, you know, historically when you look at the market, you need to have a little bit of pain before you have some gain. So, I think across the entire board, it's it's a much healthier way to get into into the earning season. And obviously, those who took advantage of the dip have also benefited from that as well. So, very nice to see what's going on in the context of some of those growth stocks as well. All right, so that's what you had on Robin Hood. And now let's transition over to a couple of other updates we have right here in the context of crypto. So first of bit mine uh Tom Lee bought the dip didn't buy as much as a lot of people expected but he did buy 3.31 million. They bought about 73,000 Ethereum or 77,000 Ethereum over the weekend. He says the progress and trade talks between the US and China is positive for Ethereum and crypto broadly. These are global assets and rising tensions triggered the largest ever deleveraging crypto event over a few weeks ago. While the fundamentals of Ethereum and crypto are uncorrelated to equities, Funstrap work has shown that in the past 15 years, Ethereum and crypto perform better when equities rise. Meaning crypto is correlated to risk on assets via the associated leverage channel. So you've got Bitmine that now owns 2.8% of the entire asset class when it comes to Ethereum. Bitmine right there at 5310. That's up 5.3%. I mean Ethereum finally breaking above 4,000. It was stuck at 37 to 3,900 basically for the past 2 weeks. question now is if this bad boy can gap up to 5,000 towards the end of November. And I'm optimistic that it can. I don't know if we have that 10,000 level baked into it. By the way, Bitcoin uh if it just closes at this level, we will have October continue to be intact, which is essentially a um as you can see right here, description of how many times we've had a green October. Last eight October were green. So, if we can continue, even if we entered up by 1.2%. It would be nice. Why do you think Bitmine didn't buy more? ETH was under 4K for a week. Yeah, I'm not fully sure. I mean, maybe they were just being a little bit more hesitant because they thought if the China trade negotiations didn't go that well that Ethereum would tank to like 3,200 and that's where they could get a better price, which is a fair riskreward assessment to make. It's like, hey, maybe, you know, maybe the China stuff is more of a um headwind and we need to be cautious. And so they bought as much as they could but not enough to the point where they would essentially spend all the cash that they had which I think is fair to do. But uh you do have a lot of these treasuries continuing to buy more. I mean even Micro Strategy today, Micro Strategy bought more. It has been a while since they bought as much as they did but 390 Bitcoin 43.4 million is what Mr. Sailor purchased today. 111,000 per Bitcoin and uh now their average is 74,000. So you have the best DATs that are able to continue diluting at a premium continuing to buy as much Bitcoin as they have which is very exciting for the crypto ecosystem as well. Yeah, we have a lot of uh Polish people in the chat. I love it. All right, we got to visit Poland. We got to visit Poland hopefully going into going into 2026. So that's what you got for MSTR again. pre-markets. Got Bitcoin right there at 115. MSTR, I think, potentially above 300. 29972. It's not fully above 300, but trying to get there and at least above that 270 level that it kind of bottomed at going into last week. Uh, and that's what you have on Bitcoin. All right, some other clips in regards to some of the things that Trump has said. First of all, uh, Trump and Elon, he actually gave some comments this morning about Elon Musk.
>> How is your relationship with Elon these days? I think it's good. I mean, you saw that during Charlie's beautiful tribute, Elon came up. It's good with Elon. I like Elon. I've always liked Elon. Elon's good.
>> Have you talked to him since the memorial?
>> Uh, on and off a little bit. Yeah. Very little. Nothing much. Look, he's a nice guy and he's a very capable guy. Uh, I've always liked him. He had a bad spell. He had a bad period. He had a bad moment. It was a stupid moment in his life. very stupid. I'm sure I'm sure he'd tell you that. But uh I like Elon and I suspect I'll always like him.
>> I mean, look, that's good to see if you're a Tesla shareholder because at the end of the day, we can't forget Tesla still needs legislation over the next four years that's going to be conducive to what they're doing with self-driving and probably also conducive to what they're going to be doing with robotics. So you need some level of meaningful uh cooperation from the administration and the fact that Elon and Trump potentially are uh recovering from some of the strains in the relationship. That is also not the worst thing to see. Tesla stock right there up about 1% in the in the pre-markets as well. Um so good to see that in the context of Tesla. We have some other updates right here that also are potentially implicating what we've got with Trump. Japan's new prime minister, one of the first female prime ministers of the country, is considering buying around a 100 Ford F-150s for government use as a goodwill move before Trump's visit, which Trump was visiting last night. Trump praised the plan aboard Air Force One, calling the F-150 a hot truck and saying that the PM has good taste. So, you're already getting some more of these global leaders saying, "Hey, let's find a way to warm up to Trump and let's uh do something that can create the negotiations in a meaningful way." I mean, you saw what happened with Canada over the weekend. Obviously, the some of them stopped playing the ad and uh you know, Canada essentially Trump said, "We're going to increase the tariffs by 10% on Saturday." Market kind of didn't care too much about that. They cared more about the China stuff, but Bent commented on China and or commented on Canada and basically said they were really stupid to do what they did. And he got Canada kind of capitulating to the opposite direction by saying, "All right, it looks like we're going to have to negotiate here." major trade issue which is Canada. Of course, this week, President Trump abruptly broke off trade talks with uh Canada and put another 10% tariff on Canada in response to an ad that the government of Ontario ran. It features former President Ronald Reagan. Why is the president setting trade policy based on a television ad he doesn't like? Uh well, Kristen, let's let's think about this. This this is a kind of propaganda against US citizens. You know, it it's it's scops. Why why would the government of Ontario, I'm told, that they've spent they have spent or were planning to spend up to $75 million on these ads that come across the US border. So what what was the purpose of that other other than to sway public opinion and you know it's some kind of propaganda that the premier of Ontario unilaterally launched.
>> Will will the 10% tariffs apply to all Canadian goods? Mr. Secretary,
>> uh Kristen, I I've been traveling since this unfortunate event happened. I know that the ad's been taken down. So, you know, we we'll have to see, but I I just think it was ter terrible, terrible judgment by by this premier, you know, who has a bit of a reputation for being a hothead.
>> Does the president know if the tariffs will apply to 10% tariffs will apply to all Canadian goods? Has he made a determination about that? Well, uh, well, I I'm sure he I'm sure he knows and I'm sure the ambassador Greer, uh, knows, but again, you know, we're we're here out in Asia and we're doing these big trade deals out in Asia that we just signed the Malaysian deal today, which was fantastic. And, you know, I've been spending the past two days negotiating with the Chinese. So you know what's whatever is going on back in North America I think is the taking second fiddle to President Trump's leadership out here in the Pacific.
>> So the markets didn't care too much about that Canada 10% tariff. I imagine Trump will either get rid of it or use it as a form of leverage and negotiation. But the one thing I will say on this and and this is what I said kind of on Friday. Um, I don't think we've ever seen a president of the United States use the leverage of being the president of the United States like we've seen Trump use it. And and whether you like it or hate it is a different question, but I don't think any diplomatic uh consultant would say in the middle of the night you should tweet that you're putting a 10% tariff on Canada and that all trade negotiations are officially terminated based on seeing an advertisement. Right? You know, most diplomatic consultants would tell you, "Hey, that's not the right way to approach it." Trump has just not cared. He's not cared whether it's China, Canada, South Korea, whatever he's going to say, he's just going to publicly say it to the people. He's not going to go through an inter intermediary or a middleman. He's just going to directly post it. Everyone's going to consume it. The world's going to react. It's going to be chaotic. And then from that chaos, there is potentially some bright side uh or bright line when you get to the other side. And so far, in some instances, it has not worked, but in other instances, it has worked because you just go so direct and you cut through all the BS and you use the leverage of saying, "Oh, we're the United States. If you're not going to export rare earths to us, then we don't want to do business with you at all. If you're going to run these commercials that, in the words of Ascent, operate as a SCOP, then we are done talking to you." And like the other side, because they need the US because we are the large consumer of everything ends up having to capitulate at least to an extent. And if it doesn't fully solve the issue, it maybe gets you closer to a deal. Whether you like the tactic or not, it is a tactic that I don't think any other president in the history of America has used to the extent that Trump has used it. And the question is just, you know, is that going to be a tactic that fully works over the long term? We're going to see, but so far you are getting some effects based on how I guess chaotic the diplomacy is. And potentially those effects are more positive than not. macro. Let's talk about some of the macro. Here's what we got. So, after next week, seasonality starts to look really bad for the bears. This is the S&P 500 index based on a seasonal uh perspective. And as you're seeing right there, this is when it's a little choppy. Around that October to early November time after next week, aka towards the next week or to towards the first week of November, you start to get some upside. You start to get a lot more upside. and that upside tends to be uh a bit more aggressive. So, I mean, if you are a bear going into November and December, you've got I mean, first of all, if you've been a bear all year, you've had like one option to to kind of to to to capitalize on the bearishness if you had shorts or anything like that. And that was April. And that was a very shortterm moment that you had to be able to capitalize on it. Uh because then it ended up being about the dip. And you had some dips in between that. The the biggest was the 3% draw down on October 10th. And now that that's kind of been recovered, you got to really ask yourself where are those opportunities coming? And it doesn't look like it's going to come in November, December. Unless something really bad happens in the macro, labor market, Trump trade deals, etc. Rate cuts are probably not going to play a factor into that. Maybe earnings really disappoint, but it seems like so far earnings have been pretty good. So what is the bare case going into the last two months of the year? Government shutdown potentially is a tailwind when we reopen, but even if we continue to be shut down, the markets have not seemed to care. So, it does look like there is some real strong positive momentum going in towards the end of the year and you know that might not be easily slowing down. On top of that, take a look at this. The NASDAQ is on track to be up seven months in a row. And if you look at this chart, when the NASDAQ is up at least seven months in a row, on average, one year later, stock market's up 13%. 100% of the time. So when you have that consecutive run of tech stocks the way that the NASDAQ is running, it does signal that it likely means we are going higher over the long term and if the earnings picture continues to be as strong as it's been, it looks like that doesn't have to slow down. On top of that, I showed this chart last week, but important to serve as a reminder, the cash level for the average institutional investor, this was based on a Bank of America survey of fund managers, is at 3.8%. you have a significant level of fund managers reducing their cash balance, which one could say is a little toppy because that means there's not that much cash on sidelines. Another person can say, well, a lot of that money is being deployed and a lot of the fund managers that are chasing performance because they haven't performed this year because they weren't effectively buying the dip on certain levels. I mean, if you're a fund manager and you miss the dip in April and then you miss the dip again on October 10th, I mean, you really got to be annoyed at yourself and you probably have no choice but to either stay in cash and just accept that you're going to underperform the market this year, which then begs the question, why do you even manage funds in the first place? And that's a existential question for a lot of these fund managers because literally their, you know, business, their livelihood depends on it. Or do you chase? And if you have to chase, then that just creates a meltup. And this meltup is now aided with rate cuts, which again continues to to add more value to the bullcase. Unless you think there's another dip coming, which maybe there is, but if we just had a draw down, maybe you don't need to have another uh another 3% draw down. And I think that's that's kind of what I wrote up last night as well. I mean, we are cutting rates into a market that's at all-time highs and putting up double digit earnings growth. So, we just had a 3% draw down. The reason for that draw down was because of China. That seems to be going away. More geopolitical peace around the world is a tailwind. Potential ceasefire with Russ Ukraine could be a tailwind. Earnings have been incredible so far. We got a lot of earnings coming up this week that hopefully continues it. AI capex not slowing down. Big tech companies producing monster numbers only reinforces why they're spending so much on capex. You still have seven half trillion dollars on the sidelines. Not all of it's going to come into the equity markets, but even if a couple hundred billion, remember the money market funds on average for the past 15 years have had three trillion on the sidelines. COVID is what created that extra four trillion that was added to it. We don't need to have that four trillion come out, but if you have a couple hundred billion come out, that's still a massive tailwind for the broader economy. Government reopening will be good. And then Nvidia might have a internal tailwind by being able to sell to China soon if that is negotiated from this trade deal, which is a massive bullcase for all the semiconductor names because if Nvidia is able to sell more GPUs, Micron, SMCI, they will get more business. And so there's things to be concerned about like the labor market. There's definitely issues out there in the economy that we can't ignore, but the broader trend just seems to be more bullish than not. And that is that is very exciting to see as we head into the end of the year. Matt Money, thank you for being here, brother. Thank you for the happy birthday wish. Again, I'll I'll read all the super chats as we get towards the uh the end of the show, but Matt, appreciate you, man. Been awesome to be on the journey with you over the past couple years, and thank you, sir, for the happy birthday wishes. Um, is chasing SoFi smart today? You know, SoFi's at 30 bucks. I mean, look, the number that's been going around in my opinion from what I've seen anecdotally is 35. That's what I feel like most people are aiming for after this earnings. I kind of think everyone's getting super bullish and that's not maybe the best thing in the world. Maybe it disappoints. But even if you, you know, take away that perspective from it, which is like, you know, the herd being in one direction, therefore the stock would go the other in the other direction. Look at the fundamentals. All the banks have crushed. So far as a bank, they're going to crush. Their provision for credit loss is probably going to come better than expected. Their EPS is likely going to beat because not been beating consecutively. I mean, the street's expecting 30% growth. If they come in anywhere near anywhere near 35 or 40%, that's going to be massive. And then rates are coming down the day after they have earnings. So, you've got the earnings tailwind and then you've got rates coming down, which should be another tailwind in general for refinancing. I mean, like, I I personally could see SoFi gapping down to 25 just because it's SoFi and it tends to do that after earnings. But if there was one quarter where the narrative could really be rerated and changed, I think it's this quarter. And the fact that it's only been stuck around 28 to 30 and it hasn't really gapped up, I think it's actually potentially giving you the move that people are looking for going into into tomorrow. So, in short, no, I don't think chasing soi is crazy, but you got to be ready to DCA. Also, like look, if if you have SoFi and you and and it falls to 25, like yeah, it sucks if you bought at 30, falls at 25, but this is a high quality company. I mean, it's not that scary to buy the dip on SoFi. So, you could always sell some calls against it. I don't think it's the worst thing in the world to to have this one. Uh, very cool, very cool what we're seeing right here on SoFi. $30 right here. Nvidia 190 S&P at 682. Thank you to my uncle in the chat. Happy birthday, Aid. Wishing you a wonderful year ahead. We can't say enough of how blessed we are to see your growth and journey. Here's to one year of continued success. Appreciate you, Money Mama. Thank you for being here, being part of the chat. Did Matt Money just give some memberships? Matt Money, thank you for the gift to 20. Appreciate you, brother. 20 of you guys just got gifted a membership by Mr. Matt Money, thank you guys again. It really, really, really means a lot. And uh very, very blessed to be spending 20 years of life with all you guys. And thank you to my uncle being in the chat. It was so funny. my my uncle's wife, my aunt, she was watching the show the other day and I was biting on my hoodie string and she was like, "Is he hungry? Is he like is he just like did he not eat lunch or something?" And I was like I was like, "No, I just, you know, like I don't have a mom to cook for me anymore. So like what do I got to eat my hoodie string? That's all I got. That's all I got." So there we go. All right, we got four minutes until this market opens. Four minutes. What did you guys say in the chat? Are we red or green? 92% of people say green. All right, we're bowled up. We are bowled up today and I'm bowled up as well. If you if you can notice the the the background's a little bit different as well. I moved everything up and we moved the camera back. So now there's a little bit of scale factor here. We got a lot more stuff on the walls and uh it's not as cramped as it was before. So kind of made a little bit of a change in the studio and we'll we'll keep working on making it better. But I'm excited. I'm excited to see how this market can open up. Now again, it would not surprise me if we get a bit of a sell the news as soon as the market opens. Wow, S&P 683, but it also would not surprise me if we melt up because again, you got a lot of money that's asking themselves, okay, earnings are good. Trump stuff is probably resolved and rates are coming down. What do I do with my money? Whether or not you think that results in an acid bubble, which there is a, you know, decent shot in 2026 if things get crazy that there is some level of an acid bubble. You know the what the drunken quote which I'm going to butcher here is always like you know when I see a bubble I run to to to jump into it to make money before before I stay on the sidelines. I totally messed up that quote but the point is if you see a bubble you run into it. Or maybe it was George Soros who said it. And I'm not saying this is a bubble by any sense of the imagination. I'm saying if we have rates that get that low you could definitely get some artificial valuations. But that doesn't mean the earnings for some of the most important companies in the world aren't supporting the multiple expansion. Nvidia is still lower of a multiple than freaking freaking Walmart and Costco if you look at their forward 2027 estimates which makes no sense. So it was deaf Soros. Yeah, it was definitely Soros about the bubble quote. And so it's just the question of do you want to see your money on the sidelines when something like that is happening? Yeah, it's when I see a bubble forming I rush in to buy adding fuel to the fire that is not irrational. Not saying we're in a bubble at all. Just saying like if there is a lot of excitement and that excitement is justified via trade deals, Fed policy, macro tailwinds with AI and capex spend and good earnings. I mean, maybe the bubble's going to form a couple years from now. Maybe it's in 2030, but over the next four or five years, the obligation for us as shareholders is to make money. And being on the sidelines is not necessarily the best way to make money. It hasn't been the best way to make money over the past three years. retailers understood that way better than the institutional guys and that's why a lot of us have absolutely crushed it in this market and now for us to continue that we need earnings to be strong and we need this momentum to continue from all the broader trends that we've seen over the past year and if it can continue then that would be very very exciting as we get into it uh as I don't have a position in this I know Mike Alfred who is you know he's actually a friend we we've messaged multiple times he took a million dollar position in this thing 95 cents uh on Friday. This is a Bitcoin derivative play. I don't know much about it. I don't have a position. Could I see it pumping? Yes, because a lot of Twitter is just getting really excited about this potentially thinking it's the next Beyond Me just, you know, like but I could also see it selling off if people dump their shares at the open. So, this one is kind of a gamble. You got to have some level of fundamental thesis on it. Mike just says he likes the team and so we'll keep track of it. But, you know, that is one of the names that a lot of people are excited about as well. All right, here we go folks. It is Monday, October 27th, 9:30 a.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The first market open as a 28-year-old man. Appreciate you all from the bottom of my heart for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Here we go. Nvidia 189.95 190 up about 2% on the day. Again, this one was at 195 at the all-time highs. 190 right there for Nvidia. Robin Hood 141. That's up 3% on the day. Palunteer. Oh boy, we are very close to breaking 190. That would be an all-time high. 18804. Got a little bit of rejection right there at 189. If it can break through 190, then we would be seeing that all-time high. Nvidia again up 2%. Tesla's up 1%. S&P 500 682 68285 that is green on the day. AMD right there 255 that's up. We do have some red candles right at the open which is normal kind of what I think most of us expected because we were really flaming hot in the pre-markets. Now we got to see if people come in and buy those dips. But as you can see right there AMD from 258 to 255. That's red. From grab to 602 to 596. That's red. So just lost 30. You're seeing it kind of across the board. But I think that's okay as you're starting to get some momentum and buyers come in. Wow. Pounder. 190. There she is. 190. Oh, she's going for 191. She is going for 191 right here. That is a new alltime high on pounder, ladies and gentlemen. That is a new all-time high on Pounder. 190.5. Honestly, the best birthday gift I could ask for. There you go. 191. There she is. 191. You got earnings coming up in about a week. 3.3% on the day. Congratulations to everyone on Pound here. That is absolutely incredible. Amazon 228. PayPal's up 1.5. Salesforce up a little bit. Meta 754. Meta was at 690 for the majority of the past couple weeks. Meta now here back at 750. The GooGs 265. It hit 267 this morning. Hims is up 1%. Uber's up 1%. Roblox up 1.2. Crowd strikes up half a percent. Rocket Lab up 1.4. Cororee up 1.49. Where's Iren? Iren 6455. A little bit of a red candle, but still this stock got all the way to 50 last week in the draw down on a lot of these momentum names. So, you got some of the best ones starting to recover. You have Cipher right here. That's at 20. Okay, Cipher goes red. It was at 21 last night. So, that one losing some steam. Cipher right here going red, but still overall green for the past week. Intel 3905. That is green. Pouncer still holding 190. 191.60 is what we got to SoFi losing 30 2976 S&P 500 still 682 and then Nvidia 19018 as well and Nvidia twinning today both of them in the 190s BMR what do we have for BMR we have 53 5240 so a bit of a red candle right there as ETH is getting a little bit of a red candle 4155 just below 4200 Bitcoin right there at 115 app loven that's at 1.72 this was at 550 last week that's at 6:30. So again, last week just created some really good opportunities. How about AST Strive? That is 148 up 33%. 148. Let me know who anyone who's in this one. Again, it took a life of its own on Twitter on Friday after Mike disclosed that he had a position in it. And um I don't know, you just got a lot of people that are buying to kind of be part of the trade. But that does mean that maybe there's some momentum on there. Now there is a pipe. There are a lot of warrants that get exercised. I think there's about 50% of the market cap in dilution that's potentially triggered at some of these prices. So, I don't know kind of the fundamentals of how the actual financial engineering of this could play out, but you do have a lot of people excited about the name and that's why you're seeing some people take these positions. Pounder still at 190.75. Wow. Hoodie 145 broke through 145 broke through uh 143. Apple all-time highs 266 on Apple 266. Where is Beyond Meat? Beyond Meat is down another 14%. Okay, so Beyond Meat, the quick update on this is that their short flow from what I'm seeing in terms of the sources I'm looking at is 161%. Meaning shorts are borrowing shares that don't even exist. The last time this happened on a mass scale was GameStop. You've got a lot of people on Twitter anecdotally that I've seen that are thinking Beyond Meat is the next GameStop. There's actually an update on GameStop as well. The White House tweeted at their account. Uh and that's why GameStop right here is up about 3%. It was up 5% yesterday. But uh you do have some people yoloing into Beyond Meat thinking it is the next uh GameStop and that they're going to squeeze the shorts, which you know, if there was any potential to squeeze them. You would squeeze them when the short is 161% of the float. But on a day like today at least, you're just not seeing it yet. Maybe a lot of money is just going into Nvidia over Beyond Meat. And that's why that stock is down 11%. Big Bear AI, that stock is about to go red. It just went red. There you go. That one's down. How about Oakllo? Oaklow is losing some steam as well. It was at 147, now it's at 139. How about the Quantum names? ONQ, that's up 6.2%. Dwave, that is up 4% and Regetti, that one is up 2.6. So, Quantum still green on the day. S&P 68233. Got a little bit of a red candle right there, but you do have some green. Shopify. Wow. 175 on Shopify. My goodness. My goodness. Shopify continuing to get that momentum. Pounder losing 190. Okay, so across the board, you're seeing some red candles come in. Uh SoFi getting a a deeper red candle even though it is still green on the day. Tesla as well 1.6% that's up and we're going to see if some of these names can recover from these red candles and if some of them have the dip buyers coming in. Duolingo that's up a little bit. TFC is up a little bit. I 6527 that is up. Where is Open Door? Open door was at 830. Open door 799. Again, a lot of these names losing some of those levels they had in the pre-market, which is normal. It's to be expected. I think you need a couple more hours of data to see if those dip buyers actually do come in. Robin Hood, though, holding on 145. Robin Hood not really seeing a red candle today. I mean, it's down 40 cents from the highs, which is a lot better than a lot of these other names that are down basically three four dollars, losing a lot of their their momentum. Grab still holding six. Google 264 and then AMD 255. Is Oracle dumping? Oracle is Oracle is not dumping but definitely seeing some red candles. Not really getting the majority of its green. Uh Fix, we looked at that stock last week. Looks like they got an upgrade today from UBS. Uh they were up 18% after earnings, upgraded to 1140. This is the HVAC company playing a bigger role in the data center space. So that's getting some love. Let's look at the Bitcoin miners turn data centers. All of them are still holding green. They're not as green as they were in the pre-market, but they're still pretty like Bit Farms was up 10%, now it's up 3%. So, we're going to have to keep an eye on these because when when they lose the pre-market momentum, the question is, do they hold on to any level of green? And so far, most of them are. Uh, but we got to see if dip buyers come in or if there's still a bit of selling pressure. Rare Earths obviously getting crushed because it looks like a China deal is coming. So, if you're long rare earths, today is definitely a little bit of an ugly day. Critical Metals down 17% right here. And that one continues to go red. SMCI 50 back up 5%. SMCI is at 50, up from 47. Morgan Stanley says, "Tesla Roboaxi is now solved. I have not upgraded yet to uh Tesla FSD14." Tesla, right? They're up 2.4%. Tesla got a couple upgrades over the weekend as well. I'll get to some of these upgrades and show you guys, but uh a couple of them in the 500 range. couple of them in the 470 range and it does look like people are getting more bullish on Tessy. Yeah, Caner Fitzgerald raised them to 510 and they said Tesla disclosed that the volume production of its cyber cap semi and mega pack all three are on track for fiscal year 2026. Overall, we remain bullish on Tesla over the medium to long-term and we continue to see meaningful future upside from energy storage and deployment along with optimist spots. We are raising our target from 355 to 510. That's a hell of an upgrade and you're seeing a lot more of that across the board. Wow. Pal, did we touch 192? Oh my goodness, we touched 192. Hold on, let me check resistance again. We just fell below it. Oh my. Oh my. Oh my. 190. So, let me check 193 resistance then because we just did 19218. 193 resistance is 27,000 shares. 27,000 shares. Look, I've been saying over the past couple weeks, I think pounds are at 200. I've been annoying Steve. I've been annoying a couple of people I'm in a group chat with. I'm like, "Guys," they're like, "Yo, what should we buy?" And I'm like, "I think it's Palanteer." They're like, "We can't buy Palunteer." I'm like, "Well, I I think it's Palanteer." And I put my money where my mouth is. I bought at 171, bought at 172, bought at 178. I do think when they report 52 to 54% growth, I don't know what the exact number is, but I think if it's above 50, I don't think the street's going to be upset. And then you got rates coming down. And then you got the government business doing well. You got the international government business going well with this Poland deal they got this morning. I mean, I think it might have a date with 200, but we've got to see. I'm buying pounder knowing the valuation is aggressive and knowing that it could dip and you know, you would have to just deal with the fact that you're you're buying a name that is pretty expensive, but I think they might be able to put up the growth. Micro Strategy right there, that's up 3%. PaloAlto, that's up 1.2%. Microsoft, that's up 1.2% as well. Hood. Are we at 146? We did touch 146. Wow. So, Hood and Palanteer are holding a lot of their momentum even though some of these other names are getting hit from the pre-market. Even so far, I know it's below 30, but it's it's gapping back up from the low 29s, which is also green. Tesla does hold Bitcoin still. Correct me if I'm wrong, but they still have 1.5 billion of Bitcoin. I'm pretty sure they have not sold their Bitcoin. So, yes, Tesla does still own their Bitcoin and that could be a tailwind for them as well. Nebius, what do we have? Nebius 122, Nebius as well doing a pretty good job holding its momentum. Again, the past couple of weeks, we talked about it a lot on the channel. We saw momentum draw down. And so, Hood and Nebus, which are momentum stocks, took a draw down, but then you have like the Oloss and Big Bear AIS of the world that took a really big draw down. So now the question is given the markets have kind of decided all right we're past the China stuff and we're past the necessity to continue having a meaningful draw down which of the names that took that draw down which essentially was the broader markets just some names got hit worse than others can recover and you know a Hood and Nebius which are very good quality companies I think they have a really good shot to recover some of the other names I think they will recover just don't know how much they will recover and that's something I think we all have to keep an eye on as we get into this Palanteer right there 191 Hood 146 6. Verdive, that's at 192. Where's ES as like this one got to 102. Now it's at 74. Still up double from September. It just was up close to triple. The question is, you know, does this get back to 102 or does this settle in at 74. And look, at the end of the day, if AS settles in at 74, I don't think people can be that upset because it would still be up 240% for the year, right? Which is still very bullish to see those names continue to hold those moment those levels of momentum. Nvidia trying to go for 191. This one gave a dip opportunity around 177 last week. 191 right here on Nvidia. Gold is now down 2% on the day officially. Wow. Gold's 31 bucks away from losing 4,000. It didn't lose 4,000 last Friday. It was almost at this level. I think it was like 45,52. It was very close and then it recovered. Wow. 4,026. I'm curious if it actually loses 4,000. I think just psychologically that would be something to to take a look at. Um, okay. Still getting some green right here. AMD 254. Walmart's down. Let's look at some of the Wow, VIX down 3%. Look at that. VIX was at 25. You know, the VIX spike to 25. Very similar to the April VIX spike to what was it at? It was at 60. I think when we see those VIX spikes and you know we've talked about this so many times but it just you got to shut up and buy like when you see a when you the VIX naturally goes up over time then it's maybe a more prolonged draw down that's based on something more fundamental when it's a spike 30% in a day which is what we had two weeks ago it usually is peak panic and you know a $20 billion crypto liquidation could create that type of volatility in the VIX it t it tends to be a moment to just buy something even though you know Everyone wants to sell and that's what retail's done really well this year. Apple at 265, SMCI at 51, almost a 8% recovery right there from the lows. Bitcoin is getting sold off a bit and Ethereum is getting sold off a bit as well. Wow, hoodie 147. Okay, so the markets are probably happy about the 161 price target. They're probably happy about the prediction markets which have started to get, you know, average people that have never bet on anything before in sports to to sort of integrate themselves into that product, which is a testament to how well the product is adapting itself to a regular person. Um, and increased EPS estimates and ebida estimates. I mean, those three things, I guess, are tailwinds. Not to mention, banking hasn't even launched yet. Banking is going to be a big product in next year and so the street might be kind of front running a little bit of that momentum if they think there's some good early signs of what's going on with banking. So that's very exciting as well. Nebas, are we getting a move on Nebius as well? Nebas. Yeah, there you go. 24 Hood and Nebius basically showing that they can handle a draw down of more than 10 to 15% and still have a recovery because there's some fundamentals towards their earnings which is uh which is why you're getting some green right here. And then SoFi trying to get back to 30. Where's Amcore? They have earnings today as well. AM Core 3355. So we talked about the stock when it was at 28. It's at 33. I'm not sure exactly what the earnings will do to it today. Um I I do expect if they have a monster earnings and some good guidance going into 2026, then that could be a little bit of a rerating for the stock, but it is up a decent chunk since we talked about it already. So it wouldn't surprise me if it's kind of flat, maybe sells off a little bit. It really depends on how good of a guidance can they give for 2026. Again, they're one of the only packaging companies and semiconductors in the US that is working very closely with TSM. And given TSM's earnings were really good, I would imagine Amcor would be the beneficiary of that. Also, again, Amcore trades at 1.5 times sales. So, you know, it's it's just really not as expensive of a multiple as some of these other names. Hoodie 148. Wow, she's going for it, folks. That's an eight day on Hood. That's an $8 day on Hoodie. Nvidia 191. Intel passing almost passing 40 bucks again. And then Hood, she's moving higher. She's moving higher. 147.88. You got earnings coming up in a week. The street might also be front running a little bit of that earnings that we're seeing as well. Uh, American Bitcoin company acquired 1,400 Bitcoin. ABTC, this is the Trump Sun Bitcoin company. That stock's up 6.94%. Where's AST? Uh, that one's still holding 34% 148. How about Oaklow? Oaklo is a dollar away from going red. All right, so Oakllo was at 118 last week. Uh recovered to 137 as we're seeing right here. It was at 148 last night. So, it is getting a bit of a sell-off, but one of the momentum names that took a bit of a draw down. Not as bad as it was last week, but not, you know, back to those alltime high levels either. And then BMR, are we still moving BMR? BMR 5283. All right, look. It's not horrible. It's not horrible. You know, gold is still down right here. 2.13%. It is the closest it's ever been to getting back below to that 4,000 level. Uh yeah, grab over six right here. Let me pull up this chart that actually shows some of the some of the central bank buying on gold as well because you're starting to see that accelerate. uh across the board and that's also making some more green. Let's pull this up right here. Dutch Bros is moving today. Where is Dutch Bros? Dutch Bros right here. Wow. 5% on Bros. Yeah. Yeah, you are getting move on Dutch Bros. That one that one's been stuck for a minute right now. Assist $197,000 call buyer $15 strike. Wow. Someone put in 200K to the $15 strike on ASST. Goodness gracious, bro. I mean, ASST was at nine bucks the other day. And so, you know, now that it's down to one, you know, people might think it can get up there. Okay, give me a second. My computer is being a little wonky right here. Trying to switch the tab. I think it needs a minute. I think my computer got too excited. Here we go. There we are. Back to normal. Okay, there's Bitmine right there. 5324. Pounds are still 191. Here's the chart I was signaling for gold. Central banks are in their longest gold buying spree. As you can see right here, the 2025 annualized versus the net central bank gold purchases in tons. I mean, that chart just looks crazy. The amount of gold that is being bought is massive. And you know I want retail iss getting in on this trade or kind of where this trade goes from here but you are seeing a decent amount of momentum in the gold trade. Pounder 191. Robin and wow she's going for 149. So back to 30. Okay maybe we're getting a bit of a rebound. Grab back above 6. Amazon pushing 228. Meta 753. Tesla high of day at 443. AMD 254. And then S&P got to 683 just below that. Still up almost 1% on the day. Hood and pouch. You're really having a nice day. Not bad at all. AMD right there at 253. Where's UNH? UNH is red. Okay, so that one goes red. Uh Micron, does that one go red? Micron also potentially about to go red. The semiconductor stocks across the board are pretty green. Qualcomm, Marll, ARM, Lamb Research, Micron a little a little weak, but still green on the day. Dell's up 1%, Broadcom's up 1.3, ASML's up, SMCI having the best day. That's up 5% and then Nvidia as well 190.84 leading away. Mastercard and PayPal announced a collaboration to integrate Mastercard agent pay into PayPal's digital wallet, enabling AI agents to autonomously compete transactions for user. This is similar to the headline we saw yesterday about zel starting to integrate um and allow people to pay with stable coins. So whether it's blockchain, whether it's AI, you're starting to see some of the legacy financial players getting more excited about integrating into the financial ecosystem uh and merge with crypto. Speaking of PayPal, I got a message uh from Suchin today. He bought PayPal Leaps. He bought PayPal Leaps. The the strike he paid was one or the he he bought 110 January 2028 LEAPS. He paid8.40 for them.$8.40 40 for 110 January 2028. So he's expecting PayPal to essentially make essentially make a 57% move in two years and that's why he bought those leaps. Silver down 3%. Look, a lot of people are are into PayPal. Leaps just means longdated uh contracts, option contracts, calls. So he is betting via a delta towards the underlying asset which should result in more alpha for the call option that PayPal will do pretty good in the next two years. Probably be you know much above 110 and that should do well for him. PayPal right they're up 1% on the day. Apple that's up 1.2% as well. Now a leap doesn't have to be in the money. It could be out of the money or in the money. In this case, Suchin is doing OTM leaps, right? Out of the money because 110 is away from 70. If it was in the money, it would be like $70 less, $65 leaps. And those move at a at a delta towards the underlying, but they don't move as at an aggressive delta because you're taking less risk because the stock is already in the money. So, he's obviously pretty bullish that PayPal's going to make a pretty big move. Speaking of leaps, I mean, a lot of people have SoFi LEAPS that are expiring in January. $7 strike, $15 strike, $20 strike. I mean, there might be a decent decent chunk of uh of those leaps being rewarded. I mean, even my dad bought SoFi leaps at seven bucks for $10 2026. SoFi makes a 10- 15% move this week. There's going to be a lot of those contracts that get deeper in the money, which would also be very exciting. Uh let's take a look at the heat map. What do we got going on? Yeah, look at this, bro. We are pretty green. Healthc care is red and defensives are red. Everything else You're seeing green. You are seeing green. Shout out to Adam. I'm a SoFi mini whale. Yeah, Adam. I was saying last night that Adam took a pretty big position on SoFi during that $24 dip, $25 dip that we saw three weeks ago. And look, that's that's when it's the most fun to buy the dip. Like, it's a good quality company. And even if the stock doesn't get to where you want it to be, especially if you're just, you know, under you have underlying shares or even if you're shorts and puts, you don't mind being assigned because you're happy to own a good company at a good price. Sofa just has to give us the earnings to make us feel like it really is a company that's executing and deserves a premium. But we're going to have those earnings tomorrow. We'll be up bright and early. I'll be up uh 7:25. I think Steve will join me. 7:25, 7:30. Said the results are out at 7. So, from 7:30 to 8, we'll analyze the numbers and then at 8 p.m. we'll have the call. Pounds right there. 191. That is still green. Is there still a market close today? Yes, there will be a market close. We'll do a little bit of a the end of the close. I'll show you guys some pictures from my past. It'll be a little fun trip down memory lane to end out the the birthday today, but we will be live for the market close. Rock Lab right there 1.6%. That is green. Dell's up. Verizon's up a little bit today. Verizon did lose 40 last week. Archer, that's also up. And then Dolingo slightly green on the day. Iran starting to recover. That's back to 66 up 5% on the day. Dude, you're seeing a pretty good day. You're seeing individual names are getting a little hit like an Oracle. You know, if you're wondering why Oracle is down, Oracle's up a lot for the year, right? So, a lot of these names, Oracle's up seven again, this is a this is a multiundred billion dollar company. moving 70% is massive and so yeah, it's not at 350 anymore, but it is taking a bit of a haircut. I think a lot of the names that are down today, there's not really a super super fundamental reason they're down unless there's like some news that's out. I think it's more so the market is just telling you we're not able to keep giving it this much of a premium. And on a day like today where everything's green, the names that are getting an elevated premium are likely the market saying, "Hey, like we think there's something coming up in the future." Whether it's 50% growth for Palunteer or whether it's a massive Q3 for Robin Hood or whether it's a huge refinancing boom of of student loans and mortgages for SoFi. We think there's something coming up that is allowing us to give the stock some more value. With Oracle, a lot of the good news is baked in. They already announced remaining performance obligations up 500%, right? So it's like what else could they announce that really I mean they already gave guidance for 2035 and so you know it's like when when you've already priced a lot of that in you just might not have that many more catalysts and that's why it's taking a little bit of a breather. IBM didn't have the best earnings and that's why that stock has been struggling a bit but that one's still up a decent amount uh for the year. OpenAI says $1 trillion AI buildout could lift GDP by 5% urges 100 gawatt energy push to close electron gap with China. Okay, so you got OpenAI continuously saying hey this is a AI war and we need to be part of it. This chart yesterday I thought was really important to look at in the context of chatbt. OpenAI is projecting to reach a hundred billion dollars in revenue in the fastest amount of time in the history of tech companies. every other company took about eight years. Opening eye would be doing it in about four. If they can pull it off, I mean, it would be quite incredible to see. But we've got to see if that happens. Now, in terms of GameStop, so GameStop made a statement the other day saying that we declare the console wars are over. And this goes back to some of the marketing campaigns they had in the early 2000s about console wars. And then the White House quote tweeted it and said, "Power to the players." And This is this is a real photo you're looking at. Uh that's why GameStop had a bit of excitement this morning. Selling off a little bit right now, but yeah, potentially GameStop getting some of that momentum. Pound here. Trying to get back to 192. Let's see if we can get there. We touched it a couple. There you go. Back to 192. Back to 192. 193 resistance is 27,000 shares. This is a really nice birthday gift from Pounder. It's a very, very nice birthday gift. The group chats are going to be annoyed though when I say Paliner's up because at 170, you know, when the October draw down, they're like, "What do we buy?" I was like, "Dude, I think we buy Paliner." Like, "No, we can't buy Palin." It's like, I get it. But I'm just saying. I am just saying. I ran still making a move as well. That's green. And you got pounder right there at 19168. So I was saying this last night, but there is a book coming out about Karp. I mentioned it in the morning. Uh I just interviewed the author of the book yesterday. That interview will come out in about a week. I think you guys will really enjoy it. There's a lot of um lot of details about Karp's life that people don't know about that is in this book. And the coolest, I guess you can call this birthday gift that I got over the weekend was that um I'm in the epilogue. I didn't realize I was in the book, but I am in the book. So the author basically was talking about how when he went to visit Karp at the New York office, Karp was in deep conversation with Amikraia, a stock commentator who was possibly pounder's biggest fan in the retail investment community. It's a short mention, but it was kind of wild. I've never been included in a book and uh yeah, I think it was a testament to just like the retail investor that has kept up so deeply with this company to be included in an autobiography about Karp's life. So that that was that was pretty crazy to see. It was crazy for my mom, that's for sure. My mom was freaking out, but it was uh it was dope to see. So, like even even that being part of the story, I think is so exciting because it is an autobiography about his life. And it is a really good book. Like I don't read a lot of books. You guys know that I'm not big into like reading books. I actually read the book over the weekend. Like I was it was like 2 am at night. I was flipping through the pages really reading the books. I was so interested in it. Kind of kind of made me love reading again to be honest. And so it was a nice surprise to uh to be included as well. should have referred to you as the CEO of AK Media. SMB back to 683, baby. Back to 683. But it was pretty cool because it's just like that that was a real thing that happened. I was I was sitting and talking with Karp. Ironically, Karp was saying that day, this was after they got into the NASDAQ, that uh, you know, the institutional guys got it so wrong. And we were just kind of laughing about it, talking about, and then I guess Michael Steinberger, the author of the book, was observing that whole thing. And he put that entire entire situation in the book and and it was a real thing that happened. And I was reading, I was remembering, oh yeah, that did happen back in December of last year. It goes to show how good of a writer he is and how much he observes like the world around him. But the fact that that scenario made it into the book, I thought was pretty special. S&P 683, you're getting a big green candle right there. I don't know if there's any news, but you are getting a breakout to all-time highs again on the S&P. Google kind of following at 265. Robin Hood getting ready to bust through 149, potentially 150. And you got Palunter still right there. Yeah, there you go. Paler 19239. All right, so alltime high on Palenter again. There must be something helping the S&P. I don't know if we have any data today. We don't look like we have any macro data, but you're getting enough. Green hoods up 6.5%. Dude, S&P is really close to 7,000. I mean, we're less than 2% away, so it feels like it feels like there's a shot. Feels like there's a shot. BMR is also moving as well. Yep. Bit mine 5356. 5356. Where's Eli Liy? Okay, so the drugs are kind of down today, 1.4%. How about HIMS? Hims is up 2%. Hims still below 50. That one's been struggling over the past couple weeks. New bank, that's back above 16. They had a good earnings a couple months ago, so that's helping out. DLO, that's up. Also, Micardo Libre, a Malay one in uh in Argentina. So, that is helping Micardo Libre today as a libertarian was elected president again and a lot of the you know the business community is happy about that. So, Mart Libre right there getting a gap up after pretty you know having a pretty nasty week. 683 on the S&P and that one going green. Beyond Meat, is that one green? Beyond Meat goes green. Power to the players. There you go. Beyond Meat after going down. I mean, dude, I I don't think the Beyond Meat story is fully finished yet. I'm not in the stock, but when something is shorted 161%, they need a Roaring Kitty. I don't know who's going to be the roaring kitty of Beyond Meat. But if they had a Roaring Kitty to really galvanize the masses, maybe this could get some momentum. I mean, there's a lot of people that feel like this is the next best short squeeze. I just don't know if there's like a real exciting story. Like GameStop there, you know, this whole power to the players. There's like this exciting narrative beyond I mean, like Beyond Meat is about, you know, not eating chicken. Like it's it's it's it's a question of how much do people resonate with that story. But I do think you're going to need a ring leader here to get people excited. Where is ASST? That stock 145 still up 30% on the day. So that one looking like it's holding the 30% move right there. So back to 30. Back to 30. If you're going to do sports betting, why not bet on this? I mean, look, it's it's a fair comparison. You can make the argument that sports betting is similar to betting on some of these momentum stocks. I do think, you know, if you know a little bit about the team in the sport and you can say there's some riskreward based on understanding the players and the psychology, all that. I mean, there's a lot of different ways you can make a scientific argument around sports betting, but you could also say the same that if a stock is short at 161% and enough people tend to buy it, you're going to have a bit of a squeeze. So, I think that's some of the excitement you have there on Beyond Meat. Sports also might be rigged though as as for this NBA [__] Dude, this story has been crazy. You got people making Terry Rosier by the way, the guy who was arrested, he makes $26 million a year. So, the idea like the fact that he's engaged in this in this betting is crazy to me because he makes so much money. But I guess that's the, you know, that's the route that he wants to go. Uh, Intel got a price target upgrade from 25 to 35. This is from Barclays. That's green on the day. Also, Redcat, we got to deal with Pounder. Redcat completes multi-day tests of Pounder V-NAV software on Black Widow Drone, paving way for formal US Army demonstration. We've interviewed the Redcat CEO before. Maybe we'll try to interview him again. He's been on the channel and uh you know, the drone space is very hot. I know a lot of people are in Andos and a bunch of these other drone names that have started to do very well. Onoss right here, up 10% on the day. I think they also signed another partnership this morning. So, we'll see if we can talk to him, but it looks like they have a partnership with Palenter. Amcor will have earnings today at 4 p.m. So, we'll take a look at their earnings. Where is Netflix? Are we still green? Netflix. Wow. Netflix still not recovering. The only reason they missed earnings is because of the Brazilian tax authorities and the market is still not giving them any sympathy below, 1100 now on uh on Netflix. Qualcomm, we have an update as well. Qualcomm unveils two AI chips for data centers. AI 200 and AI250 with commercial availability from next year. The new chips are designed for improved memory capacity and running AI applications or inference and will be available in 26 and 27. Apple is one of the biggest buyers of those Qualcomm chips. So you got Qualcomm right there. Wow, look at that. 4% up on the day. Street seems to be liking that news right there. You got a move literally five minutes ago based on that headline. Uh these are inference chips. So there is obviously massive demand for inference as we get to the next next level of training these models now up 5% on the day and Apple with their M5 chip if their products continue to have more demand that could also be a bullish tailwind for Qualcomm. SMCI up 6%. SMCI and Qualcomm the biggest semiconductor movers on for the day. Wow look at that 178. Is that kind of competitive with AMD? I've I mean, I knew Qualcomm had chips, but it looks like the way the street's acting, these chips, they seem to be thinking, hey, maybe OpenAI would buy these chips potentially. Maybe Anthropic would buy these chips. I mean, there is a bit of excitement the street seems to be happening having on these on these updates. By the way, Enthropic right here, uh, speaking of them, they said, "Today we announced that we plan to expand our use of Google TPUs, securing approximately 1 million TPUs and more than a gigawatt of capacity in 2026." They said that back on Friday. I mean, look, dude, we've had this conversation before around Google. Could they become the world's largest company ahead of Nvidia? And they are a bit away at 3.2 trillion versus 4.6. But my goodness, was Google not the best Mac 7 buy this year? This thing was trading at 15 times forward earnings. 15 times and it was stuck at 150. Got to 145 at one point basically for the majority of the year. And now they're getting anthropic to buy a million of their TPUs. I mean, it's it's just incredible. And maybe Amazon's next at being able to have somewhat of a move that's like that. But my goodness, if you're long Google, you've got to be happy. You've got to be happy. You just stuck with your due diligence and believed that any narrative around a company doing 100 billion in net income probably was not the best narrative to latch on to. Qualcomm right there up 7%. Street really likes this chip news. Suchin says difference between AMD and Qualcomm on data center chip is as much as much as Nvidia has a lead over AMD. Okay, so Suchin saying AMD probably is in a much better position than Qualcomm, which I would agree with just anecdotally from what I've seen with AMD. But the street is thinking that they're going to have some real potential opportunities to sell this AI250 chip into the ecosystem. 179 right there on Qualcomm. Applovin is down. Just fell from 640 to 624. So you got a bit of a red candle right there. That one took a hit. Yep. We talked about the Poland defense contract with Palier. That could also be another reason why that's green today. and you're getting some love. Suchin also said, "My first bet is PayPal will move close to 100 by middle of next year. The leaps will be 2x so I can take my original capital out." Okay, so he bought the 110 leap on PayPal for January 2028. He believes PayPal once it gets to 100 will 2x the leaps so he can take out his initial and then he can let the rest ride as house money, which would be assuming a decent level of upside going into next year from 70 to 100 on PayPal. They have earnings uh tomorrow. So, this is gonna be the biggest earnings ever for PayPal because at this point the stock has been so stuck that people are really wondering will this thing ever have any bit of a move. And if tomorrow is the day where transaction margins, transaction volumes, monthly users, something gets the street to be more excited. Stable coins potentially, you never know. Maybe maybe they print $300 trillion of market cap. Who knows that? Maybe that can get the street to start getting excited. Oh, gold is down. Wow, gold is five bucks away from losing 4,000, folks. That is a, if I'm not wrong. Um, that is a $560 billion decline in the past couple hours on gold. So you got some red right there with silver. Same thing with silver. 4680. The the the the the commodities trade has not really recovered in the past week even though equities have. Wow. S&P 68340. My goodness. She's pushing 684. Okay. Here's a question for everybody. For the next year, would you rather buy gold or PayPal? Put in the chat. Gold or PayPal? I'll do a poll. 92% of you, by the way, said green for the day. Gold or PayPal. I mean, I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I think I'm going with PayPal, bro. I think I mean, PayPal is under freaking valued. We all know that. They just their narrative has kind of sucked over the past year. I'm not saying gold is overvalued because it's gold, right? And gold will always be gold. But give me PayPal for the next year over gold. And I'm I don't even think I'm saying this because gold is down 2% on the day. If gold was up 2% on the day, I think I would still say PayPal because like why would you want to buy something that's up that much for the year when central banks have already loaded the boat? If by the way, if there's any level of weakness in the economy and and no one, you know, no one's a psychic. We don't know what's going to happen in 2026. What do you think central banks are going to rush to sell? I mean, they've loaded up on gold. They're probably up a you know, you would imagine the average central bank is up minimum 20 to 30% if they've been buying since 2024, which is looks like that's been the trend of how it's been playing out. They're probably going to take some profits on gold and that could, you know, reacelerate some of the downside pressure on the asset. But you do have Morgan Stanley that's pretty bullish. They think it can get to or JP Morgan, they say it can get to 5,000 by the end of the year. You know, in the midst of that, it could just be taking a breather. Nvidia right there, 190. Pounder, still holding 191. Not giving it up today. Still holding 191. And then hoodie 14739. Uh, Amit, did you hear about the new ARM deal? I did not. ARM right here up 2.65%. Looks like they did get upgraded this morning to 200. Qualcomm still running. Yeah, it looks like they got the price target upgrade of 200. That's what's also helping ARM. Will they sell gold for dollars? No, they would sell it for liquidity. It's not like they would sell it to buy something else. They would sell it to Well, in 2011, right, they sold it because they had to restimulate their economies and they needed more money to pump into the system. They needed to get the money from somewhere. I'm not saying we would have a 2011 event. But if you do have any level of weakness, it doesn't have to be the United States central bank. could be China saying, "Hey, we're going to sell some gold and do something else with it instead of just holding on to it as a reserve asset." Now, granted, given that it's run so much, I mean, like, maybe the psychology has changed of it being a riskoff asset and, you know, banks being a lot more conducive to the idea of just holding it for a very long time, just like they think of US treasuries, which by the way, where is the 10-year beyond 133 million in volume? My goodness. 10 year back above 4%. All right, makes sense. You probably got people selling off bonds and buying stocks right now causing a little bit more excitement to the upside on the 10-year. Um Oscar, what do we got? Oscar is green 1945 up 8% as that one is now moving 150. What's the volume? Wow. 420 million shares have been traded of ASST. Dude, it really goes to show how excitement can spread easily in regards to the broader market, especially when someone influential takes position on a name. Gold will continue to go up. The great meltup is happening and gold is the ultimate asset. I mean, that's basically what JP Morgan said. They said gold is likely not to face the types of headwinds that the equity markets would face because it's being seen as this reserve asset,
>> which is a fair point. I mean, that's how the market is treating it. And given the central bank stuff, it looks like that's not that's not slowing down. Path is moving. Path is up. Path. Wow. 17. This thing was 15 last night. Look at that. 4% move on UiPath. 1718. It was 10 bucks earlier in the year. Robin right there 146 and then pounder 19143. Qualcomm that one still getting a move based on that result. Wow. 190 12%. Dude, this thing was at 175 two minutes ago. I think the street's really thinking it's a it's a meaningful competitor, even though there might not be enough evidence of that to some of the other inference training chips that are out there. Yeah, I mean, dude, I think they're thinking Qualcomm's going to try to take on Nvidia and AMD to an extent. Even the perception of that is causing that type of boom. Even the perception of that is causing an aggressive boom. I'd buy gold again at 3,000. I don't know if we get to 3,000. 3,000 feels a bit aggressive. I also I mean look I feel like it's healthy for gold to take a little bit of a retracement. I mean it's been up like crazy just like a lot of the momentum names you need a little bit of a pain a pain to get some gains but it would be the first time in a few months seeing it get below 4,000. I just don't know if we get that low back to 3,000. Qualcomm now 191. Is this alltime highs? This is no. It got up to 230 back in 24. Now it's at 192. Got to a low of 120 in April. Huh. 120 in April. 191 right here. Nebia is still holding 192. AMD is going down. AMD looks like it's about to go red. That would be pretty telling if Qualcomm goes green and AMD goes red. Nvidia still holding 190. Nvidia a little bit of red candle as well though. And then you got Tesla trying to break 450. Qualcomm does not report today. Uh, Cadence reports today. Cadence is another semiconductor design company, but Qualcomm reports I think in two weeks. Kathy Wood bought Qualcomm last week. Well, maybe they were diversifying their inference training chip investments. And you got Qualcomm really getting some love right here. 14% on the day. Palanteer 1932 23,000 shares. Let's see if they can try to go for it. on 19220 right there. Grab still above six. Cisco's up. Do's up. Redcat up 7% on the day based on that partnership. IWM small caps basically at alltime highs. I mean IWM looks like it's really prime especially as these rate cuts come in to give some momentum. Visa are we green on Visa? 348 slightly green. Heat map still looking pretty strong outside of defensives and financials and healthcare getting a little bit of red. Uh, let's look at the stock draft. What do we have there? Oh, wow. We're close to Matt. Matt's at 454. I'm at 44.5. Pounder and Hood obviously helping a lot today along with Tesla and AMD and Nebius. Um, Steve's at 9%, Tanner's at 26.4, Chris is at 11.3. Matt Money beating me by about 1%. Rock Lab and AS. And then Dutch Bros. He was down a lot on that. Dutch Bros starting to recover. So that's helping as well. Okay. What did you guys say on PayPal versus versus gold? Wow. 6040. PayPal over gold. 6040. Okay, there you go. Not too bad. Qualcomm 15%. I mean, dude, if if if I thought this was the AMD killer, I would have bought some right before this runup. But that's what it's being perceived as like an AMD killer or something. Not literally an AMD killer, but it's being perceived as a really big threat to AMD and Nvidia, I would imagine. Otherwise, a name like this doesn't move 15% that often. Market cap 211 billion. Qualcomm is not the most volatile name. It tends to be a bit more relaxed, especially on earnings. It doesn't even move like that. So very unusual for the market to think this is that exciting but they are giving they are giving it a premium. Uh let's get an update right here on Qualcomm and let's see some coverage on why the street is this excited
>> that built its empire on smartphones. So they're launching new data center AI chips starting in 2026. And they also just announced their first major customer. That would be Saudi backed AI startup Humane targeting roughly 200 megawatts of capacity starting in 2026. So they're not essentially going after AI training. That's the market that made Nvidia worth over $4 trillion. Qualcomm is targeting inference. That's running AI models, not necessarily building them. So every time you use chat GPT or generate an AI image, that's inference. So training builds the models. Inference uses them billions of times a day. Qualcomm thinks the market is going to be enormous. Nearly 6 trillion almost 7 trillion dollars in data center spending is expected through 2030 according to McKenzie. And so just capturing about 5 to 10% maybe just even 5% of that market would transform Qualcomm's business. Their products are complete server systems based on their hexagon NPU. So that'd be neural processing unit chips already used in billions of smartphones around the world. One key advantage, and this is where it gets a little technical, it's a 768 gigabytes of memory per card. They're saying that's more than what Nvidia and AMD offer in this particular uh rack type setting. That matters though for running larger AI models. And so this is where Qualcomm hopes to compete. They'll sell these complete systems that you're seeing on your screen right now for or also individual components. Qualcomm says even Nvidia or AMD could become customers for some of their parts. But the timing really matters because for example, OpenAI recently announced it's buying chips from AMD, showing big AI companies want alternatives to Nvidia, especially within the inference market. But Qualcomm only named one customer so far. There's no pricing details. They're launching in 2026, which is years behind Nvidia's dominance, but there's no taking away from the fact that this is a big new market for Qualcomm guys.
>> Yeah. And I mean as you point out Christina no shortage of potential competitors obviously AMD and Nvidia but others as well and we you know sometimes I don't think we talk enough about the fact that Alphabet I mean their TPU is for inference as well right and gives them potentially a leg up to a certain extent this is kind of a different subject but on a cost per token basis in terms of what it costs them and a lot of this goes back to that I guess for the hyperscalers what is your you know what's the cost per token going to be I don't know where this thing's going to get priced and what it's going to be able to do but that will become important.
>> Yeah. Normally in the chip world they refer to it as total cost of ownership TCO and so Qualcomm didn't provide specific details. A lot of companies how they benchmark it is different. They're saying that the total cost of ownership will be cheaper uh because of the power efficiency of said chips because these aren't
>> gold below 4,000. First time in a couple months, gold below 4,000.
>> GPUs that are using ex a lot more power. The NPUs and more custommade chips tend to use a lot less. So, that's going to be their selling point going forward. I'm sure in the coming months they'll reveal some more data around that. But to your point, Google really stands out. Even Jensen Wong from Nvidia has spoken many times about just how advanced Google has become in the TPU market and just they've been here for a long time. This isn't a company that just made a chip uh you know, five years ago. So, uh, that's another company to look out for. No doubt.
>> Yeah. Cost per dollar per watt. It
>> I know it gets confusing. Yeah. Just know.
>> All right. What are we thinking? Do we think it's hype? Oh my goodness. 203.
>> What do we guys think?
>> Do we think this is hype for Qualcomm or do we think they just entered into the race with Nvidia and AMD? Dude, who would have thought Qualcomm enters the race? 20% move, $31 up on the day and completely sends a surprise to semiconductor investors that maybe didn't think Qualcomm was going to be competing with uh the biggest chip companies in the world. Let's put the poll in the chat. 60% of you said PayPal over gold. Is Qualcomm just hype? When I mean just hype, I don't mean the the company itself. company is a phenomenal company. But is this move 18% off of the introduction of new chips? The market saying, "Hey, we need to be precautious of the fact that AMD might lose some market share, for example, and we need to buy its competitor in terms of Qualcomm. Look at Nvidia losing 190 because of this Qualcomm [__] AMD losing 258 because of Qualcomm." Yeah, I'd be very curious for Jose's perspective on this. I mean, we've talked about Qualcomm a couple times on the channel with him, but he's never mentioned them. The extent of him mentioning Qualcomm as a massive winner is always in the context of Apple. He's never really mentioned them independently. At least I don't remember him saying, "Yeah, Qualcomm's one you got to look out for." So, this is a pretty big update today in the chip sector. 202 up 19%. By the way, Oaklo just went red. Oaklo just went red. So, some of those momentum names we talked about last week, even in the midst of S&P 500 at all-time highs, they're not really able to keep up their momentum as they are going red. Same thing with Big Bear AI, which I mean, I don't know what that says about the broader market. I would, my gut tells me that's not the worst thing for alltime highs on the S&P because some of those names maybe they're not going to recapture the exact levels they were at. But as long as the Nvidas, the Googles, the Amazons don't go red, because if those names go red, those are the S&P, right? Then the S&P is probably going red. Some of the other names go red. It's like it shouldn't affect the broader bull trend, which should be very important. Um, I'm shorting Qualcomm to 180. Is it a short though? Like, I don't know if it's a short. Maybe it's not a buy into the hype. I I don't know if it's a short. I don't know if this thing is something you you bet against as easily. I don't think it's a short, guys. I don't I don't know. I think if they announce any level of increased guidance in their in their upcoming quarter based on these new chips, Street's going to buy it up. She's going to be very excited to buy it up. By the way, I mean, you know, Nvidia is getting a little weak right here, but this is the best time of the year for Nvidia. Over the last 19 years of Nvidia being a public company, if you take a look at this chart, the next two weeks that we are getting into have averaged an 8% move on Nvidia with a 71% win rate. That would be well into the $200 range, which would be basically a $5 trillion company if we break above 204. So, the next two weeks, 70% of the time, Nvidia moves 8%. I mean, that could be pretty bullish. But now you got this Qualcomm argument in the mix that maybe makes it harder for Nvidia to get that type of run. It looks like they're going to show something soon. It's re if it's real, you could be cooked on a short. Yeah. Also, Jensen, by the way, is speaking at GTC tomorrow. Uh I'll be streaming that tomorrow. Uh I think that'll be happening right after the market open. And um he'll be live with a bunch of companies. I mean, he's going to be live with some quantum players as well. So, if you're shorting Quantum, maybe not the best idea tomorrow. It's not the best idea after the government said they might backs stop the Quantum names and if Jensen is interviewing one of the Quantum CEOs live on GTC, all the Quantum names might get a boost just based on that alone. So, again, like there there's a difference between thinking some valuations in this market are a bit frothy and probably need a pullback versus going net short. And I think a lot of the people that have lost money this year, even if theoretically they could be right about whatever thesis they have, is just going short in a bull market on a lot of names, doesn't tend to work, no matter how speculative you think the name is. And so I don't know if short Qualcomm is the is the player right there. Um, Nvidia already won, others are playing for second place. Yes, that's true. But Nvidia, for them to keep winning, they've got to show consistent growth. And that's why I think the market always gets scared if there's ever, you know, a hindrance to that growth. That's basically what we saw with the Deep Seek. So, I'm excited to see excited to see how this ends up playing out. Bring Skrey for the Quantum tomorrow. Dude, he he finally got unbanned on Wall Street Bets and he put out this long post saying that he's short all the quantum stocks and they're going to zero. I mean, again, dude, D-Wave's up 8% today. Like, I even though I may disagree with the valuation of some of the quantum names, I don't think it's a short shorting these names. And I I think, you know, I've been pretty consistent about that since September of last year. Shorting these names is asking for trouble. It's It's like the people that went shorter. Like, look, Pounder's valuation is aggressive. It's a $450 billion company doing four billion in revenue. No one will tell you it's not aggressive. But what's their name? Andrew left Citron shorting it. I mean, first of all, we haven't got an update in over two months on their short. Second of all, it's like, dude, if there's catalysts in the in the in the playbook on a company, whether it's quantum, Palenteer, whatever it is, that perception is more reality than the actual fundamentals of reality. Now, Palenteer just has really good fundamentals, which is why it's allowing to expand that multiple. But shorting these names doesn't make a lot of sense. It really doesn't make a lot of sense. EOS that's also up on the day. I mean EOSC's valuation is also pretty aggressive but there is a big EOSC down 1.6%. That's another one of those momentum names over the past couple weeks. Uh but but but but energy is a big sector and as a result of it being a big sector you know the market continues to give it some level of premium. Uh Intel still green as well. Intel right here for Yeah, there you go. Back to 40. This thing was stuck at 38 after the earnings. Back to 40. Thomas says, "In a bull market, I don't short even if I think it's not going to run." Yeah. And look, buying puts on some of these names as a hedging strategy is fine, but shorting is you're borrowing shares and you're going to have to pay back the price of those shares at a higher price if the stock goes against you. And there's a lot of money you there's an infinite amount of money you could lose in that situation. And so like what's what's you know what's the reason to do it if you're not a thousand% sure that you're going to be right which is similar to Qualcomm as who's in this trade bro the chat just put in the chat if you're in this trade 161 it's up 50% again Mike Alfred he got into this thing it's like a Bitcoin treasury/bitcoin derivative company I'm not in it but I could see this thing running. I really could. Got a lot of retail that's chasing the next thing and this one might be the next thing. Sports says I bought 25 shares. Next says I got 100,000 shares at 121. Okay. Well, you're up. You're up in at 97 cents. Plus, you have to pay to borrow for the shorts. Yeah. And the borrowing costs are high, especially when there's momentum. Like I don't know the borrowing costs for for D-Wave, but dude, this stock has done very well this year. And so if you want to short it, first of all, you're shorting a retail army, which is also never a good thing. Second of all, whether or not you agree on the valuation, there are catalysts in the quantum ecosystem that can't be denied. And then third of all, it just had a draw down. This thing was at 45, fell all the way to 26. The time to short was when it was at 45. Now that it's back to 35, I mean, yeah, you could take a short again at 35, thinking it go back to 25, but if it doesn't, and if Allen, the CEO, says anything good on the earnings, I mean, it's just going to rip a short in their face, and it's just not the the right strategy in a in a broader bull market. Salesforce right there, 255, that's getting some green. And then PayPal actually getting a bit of a move as well. That's up 2%. Amit, I'm starting my next hedge buying UVIX. It worked well the last time volatility spiked. I'm going much deeper this time. Okay. So, this is 2x long futures. So, volatility spikes, then UIX should go up, which is a fair hedge, I think. Okay, let's ask this question. What are people thinking of as a hedge in 2026? Because I've been I'm actually going to work on an article on this for Substack. Uh the next two deep dives, by the way, will be out on Friday. So, I'm finishing up one of them will be Nebius. And so I'm finishing them up and uh it'll be out on Friday. But what if you had to go puts on a name or on or calls on a name or an inverse ETF, what is your definition of, you know, if we end out 7,000 on the S&P, how would you think of hedging? If you were going to hedge TLT, okay, I don't hate that either. I mean, again, these rates are probably coming down. TLT slightly down on the day as the 10 years up. puts on Tesla. I don't know if I would do puts on Tesla. I feel like Tesla is such a good company. I know their earnings aren't there right now, but the fundamentals at the end of the day, the company has 40 billion in cash. Like I feel like as a hedging strategy, you do puts on something a bit more speculative. Then again, the valuation is up there, so I get it. Um, Oakllo puts on as puts on Palunteer short QQQ. I think the best strategy for hedging next year is buying a bucket of those inverse ETFs. Like pick whatever name you think it's is a bit aggressively valued. And the the the the sort of like psychology here needs to be that if if it is speculative enough to run without any fundamental basis and when I mean fundamental, I mean like real fundamental, not that you disagree with the multiple, but that like it's really there's not much there causing the excitement. If that thing goes up more and more and more in 2026, your portfolio should be in a phenomenal position if you're net long anything, much less tech, because it means the market's probably doing very well. aka it's not easy for Oaklow to go to like $300 a share and for the S&P to be flat. So the inverse of that means that the market's definitely taken a downturn and those names might get hit the worst, right? So the inverse ETF on those I think are not horrible hedges. Same thing with short QQQ. I mean look, if you think tech's overvalued and you want to protect a little bit to the downside if we have some bad earnings going into 2026, then just kind of buying puts on the NASDAQ is not horrible either. I'm really curious for what the hell happens to crypto next year because next year, for those that don't know, is the the last year of the four-year cycle where we're supposed to get a crypto winter, 2026. Last time was in 22. We're supposed to see it in 26. I want to say it's not going to happen because there's so much institutionalization but then again that crypto cycle has been very powerful for the past uh for the past you know at this point what 14 years and maybe maybe that does end up happening to some extent. Qualcomm are we still moving on Qualcomm? Yeah, still moving 2011. Again, the other update here was that they're going to be deploying AI infrastructure in Saudi Arabia. That could be another reason the street's excited because the Saudis have a unlimited budget to continue spending on this. Buying puts on high-flying companies is dumb because you were paying an insane premium for both the time and implied volatility that already exists. Yeah, I agree. I agree on that. I think the inverse funds might be a little bit better of an option or you have to feel very confident that the put premium you're paying relative to theta decay that you have on the put is like worth the riskreward which means you just have to be confident that if the stock were to decline it's a meaningful way to protect the portfolio. Also, by the way, I mean, if you are super overweight Google, for example, you have thousands and thousands of shares of Google, it's not crazy to just protect a little bit of your Google by buying some puts on your Google position, right? So, like if you have a massive position of something that you want to protect a little bit, that's also not crazy because again, you know, if Google were to go down substantially, the market's probably going down and you know, that's when those puts could print here. By the way, speaking of puts, uh, hedge funds have now built the largest short oil position in history. You can see right here from Bloomberg, bearish oil wages rise to the highest on record. Hedge funds have held a record short bet on US before they sanctioned Russia. So you do have the hedge funds that are not the most excited about oil. As you can see right here, WTI crude 6165. That's also slightly green. Thoughts on Bergkshire lagging the market? That's an interesting question. I've thought about it before. Uh, I'm not sure why Bergkshire is lagging as much. I mean, the the sort of obvious reason, by the way, Qualcomm up 20%, ARM is up 7%. based on Qualcomm. The obvious reason here is the only real thing that Bergkshire has that's been moving this year is Apple and Apple is only up 10% year to date. So, I think there could be a little bit of lack of confidence in the trajectory of Birkshar because Buffett's leaving by the end of this year. And then if you just look at their assets, I mean, there's not a lot of stuff there that's exciting. The most interesting thing they've done is uh UNH, which is cool, but I mean, just look at their portfolio right here. Coca-Cola, Bank of America, Chub, Craft Hind, Capital One, Liberty Media, which I still don't know why the heck they keep buying that, but they keep buying SiriusXM, Jeff. I mean, these are not the high flyers of 2026. Not even close, or 2025. And so, part of the reason it hasn't I mean, remember, Apple had a really good 2024. Apple has not had the best 2020. It just got back to some level of green. And so I think that's why Bergkshire has been relatively flat. Also, you know, Buffett has 300 billion in cash. So he is probably waiting to put that money in somewhere. That's what you have on Birkshshire arm right there. That's up 6.3% pound. Are we still holding 191? Wow, we are still just below 192. We're actually holding the 190s, folks. It has been four months since we touched it. Today, we're busting through. Grab trying to get a little bit of momentum above six. We got earnings coming up next week on that. SoFi 29.91. Uber up 1.7% as well. Shout out to Mr. Chad in the chat. Chad, bro, Chad, you freaking you got uh this this was this was Chad yesterday. Well, not really, but this is what it felt like. This is what it felt like when Chad tweeted for the first time in like two months. Someone was like, "Where is Chad? He's been gone for so long." And Chad Chad had one word, bro. This is why it felt like the Michael Jordan uh press release. He said, "I've been cooking." But he didn't have to say, "I've been cooking." He just said, "Cooking." That's it. That was enough to get the Pounder community to be like, "All right, we know he's okay. We know he's okay." What happened to Chad? Well, there's your response right there on the screen. He's been cooking. People forget Chad is like Chad is an AIP architect. Chad is like in the weeds of like building Palunteer software every single day. So, you know, he's taken a break from social media, which I think is fair because building software is probably more important. Also, he's not a full-time content creator, right? You know, so it's like sometimes stepping away is is also relatively healthy just for the mental. Nvidia back to 190. But he's been cooking. Literally, when I saw that tweet, I just thought of I I thought of this Michael Jordan press release. Yeah. See, right there. Want me to tweet or close deals? Yeah, I think all of us would appreciate the closing of the deals. You got to close the deal so then I can tweet about them. That's how this works. It's been a very u it's been a very productive relationship. Chad closed the deals and then I tweet about them and then all of us kind of make money. That's that that's how it's worked out for the past two. You guys know Palunteer, dude. I saw this chart the other day. Let me see if I can um let me see if I can pull it up again. I might not have saved it. Palanteer has had one month in the past two years that has closed red. I can't find the chart. I'll I'll bring it up later, but I saw this the other day. Palier has had one month in the past two years where they've closed red. I mean, dude, that is just like it's like what a story. One month in the past two and a half years that they've closed. I mean, ever since the the the um the pivot to profitability back in May of 23, they've had one month where they've actually closed red. That's not easy to do. A lot of stocks have bad months, multiple months in a row that go bad. Pounders had one month that closed red and that was your dip and then boom, bounces up. It's pretty pretty incredible. But as the earnings come up, we should hopefully continue to see those results. And again, Karp uh Karp on the earnings or not on the earnings, but on the Fox Business News interview said, "We're doing very well. and he said it looks like we can continue a lot of that growth not only in the US government but he really started to stress the international part of their business is not slowing down either. Uh China update let's go here and let's see what we've got with China and the US in Tokyo. The president began with a handshake and a courtesy visit with the emperor and he'll later have a meeting with the new Japanese prime minister, Sana Takiachi, who is the first woman to hold that role. On Air Force One, President Trump spoke extensively with reporters traveling with him. But he said he didn't want to share details of what officials are calling a framework economic agreement between the US and China that could be signed by President Trump and Chinese President Xiinping later this week. I don't want to tell you what the understanding is because what we understood yesterday or two days ago or even today is not going to be necessarily what it's going to be in two days. I mean, we're going to have a a great talk. Uh I have a lot of respect for President Xi. I like him a lot. He likes me a lot. I believe respects me and I think he respects our country. And speaking to NBC's Kristen Welker yesterday, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant sounded an optimistic note on those China negotiations, arguing that the president's tariff threat has helped to push to a deal. President Trump gave me a great deal of negotiating leverage with the threat of the 100% tariffs on November 1st. And I believe we've reached a very substantial framework that will avoid that and allow us to discuss many other things with the Chinese. And guys, one interesting item from Bessant's interview. He told Welker that he shares the pain of American soybean farmers who are suffering from a Chinese soybean boycott because he's a soybean farmer himself. Remember, Besson owns between 5 and $25 million worth of farmland in North Dakota and he rents out that land for soybean farming. I don't know if you can make a more tonedeaf comment than saying you are a soybean farmer and you relate to the challenges of soybean farmers because you own and rent out farmland. Like I love bent. I love me some descent. But when when he said that over the weekend, I was like, well, it's a little I mean I don't think that's really capturing the heart of the problem that that the farmers are going through. He did tease ahead to this trade announcement with China, saying that soybean farmers in particular are going to feel very good, he said, about what's going on for this season and for seasons to come when that deal is announced. Guys, back over to you.
>> Uh yeah, Aean, New York,
>> if Bant is a soybean farmer farmer, then I'm a farmer as well cuz I'm farming aura every day. So if if he's a soybean farmer, then I'm a farmer for all the aura farming that I do every day. New York Times this morning, page one, as a big story about the farm economy in Iowa and how they've been under pressure because of some of the policy direction. I guess my question to you is, do you think we're in a realm now where we are going to ramp up rare earths as fast as we can and rely on China to help us at least build a bridge between now and the time when that mining is productive?
>> Yeah, I think that's exactly it, Carl. The the agenda here seems to be two things at the same time. One is to try to get the Chinese to roll back these proposed export controls on rare earth so that we can secure a supply from China in the short term and then the other is to figure out all the other places where we can get these rare earths and get rare earth processing uh up to speed as quickly as possible so that we're not dependent on China over the long run. So if you're Beijing looking at that two-prong strategy, you might say, "Hey, wait a second. you know, do we want to allow the US to sort of get off of our our supply uh and be able to leverage themselves into a world where they don't need us anymore? So, I would say that would be the worry from the Beijing perspective. Why not use that leverage while they have it?
>> Yeah, it really feels like uh five meetings since liberation day shows that decoupling uh is is not necessarily on the table in the immediate term. Aean, thank you so much. Aman Jabers, the major averages back at record highs and adding to gains this morning. Let's bring in Steve Sausnik, chief strategist at Interactive Brokers.
>> All right, so looks like that Trump uh China framework again that you that that word framework has been used so many times in these discussions, but uh that's what continues to be the the core argument that the scent is giving the media around how this negotiation will play out that there is a framework in place for it to potentially lead to a deal. Uh meme stock ETF down 2.8%. Oaklow continues to get hit right here down now 2% on the day. Same thing with Big Bear AI that's down about half a percent. Whereas Beyond Meat, it did go green. Beyond Meat is now back down 6%. So a lot of those names not really able to hold up their end of the bargain as the broader market goes green. Pouncer still 191, Hoodie 147. Uh, and they're they're kind of playing in the same realm as gold. Gold is still down almost 3% on the day. Again, it's not too crazy. It's not too crazy. I mean, I think a lot of us expected that some of the more aggressive names might continue to take a breather, but the broader market catalysts for the Googles, Amazons of the world, those aren't easily slowing down. Amazon right here 227 as well. ASST, that one's still up 35%. That one's green. We haven't really seen a lot of selling on that yet. Again, this thing was $11 back on September 17th. I do think you're going to need a decent amount of a retail army to come in. You know, say say what you want about Eric Jackson. Like him or or hate him. I mean, he was able to cultivate retail to believe in Open Door, which is why Openoro is has held the 8x that they've been able to hold from from 50 Cents. Um, I don't know if that that same type of momentum exists in ASST. I mean, look, when these names run for no fundamental reason, just because someone tweeted about them, they're only as good as the ring leader that's compelling people to get excited about them, unless the company actually, you know, shows like a fundamental pivot, which maybe Strive will do. But uh you got to ask yourself, you know, do do these names have an Eric Jackson that is enough to cultivate enough people to believe in it to the point where it's very hard for it to reach the levels it was at before because just so many people are bought into the story. And then if the company does anything good, you're talking about increased multiple expansion. By the way, Qualcomm still moving 17%. On the day, yeah, you've been slacking on pump and grab. Well, see, that's the difference between me and some of these other guys. I mean, I I don't really want to stand in front of a celebrity's house and convince them to buy a share of a company. I want the company's execution to be enough for the name to move. Like, look, as as much as I've covered Hood and Pounder, I do not think I'm the reason for those stocks having the gains that they've had over the past couple years. I might be the reason for other people in the world knowing about them, but I am not the reason for these stocks moving to multiundred billion dollar value. There's just not enough influence or money from one person to make them happen. Now, if this was like a penny stock, it was $200 million and it goes to like $800 million. Like, yeah, I could see that happening. These are massive, massive companies. Same thing with Grab. $25 billion company. You know, I think it could be a $100 million company one day. That's not going to be because of me. That's going to be because of execution on the part of the company. SoFi right there, 2978, still holding 2.4% and then Nvidia recovering back back to the 190s right here. Mike Michael Sailor bought more micro strategy say that is correct or he bought more Bitcoin that's why Micro Strategy is up a little bit. Bitcoin still struggling. Dolingo goes red. Duolingo not one of those momentum names that we talked about last week but Dualingo just having a crappy narrative which is what I wrote in my Substack. That's why I don't want to own it. I just feel like that narrative is a little too aggressive on AI killing their moat and that's why that one's been stuck. Bitcoin just below 115. Just below 115. Argentina is up today. Again, we did have uh a big move by MLE being elected. And so R ARGT, the Argentina ETF, that one also making a move. Wow. The US now has 5,426 data centers. Goodness gracious, dude. More than any other country in the world. 5,426 data centers. Look, the news last week was that Oracle took on $40 billion of debt to build more data centers, which is super bullish for Navius, Core Wee, Iran, etc. Um, if that's not stopping, I mean, again, this tech sector buildout, it does look like it is on its way to creating even more momentum in the broader AI names. Argentina right there up 19% on the day. A RGT Draen Miller was long this ETF for a while. I think he sold a bit ago, but he bought before Malay got elected because I think he felt there was a lot of regime change that could that could take place around their their system of of capitalism. And this one's still up 20% on the day. Uh let's see what else we got. Let's see what else we have right here. U was down 21%. What is this stock again? This is not sure what this one is. Oh, yeah. This was a uh this is a uh commodities minor, right? Silver, Bitcoin, and gold or not Bitcoin, silver, gold, and copper. Wow. Down 20%. All right. So, the gold draw down hurting the miners as well. Um, okay. Let's pull this up right here. A couple of other core headlines to look at. This is the AI chart that we're talking about on data centers. So, US has 5,426. There's 40 billion worth of data centers under construction. That's up 4x from 2022. Germany has 529, United Kingdom has 523, China is 449, Canada 337, Japan is 200, the United States 5,426. There was a good article this morning that well I didn't fully finish reading it today but it said um electricity costs have not gone up simply because of data centers and it goes into a bigger deep dive on what's going on with electricity in the country. Now granted I don't know if you can say it's other things entirely outside of data centers. I do think data centers are definitely playing a role with electricity costs, but the big tech companies are going to have to push back on that narrative and try to show people that it's not just data centers because they're going to get a lot of push back if data centers continue to be the resounding reason for why electricity prices are doubling. Uh here is the IBKR analyst. Let's take a listen to him real quick and see what he thinks is going on as we get into earnings this week.
>> Uh Steve, thank you for being here. So, we got trade talks this week. We've got a Fed meeting and we have mag five earnings uh with the exception obviously of Nvidia and Tesla. Uh how do you think it all shakes out on this very busy week?
>> Well, good morning Leslie. I think I think what it's shaking out is it's telling us that that the positive vibes, the momentum is really what's ruling right now. I mean, one of the shest ways that the to get this market to rally is is imply that there's something good going on in trade. We saw it in the first Trump administration when sort of seemingly every morning I'd wake up and the mark the futures would be a little higher and the rumor would be that some trade talks were going well even if there was no apparent trade talks actually occurring. So in this case we're actually doing it and and you can see the market's positive response because um the the China the Asian trade talks seemed to be going well but meanwhile there was very quietly a 10% tariff on Canada which is basically lost in the news flow. So it tells you the way the market is geared toward interpreting any trade news as good news. Yeah. Uh, Goldman had a piece out I I believe over the weekend focusing on the underperformance of the quality factor. Uh, it says that's in part due to a short squeeze, noting a basket of most shorted stocks has doubled since the market low in April and has rallied more than 30% since September. Would now be a good time, you think, to get back into quality given just all the uncertainty that's out there?
>> Well, first of all, we've seen a lot of action in what I would call thematic stocks. I won't I I won't, you know, put them in so diplomatic.
>> That's fair. Yes, but number two most active stock at our platform last week was Beyond uh was Beyond Meat. And number five and six were Regetti and Oaklo. So it tells you that there's a a thematic play in in question here. But you know,
>> wow. Regetti, Oaklo, and Beyond Meat, top three traded stocks on IBKR last week. I mean, it goes to show that there is a lot of momentum in those names. By the way, Energy Fuels also getting hit today. So some of the nuclear stocks outside of Oaklo still getting some red. Wow. 14% down on UU. If you look at some of the data center names that I have on the left side of my screen, CEG down 1%, Cipher just went red, VST just down 1.4, Bit Farms, this was at 480 in the morning down 3%. Oracle's down a bit, Oaklo still down 2.8%. so far and we only have an hour worth of data, but last week the theme of what we all pretty much observed was that we were seeing a momentum draw down. It was hurting Hood. It was hurting Nebius, but it was really hurting the other names that you know don't really have revenue. On a day like today, Nebius is back up. Hood is back up. They're not at all-time highs, but they've recovered a decent chunk. Nebus was at 94. Hood was at 120. Oaklo has not really recovered that much as it continues to go down. It's up from the absolute lows, but it's, you know, still down on the day. So, I guess the the theme of this week should be even with rate cuts, even with good earnings, even with a Trump China deal, do those momentum names have enough retail excitement to continue the move they've made that have allowed them to go up four to 5x this year? And can and more importantly, can the broader market continue to move higher, the S&P without those names? Because if that's the case, everyone's screaming it is a bubble. I mean, remember three weeks ago, I think the core argument that that even Steve made was that it can't be a bubble if Oak goes to zero. And Oaklo is probably not going to zero. But even if it did, that that's not indicative of now, if Nvidia were to take a 30% job, that's bubble because, you know, you can't have Nvidia, you can't have the 8% of the S&P getting that big of a hit. But if the markets can keep going and some of those other names can't really keep up with it, it might not be indicative of a bubble. It just might mean some of those names, you know, don't have the retail excitement to to keep their momentum alive.
>> Actually, what's what's encouraging to me is the reaction that's that so-called quality stocks or old economy stocks had on earnings news. Coke Coke reacted well. We saw Dr. Pepper reacting well today. Um, so this is telling us that that there is a little bit of latent demand for these things. I I I hate to say it because I sound like a stop clock a lot of times by saying, you know, you never go wrong with high quality stocks that pay a good dividend. Um and you know and sometimes lowvall is actually the way to to go when you're when you're in sort of a momentum driven environment sort of to zigg when the others are zagging. But um you know right now you could more or less throw a dart board and and things.
>> But to Leslie's point about the Goldman note, they argue that actually moving back to quality might not make sense because short interest is so high and they're counting on those guys to cover eventually.
>> Well, this is really the question. I mean, for if you're shorter term focus, I mean, honestly, momentum momentum is the factor that rules and and that's really what's going on. If you're longer term focus, I think, you know, you may want to consider whether we're getting a little bit of nosebleleed at some of these levels and and move into things that have uh, you know, that have not been priced as aggressively.
>> Yeah, obviously it's a big uh week for earnings. We've seen a third of the S&P 500 already report. Uh, the vast majority, I believe, believe about 87% have beat on the bottom. Although the bottom line, although estimates have come down ever since that April time period, how would you characterize what we've seen from earnings so far and and what does that bode for the remainder of the season?
>> I think the what's interesting to me this earning season is how well the that the stocks are doing when they're doing well. I I know that's sort of circular, but but the they're being rewarded for good news, whereas typically in most earning season you'd get, you know, you'd get clobbered if you missed and you'd get a nice, you know, bump if you if you gained. In this case, it's actually almost two-sided or or maybe in some cases, the market's willing to overlook some stuff. Let's say in the case of Tesla where where the numbers missed and the stock ended up higher on the day anyway. So, we are starting to see a more charitable approach, shall we say. What's interesting to me is I'm looking at a there's a number that I watch sometimes called VIX 9D, which is the VIX except instead of looking at 30 days, it looks at 9 days. you've laid out a case for why these nine days could be exceptionally volatile and yet that number was I think below 14 which implies pretty pretty much nobody's really looking for a lot of fireworks either from the think about Wednesday you have the Fed you have Microsoft you have Meta you have Google now in theory they could all sort of balance each other out potentially but in reality there there's a lot of potential volatility that could come and we're actually getting it a day like today where where we're up almost 1% that's volatility volatility calcul regulations are meant to be agnostic. They don't care if you're going up or down. Volatility for people. What we're seeing today is socially acceptable volatility. What we what what we don't want to see is a move of this magnitude on the downside. That's when I get phone calls. What's went what what went wrong.
>> Yeah. And we're also uh ending out the seasonally spooky month of October this week, which could bode well, of course, for stocks.
>> Obviously, November is a lot better. And look, a lot of these names that are still getting hit in the draw down. I mean, maybe November is what's going to clear up some of their weakness. Uh maybe a good earnings as well. You know, a lot of those names, they they they kind of change the narrative. Show the growth, which is ultimately what you need as any growth stock that gets a multiple. You've got to show the growth. Growth solves everything. I mean, look at Pounder Hood. Growth has solved everything. Same thing with Nebus. They got that Microsoft contract quintupling the revenues. Growth solves everything. You put up the growth. I mean, there's not that many names publicly that actually can compound and grow. It's very hard to find companies consistently that put up the growth. That's why SoFi went from seven to 30. I mean, it becomes undeniable at some point if they're growing upwards of 30 40%. If a lot of these names can keep up the growth, you might see some more momentum. If they don't keep up the growth, you know, then it's just a question of where those stocks can go. Right there at 218, grab at 604 and Amazon still holding 227. It was at 228. Assist, how's that one doing? 155. still up 40%. Uh this is one of the Tesla board chairs, Robin. Here's what she had to say for all the people thinking of how to vote for their Tesla stock
>> but also in terms of Optimus and and the robots as you can see here in New York today. And so for us it's uh we sat back as a board and actually determined that this is the right time to lean into um that transformation and for Elon to lead that transformation. And uh we then formed a special committee to actually determine what the right incentive program was to have him motivated to deliver unprecedented uh value for shareholders over this next uh decade. And so what do you tell shareholders who say this just seems like too much money. He's already incentivized. He's he owns a big chunk of the company already. I mean that's that would be the push back, right?
>> Well, it's a performance plan. If he doesn't perform against the milestones both in terms of the market cap and the operational milestones, he actually gets nothing. He doesn't get any salary or any equity unless he actually performs and achieves the milestones that are in the plan. that is uh the basis of this uh performance plan.
>> Um look, you know, I've argued this is this is the greatest uh pay for performance plan that exists as was uh the previous one which was struck down. I I want you to listen to this. This was Elon Musk addressing the upcoming vote uh during a call uh last week on the quarterly results call where he he discusses some of this. that I just don't feel comfortable building a robot army here and not and then uh you know being ousted because of some asine uh recommendations from ISS and Glass Lewis who have no freaking clue. I mean those guys are corporate terrorists and and the problem Yeah. So let me like explain like the core problem here is that uh so many of the index funds um the passive funds vote along the lines of what whatever glass lewis and ISS recommend. Now they've made many terrible recommendations.
>> So Robin, how much of this is about
>> Okay, we'll go back to that. But folks, we got some AMD news. We got some AMD news. Um, oh my. Okay, it looks like AMD just got a partnership with the Department of Energy. Is that correct? Department of Energy forms $1 billion partnership with AMD to build two supercomputers. Bro, the news today, whether it's Qualcomm or AMD, you're just getting a ton of things going back and forth. There you go. AMD was red for the day until this piece of news came out. Now you got a move. Not a big move, but a 1% candle. Department of Energy $1 billion contract. Um, look, a billion is not like crazy money, but the fact that they're establishing a contract, which likely will set them up to get many more billions, is I think kind of the the key takeaway. Two supercomputers the DOE wants from AMD. Okay, there you go. That's a Reuters report citing energy secretary, right? And you're seeing a bit of move right there. Yeah. Now, Qualcomm just has to announce an OpenAI deal and say, "Well, we've decided to give up 20% of our company, not 10% like AMD for OpenAI to buy our shares." Qualcomm is down from 205 back to 192. So, you did have some buyers at 205 that are bag holding a little bit of those shares. Maybe that one recovers on earnings, but 192 still up 23 bucks on the day, even if it's not at high of these. Okay, AMD and Qualcomm both making their move. You do have the Mexico president also saying something. Um, right here, Shine Bomb says, "We'll give it a few more weeks to close issue of 54 pending trade barriers." Maybe that coincides with a China and India deal as well from Mexico. And so maybe you get a lot of those deals closing at the same time. But the Mexican president has had a really positive relationship with Trump over the past couple months. And hopefully that can continue. Nvidia right there. 190 also getting a little bit of a boost based on uh that AMD deal. Okay, back to back to Tessy
>> incentivizing uh Elon because it sounds like to me more than anything he he believes that he actually worries about AI in the future and and wants to have greater control of the company and how I'm curious the board thinks about that. Yes, he's been very consistent in that view um in terms of having enough influence over the vote uh of of um Tesla uh in the future so that uh bad things can't happen with the AI. So it's less about compensation and more about the voting influence um in terms of this and that was very clear uh as we were negotiating from a special committee perspective um in terms of uh this performance package and if there was a way of delivering the uh the vote without the actual compensation we would have done that but but from our perspective there was no way of doing that. So
>> can you can you do that with a voting shares that have a like a supermajority vote? You can, but you can only put them in place before you IPO. And so that's why some of the other uh technology companies have those in place. Um, but
>> Elon's going to get it done, dude. He's going to get it done. I think overwhelmingly shareholders will vote with Elon and Video trying to crack 191. Um, you know, I know he's a little worried about it and that's why Tesla's been advertising more, but it seems very unlikely the retail shareholder base lets him down, even if the institutional investor services try to vote against it. Last time it was 7030, right? Or 7525 on the $55 billion deal that the Delaware judge struck down. I would imagine 7030 is the same split this time. And Elon should be able to get this done. Gerald says, "Happy birthday. My mother is now 104 today." Wow. Happy birthday to your mother, Gerald. That's incredible. I love it. Super super super cool. We got a uh we got a bunch of the October babies in the chat. So, happy birthday to your mother as well. Send her my well wishes and thank you for being here. Pedro says, "Listening to you from the gym this morning. Great combo, Pedro. I love it. Thank you for being here as well." Pedro, I remember your your daughter got married a couple months ago. So, uh super super exciting time in your life as well. And dude, the fact see this is why it's so cool like with the community we built. Like the fact that I even saw your name and I remembered, oh yeah, I remember your daughter got married. like that just like the things we all know about each other in the chat. It is just so it's different, dude. It really is what culminates into, you know, having a community that you love and care about, even if you disagree with them on stock picks, right? Like that that becomes rather irrelevant when it comes to the humanity of a community. So, super super cool. Very very very blessed for all the people that that voted happy birthday. Michelle says a my mom says happy birthday. Michelle, let your mom know that I love her and I'm happy that she's doing well. If she's watching, Michelle's mom, uh, your daughter bakes the best cakes. And I don't have a birthday cake. I didn't I didn't get one shipped from Houston. I don't know why that didn't happen today, but I would like to see a pounder and hood logo on some cupcakes for me. Uh, it was Drake's birthday a few days ago. That is correct. We are both October babies. both Scorpios as well. Femi says, "I told my girlfriend that it's your birthday and she got happier than with mine." That's That's hilarious. That is hilarious. Nvidia right there. 190 pounder 191. I mean, dude, pounder alltime highs is fun birthday present. Fun birthday present. It's holding it, dude. I mean, maybe it falls back below 190, but it's holding it pretty heavy. And then hoodie as well, 146.90. Not too bad either. Okay, what else do we have? Do we have any other headlines? It's already 11:00 a.m. Let's see if we have any other headlines. If not, I will read these super chats and we'll be done for the day. Um, Orbs filed a 2.7 billion at the market offering. might want to be a little careful if you're betting on orbs. Again, I think you can get exposure through it through Bit Mine, but it looks like you will be having some billions that are diluted pretty soon. Orbs right there, 638. That's red on the day. Uh Oaklow that continues to go down 2.6%. Nvidia is up 2.4. SoFi is up 2.3. D-Wave massive day right here 12.8. Don't know if there's any news. I think that's separating from the other quantum names. Uh, kind of. The other ones are up a decent chunk as well. D-Wave's the one that's up the most. Maybe there's a partnership right there, but that one's going green. S&P 682, that's holding up. Red at 219. Cisco DLO. VIX up a little bit, but still red for the day. So, you're getting some of those red candles given the VIX is up just a little bit. Google just below 266. And you're seeing some more green. You're seeing a decent decent chunk of green right here. Government shutdown updates. I don't have a ton of updates on that other than what Hasset said last week that it looks like the shutdown will come to an end by the end of the week. Then again, he said that last week. It's a new week. We don't have a shutdown uh resolution, but hopefully that happens soon. Such has decided to convert the PayPal leaf's position from good size to truckload size. Bought a lot more at 825. Let's see how this goes. Wow. All right, Sachin, you are putting your name out there on these PayPal leaps. Let's see the quarter they deliver tomorrow. I mean, if that quarter is a uh is a new quarter in terms of the life of the narrative of the company, maybe these leaps work out really well. AMD energy secretary says partnership will supercharge advances in nuclear techch, defense, and cancer treatments. All right, so some good excitement around these uh partnerships with AMD and the energy sector. All right, cool. I think that's it, guys. Uh I will get through these super chats, but I don't think there's any more market news. I'll be back on the close. So for those that want to be there on the close, we'll be there tonight. We will still do Tech Bros with Tanner and Roy at 9:30. So we'll still have the normal stream. We should still have a daily recap as well. So pretty much all parts of the schedule should be okay. At the end of the market close, we'll do a little bit of fun birthday stuff giveaway. And so for those that want to be part of that, we'll visit that on the close. But I think that's pretty much it today. Summary of today is market momentum seems strong. some of the more speculative names getting hit, some of them not getting hit. So, it's a little bit of a stock pickers market right there. S&P basically up 1% on the day. SoFi earnings tomorrow is really going to set the tone for some of the fintexs. PayPal's tomorrow. UNH is tomorrow. Then Wednesday, FOMC along with all the big tech earnings. That is going to be a massive day. I might stream the entire day to be honest on Wednesday. So, we're going to see. And then Palenter and Hood alltime highs along with Nvidia getting back to 190 seems pretty bullish. admit we don't trust you after you ghosted us on the Friday clothes. Dude, I was telling Steve last night I was like something happened on Friday. I don't know what was h I don't know how I like I just really couldn't like I just fell asleep like I couldn't even wake up. I was I was like shivering. It was it was just weird, bro. It was a weird feeling. And so I think I just needed to take that time off. But we're back, baby. We are back. Yep. Amcore earnings after the bell. We'll take a look at that as well. and uh we'll get into all these stocks. But yeah, I think the summary of the day is you're seeing some really strong momentum based on this China news coming to a conclusion which we don't really have a deal yet, but we have a framework of a deal that seems like the market is conducive to that. You've got rate cuts, you've got earnings that have been good so far. We had the draw down. We had a shake out of some froth. You have the pain to get to the gains now. And hopefully this gives us the next leg as we get into we get into November. Tired and shivering. It sounds like you were just sick. Yeah, I think so. But I didn't have a fever. So, it wasn't like I was sick to the point where I need to like go to the hospital or anything. It was just like I just didn't feel the best. And like even the thought of like talking for three hours, which you know, I love to talk for three hours. I just like I was just like, bro, I cannot do this today. And so, I thought it made more sense to just take a day off versus try to try to force it. But we're back. We are back, baby. 28 years old and we are back. All right, so let's get into these super chats. Again, thank you everybody for being here. I said to not send the super chats because I don't want people to spend money on my birthday, but nonetheless, you guys sent the super chat, so I appreciate it and thank you all for being here. Alex, thank you for being a channel member. Says, "Happy birthday." Thank Alex means a lot. Uh Feimos, thank you for being a channel member as well, saying happy birthday, Myth. Chris, thank you for being here and being a channel member. Drago, appreciate you, brother. Drago has been along for the pounder right since 16. Randomly found my channel back in February 2024 and he hopped on and then I think he hopped on to hood at around 20 30 bucks as well. So Drago, thank you for the very very kind $100 super chat. Means a lot and thank for being part of the show. George, thank you for being here. Thank you for the $100 super chat as well. Happy birthday to you. Thank you, George. Means a lot, George. I think you've been following for the past couple years as well. I've seen your name so many times in the chat, so deeply appreciate that. Uh, Arc Moments, thank you for the $28 from Singapore. Means a ton. Thank you for being here. Mrs. Kim, thanks for the five bucks. Happy birthday, mate. Thanks for all you do. PS. Lay off the grinder. Yes, that was the actual reason why I missed Friday. But I I appreciate now. Now that they've acquired been acquired, I I think I should be able to lay off them. So, thank you, Mrs. Kim, for the super chat. Uh, Eugen, thank you for the 50 bucks. Happy birthday. Thank you for showing up and always providing great commentary on the market. It's been super valuable. Eugene, appreciate you being here and 2026. I just want to make sure that the content continues to be valuable, bringing in more guests, more data, all these different things. Hopefully get the content to be up to speed. So, thank you again for being here. Uh, Katherine, thank you for the $25 super chat. Wishing you a happy birthday in a green market. It's nice to see some alltime highs on the birthday. So, definitely a great present. Thank you, Katherine. Thank you for being here. Marissa, thank you. Thanks to Emit's parents for giving us AIT and letting him be a financial YouTuber. I gotta take a picture of that. I gotta I gotta send this to my mom. Thank you, Marissa. Appreciate it. Yeah, you know, shout out to Shout out to mom and dad that let me be a be a YouTuber. Dude, it's it's it's definitely, you know, it wasn't the easiest thing for them because again, I was supposed to be a doctor or a lawyer or an engineer or, you know, something more in line that is not as creative. But, dude, they really let me just figure it out. they just gave me the time and energy to figure it out. And um you know given given the debate career I think they knew there was potential and then it was just a question of can do do you have the work ethic and the ambition to live up to that potential. You know I was talking with the author of this book last night as well and uh there was a moment in the book where Karp told the author that he just wanted $250,000 and to just go live and do whatever he wants in life with that nest egg of 250. And the author was telling me when Karp was saying that to him I didn't believe him because Karp was too ambitious. You know, you might have this dream about just like having enough money and then just going off and doing whatever. But like when someone's super ambitious, it's really hard to neglect the necessity that they have to go do something in the world. And uh you know, thankfully my parents let me just let me go out and do it. So, thank you Marissa. Thank you for being here and thank you for being part of the channel. Uh Friday Nebula, thank you for the $50 super chat. Happy birthday, M. Hope you have a good one, brother. Thank you for the $50 super chat. Deeply means a lot again for everyone sending the money. You guys do not have to do this, but thank you for that. Thanks for being here, Andy. Happy two shares of Grab. Enjoy your day, bro. You deserve nothing but the best. Andy was at the first New York City meetup. I signed his cowbell, which was crazy. It was absolutely crazy. Thank you, Andy. Means a lot. And thank you for being here. Vin, thank you for the $50 super chat. Got to meet Vin in California. Got to have some coffee with him. I mean, like, the fact that I've met so many of you throughout the entire year also makes me really happy. And I want to continue that in 26 with the meetups. But thank you, Ben. means a lot. Coffee was awesome. And hopefully we get to meet again in California soon. I'm Benny. You got Benny's plaque right there behind me. Happy birthday, King. We appreciate you. There's not enough good things I can say about Benny, dude. He's he was at the Miami meetup. Absolutely has been pivotal to the growth of just like this community, being part of it. First of all, he he rang the bell on Google for like eight months straight. So, if anyone saw his comments in the chat, you probably were influenced by Google. Uh, but number two, he's he's been with me on the hood journey, you know, since it was 10 bucks. So, and really helped me with my due diligence. So, deeply appreciate you being in the chat every day, man. And thank you for being here. And, uh, just thank you for being a vital asset to the entire community that, you know, needs people every single day to to help moderate and keep this community going the way it is. So, thank you, Benny. Love you, brother. Thank you for being here. Charles, thanks for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday. Thanks for all you've done building the community, bringing us all together. Charles, thank you for being here and thanks for being part of this community. Matthew, thanks for the $15 super chat to Mits parents. Happy conception day plus nine months. You guys are the funniest chat on YouTube. Thanks for doing the deed to produce on the amazing day. Again, like these are the these are the best comments in the world. These are it's the best chat in the world. Appreciate that. Ashish, thank you for the $7 super chat. Super chat. Bcat, thanks for the super chat. Thank you for being here. Uh happy birthday. We love you, dog. Love you all as well. BCAT, thanks for being here. Bobby, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. Finally, let's break the world record for most super chats in one session for a non-charity. Although, some of you might say Amit is a charity case. Oh my gosh. Please, let's not break the record. I think we already broke the record on the 100,000 subscriber uh celebration, but thank you, Bob. Appreciate you being here and thank you for being part of the channel. Be joined. Thank you for being a channel member. Keg, thanks for the $14 chat. Thanks a lot. Happy birthday and many more. Thank you for being here. Carlos, thanks for the super chat. Shem Pasta, I have known this name since freaking 2021 in my chat. Happy birthday. You're finally drinking age. Yes, I can finally drink. And Shem Pasta, thank you. Uh, thank you for being here. These names, bro. Shem Pasta, like these like like these these crazy names. But I' I've been talking to you know like it's like you know when you're at an office and you have like Johnny and Jake and you're at the water cooler and you're talking about life like I'm talking with shem pasta about the markets for the past four years. So it's just it's super super cool for everyone to be part of this community. Oh my goodness, dude. We have like 80 more super chats. All right, here we go. I'm gonna be here for a while. I'm if if this is boring to some people, I'm sorry, but I want to get through all these. I'll see you guys in the market close, but uh I do want to get to all these individually. So, thank you all for being here. All right, so um Vlad, thank you for the $20 chat. Happy birthday, Emit. Really appreciate what you're doing for this community. Hopefully, someone will write a book about you one day and how you affected many lives. Vlad, appreciate you being here. Uh, you know, after reading this book, I've just got more excited about writing and reading again. I mean, really, I I didn't finish the full book, but I finished a decent chunk of it on Saturday night. No distractions. No phone, no Twitter, no YouTube. So, you know, who knows? I I definitely am getting a lot more excited about books again. And so, thank you for the super chat and thank you for being here. Informed. Thank you for the $200 super chat. Happy birthday, Emit. Again, thank you. This is a lot of money. Deeply, deeply appreciated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the $200 super chat and uh thank you for being here. Jeff, thanks for the 28 super chat. Happy birthday, mate. God bless you. Deserve all the success and love. Thank you, Jeff, for being here. Deeply appreciate the super chat as well. Altow, thank you for the 20 bucks. Happy birthday. Keep up the great work. Um Carlos, thank you for the $25 super chat. Happy birthday. Thank you, Carlos, for being here. Matt Money, we know Matt Money gave out 20 gifted memberships, so appreciate you, Matt Money. And uh thank you for being a friend of the channel. Friday, Sam, thank you also for being here. and being a channel member. Uh, Lady D7, thanks for the 20 bucks. Happy birthday, Amit. I can't go a day without tuning in at least twice a day. Love your channel in this community. You have helped me grow my account since joining on February 2024. I appreciate all you do for us every day. From Denine. Denine, deeply appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Uh, again, when you when you say you guys, you know, admit you've helped me grow my account, it is very very humbling because at the end of the day, I was not the person who pressed buy or sell. Uh but I I I do think the the the community of all of us being together is what helps people find ideas, right? Or people avoid certain stocks or people to, you know, do specific option strategies like all of us collectively putting those ideas there. Um is what has led to some of this momentum. And again, you know, the the these these very high- netw worth, you know, private investors, they spend millions of dollars a year on consulting and financial advice. You know, a lot of us don't do that. A lot of us just have each other. And quite frankly, over the past couple years, a lot of that financial advice that people pay millions of dollars for has been worthless because none of it has actually worked. And so the fact that all of us have crowdsourced all that information, whether it's on a Nebus or a pounder, hood or rock lab or sofa, I mean, Matt money, right? Part of this community got everyone to look at Rock Lab at four bucks, like that's what really makes it worth makes it worthwhile. So really, really cool for everyone to be here. Hi, thank you for becoming a channel member. Pro Catch, thank you for the $5. Happy birthday, M. Thank you for being here and uh thank you for being a channel member. Richard Bros, thank you for the super chat. Last week I was uh trading but I saw a quick rise up. Thank you. It was it was helpful to see your loss as well. So I wasn't the only one who was losing like crazy. Now I'm looking forward to another day on the way to a million. Yeah. I mean, look, it's important to celebrate the good with the bad, right? Like yesterday I I said I was down 140,000. Today I'm up 78,000. I mean like a lot A lot of what was lost last week was recovered on from Friday as well. I mean, like it's really important to just share the bad days with the good days. It sucks some of those days, but all of us go through it and uh you know, everyone if we're in a lot of these same names or even if you're in other names, it's it's really difficult to avoid the red. So, we celebrate the green together and we uh you know, we cry together in the red, but doing it together definitely helps. Vic, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate you being here. JS, thanks for the $14 super chat. Happy birthday, brother. Long Island Iced Tea on me. Your authenticity, integrity drive your growth. Keep crushing it for the poon jobs. I appreciate it, JS. It means a lot. There's not that many pun jobs doing YouTube, so we'll try to keep crushing it for them. Thank you for being here. Sarah, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday. May you have a blessed year, Sarah. Appreciate you. Peggy, thank you for the $28 super chat. Happy 28th birthday, admit. Paggy, I think you joined the channel early this year, Peggy, but uh I've loved seeing your comments in the chat. Love seeing you being part of the community. And thank you as well for for being here and being part of the chat. Uh Bro Hizzle, thanks for the channel member and thanks for the $20 super chat. Appreciate you being here. Sashi, Sashi, I've known you for like the past two years now. Sashi was early Palunteer. Happy birthday, Mit. Sashi, thank you as well for being in the chat and being here. Aids dentist. Oh wow. This is a this is this is a good one. Happy birthday, babe. May your teeth stay white, your investment stay right, and your returns stay tight, you know. Shout out to my dentist. She's a lovely woman, and she's uh, you know, been incredible. She definitely helped my root canal two weeks ago when I could barely talk. So, I appreciate you, Amidst Dentists, for being part of the chat. You guys are wild, bro. You guys are actually wild. And if she actually is in the chat, she's probably laughing right now, but you guys are wild. Ar boy, thank you for being a channel member as well. Thank you for the birthday wish. Mila, thank you for the super chat. Been watching you daily for a few months now. I made a lot of money because of you. Have a good birthday and hopefully no raw steak this time. You know, I actually had I would say medium rare last week with Steve and I actually liked it. So maybe I'm becoming a little bit more of a medium rare guy. But thank you for being here. Thank you for being part of the channel and deeply deeply appreciate uh being part of everything. Uh Sofesso, thank you for the gifted 10. 10 of you guys just got gifted memberships from Sofeso. So, thank you for being here. Bike pimp, thank you for the hundred. Mega happy birthday, myth, the legend that is continues to go from strength to strength. Thanks for everything you've done allowing me and my family to secure financial independence. Deeply, deeply, deeply appreciated. Thank you for the super chat bike pimp. I think you were in pounder early. Uh I also think you took some good profits and you've been able to really change your life with some of that money. So, thank you for being here and again, thank you for being part of the channel. These dentist comments, bro, dude, she fixed my root canal. She really fixed she fixed my root canal. By the way, Tessy 453. Tessy making a move right here. She's not stopping that one. Getting a little bit of a breakout. Qualcomm, we are still at 190. That's losing a little bit of love. Nvidia still 190. Halen share 190.7 hoodie just below 147 and then Tesla up 5% on the day. All right, you're getting some love on uh on Tessy. Ricardo, thank you for the super chat. A small present. Happy birthday and thank you for all the work you put into the show and the community. Ricardo, thank you for being here. Thank you for being part of the channel. Deeply deeply appreciated. Brady, thank you for the super chat. Please have the RCAT CEO on. I'm going to reach out to him. I think we'll get the Redcat CEO on. I've interviewed him a couple months ago. I definitely think he would be down to be on the show again. So, I'll inter I'll reach out to him and I'll see if uh if we can get him on hopefully this week. I mean, that deal they announced this morning was pretty strong deal in the broader drone space. So, that should continue to help. Chris, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday and thank you for all you do. I never had money. I started 2023. I found you. Started with 3K. Now, I'm at 73K. Put every cent I had into stocks. Wow. Congratulations. Congratulations. Again, you know, this is the bifurcation of not only the American economy, but the global economy, right? You you either have assets or you don't. It is the harsh reality of either you have your money compounding. Even in the midst of all the concerns about bubbly, toppy, all that stuff like still having your money compounding in assets is better than it likely being on the sidelines. Uh especially if you're trying to gain that initial level of a nest egg that everyone is looking for to to set up some level of financial freedom. So, the markets are incredible. You know, the past three years have been amazing. It's not always going to be like this, but in in I think we've done hopefully a decent job over the past couple years analyzing the macro trends that are staring us right in the face, right? It's hard to kind of avoid what's happening in front of us and it likely qualifies for a for an investment opportunity. So, thank you, sir, for being here, bro. Never going to finish the stream. I I don't know if I'm going to finish the stream. How many more do we have left? Oh my goodness, we have like 50 left. All right, we're gonna be here. We're gonna be here for a minute, folks. Here we go. Uh Sh, thank you for the super chat. Appreciate you, man. It was awesome seeing you at the New York meetup as well. Hopefully you get to come out again. He was almost going to be at the Miami meetup, but last minute couldn't make it. So hopefully we see you there again. Star Buccaneers, thank you for the gifted 10. Appreciate it. Star Buccaneers has been watching for at least three, four years now. Um so yeah, appreciate you, man. It's been awesome growing with you. both been on the Palentry journey and uh yeah, you know, real friendships created as a result of this entire community which has just been super cool. So, thank you for those gift to 10 memberships. Scott as well, thank you for the gift to 10. Appreciate it. Jace, thanks you for being here. Fats invest, thank you for the 50 bucks. Happy birthday, brother. Enjoy your day. I think I got to know uh you a couple of weeks ago as you started tweeting a little bit more about Grab and we got to know each other. So, appreciate you, man. Thank you for the $50. you do not need to send that, but deeply deeply appreciate the uh the the super chat and for being here. Um birthday full day stream. Yeah, maybe maybe that's what happens. Elaine, thank you for the gifted 50. Appreciate you, Elaine. 50 of you guys just got that gifted membership. Elaine, for those that don't know, uh I believe I'm not wrong. Maybe she sold a little bit, but well over 50,000 shares of Palunteer and she's been just milking it with the covered calls uh for the past for the past year now. So, appreciate you, Elaine. I mean, Palunteer has been one of the reasons why a lot of us connected and on a day like this, alltime highs definitely not the worst for those 60,000 shares you got. But, thank you. Thank you for spreading the love. Thank you for the 50 gifted S&P 500 right there. 68336 as well, nearing into that all-time high on the daily. And thank you, Elaine, for being here. Thank you for those gifted. Elaine says now it's 65,000. Well, there you go. She bought the dip, folks. She bought and all those shares are basically free given the covered call premium she's collected. I mean, any share she buys a pounder at this point or cost spaces, which by the way, her average was $10. So, with all the covered call premiums, I think her average might be negative at this point, meaning she literally got paid to buy those 60,000 shares, which is pretty incredible. Uh, why is he investing? Thank you for becoming a channel member. Nate, thank you for the $28 super chat. Appreciate you. Ezie Goldenberg, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday. Thanks for all you do. Thank you for being here. Q, thanks for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mitch. Started watching you when my portfolio was at 50,000. Just hit 170 today. Mostly thanks to your content. Cheers. Q, congratulations. 50 to 170. That's a triple. Uh, and that is quite incredible. So, thank you for being here. Thank you for being part of the show. JC, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, M. Thanks for everything. Thank you for being here. Woody Trades, thank you for the $10 shipper here since $20 pounder on the down move. You've been such a huge part of the day over the last couple years. Love to see your successes. Pounder changed my financial life. Happy birthday to you. Woody, thank you for being here as well. You know, the other crazy thing about this whole um this whole uh this whole this whole thing with with with the community is just like this whole being part of your day thing. Um, and like you know the fact that people just like they keep it on whether it's in the background or they're actively watching but it's like part of their day. Uh, I really don't take that for granted. I really don't. You know, as as a creator, as or as someone who I should say is creative, you've always just wanted your art to resonate with the world. I'm not saying the market open is art or something, but it's a form of creativity, which I guess subjectively you could call it as a form of art that uh resonates with people. I mean, if you're a musician, you just want your music to be listened to. If you're an author, you just want people to read your book. So, if you're a content creator, you just want your content to be consumed and, you know, you want to do it in a way where people enjoy consuming it. Uh, and and then that, you know, that again, I say this over and over again, but I I think that's why the channel is growing. Like, it's not about the money, it's not about the numbers, it's about the love of creating the show. Like, do you love the game of doing it? And realistically, I think it's applicable to every part of life. If you love what you are doing and you're doing it for the intrinsic fact of doing it, because I, you know, I I would say when I wasn't making any money on YouTube, I had the same amount of energy that I have now with a lot more people watching. Uh, that's what I think resonates. It's it's I I I really do think it's the most authentic way of building any type of community or or social media brand or or artistic career. So, deeply deeply appreciate those that enjoy being being part of their day every day. Must, thanks for the $10 super Jed. Happy birthday, mate. You've helped me reach the new highs in my portfolio. Seven digits. Incredible. And we got a lot of people that have reached that million-dollar level uh over the past year and a half. And you know, the fact that all of us have done it in this community and you know, the community has been a force to compound that, it means a ton. Siege, thank you for the 20 bucks. Thanks for everything you do. I wish you a happy birthday and healthy birthday. The money is in for the channel, not for your birthday. Siege, you give like 20 bucks every single day. I appreciate you. every single day with these super chats. You don't have to do it, but thank you so much for being here. Uh, Bose Spam, thanks for the super chat. My grab calls are up 50%. Happy birthday to the Grabfather. Appreciate you, Bose. Bam. Hopefully, we get a good earnings next Monday. Hopefully, this can really start to to make a move. We're going to see. Dude, I had a dent. Okay, you guys are not going to believe this [__] You guys are legit not going to believe this [__] And I don't want to show you the DM because I want to respect the person's privacy, but there was a dentist going back to this dentist. There's a dentist who messaged me on October 14th. Okay. And she said, "Yes, it's a she, okay, is I'm not it's not helping my case here, but I bought Grab." And I was like, "Cool. I I I think they're going to have a good earnings." Then yesterday, she texts me at 8:30. She's like, "I might have told another 200 dentists about Grab, so please don't let me down." And I'm like, "Goodness gracious, bro." I'm like, "Okay, I hope I hope it works out because now you got 200 dentists that are part of your network that are long grab, so this [__] better work out." But uh yes, I'm sorry amidst dentists. I'm cheating on you with a different dentist. But she was like, "It's a little bit disappointing it hasn't moved as much." I was like, "Yeah, but look, I don't know if dentists are used to volatility." Because I was like, "You could be in something else that's a bit more speculative. I just don't know if you want to have, you know, people that work in the medical field that have a lot of debt that they have to pay back to their medical school dealing with the volatility." Like, Grab is something where like, look, it may not move that crazy, but I don't think it's going to move down that crazy either. Whereas some of these other names, you got to be really good with timing it. And dentists are doing root canals and cavity fillings all day, right? They're not going to be timing, selling, or buying But uh yeah, there you go. So, bro has a dentist fetish. Oh my gosh. I see. This is what I'm saying. Like, if I was like saying XYZ stock that has no revenue, no earnings is going to go to the moon and everyone should get long on that. And then you have a freaking dentist who is telling 200 other dentists for whatever reason to go buy that stock because she saw me talk about it on Twitter and she's like, "Oh, it looks smart. I'm going to buy whatever name he's talking about." That's a responsibility I take very seriously. And I would rather a stock be not volatile, not have this explosive massive move, but be safe like Grab that has eight billion in cash if you're going to tell all your dentist buddies about it because the downside is limited even if the upside is not as explosive as like an Oaklo. And given what we've seen has happened to Oaklo over the past couple weeks, it's also not as bad as the downside, right? So I I think one of the biggest things of the channel growing is just being very careful with the stocks that I publicly associate with because again at the end of the day people are listening and people will do whatever for the sake of just you attaching your name to it if people think you're a smart person and then boom it's like then you're responsible for it even though you're not really responsible for it. And I think that's something that you know is very important to take seriously. And I and I I find it odd that some people don't take that responsibility seriously. There's other influencers that just don't give a [__] They don't care. And I'm just like, okay, that's fine. But like, I really do care because that's not something like I don't want to be a chimoth in 2021 that attaches my name to something for the hell of it, knowing that my name has some influence and that it can move something and then you just leave people holding the bag. That's just not I don't know. I can never live with myself if that's how it would play out. Trucker Rob, thank you for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. I'm really glad your parents hooked up. Can't wait for the next stateide meet up. Amazing memories and great health at age 28. Thank you, Trucker Rob. Uh, appreciate it. A lot of comments about my, you know, my parents doing the deed. So, appreciate it. Thank you for being here. Thank you for watching. Thank you for, you know, I know a lot of people drive a truck or they're, you know, a lot of tons of Amazon drivers have have messaged me now that I've started talking a little bit more about Amazon and that, you know, they constantly have me in their ear all day. So deeply deeply appreciate those that are listening to me throughout throughout the entire day. Sid, thanks for the $20 chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. Got FSD14. Hope Tesla gifted you. Looking forward to the next meetup. Looking forward to it as well, Sid. It was awesome to meet you at the meetup. And uh yeah, excited for future meetups as well and to download FSD14. Uh Vidon, thanks for the $5 super chat. Happy birthday. Always a blast here. The only live I watch. Thank you, Don, for being here every single day. Means a lot. Felix, thanks for the super chat. Carrington, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, Emit. It's also my wife and I's anniversary. Carrington, he was at the Miami meetup, dude. It's your wife's ann Wow, dude. I love it. Carrington, super awesome, man. Uh, I have the pictures of us, I think, on Amazon photos. I'll see if I can pull it up later. But, uh, first of all, thank you for coming to the meetup. Meant a lot. You and your wife are just amazing people. Uh you guys you guys were a bright ray of sunshine at the meetup. I mean you lit up everywhere you talked to. You were great interacting with people. I mean it was just every time I saw you guys talking with the people. They were everyone was just laughing having a good time. So it was really really cool seeing you and your wife there and uh yeah congrats on the anniversary. That's so cool. All right so we got a birthday and anniversary together for Carrington. Thank you man. And please wish your wife for me happy birthday or happy anniversary if she's not watching. deeply deeply appreciate you being part of the show. Carrington actually is a teacher and he was telling me that at his job uh the day that JPAL was speaking in August and everyone was scared if he was going to pivot to like ray cuts or not. His class was watching my stream and they were like paper trading because that that's what they teach which is like you know pretty cool class to actually be able to show people how to trade and stuff like that. And they were watching all of us live cover JPAL which is crazy. So absolutely amazing. Carrington, thank you for being here. Carlos, thanks for the $20 super chat. Appreciate you. Pamela, thanks for the $2 super chat. Thank you for being here. Uh Joanie Day, thank you for the $50 super chat. Happy birthday. This is my first super chat I've ever sent. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the first super chat you've ever sent being on my channel. And uh you you really don't have to do it. I just appreciate your attention and being here every day. But thank you so much for being here as well. Uh Rock, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, bro. Made a lot of money off your stream and chat. So, shout out to the chat. Love you all. Aso, thank you for being here. And yes, it is. It is primarily because of the chat. I think I'm just more of a messenger of a lot of the information. I mean, dude, at this point, we have so many people in the chat that if news is breaking, there's like 17 people breaking the news in the chat. So, it's almost like, you know, we never have to worry about figuring out what's happening because so many of you guys are here updating it in real time and uh, you know, just being part of the community in general. Uh, Brazen, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, bud. It's milk time. I might have to pop open some milk today even though I hate it. Maybe we we drink some milk with Steve today. But thank you for the super chat as well. Appreciate it. Uh Tan B fam, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday. May I listen to you to motivate to hold hood pouncer grab Tesla. Keep up the great work. Much appreciated. Tan, thank you for the $50 super chat. Thank you for being here. And uh yeah, all those names having a pretty strong year. hopefully grab on these earnings can really get rerated but deeply deeply appreciate you being part of the of the channel. Uh Karan, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, Mith. Thank you for all you do for the community. Thank you for being here. Rakesh Ready, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, brother. Rake, thank you for being here. Pedro, thanks for the $10 super chat. You're loved by many. First thing I advise someone who wants to invest on his or I point them to your channel and suggest they go from there. Happy birthday. That's another thing I really, you know, deeply appreciate. A lot of the word of mouth that has been spread uh on the channel. A lot of you guys just recommended the channel to a bunch of different people and uh you know, that's helped the channel grow and there's so many people that just came because their buddy texted them to start watching the show and then it becomes part of their routine. So, uh it it really I mean, even Zo called I think Zo he he texted his cousin to start watching like a year ago. Now his cousin's here every day. So, a lot of that stuff really really means a lot to me. S&P, by the way, still moving higher. 68344, Nvidia 191, Pounder 190, Grab just above 6, SoFi just below 30, S&P still doing well, and then Hoodie just below 147. Tesla, wow, 456 on Tessy. I don't know what the update is on Tesla. I don't think there's a headline, but outside of the upgrades, uh, Tesla is getting that breakup. Deanna, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, dear MIT. You're a national treasure. feel so lucky to be part of this community you've built to make a big wish. Deanna, thank you so much for the love. I know you joined recently over the past couple months. Um, but deeply deeply appreciate you as well and uh and being part of the show. Okay, we still got like 20 more of these to run through, folks. We got 20 more of these to run through. I'm going to try to run through them. I'm going to try to end it at 12:00 pm and uh get you guys out of here and then we'll be back on the on the market close. I just really want to get to everybody because I I deeply do appreciate everyone taking the time to to send it. Paul, thank you for the gifted one membership. Uh Sanjie, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, mate. You're truly amazing and incredibly hardworking. Thank you for uniting this wonderful community and putting all the effort you put up. Keep up the fantastic work. Sanjief, thank you as well for being here. There is no community unless people show up and people want to be part of it. So deeply appreciate you being here as well. Marvelous Dream, thanks for the super chat. New investor started listening this year during work. Learned a lot. Happy birthday. First time super chatting ever on YouTube. That's also the cool thing. A lot of the the newer investors that have just got into the markets because of whatever reason got them excited to think about stocks. Um you know, this channel being the first place they kind of find themselves into and then the community being part of something that they haven't been part of before. That that's really cool. That's you know, that's really really cool. there's there there's not that many other people doing a market open and close every day and so um you know the fact that we get to do it every day and and get to have more people join it I think it just makes it really really fun every single day. Um David, thank you for the $10 super chat saying happy birthday below. Thank you for the $55 super chat. Happy birthday mate. Been following you for years. Please buy a BMR share on me. Please consider Seattle for a meetup. Seattle is on the list. I've been thinking about that one and I will buy a share of BMR on you as well. Thank you, VO, and thank you for being here. Broccoli, Broccoli Bob's been here for a long time. Thank you for the gift to 10 memberships. Broccoli, deeply, deeply appreciate you being here for the past couple years. Round, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, M. Thanks for all your DD on pounder and hood. Round, thank you for the $20 and thank you for being here. Shirona, thanks for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. Been here since Hoodie was 11. Wow, what a journey on Hoodie. What a journey on Hoodie. Thank you for being here and thank you for the super chat. Fallen, thanks for the $10. Happy birthday, man. Even though I work 12 night hour shifts or 12-h hour night shifts, I still managed to watch most of the streams and destroy my sleep. Glad I found you through Joseph Carlson earlier this year. Thank you for that. That really means a lot to me. Again, being part of people's days when they're at work, when they're getting home, driving, all that stuff. Um, man, it just it it just means more than I can imagine. And yeah, Joseph Carlson, I think he he he he featured like one of my posts in a video a couple months ago. and uh that's a lot of his audience kind of found me through that. So yeah, it means a lot. I mean I I I I I have my own content creators that I listen to throughout the day that gets me through, you know, what I'm doing throughout the day. And so it it it does uh really mean a lot to be like that for someone else. And I take that very seriously and I, you know, try to not undermine that position that I'm in and uh try to make sure it's as valuable as it can become. So thank you for being here. Uh Conversad, thank you for the 10 super chat. Hey, a minute. Quit my job that I have for 20 years uh to focus on doing lives like you for the Portuguese community starting in December. Thank you so much for your content. Pound your changes live. Wow. Uh definitely DM me your link on Twitter. I will uh blast it out to to anyone who is in the Portuguese community. And dude, that's incredible. That is absolutely incredible. I think uh there is a lot of demand for stock market content in a different language. So uh whether it's Spanish, Portuguese, I mean like Hindi, there's tons. There's, you know, YouTube has 2.6 billion people using it and not everyone obviously speaks English. So there's plenty of TAM and opportunity for people doing the what I do in a different language and and that's super awesome. So thank you for being here and uh let me know when your channel launches. Angela, thank you for the $28 super chat. Angela, I know you've been part of the show for a long time. I think you're part of Chris's Patreon if I'm not wrong. So thank you. Uh, thank you for being part of this entire community. Thank you for the super chat. Um, Tess, thank you for the super chat. Happy Womb. How do you say that word? Womb. Womb, right? The womb. That's how you say it, right? How to say or is it wamp? No, it's not womb. I'm being stupid. It's not wamp. It's freaking womb. It better be womb, bro.
>> Womb.
>> Okay, good. I almost said one, bro. I almost said happy womb evacuation day. Was going to wait till tomorrow as per what you said about your community giving on your birthday, but you're in the midst of loads and my community we give on birthdays. So, just enjoy your gifts. Thank you, Tess. Appreciate it. Of course, your super chat would be the comment that makes me mess up the word because why not? Tess has been trolling me on pronunciation for two and a half years. Dude, is it crazy to say? I thought it was womb. Like I knew I heard the word womb before, but I just wanted to confirm with Gemini. That's why we freaking buy Google stock, okay? Needed to have a little bit of confirmation. But thank you, Tess. Deeply, deeply appreciate it. Tess has again been a big supporter of the channel for the past couple of years. She has crushed it outside of pounder hood. For those that don't know, and you guys probably know by now, I mean, her name is literally Quantess. This has been her baby D-Wave right there for the past $35. I mean, she was buying this thing below a dollar. So, she is up more than 35x. I think in fact, she sold some recently to buy a house. So, you know, she was able to use those gains and really maximize the potential of what she's been able to do. And look, you know, I don't fully agree on D-Wave's valuation, but that doesn't mean that, you know, we can't get along in this community. And I think that's fair. You know, you can disagree on certain names and certain ideas of certain stocks. That's kind of what makes a market to have one person agree, one person disagree, but you can still be friends. You can still cultivate a meaningful community. And uh the two names that we've both been a part of Hood and Pounder have just been pretty exceptional. She was also very early in Hood and Paler as well. So yeah, she said, "I sold 10% for a new house." That's kind of crazy, bro. Like regardless of what you think of a stock or its valuation, if you buy it at a one and it goes to 35, I mean, and if it's probably not going back to one, which is why I think squarely shorting it is kind of stupid. Um, you can disagree all you want with how you think of the perception of the company, but to be able to then sell 10% of a 3500% move and buy a house, it's pretty freaking cool. It's pretty freaking cool. So, and a lot and you know, there's a decent amount of you that followed her into D-Wave. I mean, not everyone here, but a decent chunk of you guys have followed the quantum story and you've done very well. You've done very, very well as those names have continued to get more catalyst. So, there you go. Tess, thank you for being here. Also, for those that don't know, Tess is a mod, right? And she was at the the Miami meetup and uh she made sure everyone was getting drunk and uh you know, she took care of a lot of people. So, deeply appreciate your support, Tess. basically been like a motherly figure to me over the past couple years and I appreciate you being here in the chat every single day. Sherees, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, Amit. You are the best. Sherees, thank you for being here as well. Ryan, thanks for the super chat. Aid, happy birthday. You should have your show on YouTube TV. I mean, technically you could watch it on YouTube TV. Well, no, because YouTube TV is live. Yeah, usually I mean it's YouTube kind of functions as TV, but it's not literally YouTube TV at that you would have to join a network, which I've said before in the past, I don't think I'm ever going to join CNBC or Bloomberg just because I have too much fun doing it this way. You know, there there might be more financial upside in those opportunities, but it's just not as authentic. It doesn't feel as fun and like, you know, where are we going to get the Grinder and Dentist jokes from if we're on CNBC and Bloomberg, bro? It's gonna be boring. Also, there's going to be a teleprompter and you know, your boy is not going to be able to read any of the stupid names they put up on the teleprompter. And then on live television, I'm going to mess up. Like, I can mess up in front of 10,000. Do I want to mess up in front of a 100 thousand people by saying womb instead of womb? I don't know. I think CNBC would kick me off pretty easily if I uh if I made that mistake. So, in order for me to to to keep my ability to even pronounce the way I pronounce, I'm going to have to stay on YouTube. Uh Mark, thanks for the $20 super chat and happy birthday mid. Here's the Q4. Let's catch up in Europe. Hopefully, we will get that Europe meet up going on and uh appreciate you being here as well. Uh, Lolo, thank you for the $20 super chat. When I was in vacay in Japan, it felt weird without my daily emit meeting. Thank you so much and happy birthday. Lolo, thank you again. Yeah, it it felt weird on Friday when I didn't go live either. I mean, at this point, that's why in September, I was so annoyed because I was traveling so much and we didn't have the consistent routine and uh you know, I I I really care about that routine and uh I want to keep that routine. V-Wave right there, they're up 8% on the day. Tesla 455, Nvidia 191, Palanteer is at 190, and then you got the Googs right here. Wow. 267. Look at that. Alltime high on Google. Officially alltime high on Google, folks. S&P breaking out above 1% as well. But yeah, I I need that routine every day. And uh you know, the fact that other people care about that routine, that that also means a lot. Kyle, thanks for the super chat. Appreciate you. Make good work. Thanks a lot, man. Happy birthday, iconic immigrant. Thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday to the retail king. Please never change. Uh never let the gains cloud your brains. Appreciate that, sir. Thank you for being here. And uh yeah, deeply appreciate you being part of the community as well. Julie, thanks for the $20 super chat. Thank you for being here. Data monkey, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, dude. Hope all the super chats keep us here until the close. Appreciate the work on Hood, Nebius, and more. Sending love to you via the channel. Data monkey, thank you for being here as well. Congrats on the acquisition of Grinder. Thank you guys. I I appreciate that as well. All right, guys. No more super chats. I'm going to try to read the last 10 and then that's it. We got I got to let you guys leave. Like you guys have to leave. I have to leave. We'll be back on the close. Oh my gosh. This is a lot. There's still like another 30 of these left. Dude, I said there was 30 left. 30 ago. This is like This is a lot, dude. I'm like I'm like I'm kind of losing my voice here reading oldies. No, you're not allowed to leave. Oh my goodness. I guess I'm not. We're going to do the pictures on the clothes. We're gonna do the pictures on the close. And um and yeah, we'll do that on the market close. I almost called the NJ state police on Friday to do a welfare check. That would be funny if you call the police. Be like, "Where's it?" They'd be like, "We don't know." Like, "Well, he's not live, so what's going on here?" Um Chan, thank you for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mit. Hope it's a good one. Chan, appreciate you. B pill, thank you for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mid. Have a great day. But why are you gay? That's hilarious. As for that video we saw last week. Thank you for being here. Uh search problem. Thank you for the $5 super chat. Happy birthday, bro. Thanks to your calls. I'm kicking off a healthier investing journey. I'm breaking even so far after following your insights. Absolutely incredible. Thanks for being here. A lot of us sometimes got to clean up some of the junk in the portfolio. And you know, that was me back in 21. I think it was a lot of us. And so, you know, that's why it's hard to get into some of the specular names after you've been through that phase. You kind of want to just stay centered on fundamental companies. So appreciate you being here as well. P Mills, thanks for the $20 super chat. Been following your work since 2021. Help run your Facebook page, too. Happy birthday, buddy. Keep up the great work. P Mills, appreciate it. We have that pounder Facebook page back in like 22. It was just like a pounder investor group on Facebook. So, uh, yeah, I think you know, most people don't use that anymore, but those were the early days, right? When the stock was six, seven bucks and we all needed to connect somehow and there wasn't this massive YouTube community. We're like, all right, who's on Facebook that cares about Palier? And uh, and we set up that group. So, super super awesome for you being here since those days and thanks for being part of the channel. Mark, thanks for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, Mitch. Started watching this year from the beautiful city of Nottingham, UK. I love it. I need to visit my Brits. I have to go there hopefully. Hopefully, that's the first part of the international leg. I mean, I know London is a is a big one for a lot of people. So, we're gonna see what we can do and uh hopefully we can make that happen. Omar, thanks for the one uh gifted sub. Appreciate you. Easy, thanks for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, mate. I've been you for I've been with you for six months and my accounts have grown by over 40,000. Thank you. Incredible. Congratulations on that. Very nice to see. Uh TripleVx3, not the actual triple V, but a different triple VX3. Thank you for being here. Happy birthday, bro. Thanks for all the work you do. Thanks for giving us the space. You're awesome at being our grinder tester pounder hoodlum. It's a perfect name. Grinder tester pounder hoodlum. Thank you for being here as well. Juan, thanks for the $20 super ad. Happy birthday, brother. I wish you the best and great health. I got into pounder with $15. Extremely grateful. Let's get to 10 on grab. Thank you for all your DD on the companies and the community. Juan, thanks for being there. Again, pounder at 15 seems like a lifetime ago. And alltime highs today. Pretty exciting to see as well. But um yeah, it's been incredible. Just been an absolutely incredible ride. Alex, thanks for the super chat. Hey, I'm so glad I found you back in 2022. Thanks for everything you do and happy birthday. How many super chats left? Is this a record broken? I I think it might be a record broken for a financial YouTuber. There is 148 is what I'm seeing. I don't know how many we have left, but yeah, it might be that record. Thank you for being here and thanks for being part of the channel. S&P 500 right there at 68324. Siege, thank you again for a $200 super chat. You do not need to send this money. I would send $200 a day until I realize Triple V has got to be worse at least 10x than me. So, I dialed it back to keep it in line. You've got an amazing brain. Take care of it for us. See, you're you're you're being too kind. But you already sent the $20 super chat. Thank you for the $200 super chat again. Appreciate you as always. And uh let's just say drinks on me. I know you can drink. I know you can drink. So, drinks on me next time uh next time we're at a meet up. Uh on my Thank you for the $2 chat. Happy birthday, Mid. Watching your stream has become part of my daily activities. Thank you and keeping up for the work. I hope you keep up with it. Thank you for being here. I again it's deeply deeply gratifying to know that it's part of people's daily routines and hopefully it continues to be a part of people's routines. Cheeky, thanks for the 40 super chat for your folks to admit they deserve the love. Buy them a drink for raising an amazing man. Happy birthday for all the best in the year ahead. Your knowledge has truly helped me as a newbie investor. Thank you. I will uh you know I I will make sure the uh the folks are taken care of as well. Cheeky and thanks for the super chat. One of the one of the better parts of having a little bit more financial freedom and I think a lot of you guys in the chat have probably felt this as well is just being able to take care of some of your loved ones. So, you know, like it I will randomly send my mom money and I actually bought her an iPad over the weekend because I bought myself another iPad because I needed another screen to kind of do a little bit more of the work that I'm keeping up with and so I know my mom's been talking about an iPad so I bought her an iPad as well. like just just having the ability to be like, you know, you don't have to stress too much about buying your loved ones a gift, you know, it is it is the most rewarding part of uh being in the stock market and actually being able to accelerate in the stock market because you have the ability to, you know, help other people. So deeply deeply deeply means a lot and you know everyone that's been the most rewarding part of being able to even be part of the charie. Joe, thanks for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, Mid. doing wonderfully. Great effort. Keep up the spirit. Shine brighter all the time. Keep it up. Joe, thank you for being here. Thank for being part of the show as well. Uh the first trillionaire. Thanks for the $5 super chat. Admit it. It's weird to say this to a stranger, but I'm proud of you and I'm also so grateful to be here. Wish I found you earlier, but I tune in every day now. First trillionaire. First of all, I'm proud to know you as well because if you're actually going to be the first trillionaire, then I would love that they're in my chat. That would be incredible. And yeah, man. I appreciate you being here every day. the fact that you're, you know, tuning in multiple times a day, it means a lot. AZ, thanks for the $50 super chat. Thank you for being here. Aldrich, thanks for the 10 bucks. Happy birthday, man. Thanks for showing up every day. Hope your coffee is always the right temperature and your pillow is cool on the other side. Aldrich, thank you for being here. Thanks for being part of the channel. Ken, thanks for the $20 shout. Just to just here to keep you on. Happy birthday. I know you since 2022. You don't know me, but we have had some exchanges. Ken means a lot. Um, there's another person named Ken. Ken Bahori if he's watching and uh he initially sent me one of the first pieces of Palanteer paraphernalia that I've had uh ever and it's this like metal logo of Palanteer. So uh yeah I mean a lot of people from that 2022 time frame that have kept up with the channel and it means a lot. So thank you Ken for being here. Chili dog, thanks for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday mid. I'm here daily and appreciate you. Freedom Nick, thanks for the $10 super chat. You have been a blessing during the stress of this market. Thank you for your joy. Freedom Nick, thank you for being here as well. Again, on the good days or the bad days, we all got to be here and uh try to analyze everything that is going down and going down. And you know, on the bad days, sometimes, you know, there's a little bit more of a necessity to have a bit of a community versus on the good days. Yeti, thanks for the $28 super chat. Longtime listener, thank you for everything, myth. Yeti, thanks for being here. Daffany, thank you for the $100 super chat. Deeply appreciate it. You didn't write anything in the super chat, but thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here and thank you for the $100 super chat. Nikita, thanks for the 10 bucks. Hi Mit, I'm new to investing and I've been listening to you for a few weeks now. Thanks for all your guidance. Happy birthday. Hope you have a meet up in New York City sometime soon. Yeah, I think we will be doing it in January. I'm having a meeting with uh the new agency I was working with on Saturday. So, uh yes, I think New York City is definitely happening. Don't know exactly the date, probably towards the end of January, but it looks like we're going to get the ball rolling on that and that should be very fun. And uh it'll be another chance to meet a bunch more people. So, thank you Nikita for the super chat. Dimmitri, thank you for the $100. Happy birthday, Mid. I've been watching you from February 25 and during the crisis in April when I was heavily invested in Nvidia. Your reasoning and positive thinking helped me to keep my peace of mind. I made a lot of money. Cheers from Greece. Dimmitri, thanks for being here. know ironically deepseek and the collapse in April was how I established my Nvidia position as well. Um you know my average is now 122 and you kind of needed deepseek and then the onslaught of the tariffs to really give us the prices that was needed to develop a real position. So um you know as I as I was dcaing and as all of us were trying to reconcile and and deal with the the volatility of the of the markets retail as a whole kind of took advantage of the of the situation. Hopefully the stream was a good spot for everyone to to kind of convene and just be able to talk about what's happening and ultimately I think most of us concluded it's it's a buy and it's worked out really well for us. So thank you Dmitri, thank you for being here. Avis, thank you for the $11 super chat. Jake, thank you for the $10 super chat and making fun of how I say womb. It is what it is. Would appreciate you being here. Amitz Dentist, thank you again for a $20 super chat. Call me. It's just about the copay nothing else. Oh my goodness, dude. Oh my goodness. This this dentist thing is has taken quite the life of its own. All right, we're getting towards the end. We're getting towards the end and then I think we'll be done. Grumpy Bunny, thank you for being a channel member. Happy birthday, Mitt. Enjoy and take care of yourself. You'll be surprised how quickly the next 28 years go. Been here since Pounder at 7. Grumpy Bunny, thank you for being here. I, you know, as I get older, life is moving faster. I've said this over the past couple months. I felt that life is moving much faster and I don't think that's going to slow down. So, taking the moments to sit and just uh uh you know uh sort of reflect I guess is the best way to frame it on what has happened over the past couple years. It it really does mean a lot. And so, yeah, I appreciate you being here. Appreciate this whole community. And I think the reflecting of that stuff is very important on days like this. Uh Fryjack, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, M. said you wanted to give back to the community, but we're the ones who got to give back to you. Uh, I don't know what the next two words say. I think this is in a different language. I definitely cannot say that. Wistiago nailgo. I don't know what the hell that means. It's got to be a different language, but thank you for being here. Dude, I kind of want to look that up now. What is that? WSZ Y T K I E G O Naj Oh, this is a song. This is a Polish song. Okay, I'm gonna listen to this today. Oh, it's happy birthday in Polish. Oh [__] because well say happy birthday song. Okay, got it. Thank you. Thank you for the happy birthday in Polish. I'm gonna listen to that song though. A song on YouTube popped up. So, I'm going to listen to this later. All right, there you go. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Ken, thanks for the $10 chat. After I was let go in July, I learned how to sell calls and puts thanks to your options 101. I still look for a job and now I'm making 2x what I used to make. So, I got something to go with. Wow. Congratulations, Argato. Thank you, Ken, for being here. I I do think option selling is a bit of a a life hack uh if you can do it productively. And so, yeah, I mean, there there's a couple other people who reached out to me that said they lost their job over the past few months just given the un uneasiness of the labor market and and they they look to option selling with some of the collateral they had. And, you know, even if you have 50 grand, 100 grand, even 25 grand, there is a way to generate some yield in a way that that also mitigates some risk. So, deeply appreciate you being here and hopefully that options 101 has helped a lot of people. Susan, thank you for the $50 super chat. Happy birthday. There's a lot of us following from United Flight Attendants and Pilots. Wow. That is awesome. Thank you, Susan, for uh for being here. Uh United, United is the airline of choice, so I guess you get pretty happy every time I mention I'm on a United flight. Um super dope. Super super super dope. I I love United. I've been flying with them basically for the past 10 years now. So, uh deep appreciation for any of the United flight attendants and pilots who keep up with the channel. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here, Susan. And thank you for the word of mouth on the channel. Christopher, thanks for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday, M. Thank you for everything you do. Chris, thanks for being here. Shane, Olaf, happy birthday, buddy. Shane, thank you for the super chat and being here. Mark, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. Appreciate you and the community you've built. Hopefully catch you in the UK at some point. Hopefully, we will be in the UK and uh we'll be excited to be here. I'm Benny. Thanks for the super chat. Call Steve. I think we'll call Steve on the close. I was talking to him in the morning. I know he's got a little bit of a busier Monday with meetings, but we'll definitely uh give him a call later and we'll talk to him. Dad thoughts, thank you for the super chat. Was sold on you after the story about the Scarface jacket. Been a pleasure to witness your journey and see your channel grow. My kids know you as our drive time DJ. The growth is due to your great character. Happy birthday, Dad Thoughts. Appreciate you. Um, you know, the the other the other cool uh cool element about this whole journey is is is the the kids that have been, you know, part of it because a lot of you guys are older and you have kids, right? S&P, by the way, new all-time high on the day continuing to move and um and and the fact that the fact that you know your kids are listening, I take that very seriously, you know, because I I do want to be a good influence on them and uh you know, it means a lot. It's definitely added a level of responsibility when I'm speaking and and interacting with everybody. So, I I really do appreciate those that have let me into their homes and be part of their families and uh yeah, you know, it just it just means a lot because those kids are growing up and you know, they're consuming this content even subliminally and potentially that's attracting them to to be more interested in the markets. And you never know, maybe it could be the catalyst that gets them to really start investing seriously. I think all of us have realized, you know, when you get into the investing, when you get the investing bug, it's hard to get out of it and it really can change your life. So, really nice for for people at a younger age to um to be dealing with that as well. Rio, thank you for the $20 shad. Happy birthday, Emit. We can all win together. Aloha. Have a blessed day. Rio, thank you for being here. And yes, we all can win together. Thank you for being part of the community. Paul, thank you for the $100. Happy birthday, Emit. Been a fun ride. Keep it up, bro. Paul, deeply appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the $100 super chat. Very, very kind of you. Uh, Lamada, thank you for becoming a good channel member. Kaen Williams, thank you for the $20 super chat. Happy birthday. Tam, thanks for the $10. Stephen, thanks for the $2 super chat. Thank you for being here as well. Mr. Music, thank you. And happy birthday. Recently found your channel and really enjoyed. Keep up with the great work. Lauren, so much so far. Greetings from Bosnia. Bosnia, another place that I want to visit one day. So, thank you as well for being here, Mr. Music. And thank you for being part of the show. Uh, House Hoops, happy birthday, M. Thanks for your hard work. Thank you for the 50 super chat. House Hoops, thanks for being part of the community as well. Darth, thanks for the $20 super chat. Hi, Mid. Happy birthday. I'm about to retire at the age of 40. Wow. Big part because of you. Big been here since the Tom Nash days. Appreciated you, Jarth. That means a lot, man. And congrats on retirement at at 40. That is uh that is not easy to do. Not easy to do at all. And you know those early days 2021 2022 lots of different shows and videos and all these different concepts and a lot of people you know there weren't as many people watching but the people that were watching I think were really drawn to those different shows and you know I remember I used to host the show with Tom and Justin like all this this whole journey has just been kind of crazy and it's resulted in what we have today. So appreciate you being here since then and congrats on the retirement as well. All right we got like six left. We got like six left. We're going to get through it. George Feliz Complanos, that means happy birthday in Spanish. I remember that much from Mr. Garcia back in 10th grade. When are you visiting Puerto Rico? I'll like to be here. Hopefully Puerto Rico soon, but thank you for the $5 super chat. I've actually never been. I think no, maybe I've been once, like 10, 15 years ago, but I definitely would like to visit Puerto Rico. I have a couple friends that are there and it would be super fun. So, if I do go, I will let everyone know. Felix, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, M. Thanks for everything. I'm 25 and I started walking watching back in March. I'm trying to watch every stream. Made good money. Still below 100,000, but hopefully spring 2026. Best from Switzerland. Felix, thank you for being here. Deeply appreciate you. And um you know that first 100K is hard, but also that first 100K once you get there, you kind of feel unstoppable, right? Because so many people have have have not been able to just even get forget 100,000, but 10,000 in savings. And so I think a lot of us that are just focused on those milestones, making sure that we're aggressive with with holding ourselves accountable to being able to save or invest or compound to get to those milestones really means a lot because then then you start to say, okay, if I can get to 100, I can get to a million. If I can get to a million, I can get to five million. You know, if I can really get these milestones, then I can keep this going. And I think the whole journey of life is how can you keep going? How can you keep progressing? Life gets kind of boring when you hit a ceiling. And so, you know, very important no matter what part of the journey to to keep that journey going. Uh, Fem TV, thank you for the five super chat. Not much, but go get yourself some mayonnaise, please. That's the one thing I'm not going to be eating today for my birthday. Probably not mayonnaise. Probably not that, but thank you for being here. Rishi Patel, thanks for the super chat. Happy birthday, M. I started watching this year. You in inspired me to start a YouTube channel and an options from actuarial studies. I love your mentorship. Thanks for being genuine and trustworthy. Cheers from London, Relle. Thank you for being here. You know, an actuary is actually one of the jobs my mom wanted me to look into back when I was in high school and uh I didn't end up going that route, but I have a lot of respect for those that work as actuaries. It's not the easiest job in the world. And so uh options and derivatives should be a little bit of a simple simpler segue because you're dealing with numbers already so much, but I think it does make a lot of sense. And congrats on the YouTube channel. So, thank you Michelle for being here as well. Promote, thank you for becoming a channel member. CR, thanks for the $10 super chat. Derek, thanks for the super chat. admit I've said this before, but it's a really cool thing having a group that chat stocks or my other friends don't know stocks or don't care. I agree and that's why the sub communities that have been created from this entire chat uh are really special because you know whether it's group chats about tech or group chats about macro like a lot of you guys have formed your own group chats and privately messaged each other and now you have some strangers across the world that you're friends with that you can talk to even if your buddies don't care about what's happening with Nvidia. So yeah, I I think I think that the the the the subgroups out of the broader chat have created so many more opportunities for people and you know that that's important when a lot of your friends and family might not care about it. Uh Cheese Head, thank you for the $28 super chat. Happy birthday, man. Thanks for providing value to the world. Thank you for being here. Thank you for that cheese head. Sauce Head, happy birthday. Thank you for being here as well. Justin, thank you for the $500 super chat. You guys are really, really too kind today. Deeply, deeply appreciated, Justin. Thank you. Thank you. And happy birthday. Keep it up. Again, guys, that's a lot of money. You do not need to be spending that much money. Uh, but I I very very very much appreciate it. And thank you, Justin, for the $500 super chat. Thank you for being here. I know I don't really monetize the channel. I don't charge like subscriptions. I don't do private Discord, all that stuff. Uh, which is why a lot of you guys are compelled sometimes to just send your support through a super chat, but genuinely I I I just I really am doing it for the love of the game. I'm happy that you guys are here. That's it. I know it sounds cliche, but like I was doing this when there was no money involved in it. So, it's like, you know, the money is just an added bonus, but being able to get to do it every day. It's like happiness. It's very few people get to do what they want to do every single day and be happy at it. And, you know, I get to do that every day. So, thank you, Justin. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the $500 super chat. Means a lot. And thanks for being here. Amit, just kidding. My birthday is next week, dude. That That would be funny. That would be funny. Just kidding, guys. My birthday's next week. No, but I think it's like finally it's my birthday after all the birthday wishes for the past two years. We finally have the uh official birthday. Viper, thanks for the $20 chat. Hi, Emit. Newer listener from California. Found you around Liberation Day. Hope to meet in California. Thanks for helping me lean in my golden years. Viper, thank you for being here as well. And uh hopefully we'll be doing that LA meet up soon and we'll be able to meet. Vestal, thank you for the $2.79 super chat. Appreciate you being here. John, thanks for the $50 super chat. Happy birthday, Emit. You've changed so many lives. Keep up the hard work. We appreciate you. John, thank you for being here. Smith, thank you for the super chat. Thanks so much for everything you do. Happy birthday. See you in Prague someday hopefully. Would love to be in Prague. Uh definitely across the pond would love to go and travel. So, thank you for being here. We got two left, folks. Two left. Jamie Lynn, thank you for the $20 super chat. Aid, happy birthday to the goat. you in this community have changed my life. I recently reached a sevenf figureure club. Congratulations. I couldn't have done it without you. You have truly changed my life. Jamie means the absolute world. Uh you have changed my life by consuming the content every single day. And hopefully the content's value in the chat and the community have been enough to change your life as well financially. So appreciate you Jamie and thank you for being here. Uh metal god 2030, thank you for the $50 super chat. Happy birthday mid. Hope you have a wonderful day. Thanks to you I learned about pounder and a lot about the market. Again, thank you for being here, metal god, and thank you for being part of the channel. Idris, thanks for the $10 chat. Happy birthday, Amit. Thanks for everything you've done. Greater heights await you see once you're in Singapore. Looking forward to being to Singapore, hopefully in July of next year. Thank you for being part of the channel. And then Jake, thank you for the 25 $25 shipp. Thanks for making my daily morning drive enjoyable. Happy birthday. Thank Thank you for being here every day while you're on that daily drive and uh allowing me to enter your world. Okay, the last one. That's it. We are done. Last one. Please do not send any more. I I legit cannot stay live any longer. But Guy from the UK, thank you for the 10 super chat. I think we legit spent an hour reading super chats, too. We had 180 super chats. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Again, you know, it's so counterintuitive because you're like, "Stop sending me money." When in reality, someone would be like, "Oh, great. Let me milk this. I'm making, you know, making tons of money right here." But like first of all I feel bad that people are sending my on my birthday I should be giving back not you guys give to me that's just how I've always felt about you know a special day uh like a birthday and number two it's like you you know you don't need to send the super chats like the fact that you guys are here every day that is more than enough it is not really is not about the money it is about the fact that people care and I just think we're building something special dude I really do think we're building something special I think in the next 10 years this could be even bigger than what a lot of people imagine. I mean, there's no heights to where this can go, but to build anything real, again, going back to Pounder, to build anything real, you've got to build it with the intent of not worrying about sucking the life and the money out of the customer or the community, but building something so authentic that the money will eventually find you. But like, are you building? And that's what Paler did for 20 years. They built something very real and now they're getting rewarded for it. But it took time to go through all that [__] to build it and to not take the easy way out. And and that's that's the approach that I'm having here. That is the goal. And uh you know the fact that people care so much it uh it is it is it is deeply humbling. It's deeply deeply humbling. Google's making Yeah. Buy some Google stock bro. I mean today is going to feed Google's next quarter's EPS by God knows how much. Google right there alltime high is 267. Uh pounder just under 190. S&P 683 on the day as well. Jav, thank you for the $50 super chat. Jake, thanks for the $10. Dollar Dash, thank you as well. I found you two months ago. Best thing I did listening to you every morning on PST and every market close. Wow, that's early. That's 5:45. So, appreciate everyone from the West Coast. Appreciate everyone across the world that has to get up at a weird time to watch this stuff. Spencer, thanks for the super chat. Blaine, thank you. Robert, thank you. Yeah. And all you guys, it uh it really means a lot, guys. I I I don't I don't know what else to say. I don't know what else to say. I didn't I didn't know that I would uh that I would end up in this position in life. And I'm trying to trying to make sure that this position is is is something that that really is not uh is not taken for granted, I guess, is the biggest thing. Don't want to take it for granted at all. So yeah, man. It means a lot. Means a lot. 28 years old, reflecting on life, getting older. It's important to uh I think take a moment to just just look back and and see, you know, how how life is progressing. We only get one of them and then we're gone. And uh that is the inevitability of life that, you know, I I don't speak about it as much. I mean, I used to speak about this a little bit more back in 2022 for those that used to listen to the late night stock talks that we used to do, but uh, you know, mortality has definitely been something that has been on my mind realistically since I've been 20 years old. I mean, I I've studied a lot of philosophy that has to do with existentialism and what it means to even be alive and how do you want to conceptualize the nature of existence. Albert Kimu, a massive influential philosophical uh, influence on myself and and uh, you know, I've thought about mortality and death very deeply. And the conclusion that I've come to in regards to to the idea that we all got to die one day is, you know, you you it's as cheesy as it sounds. You've got to make the most of the finite time you have on life. And quite frankly, the finite nature of existence is what brings purpose to everything that we're doing. If you could live forever, it might not be as valuable. you know, you you might not feel as uh uh excited to take on the day-to-day responsibilities of being alive and the day-to-day tragedies and chaos of existence and having to live and pay the bills and like to to get through all that [__] every day is a journey. And to even feel that that journey is worth going on, you've got to be you've got to be excited to live in the moment. Part of the reason, you know, the the the the energy that people feel comes from the market open, market close every day, whether there were 40 people or 400 people or 4,000 people over the years that have been watching, a lot of that energy comes from this idea that you have, at least from my perspective, one life. And the fact that people even care to consume my content in this one life means that I'm going to give them the best show I can possibly give them. And uh that means bringing the most amount of energy and excitement and enthusiasm and and and and and and hopefully value to people's daily lives because you only have one chance to do it, right? And eventually the show is going to come to an end. I don't know if that's at 35, if that's at 45, if that's at 50. Like I I don't know when we stop doing the market open, market close, but eventually there will be some end to the show as there is with any show ever, right? there's an eventually an end to it. Uh, and so making the most of what we've been building, which, you know, I I don't want to end anytime soon because I I just I just feel so grateful to be able to do it every day. And the fact that so many thousands of people feel that same gratitude, you know, it means a lot. Shut your dirty mouth. You're never ending the show. Dude, I've thought about it that like when I took Friday off, I was like, what if I actually took like a month off? Like what would happen, bro? Like I just feel like so many people would be like annoyed more than anything because like yeah you guys like me but you also like getting the news and the updates and like you need to get it every day and it's like there's not that many people doing this in a way that I think is as succinct as as hopefully I've been able to put it every morning and and afternoon and I definitely think a lot of people would be pissed off. But I uh I also have no intention to stop because you know I I think we're I really just think we're at the beginning of it. So last thing I'll say is I think the reason this whole thing has worked is because there's a level of authenticity towards building this um you know whenever you're doing something really creative you got to resonate with people like the people are your boss right whenever you're doing something creative the people are your boss and and one thing I've had to settle with over the past couple of months now as the the channel has grown more substantially and and my name has grown more substantially on like platforms like Twitter is everyone has an opinion and if the boss is the public then you know technically you have to listen to every opinion but also at the same time every opinion is not equal right every you might have some opinions from some people that quite frankly don't have the best ideas in the world but you still see their opinions and so I think part of this journey in remaining authentic is not necessarily changing the way I am or the way I operate or how I think about the world because of what other people think because trust me when you when when you get to a stage where you're getting thousands and thousands of uh opinions a day just being thrown at you about a variety of topics. You know, forget the stock market, you have opinions about anything about, you know, who you are as a human being. Like, it is it is a bit of a toll. And I I don't want to say it in a woe is me type of thing, but I do want to say like there is a toll that, you know, Tanner relates to this, you know, so some of the other, you know, guys who are doing this full-time, like they they it's a lot you have to deal with. You have to try to navigate your mental stability when you're dealing with all those opinions. But at the same time, it doesn't mean that you ignore those opinions because those opinions could actually be very helpful towards making the show even better, right? And and there are some some very uh valid pieces of constructive criticism that I've heard uh you know over over the past three years on how to make the show even better and how to how to bring more value to people that are consuming it. So I think the balance of finding it's almost like going back to Palanteer the balance of them listening to their customers even though their entire forward deployed engineering model is them making the customers listen to them while also being authentic enough for them to say look we are going to still be forward deployed and the world can call it a consulting firm we don't care but like this is how we do business and we're going to listen to what you have to say but this is the way that we know is the right way to do it that tends to work out long term if you can strike a balance and for me I think it's very similar It's like the amount of freaking brand deals that I've got over the past honestly like three months. The amount of people hitting me, the amount of offers of just like, "Hey, literally you just have to say this once and we'll pay you $25,000." Like making sure who you are is not a disvalue to the audience. Number one, and making sure that you reject anything that even even has a chance of like like like corrupting that that ethos, which is again what I think has made Palunter so special. they just they they don't they don't um negotiate on their values because they have those hard set in stone. That is what will keep the channel growing. And I've seen a lot of YouTubers in the finance space that go the opposite direction. They they like the quick buck for whatever reason. I I don't understand how money becomes such an obsessive force in people's lives. Uh I'm not saying this as a guy with tons and tons and tons of money. I've been broke for the past couple years. only really over the past 12 months have I started to actually get a little bit more financially independent. You know, I'm not saying I'm not some trust fund baby with millions of dollars saying, "Oh, I don't get why people care about money." I'm saying this more so in the context of hey I've been broke and I've worked really hard and pounder and hood have and Nvidia have pounder and hood being the main ones but Nvidia this year as well you know two to two too I I we've had some help over the past couple years with some pretty good investments but I don't see the need to compromise on your values just to get another quick buck and I I really do think that is what will keep the channel pure and authentic over the lifetime of doing this as soon as I I I I negotiate on those values is everything's [__] Everything and and and and that is uh I guess the last thing I want to say is that you don't want to negotiate on core values and and you know take that take that from the channel to your own life. Whatever values you don't negotiate on you don't negotiate on and and and no matter how compelling the offers are staying true to it is is is is what I mean again going back to Pounder they said they would never sell to Russia and China. Look at what has happened over the past couple years with Russia and China. Like sometimes your values are your values and when you come up with them in the first place, you really have to ask yourself, are you going to leave them? And if you're not going to leave them, then you're going to have to take it the harder way because Russia and China would have paid a lot of money. But you know, Karp had a different vision. And so with this channel, I have the same vision. I just want to keep it as authentic as possible and keeping it going for the long term. Mid is the Japanese prime minister. Never heard that one before. That's a good one. That's a good one. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Means a lot. Means the world. Appreciate you being here. I will try to remain as uh as much as a core human that I've been uh since 2021 when starting this channel throughout the ups and downs and you know mistakes whatever has happened I think has led to to this moment and uh at its core I I think it's I think it's been the journey of a lifetime. It's been incredible to be here. I have not drank Saratoga water ever since. See, listening to going back to listening to people's feedback. I've not drank that damn water. That's why this bull market has really continued because if I did and you guys found out, I mean, genuinely, look, like when I I'm not even lying, bro. I have not drank Saratoga water ever since that day where I drank it and the market fell down and all you guys said, "I have to stop drinking." Like I've been at events over the past couple months where they offer Saratoga and I literally go the opposite and I get the other water and I'm like I'm not drinking the Saratoga because of you guys. That's how much because because then I don't want to lie about it and be like no of course I'm not drink like no boy you were drinking it the other day like what are you talking so I can't lie but I've not drank it because of you guys and hopefully that keeps this bull market going. So yeah, bro is literally traumatized from this freaking Saratoga bottle that happened back in May. But again, all these like little insiders and jokes and stuff, that's what keeps it that's what keeps it fresh. That's what keeps it fun. And uh you know, that's what keeps this community as thriving as it is. So, all right. Thank you. Appreciate it, guys. I'm sorry if there's a couple other super chats I did not get to. Uh I'll try to get through these real quick. Witchwatch, thank you for becoming a channel member. Troy, thank you for the super chat. Happy birthday, Mitt. So glad to be part of this community from Malaysia. I love it. Hopefully I'll be able to visit Malaysia soon. Ken, thank you for becoming a channel member. Winged and Gills, happy birthday, bro. I changed my YouTube handle every so often, but I've been watching a while. Appreciate you. Keep up the great work. Wings and Gills, thank you for being here. And then Nick, thank you for the birthday chat as well. Um, appreciate you for the happy birthday and thank you for being part of the community. DSN as well, thank you for the 80 super chat. Thank you. Keep it up. Thank you for being here. as well. Means a lot, guys. It really, really means a lot. I'll be back on the close. We'll see what we got for earnings. Um, we'll do the birthday photo thingy at the end of the day and uh we'll do we'll do the giveaway as well. We'll do the giveaway as well towards the end of the day and uh we'll have some fun questions for the for the giveaway. So, there you go. All right. Love you all. Appreciate it. Um, I think that is pretty much it. We still have to do word of the day, right? Okay, let's do let's do word of the day. This should be the last one for today. Okay, here we go. Uh, eulogent. Eulogent. No, sorry. Eulgent. Damn, I said f you legit. It is
>> eulgent.
>> Eulgent. Damn, bro. I'm really stupid, bro. I see E FF and I'm like F Yulj. Like I'm just like my brain is weird, bro. Just I see an EFF. I'm like, oh, of course it's F. Fulggin. No, it's like that's not how you say it. But there you go. Radiating brilliance, shining brightly, full of light or joy.
>> Eulgent.
>> Eulgent. There you go. Uh, I would say the stock market is pretty damn eulgent today. Up 1% on the S&P. Tesla's up five. Palanter's up two. Hoodie's up five. Nvidia's up three. SoFi's up three, Google's up 2.7. I mean, you're really getting some exciting moves right here. And if we can continue this on to the end of the day and then going into earnings starting tomorrow and then this would be a very eulgent stock market for the for the end of the year. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you for the super chats again. Means the world. I'll be back on the market close. We'll do a fun birthday stream. We'll cover the markets and we don't have any major earnings today. We have a couple of companies including Cadence. We'll look at those and uh then we'll keep going from there. Thank you everybody. Deeply appreciate you all. Love you all. I will see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.