Taiwan’s presidential election is coming soon
We have grown up under a democratic system
Democratic elections are often taken for granted
Many people actually don’t know what the original meaning of democracy is?
How did democratic institutions emerge?
The book I’m going to face today is “The Arena of Democracy”
Let’s introduce the thousand-year history of democracy
The author of this book, David Stasavage, is a political scientist at New York University in the United States.
In today’s video, let’s talk about:
What are the origins of democracy?
Why can some countries move toward democracy while others become authoritarian?
How can we make society more democratic?
The word democracy comes from ancient Greece
meaning government by the people
That is, the people have the power to govern themselves
We say a society is democratic
It means that the ruler cannot do whatever he wants
We must seek consensus from the people
The origins of democracy we used to read in civics textbooks usually look like this:
In ancient times, all parts of the world were in periods of despotism and empire.
Only Europe is special
The ancient Greeks invented democracy
Statesman Cleisthenes pioneered democratic reforms in the 6th century BC
Divide the city-state of Athens into 10 tribes
Each tribe draws lots to select 50 people to join the 500-member meeting
Anyone can become an official by drawing lots
Citizens who want to express their opinions can speak at the rally
"Citizen" here refers to adult men, excluding women and slaves
Later, ancient Greek democracy disappeared after the fall of the Roman Empire.
But it was revived by Europeans in the late Middle Ages
This is the origin of modern democracy
This typical story actually conceals one thing
When Europeans were colonizing parts of the world
It is often found that indigenous peoples in various places have democratic systems similar to those of ancient Greece
this is called early democracy
When Alexander the Great conquered India
Discovered that local democratic assemblies were nothing like the republican city-states of ancient Greece
However, these documents have been scorned by Western scholars for hundreds of years.
It was not until the 20th century that more evidence emerged that
The Shakya tribe in ancient India actually had democratic assemblies long ago
Why did academia ignore this for so long?
After India was colonized by the British
The British government could rationalize colonial rule by saying "India is a despotism"
Said the British would bring the gospel of democracy
But if India had a democratic society in ancient times
Indians can advocate anti-colonial independence
Return to traditional democratic governance
Next, when the French colonized North America,
The missionary was surprised to find
The Wyandot people living in Ontario actually have a democracy
Every village is governed by a council
The leader must be recognized collectively by the community
The next level up is the Alliance Council, which adopts consensus decision-making.
Each tribe can decide whether or not to abide by the Alliance's decisions
This shocked the French missionaries
Think they have implemented the ancient Greek democratic ideals
But unlike the city-state of Athens
The democracy of the Wyandot people is such that even women can participate in political power.
Because the Wyandot tribe is a matrilineal society, men marry into their wives’ families.
On the contrary, democratic governance in ancient Greece excluded women from the beginning.
Later, the 20th century American anthropologist Joseph G. Jorgensen
Documenting 172 Native American tribes
Found that more than half have democratic parliaments
Examples of Native Americans were recorded by Lewis Henry Morgan, the father of American anthropology
Inspired Marx and Engels
This is believed to be the earliest communist society in human history
Communism must be a democratic society, not a dictatorship
Furthermore, Africa also had early democratic societies.
Anthropologists doing fieldwork in Africa in the 1940s
Think that the native Africans live in a state of anarchy
Because they have no national system or central authority
Only later did anthropologists realize
The locals don’t have a country because they don’t need a country
Tribal leaders like the Bantu are subject to local councils
No need for state enforcement of laws
Finally, even the Middle East had early democracies
In ancient times, the nomadic Bedouin people lived here.
The tribe will elect a leader (Shaykh)
Because nomadic people migrate regularly
So those who don’t want to be ruled can leave at any time
In some tribes, everyone is a leader
For example, the Sha people in Jordan say:
"We have no Shaykh, because we are all Shaykh"
So why are all the autocratic countries we see in the Middle East now?
Many people think that the emergence of Islam is not conducive to the development of democracy
This statement is not consistent with the facts
Muhammad's governance methods are recorded in the "Medina Chapter"
There is neither class authority nor state coercion
On the contrary, the Quran records that rulers should rule the people according to Shura principles
Shura means negotiation
like after muhammad died
The four orthodox caliphs were collectively elected through the Shura principle.
rather than hereditary
Why early democracies disappeared in the Middle East
because when the Islamic empire expanded
Unified the Sasanian Empire in Iraq
The Sasanian Empire had a very sophisticated bureaucracy
The Islamic conquerors adopted this system for their own use
Let it become a dictatorship
Therefore, the subsequent succession of the caliphate became a hereditary system.
It was not abolished until the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century.
If the Islamic Empire had expanded a century earlier
There is no existing system to take over
The history of the Middle East may well have been different
From the above examples we can see
Early democracies appeared throughout the world in the Middle East, Africa, and the Americas
The author collected samples from 186 societies around the world
Early democracies discovered around the world
This brings us to a conclusion:
In fact, for most of human history
Human beings will naturally develop democratic governance
We must abandon a misconception
Thinking that democracy was created by white Europeans and Americans at some point in time
Then spread it to all over the world
Evidence shows early democracies around the world
On the contrary, after Europeans colonized the world in the 16th century,
Destroyed early democracies everywhere
established an undemocratic colonial regime
After the European colonial powers left in the 20th century,
Many countries became independent one after another and began to regain democracy.
So the real question is not "Why was it only the West that invented democracy?"
But why there are democracies all over the world
But some places have become authoritarian?
First, let’s answer why some countries move towards democracy
What conditions allow democracy to develop?
the author thinks
Looking at history we can find a principle
When the ruler is weaker than the people
Democracy can flourish
The first situation is when it is difficult for the ruler to estimate the productivity of the people
The essence of the state's existence is to obtain people's income to provide people with security
Rulers need to know how much people earn before they can tax them
Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Louis XIV’s finance minister, said
Taxation is like plucking goose feathers
You have to pull out as much as possible
But it won’t make the goose angry
Collecting too little tax will cost the treasury
Taxing too much will cause people to revolt
When people rebel and refuse to pay taxes
The ruler's regime will be shaken
Therefore, all countries at home and abroad in ancient and modern times must face this problem.
The ruler has two solutions
One is to admit that one is in a weak position and does not know how to govern.
We have no choice but to practice democracy and cooperate with local people who have the information.
A meeting was held to discuss how to collect taxes so that the people would not rebel.
Another method is to practice autocracy instead of democracy
Then we need to establish a strong bureaucracy to master tax information.
China has adopted this route since the Zhou Dynasty
European countries also wanted to take this path
But failed after many attempts
The second situation in which democracy is likely to flourish is when people can easily flee the country
If geographical restrictions make it difficult for people to escape the country
The country does not need to cooperate with the people
For example, the Nile Valley in Egypt is surrounded by deserts on both sides.
Can't migrate at all
Therefore, the ancient Egyptian kingdom could implement autocracy here for thousands of years.
This is called the theory of limits by anthropologist Robert Kaniro
In current words
When it is difficult to immigrate to another country
You can only stay on Ghost Island
The best example is the authoritarian North American Aboriginal society.
Occurs in the Mississippi River Valley in the southeastern United States
Even if the villagers in the valley are dissatisfied with the ruler, it will be difficult for them to escape.
In comparison
The Wyandot people who developed equality and democracy lived in the northeastern United States
Because it is evacuated forest land
Migrate regularly during farming
So if someone is unhappy, they can leave at any time.
A third scenario for the possible development of democracy
It is when the rulers need the people more than the people need the rulers
For example, when the country needs its people to serve as cannon fodder on the battlefield,
will give people more political power
The state shares power in exchange for people dying on the battlefield
This is what anthropologist Lewis Henry Morgan calls "military democracy"
Men in ancient Greece and Rome could enjoy political rights because of military democracy.
Because when all the men are on the front lines fighting
When we call each other brothers on the battlefield, we will become accustomed to equality.
After fighting and returning to society, it is difficult to accept inequality.
The democracy that emerged in Europe at the end of the 19th century actually originated from military democracy.
Before the 19th century, democracy was limited to adult males with certain property
But at that time there were constant wars in Europe
The Swedish government implements universal conscription
The Social Democratic Party at that time put forward the demand: "One man, one gun, one vote"
so you can see
The implementation of universal conscription in European countries has the same trend as the expansion of universal suffrage.
Similarly, women gained suffrage,
It was also because men went to the front lines to fight during World War I and World War II.
Jobs originally done by men in society must be replaced by women
At this time, the whole society suddenly realized
In fact, women can do the work that men do.
Then why can't women vote?
So after World War I and World War II
European countries have given women equal political rights.
The above three situations allow us to see
When rulers need people
political power must be ceded
Democracy can develop
Then we will answer
If there were early democracies around the world
Why did Europe later develop democracy?
A common answer is
Because Europe has the political tradition of ancient Greece
But the author thinks
In fact, it’s not because Europeans are better and understand political philosophy.
It's because European state power has always been relatively weak.
in ancient roman times
Emperors rarely sought centralization
But every time you conquer a place
Give local elites the status of Roman citizens and ask them to help rule
The bureaucracy of ancient Rome was also very weak
Rome had 30,000 administrators in its later years
Han Dynasty during the same period
The number of officials was 4 times that of Rome
After the fall of ancient Rome, this bureaucracy was not inherited.
It was not until the Carolingian dynasty of the Frankish kingdom that they attempted to invent a new bureaucracy.
Trying to collect taxes from local governments also failed.
Because all the money goes into the pockets of the church
The last resort was to convene a general assembly (placitum generale).
Calling together elites from all over the country for a meeting
This became a model for later European rulers to discuss state affairs with elites.
In the UK, the state was also forced to cede democratic rights
In order to resist the long-term invasion of the Nordic Vikings in the 11th century, Britain
Collect Danegeld from the public
Used to pay protection fees to the Vikings in exchange for peace
This requires the development of a bureaucracy
Let the tax officer inspect the tax
Called hundreds of prestigious local people to a meeting to discuss how to tax
This kind of democratic meeting is called Witan
By the end of the 13th century
King Edward I of England issued an edict
"Anything that touches everyone should be agreed upon by everyone."
This sentence became a British constitutional principle
Later, European countries adopted
Because Britain and France were fighting the Hundred Years War at that time.
National finances are tight
It was necessary to collect taxes from the people and get money, so the king decentralized power.
But the European democratic tradition is not limited to decentralization.
There is also the commune movement promoted from the bottom up.
in medieval italy
Local citizens will organize themselves into urban communities
demand local autonomy
Communes usually followed a republican model
The chairman is elected by the public
Elected political representatives will be subject to "designated appointments"
Local governments will clearly stipulate what political representatives can and cannot do.
To avoid being bought or bribed by the central government after sending representatives to negotiate with the central government
Roderigo, who was representing Segovia at the time, went to Spain for a meeting
As a result, voters betrayed themselves and voted in favor of the Spanish royal family’s new tax law.
After returning to China
This man was dragged to the streets by the whole city and tortured
But how did this commune movement emerge?
Why did Europeans suddenly spontaneously engage in democracy?
The popular theory in the past was
Because Aristotle's works were retranslated into Latin and entered Europe
So Europeans began to advocate republican government again
But actually
Long before Aristotle was translated into Europe
The commune movement began
Europeans did not become more democratic because they read Aristotle
The rise of the commune movement was actually related to climate change at the time.
At that time, the amount of sunlight increased at the same time as the proportion of autonomous cities in Europe.
Since the 11th century, Europe has entered the Medieval Warm Period.
The amount of sunshine increases and the temperature rises
leading to an increase in agricultural output
Further promote the business revolution
In order to protect their private property, businessmen
There is an incentive to create autonomous cities, free from government control
Examples from ancient Rome, Britain, and Italy
We will find that early Europe was able to establish representative systems
It's because the central bureaucracy is weak
Governance must be done through consultation and negotiation with local governments
The situation in China is exactly the opposite
There has always been a huge bureaucracy from its inception
So next we will discuss
Why didn't China develop democracy?
Starting from the Shang Dynasty with historical evidence
China is an authoritarian society
The succession of Shang kings was hereditary, not by election.
The country adopts a conscription system, with an army of up to 30,000 people
The labor force of a large population allows the country to avoid taxation
According to the records in "Shangshu"
When King Pan Geng of Shang moved to Yin
It is said that he has the ability to persuade and consult the people.
This may be a sign of China's few early democracies
But "Shang Shu" was written by later generations
It may be the beautiful imagination of past kings by later generations.
Not enough evidence
Arrived in Zhou Dynasty
There was already a bureaucracy that divided the vassal states into
A theory of destiny emerged to explain the legitimacy of rule
In medieval Europe
Rulers must first obtain local consent before they can do anything
But in Zhou Dynasty
The king does not need to understand public opinion before making decisions.
If the results are unpopular with the people afterwards, they will lose their support.
So Mencius used the people's will to explain the destiny of heaven.
Only rulers supported by the people have destiny
When the people are dissatisfied, the regime has exhausted its destiny
The people have the right to overthrow the tyrant
It can be said that Mencius has developed a set of people-centered thoughts
But it’s not yet democracy
Sinologist Lu Weiyi believes that
During the Spring and Autumn Period, there were many small towns in various countries
The king will summon the people of the country to consult them on national policies
Ask them if they want to go to war with other countries
This is somewhat similar to the democratic assembly of autonomous cities in Europe in the Middle Ages
It can be said that there was a short-lived early democracy in China during the Spring and Autumn Period.
But it collapsed during the Warring States Period
Because there was a raging war at that time
The rulers developed a system where all the people were soldiers
These have strengthened the bureaucracy and centralization
The imperial examination system developed from the Han Dynasty to the Tang Dynasty was not democratic either.
Because the civil servant representatives of each county and city are selected by national examinations
Rather than being elected by the people themselves
The improvement of China's imperial examination system allowed rulers to control talents
To become a scholar-official is to become a part of the state machine
Unlike in medieval Europe, local elites had autonomy and were free from central control.
By the Song Dynasty
China also had a commercial revolution like Europe in the Middle Ages.
But no democratic autonomous cities emerged
why?
Because before the Song Dynasty
China's bureaucracy has become too mature
So the Song Dynasty built 2,000 new tax offices
Municipal taxes on economic prosperity
Collecting more than 10% of national GDP in taxes
Of the Song Dynasty population of 40 million, 10,000 were officials
In France at the same time, Philip IV had only 20 financial officials.
Therefore, the commercial revolution of the Song Dynasty did not usher in democracy.
On the contrary, it strengthens the power of the state
Arrived in Ming Dynasty
The country develops a new ruling technology "Fish Scale Atlas"
Document different types of soil quality
to define different tax rates
Officials produced fish scale atlases to provide information to rulers
Eliminate the need for rulers to hold meetings with local people
For example, after Liu Mingchuan took over as governor of Taiwan,
The General Administration of Qing Fu was established and actively produced fish scale atlases.
The rulers of the Qing Dynasty did not need to hold meetings with local people in Taiwan
You can know how much tax you can receive from Taiwan
After the Qing Dynasty was overthrown
China had a chance to move toward democracy
The "Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China" passed in 1912
Follow the example of European and American parliamentary elections and separation of powers
It is the first democratic constitutional government in Chinese history.
But China has no parliamentary tradition since ancient times
After the introduction of democratic system
People don't know how to operate it
Most parliamentary representatives just want a piece of the pie
Obtain the emperor's military power
Everybody wants to be the emperor
And do not understand the separation of powers and checks and balances in democracy
After Mao Zedong came to power in 1949
Vow to overthrow China's feudal order
The most successful thing they did was to nationalize landowners’ land
but not through democratic process
So political scientist Michael Albertus pointed out
Authoritarian governments are more likely than democratic governments to implement land reform
ironnically
Communism in Marx's mind is to eliminate state power
like the early democracies of Native American societies.
But after Mao Zedong came to power, he said that it was for the benefit of the people
We must first strengthen the state machinery
The household registration system left over from the Chinese imperial period
Also helped Mao Zedong’s authoritarian rule
Until China’s reform and opening up
Many Western scholars predict
China's economy will democratize after it takes off
Because there are fewer poor people and more middle class people
The national education level will improve
Information circulation will also make society more diverse and open
will be better able to make democratic debates and decisions
But developments over the past 40 years have proven that Western theories cannot explain China
As early as the 18th century, when China's economy was more prosperous than that of the West,
China is already an authoritarian society
Because China has had a powerful state apparatus since its founding
As a result, rulers do not need to consider the voices of the people
Unlike Europe, where bureaucracy was discontinued after the fall of the Roman Empire
Rulers were forced to cooperate with local people
No matter how China changes its dynasty,
The bureaucracy and imperial examination systems have always been passed down from generation to generation.
This is called "the legacy of dictatorship in the early days of the founding of the People's Republic of China" by political scientist Jacob Hariri.
The order of emergence of bureaucracy and democracy
is a key factor in China’s inability to democratize
Our elected officials now
Can disregard pre-election promises and make decisions that betray public opinion
Voters can only vote them off after 4 years
This is because the current democracy is derived from the British tradition
in the middle ages
Democracy in Europe is a mandate
After the people's representatives go to the central government for a meeting, they must follow the instructions of the voters
If you want to make a new decision
You must first go back to discuss with the voters and obtain permission.
In Native American Society, Early Democracy in Arabia
All adopt this kind of designated appointment
But European royal families think this is too troublesome
Especially when there is a financial crisis during the war
It's impossible to have members come and go to meetings several times
in order to increase efficiency
European royal families changed the rules to full powers of appointment
The UK is the most thorough country
In 1295, it was stipulated that political representatives must fully represent local cities.
No need to consult voters
This allowed Britain to lead Europe's transition from early democracy to modern democracy
From designated appointment to discretionary appointment
But this highlights a problem
Discretionary appointment is to allow voters to elect
give full power to political representatives
Compared with designated appointment, it is actually more undemocratic
in other words
Modern democracy is actually more authoritarian than early democracy
People have less power
We can only vote once every four years now
After voting, the people will go back and become slaves
This is a big problem with modern democracy
After the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England
Congress succeeds in taking power back from the Crown
Become the key to determining the direction of national policy
henceforth
It doesn’t matter who is the king or queen
Because it is the Congress that governs the country
What matters is which party can enter Congress to legislate
This constitutes another characteristic of modern democracy:
Congress supremacy
On the one hand, parliamentary supremacy is more efficient
before the glorious revolution
The UK passes 13 bills every year
After the Glorious Revolution, it was 121 per year.
Many are patent-related bills
If we compare the number of patents in the UK and the Netherlands
You see Britain catching up after the late 17th century
It’s not because many talented scientists suddenly appeared in the UK
But because Britain moved to a parliamentary democracy
Establish patent law more efficiently
Let scientific innovation be protected
These patented inventions further promote economic development
Make Britain the first country to have an industrial revolution
But on the other hand
Congressional supremacy also has a drawback
Whoever controls Congress controls the country
If the ruling party becomes corrupt, it may become a new dictatorship
After taking office, he revised the law and changed it into a law that is beneficial to the ruling party.
For example, after the Whigs in England gained power, they passed the Seven Years Act (1715)
Extend the term of Congress to 7 years
The democratic design of congress supremacy can also easily lead to vicious competition between the two parties.
As long as you can choose to win, you can use any tricks.
In the 17th century, the British Whigs and Tories fought fiercely for a hundred years.
So the vicious fight between the two parties in Taiwan that we see now
In fact, it’s not just because of corruption between the two parties
Rather, the structure of modern democracy was designed to be prone to corruption when it was born in Britain.
Britain established the earliest modern parliament and the rule of "plenipotentiary appointment"
But this does not constitute modern democracy
Also missing is the crucial universal suffrage
At that time, the British stipulated that only people with certain real estate properties could vote.
This makes elections a privilege of the rich
So during the Glorious Revolution
There is a group of people who demand the expansion of suffrage
This group of people are called levellers
But this ideal would not be implemented in Britain until 1918
In comparison
The North American colonies implemented British democratic concepts as early as the 17th century
So finally let us take a look
How did the United States become a modern democracy?
We all think that American democracy began with American independence
But as early as the 17th century
In fact, large-scale elections of white men have already occurred in the North American colonies.
The original founders of the colonies did not intend to establish a democracy
and prefer class rule
But the colonists soon discovered
The British set-up does not apply to the United States.
Because first
The American continent does not have a state apparatus to enforce taxation
There is no bureaucracy to assess how much taxes people have to pay
Therefore, rulers must cooperate with colonial residents
Decentralize power to various cities
Massachusetts established a charter of liberties in 1641
Clearly provide for universal suffrage for municipal owners
Furthermore, most people are actually unwilling to immigrate to the United States, a place where birds do not lay eggs.
In order to promote immigration, Edwyn Sandys, the governor of the Virginia Company of London at the time,
Just send out the high salary policy
Promise only those who are willing to immigrate to Virginia
You can own land after settling for a period of time
And allow residents to jointly elect members and participate in company decision-making
So in 1619
Virginia hosted the first modern democratic convention in North America
The last and most important point
The United States is vast and sparsely populated, and immigrant labor is precious
If people are unhappy, they can always move to another place
The ruler is in a weak position
For example, the colonial governor of Maryland initially implemented a class system
Ignore local public opinion
The result is that the people refuse to cooperate with the rulers
So to summarize
The labor shortage in the United States requires those in power to listen to the people's voices and expand voting rights
But the conditions that gave birth to American democracy
It also gave birth to black slavery
If the rulers do not give white workers more rights
They can move away and run away at any time
Moreover, when British people came to America to work as laborers, they had to sign a contract.
After the contract ends, these immigrants can establish their own farmland.
But the same conditions do not apply to black people
Black people could not threaten colonists like white people said
If you don't let me participate in political power, I will run away.
Because even if the black slaves escaped to other places
After meeting white people, they will still be discriminated against and sold into slavery.
But white people who escape to live elsewhere will be regarded as pioneers, opening up the western wilderness.
This is why a large number of black slaves were introduced into the southern United States in the 18th century
Because they know black people can't escape like white people
Bringing in black slaves reduced the demand for white labor
White people can enjoy democratic freedom while black people are not free from slavery
from the same story
All because the colonists wanted to control people's labor force
Those American founding fathers who shouted for freedom and democracy
Washington and Jefferson were all slave owners.
So the American historian Edmund Morgan said
The contradiction of American democracy is that American freedom depends on American slaves
But this early democracy did not last until the United States became independent
When the Founding Fathers of the United States created the Constitution
Eliminate all the characteristics of early democracy
When the Bill of Rights was drafted
Elbridge Gerry proposes that appointments should be added to the First Amendment of the Constitution
but met with opposition
It is said that if voters can control their elected representatives
It deprives people of their freedom of speech
rejecting the tradition of appointed appointments
It becomes a carte blanche like in the UK.
Then the U.S. Constitution further reduces the frequency of elections
Originally it was chosen once a year
Later it was changed to 2-6 years
The argument advanced by James Madison is
The United States has a vast territory, and it takes time for legislators to understand the interests of each state after being elected.
If there was an election every year
Maybe you haven't secured your position yet, so you have to be busy with the election campaign.
This will increase political instability
But at that time Elbridge Gerry warned
If elections are only held every three or four years, and they are fully delegated
This means that political parties do not have to face voters for a long time
A tyrant will soon rise
So we all thought that democracy in the United States had taken a big step forward after independence.
But actually
Many of the flaws in today's democratic system took root at that time.
At that time, John Taylor, a good friend of founding father Jefferson, told him:
American democracy now has only 5,000 influential elites, and
the remaining 5 million people have political convulsions every two years. They
only come out to pretend to care during the election,
and then continue to sleep.
- John Taylor to Thomas Jefferson
This sentence points out the root cause of modern democracy
The public thinks it’s democracy when they come out to vote every few years.
But actually after voting
They transfer political power to the new government
It doesn’t matter if people don’t care about public affairs
On the contrary, colonial democracy before American independence
Eerily similar to early Native American democracy
Because they all come from the same geographical environment
They all lack the state machinery to impose taxes.
All these force the governance method to shift to democracy
After introducing the global history of democracy,
we will find
Democracy is like a political experiment that has been going on for thousands of years
It is a thousand-year struggle between the people and the country.
When the ruler needs the people’s labor, fighting power, and taxes
will release more power
Let society move toward democracy
The opposite of
If the state power and bureaucracy grow first
It is difficult for democracy to take root
This may explain why Taiwan was able to turn to democracy
Because when the Kuomintang government came to Taiwan after the war,
It is impossible to transfer all the thousands of years of Chinese bureaucratic tradition
Although until 1991
Taiwan is a one-party dictatorship
The Ten Thousand Years Congress is ruling
But the rulers are not facing Chinese people who have no parliamentary tradition.
But Taiwanese who experienced Japanese rule
During the Japanese colonial period, a petition movement for a democratic parliament was launched
I have struggled for decades for the idea that the Taiwanese people are the masters.
It is this spirit of pursuing freedom and autonomy that
It brought various student movements and extra-party forces
I think as long as we use a peaceful way
We all lay down on the ground and let them carry them away
Let Taiwan turn to a democratic society without a bloody revolution
And don’t forget Taiwan’s aborigines
Early democracy was practiced hundreds of years ago
Have a sense of equal rights in democratic communication
Let them resist the unequal colonial regime many times
There are also unjust bills that ignore public opinion.
On the contrary, the modern democracy we admire is full of problems
carte blanche pioneered by the english and american countries
As a result, the people can only feel that they are the people's government during elections.
They must accept the autocratic rule of the ruling party for the next four years.
So in recent years some political theorists have proposed
Return to early democracy in human history
Modeled after the Italian republican cities of the Renaissance
organize local assemblies for local self-government
Select public officials by lot rather than by election
Restore designated mandates to give more power to the people
Let the people feel that they are really participating in politics in determining the future of the country
Us in Taiwan
In addition to the presidential election held every four years
You can also think about how to learn from the early democracy of Taiwan’s aborigines
Recover the precious traditions we once had but lost after modernization
Let Taiwan become a beacon of democracy in Asia
Become a truly democratic and free Taiwanese