Everyone Today, today talk a more serious topic. China China's from top frule this is the saying not was the new Newberer Nobel Ersmoglu a pen article title China's economy is rotting from the head this piece article in 2020 year when it's the when it was just the country and we're all the government but many people and people and will the future will start free and that the that the hope that and the Two years, that page was writer, Aosimoglu, got a Nobuehl's major year and the Chinese world in the tithing and the neatham Gets on the awardinged by a grand accioninged, the general government is to not will be to be that the rule. to have a time, a bit-wha-haw-geed-want-pies-wamp. Some of tear-shed-bel-cheer-yang-wim-mow, which also, also, there are two-cour-ch-all-ta-ya-hion-quoom-a-huis-fif-a-hack-haw-koyles, started phoan-oge-oge-moh-lid. With some churn-slaid-hulled, shud-hulls, she said he'd-hue-ttongue, nor-o-gut-o-o-o--gore, Achevmoglou's All right His own his Thefts And he And he And he And he Toe money Ander the Yangh Rueh So I'm So he's So he And the Soch Time Is it The Ase The Time And it's From 2022 to today, just over the last three years, China, the country from the head, fast, full-lan. Every year, every year, every year, all the all year, inso, in fact, the Aci-Mogru was the watch. From "Fong-the-cent, Lianwound, out the 'tanked debt-we, from the young-sread-lough to not can't con-pulled, to mean-eachier-care and in-eastern, "tete, taut, from "'Tephue "'Dealphoing' "'To get rid of "'sahuehurt, "'an, by, "'eigh, "'any-eep-o-each-o-lo-cun-group "'tude-grouped-grouped "'-scibility, '-sher-sa-o-ball. Three-year-all-the-one all of the all of the other all of the time to see A. Schmoglo to the and question and then question. "Chin' why will go to in a time in a time the world and in a time and the This is a true this moral theory, is the free-s-sac-res-shan-er-shae in social-as-and-sure-s in effect and on how can't more can't be over the free-sachan-sach tradition. So, modern-siod, the new-suit- have a con-shus- is the The economy long-term, the country's long-term, is present-fa-the-fa-the-min-cho, and free-scian-scent-o-scian-schant-to-ta-scent-o-cest-o-custom-tack. But, China, China, in the strong-in-gings-zomroupes, seems to create a new-wide, not yet-eem- not, non-mict, not-fright, not-sum, not-the-sac-churched, still-can-franorn-o-o-goreg, and more-can-ex-o-o-o-farm-er-o-o-o-est-cha-o-o-o-cure-sach-o-est-o-o-connust-o growth, growing, more fast, more fern-ron, more-went-win-old. Aeschmogel, according to his to China to consider the market and the world not even non-is-as- economic economic, in a time, because the system because from the head-n--and-and- he said to be the top-o--e-te--he-cuit--the-the-cuit. In-the-cline, in the world-and is from the power-l- to the-n-the-cline from the-the-thi- In the years' economic growth not Deities Debt to be in Degree Toe a certain and to the same. It's the time of the full of control, and then the only of the world, and so on the end up the world and in the future, it's just-same the world. The only-one, I'm going to, you know-cheworthed, the whole-your-concelling. The entire-man-concequence, the entire-concuit-chiquet, will be S. The world's ". A. The world's world's system-chews. And, and, the, so will shrews In this situation, a series of a disaster-saint-sioning to be able to be it. Whether it's Domewere to the economic and society or the huge-sacru-same, or to the tech-pays and anti-the-couping and all end with this un-sue-stri-o-stri-o-chuan-o-chern. This like a human-hawar in China is not not a but it's a right because in this right in the in the power of not the not the people, not be to the market and it is not to the it's to the Many people have these years in these years in the last year but in the people have been but it's not a shmoghru think it's not much this is not just some the people and it's the country and is the the over the years of the last year market mode of mode of to go to the end mode to the point in the and I'm if the Gingi's more free-hru-hack, control, then a more free, and the power of the end up, the world is now that means what? This is what it means the entire system of bong, it means the whole society, it means the entire society, to change-pied. For the "Susseyevite system, and as the "Chiefscian'""gian system, this is a bit From Deng, Jiang, to now the "Too, the "Wh.'" All right this point.'" It's all be it'shury." "Gaqa"30-year-old. "Chiefen," China, "What country,""gaping economy."...theircould" "...theircuitary"" "...theircrow "Ect","3 billion" "...theircourt." "...theircett." "...theircett's "Eightighted" "...theircett." "...theircett's "Eightighted" "...theircest to "Wenbochement." The country's right-toe, the middle-naz-should, huge-sher-the-sher-the-court-the-court-the-cure-be-use-be-use-be-lead of labor-due-stern, but can find out a little economic-z-gown-cun-cundsher. By this one-man-human-sing-stress-stit-est-chact-tack. But when the the world and the and the other and the world this is this is not to change to need to to and then the government the Is it is to free, to the society and the marketer and more freedom, let the people get more than the wealth, from our own, from our energy, forer, or is to keep a more than, to strengthen, and to end up to economic, can't bring to the society's not, it's not yet. China's the next-either. Why, China chose the other? A.S.Morke-Moghruh, asked us a strong-sthinged to get sure. even if China from to the economy is a such-e-chue-ish but the economic but the economic-re-s-e think it's going to get more people people, the cost, education, and get- and yet--cuit--court, this would be in- the country-and--so-o--o-o- To a way to keep the right-of-control as as a great-mobile to to the government to be the economic-as-as-ehan more-de-scient- more-the-sliu-lawed and more-reli-estab-to-do-the-cest. It's not it's a-monged. His entire government's the goal is not not the people not-the-cuh and more-fus- and-reve-o. are to be able to the power. The world's income, just it's to beaed the goal of the full-scent. So, it's a strong-control, to strengthen, and to be able to the system set-sets-the-chew-suit-rouping. Asimoglu would do the world's very good. When the key-eas-your-time-your-time-the-schen, and is to think how much-how-taught-o-ta-hung-to-harmes-haw-all-harmes-harmes-harmes-harmes, but the whole society all along in a The newfounding of uninsued, can't be a little, little, to cool get. This is his pen pen in the pen article in from the top-to- start ful-lain. This is like an cell-e-e-e-e-e-e like, and the all-the-cuit- spread-as- to the country, every other business, every other community, every Today, I go and I look at three years ago, it's just like a fiends'u. This three years, the economy, still in the next-in-lawfulion on. The marketers do we're In this paper "temberg's this poem "'Commetry' "'Compan' "'Conement Conextrously "'We're "'It's from "'Cecent' "'are from the "'and it's from the "'theaping "'their end-in' "'Cow-Gent. "'Chin' "'Cin'cue-svacred "'their-of-hound. "'Are, it's "'toeck-their-thou-l-lan "'the-let-the-he-cue--l-l-lan-cue. Ache-Mogoghru in 2002 in this piece and it's not a issue, but is based on the years of the research. To get it to get his logic, we need to we need to her in the book book, Why Nations fail? The World Why Why? This book, the book, The Cicagoe the where is Chiargues is the Giacgaheux's James Robinson. He with Ashmoeghur This is the theorem-quand, not in the school, bade-eat-e out-e but it's due to the reality and for a question, this question this question is why why some the countries have a This book Through Through Plet Ending And it put out of a question One of the country a country can't result to what has what has the country and in the history and the countries and by based by their and how it's the school and not the things the and a lot, is a nation's the state is First, to take the ballroom-ing of the social is the power and the power and the law, and the government and the people, to the people, and society, On the other, Zichu-Shinged the system is the power to in a single or in small-sou-in- short-of-er- short-of-he-hals- its-hens. Its main its main, it's the power, and to be-o-sue and the government-the-cuit and the and the and the In the economic system, the ballroom-sing of economic is to be able to social rights, support, and encourage, and to support, and to support, and to support, and to be making people, to get a different change, the fact, the is the system, the the system to make, and to get-e-e- These two of the two of the different countries in different different of different type of group. The first one is:::auling, social system, and a ballroom-sing, economic system. The second one is the power-sing of the and aftsing of a system, and, The third is aer-sha-sha-shing-the-baud-being-gy-sting-reg-sting, the third-o-stress-eas-hazer-sting-sting-gen-dig-stit-stow, and the "A-zda-sign-stead. These different "Cearth'a-gainsteads a country's "'tallongue.'" "'It is we often said the "Govern.'" So to this, we have to make sure a point. Worlding is a new years of many people even to cost of long-year future. It's not to do short-e economic or short-e to short-key short-to- short-e short-st- In the history, almost all of the national countries all of the economic and including the the and also also also some many many and and there and and and after and then the and then The country why would It's not yet. It's why it's why we're going to let us make sure the book's to find out of China. China's question just in the political and economic system. He very un-sing to low-lawed the the last the rate-chew--sing-st--st-du- and- and the-chue to-the-cd-cd-cuit. So, is, "Gidtorting Social-Chi-Chi-Chi-Chi-Cing and "Gidtacket-Chi-Gas-Terms GING-GY-D DECD, and this, it's just the world. In a certain in, in the this system could can go through the power, to power, in the in the in the The Soviet also had been in the time. In the Seconds, in the in the in the time, this time, this time this time this time, to give, like, just like the the whole the country, it's, and then it's, that in the time, So, build a cost road, building, go-techrist, and to create-farm property, development of certain products, to create in this mode, The Zhaquisting system's It's Decutist It's up up-sah MeeCyan's The Cauts The Cauts The True The Cauts That's that can't Toe Toececee Ceper Chim-N- All is "Sher far far competition Leave-the-Sepern Leave-Sys-Cern The Free Market of Ideas, The Free Market of Ideas, But in the In short-chutist in the Income, any could Wieshiae to still-of-rength, weighed to there's great-eaf-issue to see-the-sign, and new science, new-scient, new-sum-sys, they be seen-soed to see the right-the-cuit, and so will be to bea-stob-to-ta-a-hack and, even, it's been to beck-, When the large-gidion of Shingen effect, out of the short-tweeat, to keep on the system-wonding, the churns, this is the China's share-lang. This is the years. It almost is the easy-pid-to-chre why would "isphi' this book's work'n't'a.'" But she sawed, it's the book's in the book's in the book's in the year. This years, the time of the world's The world-stern un-certains not-year-go not-the-fell without-cared-cared or the and the the power-saf-ean- change-e change-e and the end. This is the "mold start "tile The entire economy is in the next-ing loo-science on the end-notes-to-see-not-haping, can't see-not-haping. This is the long-chiefsuffer this is because people are not because because Chinese-Intyre not-because-of-comming, but is because China-stab-sting political and economic threat-stead, this is the country-un-the-te-cum key-to-the-cum-migh-Mey-Mach. in the In the time in the time we we've We can't people people are a lot to the city type society this these day people and people and the the royal-e people are life is a the and a around Its entire system, from from the system to the to the system, all be set-eared-to-the-cuit-to-the-cuit-the-cuit-the-cuit-the-cuit-cuit. This is a huge-tah-z-tahedstow, the "Tin-Duncuit, "tend", "'Teguptain," or, "'gain,'', 'too-hombly, On the next is the guanliu and Li-I-Gi-Gi-Tun, and then-share, is to as a full-to-by-to-to-ty-one, and to build-ton-the-tot-dye-pand-the-tube-to-feat-a-teat-all-heat-a-cuit of people. This system's only goal is to ensure the gold-ta-ddi-pan-crow-the-counter-true, can be, and then-chug to the bottom. In the past, in the gingsggy, in the time, this GINZTHA, the model, by a large-ronged by a large-en-en-en-sue, because the whole thing-suit, on the whole, it can't do eat, and then can't find out a townh, a number, could be a a, not than a, but not a good, the other, the other, the course, the course, A A Achen-Gyected-geye could be a great-poenaed-te-te-te-tend, and as well as far as it was a good-called, a better life of the world of the general economic growth. As a total, This is a pretty much a new life-bond-teakow of the way-key. This is the way-tie-tze-mahed people's to the system-beau-combeed, even has a lot of people had a new one-gues as a day can't even can from a-tonged-tonged but it's-ehy-eckin the "ya-zaching, 'ya-zim-zschilding "git-zowns, it's not a new-tere-stue-to-the. in China, this growth just experienced a generation just over. Zingly the entire the country in the country's end up the system, the system's or such-the-mort- such-even- be self-jiv- were sort- and Ginz-tac-tac-tac-the-threat is gong-singed, is the gong-sue. They're not going to need-eachy. But the day-go not-go-for-finged, how can't-one? This system's churned-setshine-chewaned-chrechid-chrechart route-gings. It's the crowd the width and and scale the pressure of in the end of the end of the end up by the end up the city is the non-being, people and the community and now, this one's the range up to be able to grow large, it's country's chel Chinese small-cheer- even a business and part of the fact of it's being being being being in the end up the Not in the business, not as well as long as the industry, the country, the country's can't be the cost of the cost of, the low-sou-renu-in-law people, in a high-suelled to pay in-li-li-to-shrie-ehaned money-eem-chieger's money-of-weewee to who-the-care. The gif-cha-cha-cha-chrella-chrella the churlund is at no-chrepeat-earned every-the-cru-the-cru-cuit-the-cuit-cene-heper-cings. not the that's in and the way and way way and the and the pressure and the the rise the rate of the time like the people and like the cost of long as on the government support and there also there the example the year the The world's social system is the Jinzschean-Tas-is-Thing country's just a pein-jee-foo of a typical example. One-one-one-gapes-ta-de-pondes, by put from already-hack-taxed in-a-dust-all-a-boh-comfit from the tax-naqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq. It's been-a-farm-a-fell-sa-bos-bos. For the only-the-the-chchews, for the pay-tos-gings. In the Ginggues, the people's short of time, the right of the government is the righter, the true-welled, and is shawl-or-weigh-and-the-the-cuit, and yet-zied-a-were, and yet-been-been-bed-chrexed-chens-the-tall-loddied-lust, and This is what? This is what? This is not a really a very question. We've been ever been over the end up the end up time. When all all the all right, all right, the system will be because the system will because the end up and the whole society will be being a time and it would be a time Mao's own-niened of China is that. When the "YSyshye's' world's' political movement, by the society's' to the extreme, to the people are at the extreme, to the government'yggone, and 'Govern's down to '2ndt, and 'pidstongue"""""""""" "Theircerns'""""""""" "...that's our own-tecourt." Who can think that, the other-person and then got to the first the state. China's country and the change growth and also created a re-subs-s product. There's some know people, think, think the future, we think will be Aeschimoghru, of this is the mind-eastern and the theory of the theory has a very good point, it's simple and unobobo to put the country and the world and that actually the world than more than that's and the democratic and democracy and democracy country should can do find two different different one one is authoritarian autocratic authoritarian autocracy autocracy this government though also also in the but it the control control the rule of the private and she can't the society and should be much the in particular in the certain this one one can and can't be and the basic and the the example is we is we we we used just we know the many years the Piao-Zing and Liang Jiang are the totalists, but they're in-fue-fing-ecent-to-same, to protect-reux, un-hue-sue-sue-scient-do-old, and un-sheas-oven, this-wecuh-cuh-ocied, can say, for the economy-tund-fey, and for-missue-schant-crow-the-tall-the-cuit. Another-tuc-like-oldeuxed, is a totalitarian-octocracy, This is a more extreme-strand, "TRAQ-Sing' 'CITOR." He is completely "London' 'Condcerns'""""""" "...everycourt" "...which, ""gain",' "...this, ""certains. "...theircithuptan" "...it" "...is, "octue," "...is, "puch", "each, "each",' "Eight", We do this election we'll be much because because people people people all living in the nation also is the country from from from the political to define we we we can we can we can't Over the years a lot-in-lawful modern-li-li-line some people some think some kind of think it's economic be sure will be able to and the strong-being and will be that in in the in country and power and and it's and it's in the country this time that the Because the from the first from the first to do any the economic and power of there's it's he can't long-re-en- even not even to not even in a economy because that is in the in the government, pre-heaned-we-men. A-de-min-min-the-cient to the strong-dhae, it will beaub-eas-do he will no-puey-do and use use the government, China, the country, yas-suit-ecky and a-z-z-ecky-gen- and the country, and the country, the other, the, in the political and the economic system, and in terms of they're not as a different different types of countries. In the in aftsing of the system, and in aftsing of the economic system, His long-term There are two Or just like Like the whole The Soviet that The entire The entire system in the way and out of the way and then-out and then in the time to get-mah--mah-ta--bott-gat-a-mach-mach-mach-cum become a-sand-sci-boh-sci-cinct-tie Gould, go-e-eat-and-sou-eat-de and-de-de-de-lechchach-e. So, the people can't even feel that. The people's not yet yet. People's not yet. But, the gong-yadneuxed her end-downeathe's on the top-winded state. Li Gongyau, since said, he said, he said his "Whatchurcho'u'an There's a king there and a few other people. This was a few few little king is the own people who are the power of and can't. There are people, and their people'i, people, the top of people, you have chisengue y'all and the the small the king, The economy not But the rise-jave, but as the last The United States, not as much, not to expand the and the and to increase the power, the and the social-the-center and the Ruan-Gye- Rue-N- burden and more too-tent and the way-the-of- see-tall--the-stall- and what is the What is the This is that the entire society will get into the long-time-time the rest-wens, the state. The economic, the social-hoy-haw-li will soon will soon will soon will soon die-s, there are some people, and who-do and the people, and then to go- and some people, and some who-he- people, because, because of the reason, can't be able to take, and I'm can't choose to go, and I'm, and the country's death's death-in-term, to-go, to keep-scient of the energy, the world, also some jrowns'r, like Dr. Zonzee that, like Zeran-Chief-N-er-an-ch-wrote-n, choose to-pings, but if-tank-pings, yet-sci-tete-tank-pings, give-tete-to-tank-pings, is to build-eck-of-sou-s. To-er, is to build-suit-sore. in the people in the people are a bit of people who people people who do you in the in the in the we've been a way every person people and people and the situation different But there's some point. If you're the situation how much, the person and the situation, all can't from now start from today to start. For example, you know, we're going to make true, you know, not expect the country will be good time, in the in the country, that country not can't be able that country can't be the same the same end up, the two-st-st-st- "Go-person' "'Can't change-bent "'eepen sandshast-said "'dea-pun-a-cathed "'withed to-height-been. "'In any other "'the most important is "'are not, "'sa, "'sa, in, "'the, "'sie, on, "'their-sah, "'and, on, "'weigh-sand-fewsand-fon-fon-fon-send. There's also important is to move to and move to a good-in-height-to-hru-sertune in life, in the on-same, to provide support, and make them get to get enough able to keep clean-the-king to get not-for-ky the life, not-reaching, not not give people If the history, one is it bad way can't change-belior, small-were-t's always go over over-share-should, at a little from the top-to-one but even by system-so-sort-scien-hack-sting-co-country. Puttongue people can do what? Also, you're welcome to say your own your own and talk-out-the-cuit the story. Today's said-one. Next-Cye-sight-Gent. Thank you.