[Music] What a day. What a day, folks. I mean, I don't know if we have had a more exciting day in the stock market, particularly for AI. We've definitely had some crazy days this year, but when it comes to AI updates, what a day. What a day, ladies and gentlemen. The most valuable company on the planet, Nvidia. $200. Not only did it break 200, it was 198 when Tanner and I finished our GTC stream. It's at 203. Well, it hit 203. Right now, it's at 2011. I mean, my goodness, dude. There's a lot to analyze, a lot to talk about today. We got a bunch to get into. And so, we will get into all that. Not to mention, we got a bunch of earnings. So, in the next 15 minutes, we will have a ton of earnings to look through, all the results on those earnings. And then after those earnings, we'll get into more of what happened today. You got pound share right here back to 190. Tesla up 1.63%. Robin Hoodie touched 148 right now at 147. SoFi nice recovery fell all the way to 28 right back to 3150. So getting a $31 close which looks like will happen in the next 10 minutes is definitely going to be productive. AMD slightly flat on the day and then you got the S&P 500 that did hit 688.91 obviously being helped by Nvidia. Apple also hit 4 trillion at one point. It's losing 4 trillion uh now. It was at 4 trillion about two hours ago. 269 right here. And then Microsoft is holding 4 trillion. Microsoft started off the day by saying they officially have a 27% stake in OpenAI. That's a $1 135 billion equity stake. And that kind of started a bunch of the announcements that we got today. Kind of capping it off with Nvidia basically making the moves that everyone was waiting for Nvidia to officially make. That was said today. Now, why is Nvidia down? There's a lot to analyze, a lot to go through. We're going to talk about what's happening with Nvidia. The number one thing for everyone to remember, and yes, we will watch the Karp Jensen interview. I want to watch the full interview, but we're going to get through earnings. And so after earnings, I'll play the entire clip. It's about 11 minutes. You guys can watch it. If you really want to watch it right now, it's on my Twitter. Twitter's in the description. So, if you want to leave the stream right now, go watch the interview first. It's on Twitter. Um, but we will watch it all together after after earnings. Uh, Nvidia guided, I don't want to say formally guided, but Jensen said it on stage, so I guess the street is taking it in as formal of a way as you can imagine. uh $500 billion dollars of revenue over not the next six quarters apparently it's over the next five quarters which really changes things and I think when that clarification was announced that is when the stock really started getting a move when he said 500 billion it went from 193 to 196 and then over the past hour when it was clarified that he meant five quarters we bumped up to 200 by the way that is excluding China revenue Jensen said it would be very nice to get China revenue but my forecast of 500 billion over the next five quarters has nothing to do with China revenue. On top of that, the other thing that's really important about this is um Jensen basically said the trajectory for us to be able to get to this revenue growth is sustainable. And the street has them at 380 billion. So you're talking about a $120 billion increase in what the street was expecting over the next five quarters. And as a result, you got Nvidia right here pumping 5%. Nvidia has added 250 billion market cap to its overall valuation today. What Jensen said on China was quote, "A return to China would be a huge bonus for Nvidia. I assume the China market will remain at zero for now. I'm confident Trump will reach a good deal with China. The US needs a lot more energy to sustain industry growth. The AI sector is not in a bubble. It represents a $500 billion opportunity over the next five quarters." So, I mean, look, should we be trimming our positions? You know, Tanner asked that question a couple hours ago. I mean, I don't want to sound super euphoric, right? And like and and I I I get that all of us sound super excited right now because we're all bowled up and we got all these big announcements, but I mean, if this is a $500 billion opportunity in the street has them at 380. I think Nvidia is going higher. Nvidia, remember, Nvidia is still one of the more undervalued tech companies that's out there when you look at them on a forward earnings basis. If Nvidia was trading at anywhere near its actual valuation, I think Tanner has them around 245 to 250. You could say, "Oh, that's an appropriate valuation for Nvidia and it wouldn't be more expensive than or more uh as cheap as Walmart or or Costco. I don't know. I don't know about the forward projections right now. I have to look at them, but Walmart and Costco as of yesterday were still uh more expensive than Nvidia, which is insanity given they're not growing at those levels. Microsoft right there, that's up 2%. PaloAlto, that's up 74%. Then Crowd Strike is also up right here 3% all-time high. So from that perspective, I don't think Nvidia is a sell. I don't think AMD is a sell. I don't think Broadcom's a sell. I think all these semiconductors are moving with each other. Also, we got rate cuts coming tomorrow. Broadcom, look at that. Alltime highs at 374. That one's moving as well. And if you got rate cuts coming along with a potential meltup, I mean, there is a world where this thing really gets exciting, then I I just don't think it's the easiest sell at these levels. 5 trillion is going to be at 204. 204. We're at 4.901 trillion on Nvidia and we are not we are not uh not at 5 trillion yet. Now, why are the data center plays selling off? Honestly, I don't really know. I mean, look, they had a bit of a pump in the morning. Um I one could argue and maybe someone has a better reason than I have, but my my sort of logical reason here is that um people are selling some of these plays to to pile into Nvidia. I mean, Grab was at freaking 620 in the morning. Now it's at 593. Reddit was at 220, now it's at 214. Google was at 270, now 26. I mean, you got a lot of names that are just selling off potentially because people are rotating and they just want more liquidity to be able to buy things like an Nvidia or any of the companies that Nvidia mentioned, which by the way, you got the Crowdstrike mentioned, you got the Uber mentioned, uh you got the Nebius Core mentioned, even though those are more data center place and that's why they're more volatile today. And you finally got the Poundinger mentioned. We are going to be talking about that after these earnings. Pounder 18975. Jensen and Karp finally were seen together for the first time in a couple years actually talking about their new partnership. There they are together right there on CBC. We're going to listen to that later. But it is really cool to see that happening. And I kind of think Jensen was like Santa Claus today and he kind of helped talk about every single company that could benefit in the overall AI stack and that's why you see Nvidia getting some momentum. I mean if we close above 200 that would be bullish. Yes, we're not at 203. Maybe we don't close at 2011. If we can just get even like a 198 199 close, I think would be amazing. But it looks like the street has some momentum to close above 200. There were a million shares waiting to be sold at 200. So, tons of buying pressure coming in. 262 million shares of volume today. 158 million is the average. So, you got a lot more people coming in today. Broccoli said red going into FOMC may be a good thing. I agree. You don't want to be all bowled up before FOMC. want a little bit of a pullback so that FOMC gives you some room to run and then tomorrow we are going to get FOMC which is going to be important. All right, so what earnings do we have? We'll talk a lot more about AI and all the announcements of AI as we get into the earnings. So earnings will probably be from like 4 to 420. We should get all the numbers and then we'll get back to AI bookings today. Visa, Nphase, Mandelus, Seagate, Bloom Energy, EA Cheesecake, and then a few more companies. Let me know in the chat if anyone owns any of the names that you're seeing right here on the screen. Um, and we are going to try to get as many of those numbers that we can. Why else do people think data centers are dumping? Because I mean, again, my reason is probably not the best that people are selling to buy more Nvidia because technically data center plays if you're excited for Nvidia, right? So, I don't know. I mean, you could also chalk it up to ALGO. I know people hate hearing that response, but a lot of them ran together. They might be just getting sold off together, which is not that crazy. Again, all of these stocks are up a lot this year. So, you know, every time they get sold off, it's just important to remember they are up a ton. And there's always going to be people that potentially want to take some profits, especially if they see a little bit of the downside action. Let's do a poll right here in the chat. I'm going to pick four of these names. Which one do you think outperforms in the after hours? We got Visa, Cheesecake, uh let's do Booking, and let's put Nphase up there. Which one do you think outperforms in the after hours? NEO, the robot company, they are officially selling robots today for $20,000. That was another big piece of news, which is another catalyst for Nvidia because at the end of the day, robots are going to be powered with these chips. Here is the video that they put out today showing that these robots are officially for sale. My name is Burnt and today we're launching Neo, our humanoid for the home. She's
>> the audio, bro. The audio. Okay. So, we can't play the song, but there is Neo. It's going to be $20,000. And um No, it's not the car company. Neo. Uh, look, it's I mean, it's exciting, right? More humanoid robots. Obviously, this is the the revolution a lot of people have been waiting for. I I wonder how productive it's going to be in the home. Can it actually do a ton of stuff? Uh, can it actually, you know, wash the dishes and do the laundry? If so, and if it's actually 20,000 early access or $500 a month, if it actually is legit, I mean, one like like really legit, not just BS legit, but really I mean, one could argue what the hell is going on with Tesla? What the hell is going on with Figer? What's going on with Appronic, right? All these guys are talking about this humanoid robot revolution. Brett Adox, CEO of Figer, was at GTC today. If this Neo company, which I don't know much about, but if they're launching these robots and they're like legit, I don't know. It's is, you know, now granted, I think Brett and Tesla are going for industrial use cases like an Amazon and Walmart, etc., not just like only being in the home. At least that's what they publicly said. That's one of the core things they want to focus on. I don't know if that NEO thing is going to be able to work inside of an Amazon factory, but it is heating up. It is absolutely heating up. Cheesecake is Cheesecake Factory. Cheesecake Factory is going to be one of the stocks that has earnings today. Now, Amazon as well. Speaking of Amazon, broke through 231 today. I think the layoff announcement from yesterday along with general AWS growth that is getting baked into some of the assumptions especially because OpenAI said they were going to buy $250 billion of Azure services today. So overall bullish for the cloud even if Amazon's not getting that revenue that could be bullish and I think that's why Amazon's getting a bit of a pump but obviously big tech earnings tomorrow is really going to tell us what is playing out. Neo is not a Chinese company I think is uh is Neo robot I don't think they're Chinese. There's a bunch of humanoid robot companies that are Chinese. No, no, it's from 1x Technologies. It's Norwegian. This company is Norwegian. Yeah. Founded in Norway in 2014. Okay. So, this one is not a Chinese company, but they do have a robot that officially is out there. Where's PayPal? We got four minutes till the market closes. Pay. Wow. PayPal lost a lot of juice. It was up 15% now only up 4%. Robin Hood selling off a little bit right there. It was at 148, now at 146. Uh S&P still holding strong. Got a bit of a red candle from 688, but 687 will be great on the close. So I think a 3150 close people wouldn't be too sad about. And then Nvidia $200 close would be very very excited. I mean, how do we feel, dude? Nvidia 200 when Tanner and I were live, we were just staring at it, thinking it might have a shot to get there. And then we closed the stream and we stayed on for like 10 more minutes and we're talking and it was at 198 and we're like, "All right, we're going to see." And then like literally I think 10 minutes later, boom, busted through two hundo. And this was one of the best GTCs I've ever seen. I think I've watched three of them over the past year. This was the best one due to the scale of partnerships that they announced. Another big partnership that Jensen talked about was the um the uh DOE. So they now have seven new supercomputers they're going to be building with the Department of Energy. Same thing that AMD announced yesterday. It was a $1 billion partnership. Jensen announced that they're going to be uh investing even more with the DOE. So, it just looks like a lot more partnerships, a lot more growth trajectory uh that's baked into Nvidia and a ton of different companies that they're going to be working with to develop this entire AI ecosystem. And all I can say is thank you to Deepseek for giving us the dip. Without that, we would not have had uh or at least I wouldn't have and I think a lot of people here would not have had the opportunity to develop a position. So, there you go. Amit the entire company stopped working near that 200. Yeah, I was I was on the phone with one of my uh friends who um he was, you know, he's he's he's big into pounder and he was uh he was like watching the stream and he was on the phone with the phone with a client and he's trying to like just talk to the client and like get the client to like go away and like handle whatever but then he sees like Jensen mentioned carp and he's just he loses it like he's not able to focus on the client and I think that was all of us. It was very very hard to focus on anything else today with the amount of announcements we got and obviously the pounder announcement was also a big deal. This was uh this was my face as soon as it happened. It was just finally after four years it happened. But it happened and so pretty exciting day. Pretty exciting day. All right, here we go. We got 40 seconds until the market closes. We got a lot of earnings. So I will try my best to get through all the numbers and we will try to cover every single company after the earnings. So give us about 20 minutes, then we'll get back into Jensen, Karp, AI, all the stuff that has happened today. Um, and we'll keep going from there. But let me know which of these stocks you own in the chat. We got a bunch of them that are coming up for today. I don't have a position in any of them. And so I do have Visa in the the uh stock draft, but these are the names that we have and we're going to look at what we've got once we get these results. All right, here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, October 28th, 400 p.m. One of the, I would argue, biggest days for AI in this entire the stock market. All right, we are done for the day. Here we go. Nvidia, she gets the $200 close. She gets the $200 close. 201120 for Nvidia. Absolutely incredible to see. Robin gets the 146 close. Pounder gets 189. Tesla, not sure why Tesla ran today, but Tesla did run up 1.8% 460. So, not too bad. Even after those earnings, Tesla was able to make a move. Uh, I mean, there was some Nvidia Uber partnership that was announced. Every GTC Jensen talks about self-driving cars and then Tesla sells off and then you know they don't really do much with that partnership for whatever they announced at GTC. So I think Tesla sold off a little bit but then it recovered. 460 right there on Tessy. Google down about half a percent grab. I think the price action was really stupid. I did buy more shares today. I just think this is getting dumb and I think it's getting manipulated left and right. Like you can't tell me it's at 620 at 9:30 and then it drops a little like like I just think they need a really good earnings to get the shorts out of the stock and unfortunately the shorts are still in the stock. So we're going to see next Monday it's going to be a big day for grabb. Hopefully earnings can change the narrative right now. I do think it's getting manipulated left and right and that's why that stock took a hit today. Amcor by the way not a horrible recovery. This thing fell to 28 got back to 3216. It was at 33 yesterday. So Jensen said a bunch of good things about American manufacturing of semiconductors. That was also super bullish for Amcor. Salesforce that was down a little bit on the day. PayPal was up 4% after being up 15%. ELF was up 4%. Apple up slightly on the day. Amazon up 1%. Meta basically flat. Bitcoin from 116 to 113. That's down. Ethereum. Wow. Ethereum almost might lose 4,000. Bit mine right there 5258. That was down 2% on the day. All right, earnings. Let's get into it. What do we got? What do we have? Bookings. We got a green candle on bookings that is up. Bloom Energy also a green candle that is up. I will try to get these numbers in just a second. Uh, so far I see Bookings and Bloom Energy get a beat. Seagate little bit red, Cheesecake basically flat, Visa flat, and then Nphase a little bit of a green candle as well, but no official numbers yet. Yeah, stocks 5,000. I like I mean, some of these stocks love having these large share prices. I guess they don't care about the volatility because as you know the stock would split it would have a lot more volatility but I guess not I guess they want to keep it the way it is. All right. So, what are we looking for earnings? Even if you don't own these names, we're looking for beats on the top and the bottom. More importantly, the top. More importantly, the top. If we can, or sorry, the bottom, the the EPS. If we can beat on EPS, that means margins are increasing, and that is better for companies. Bookings beats on the top and the bottom 4% and 3% 4% on EPS, 3% on revenue. EPS is up 19% year-over-year. Revenue is up 13% year-over-year. Revenue 9 billion versus 8.73. EPS 9950 versus 95.92. That is why bookings is getting a bit of a move right there. So you have a top and the bottom beat and let's see if we can go 10 for 10 on earnings today and all these companies can beat top and the bottom would be very very nice to see. Uh next one let's see if we can pull this up. Um this stock is I don't have this on the list but Co-Star. I don't know if anyone owns this one. This is CSGP. It looks like they have a beat on the top and the bottom is a $33 billion company beat by 21% on EPS 23 cents versus 19 cents expected and revenue 833 million versus 825 million expected as they beat on the top and the bottom as well. CSGP Co-star is an American provider of information analytics and marketing services to the commercial property industry in North America and Europe 33 billion. That stock up after hours 4% as you can see right there on the screen. There's that candle on the beat with the top and the bottom. Uh what about Visa? Visa numbers are not out yet. Still waiting for them. A lot of these companies end up doing 405 410. Don't have them yet. We have bookings and we have Co-Star right now. Bloom Energy is moving, but I don't see the numbers yet. Let me see if I can find those. Uh Bloom Energy, I believe this is the after hours move. By the way, SoFi did close above 3150, which is nice. No, Bloom is up 1%. It was up 4% during the day, up 1% after hours, so probably not getting a massive move yet. Cheesecake is not out yet. Visa's call will be at 5:00 PM, but Visa will be out pretty soon uh in terms of the actual numbers, but we're still waiting on those right now. What did people do at SoFi today? Did people sell calls? Did they take any profits? Did they trim? Uh shout out to our friend Josh, who's a friend of the channel. His account is pushing 10 million. It's It's basically like I think it's almost like 90% soy. He did take some profits on some $25 calls that he sold or that he bought before earnings. I think the majority of people just held. I mean either he bought the dip or held but SoFi still getting that 3150 close which was nice to see. Sold some calls, rolled some calls. Bought 2x lever at SoFi. Bought calls when it dipped up 150%. Not bad. I mean, the 28 dip was kind of stupid with a triple bead, but there you go. Still holding my June 2027 leaps. Nphase dumping. Are we dumping? Nphase is dumping. That is a real dump. Nphase is down 7%, 9% now after hours. Get the Nphase results in a second. Um, that one is getting hit. Nphase. Wow. Why are they dumping? Beat by 36% on EPS, 90 versus 66. Beat by 11% on revenue, 410 versus 369. Really? They're going to dump it on a double beat. And not just a small double beat. Those are a double- digit double beat, especially on EPS. Dude, I we're we're going to have to run some stats, but like the average beat on EPS, I think, is in the double digits. I mean we are seeing multiple 15 to 20% beats on EPS which is just showing margin efficiency across the board. Solar I don't think solar is dead. I do think solar from a big beautiful bill regulatory perspective is not in favor. Um which is kind of weird because you would think we need as much energy as possible and if nuclear takes a lot longer to set up than solar that we kind of should be supporting solar a lot more but you know this administration does not care. Nphase right there still down 5% on the day. was down more, but now it is down 5%. Bloom Energy, I think we got it. Let me pull it up. Uh, Bloom Energy, ticker symbol BE. Wow, a double beat. 50% EPS 15 cents versus 10 cents. EPS is up, 1600% year-over-year. Revenue 519 versus 428 beat by 21%. Bloom Energy starting to make a little bit of a move after hours. It was up 5% on the day. No, now it goes red. Well, now it's flat. Okay, now it's trying to keep moving. But you have another double beat. Another double beat. Visa down. Visa don't have the numbers yet, but Visa is down about 2%. Street might not love the numbers, but Bloom Energy, that one is Yeah, look at that. Look at Now she's moving. Now BE is moving 5% after hours with a double beat. With a double beat, EA is pumping. Okay, what do we have on EA? EA Well, it's not I wouldn't say it's pumping pumping, but it is having a little bit of a move. EA, we have a This is our first miss. Uh EA did have a little bit of a beat. Well, not a little bit of a beat. My goodness. EPS 54% beat. 54 cents a share versus 35 cents expected. Revenue very slight miss by 3%. I think the streak can overlook that revenue miss, but the EPS beat is the story. Another 50% beat on EPS. You're just not seeing uh a trend in companies not beating by EPS and you're getting some of that momentum. Visa, let me see if I can get the earnings and see if I can get these numbers. We'll check Seagate in a second. Oh, here we go. We got Seagate 260 versus 240. That's another beat on the bottom line and then a beat on the top line. 2.6 versus 2.55 billion in revenue. EPS is up 65% year-over-year. Revenue is up 21%. Seagate is are we flat after hours? We're up 2%. We're up 2%. It was down a little bit during the day. Up 2%. But again, another double beat. It's not the best year-over-year. That is correct. But at the end of the day, you know, these companies just have to be able to beat the quarterly expectations more than anything. And it looks like most these companies are beating it. Cheesecake not out yet. Cheesecake not out yet. I do think we have Visa. Let me see if I can pull this up. Do we have Visa? Um, let's see. I think Visa has a beat on EPS as well. Not a massive beat. Nphase bouncing back a little bit, correct? But Nph still down. Uh Visa, do we have it? Yes. Okay. Visa 298 versus 297. That's a beat by 1 cent, but 1 cent matters. And then 10.72 versus 10.62. That's a beat by 1%. Revenue is up 12% year-over-year. EPS is up 10% year-over-year. Visa is down 1%. Okay, so doesn't care too much about Visa. I think the narrative on Visa and stable coins potentially hurting their business, the broader financial system being threatened by cryptocurrencies. I mean, this is something Visa is embracing head-on and they're not really hiding away from it. But I think that more of as a narrative is associated with their stock. The numbers for Mastercard, Visa, etc. don't seem to be disappointing this quarter at all. But Visa right there down slightly after hours. Um, booking again, they beat on the top and the bottom, which is really good. EA's up a little bit. Bloom Energy so far having the best earnings after hours with that move. Co-star was having a decent earnings. Now that goes flat. Mandles is down. Uh, this is the company that owns Oreo. They said they're cutting their advertising cost by 40 million because of training on generative AI models. They beat on the top of the bottom. 73 cents versus 71 cents expected. Beat by 3%. 9.74 versus 9.68 billion. They beat by 1%. SoFi had earnings in the morning. United Health had earnings in the morning as well. SoFi, United Health and PayPal had a double beat. SoFi had a triple beat. But all those companies did pretty good. United also started recovering towards the end of the day. It was down a bit. It ended the day up what 3.7. No, it actually ended relatively flat, but it was up during the day at some point. Okay. So, not a lot of volatility after hours on any of these names. Still waiting for cheesecake. Visa was I think the most important and this one relatively flat even though they got a double beat. Seagate also double beat. Mandles double beat. Bookings double beat. EA had a little bit of a miss. Bloom Energy getting the most love right here. And that one's moving. Nphase is also recovering a little bit, but that one got hit. Well, it's recovering a lot more. It was down 10. Now it's down two. Uh crypto. I don't know what's going on with Bitcoin, but that's a nasty $3,000 candle over the past couple hours. Joby uh just announced something with Nvidia. That's why Job's up. Uh Joby, what did they say? They said they're going to be using Nvidia tech to do something. Joby, we've teamed up with Nvidia as the only aviation launch partner for their new IGX Thor platform. The powerful collaboration is set to accelerate the development of superpilot, bringing next era autonomy and safety to electric flight. That is why Joby is getting a bit of a move. Is Archer getting a move on this? Archer is uh flat. Archer not moving too much on that. ETH is down as well. I don't know why ETH and Bitcoin took a bit of a a fall towards the end of I mean in the morning they were doing phenomenal. They were really like I mean ETH was pushing through 4200 but this one again. Wow. ETH. Wow, dude. It just lost 4,000. Why is everyone selling ETH? Goodness gracious, bro. Like, just hold it. Like, for it to go up, you have to hold, not sell. What do people not get? Like, we'll sell it when it's higher, not here. Like, let's just wait till 5,000. Can we do Can we not have some paper hands? Goodness. ETH continuing to get hit right here. Nvidia, are we still holding 200 after hours? All right. At least Nvidia is holding 200. At least Nvidia is holding 200. You don't even own ETH? Yeah, but I own this leveraged freaking treasury which needs ETH to go up. So, we just hold the freaking asset. Like, goodness. Bit mine right there down about 3% as well. Um, there you go. Those are most of the earnings. I think we got through pretty much all of them. Uh we'll talk more a lot about the AI stuff, but I mean you're not getting crazy reactions after we don't have cheesecake yet. We should be getting that soon. We don't have cheesecake yet. STX is pumping. Stargate. See, again, this I've been telling I've been saying this. Robin's really got to fix this. Dude, I cannot see the after hours move because they combine it with the intraday move. So to me, it looks like it's up 1.4% 24% but on Weeble I get the accurate number. It's up 5%. So yes, you're right. Seagate is getting a bit of a move right here. They really got to fix this dude. I told them what it's like it makes it hard to actually see the accurate numbers. But Seagate, that one is up 5% in the in the after hours. What did Nvidia announce? They announced a lot of things. We'll talk all about it after we get through earnings, but they announced enough stuff to increase their market cap by 250 billion. It is not a chart settings thing. I talked to their head designer. He he acknowledged it was an issue and I was like, "Dude, I'm not crazy, right? Like, this is like this is something we need to change." He's like, "Yes, yes, we make sense. We get it. I just need them to like push the update and change it so that it's easier." Uh, Cheesecake, we don't have the earnings yet. Not on Cheesecake. Still waiting on that. Is Visa making a little bit of a pump? SoFi 3150. Visa. H, it went green. It was red. Went green. which is good. Tess says, "I've got a meeting with Vlad on the 13th in London." All right, Tess. There you go. That is uh if he's coming to the UK to speak to the Brits, then which makes sense because they opened up shop in UK at the end of 2023. That'll be a chance to talk to Mr. Vlad. PaloAlto, that's up a little bit. Microsoft is up 2% again. That was at 550 in the morning. Nvidia still holding these levels at 200. Cakes at five o'clock. Okay. I thought it was usually earlier the calls at five, but if the numbers are at five, then that one we'll wait on. Uh I think that's what we got, folks. That's what we got on earnings. Let me get a little bit of coverage on bookings right here, and then we'll keep going from there. Then we'll get into all the AI conversation that happened today. Just a massive day in the stock market. If you own Nvidia, I mean, this was one of those days that uh quite frankly could be a gamecher, could eliminate us from ever having to see the the 170s, 180s again. I don't want to get that optimistic about it, but what he announced today along with the earnings estimates that I think are going to go higher, aka the upgrades that should be coming out soon. That could be a massive deal for Nvidia.
>> Analysts were expecting only 9566 revenue of 9 billion also topping estimates. Booking says it is seeing steady travel demand trends so far in the current quarter and you can see those shares are popping 5%. So perhaps an echo of what we've heard from some of the uh airlines already this earning season as well. It's clear that the markets have been dominated this year by the tech trade. The NASDAQ 100 is outpacing all other indices. It's almost 18% above its 200day moving average. That's the most since 2024 right before a correction. this as we go into the most crucial two days of the earnings season with Alphabet and Meta reporting tomorrow and Amazon and Apple reporting on Thursday.
>> All right, we got cheesecake. We got cheesecake. What do we got? You saw bookings right there. Cheesecake. Uh EPS 68 cents revenue missed. EPS beat revenue missed even though revenue is still up 5% year-over-year. Okay. So, you have a miss and a and a and a beat for the Cheesecake Factory, which is one of my favorite restaurants, but it looks like they got a miss and a beat. Is that stock getting hit? Cheesecake right here. It's up 1%. It's up 1%. Street expected 912 of revenue. We got 9007 60 cents of EPS, 68 cents. Again, the EPS beats, I mean, very few companies are not beating by EPS. And that's what matters, I would say, more than revenue. Revenue is more a function of demand. EPS is more so a function of internal efficiencies. Because if you can actually squeak out a profit and then increase the margin at which you're able to squeak out that profit after all your expenses as a public company, it means you're a big boy company. Means you deserve to be owned by the public. And a lot of these companies are proving that they deserve capital as they're beating on EPS, which is very, very, very nice to see. Again, why is Bitcoin down? I'm not sure. Bitcoin's been up and down throughout the month of October. I mean, it's really not had a trend. It's kind of been stuck around this 110 115 range, but it is getting a pretty nasty candle right there, 112.7. And obviously, ETH is going down with it. Maybe people are selling Bitcoin to buy Nvidia. Again, that's a pretty stupid reason, but like I don't really have any other of reason. Is gold still down on the day? Yeah. Wow. Gold's still down. It's not as bad as it was in the morning, but still down below 4,000. So this whole argument about people are selling gold to buy Bitcoin. I mean maybe but Bitcoin price action not necessarily showing that's the case. So there you go. Uh that's what you've got here. Did Regeneron have earnings today? Did they? Regeneron was up 11% on the day. I don't think these guys had earnings. $67 billion pharmaceutical company. Not sure what I saw in the headline, but that one is up 12% on the day. I do not believe they had they had earnings. I mean, there's obviously some whales that are probably selling their Bitcoin as well, which is weird, right? Because we have a rate cut coming tomorrow, which is very bullish for liquidity, the broader M2 money supply. And by the way, not only do we have a rate cut, we basically have a function of uh quantitative easing, as JPA will probably signal that he's going to get ready to stop quantitative tightening. So you have two forces that should be incredibly important for risk on assets and and and stimulative. So it is a little weird to see it kind of get a hit right before we get into those announcements, but it also could be priced in. Invidia right here 2011 176 that's still up after hours on the S&P 500 at 687. Uh CCJ Kamico, they got a big announcement today with uh Brookfield and as a result a lot of the uranium nuclear stocks got a bit of a pump. Camo right they're up 24.68% on the day. Oaklo was down a little bit. Nanuclear was up 2.78%. Regeneron did have earnings. Okay, I will try to get those numbers. I did not see them anywhere. But oh, that it probably happened in the morning, right? Might have happened in the morning if it pumped throughout the day, but I'll try to get those numbers as well and see. Okay, cool. So, that is what we got. JPAL will speak at 2:30 tomorrow. I'll be live pretty much the whole day. So, at 2 PM, uh, we got the the announcement. I'll be live and I think I'm gonna be live the whole day from market opens, market close because we got a lot of tech earnings as well. Tomorrow's just going to be a massive day. Um, but we'll get the decision at 2 PM and then at 2:30 we get JPAL and we're going to see what goes from there. Okay, cool. So, let's get into AI and let's talk about what happened today with Nvidia. We're not going to have technical Tuesday today. Again, it just makes no sense to do a lot of TA when you have all these companies reporting earnings. But we should be good for next week and we'll get a lot of those earnings done, which will uh which will help us kind of analyze the technical moves that they made as well. All right. So, what happened today? Well, Nvidia basically said that the AI revolution is not slowing down, that the AI revolution is going to continue to be as strong as uh Jensen has laid out for the vision over the past couple years. And most importantly, he guided for $500 billion of revenue over the next five quarters. And as a result of that business update, a lot of these street estimates can go a bit higher. We're going to have Jose join in just a second as well to kind of give his thoughts on what's going on with Nvidia. I'll start by sharing this video before we watch the full carp interview. Um, actually, why don't we watch the full carp interview? Let's let's let's get that out of the way. So, here was Jensen and Karp on CBC for those that haven't seen it. This is what they had to say. Very big deal for Nvidia and Palanteer. And quite frankly, the amount of partnerships they announced today was really important for the overall AI sector, which is why I think a lot of stocks got a bid, but they especially focused on Palanteer. And here's what Jensen and Karp had to say together for the first time as uh as they were on CNBC. And I I just Alex, I'm actually going to start with you. Uh the CEO of Palanteer just to explain does that mean no human intervention? Can you just explain how this would work and used Lowe's as an example?
>> Well, first of all, I'm delighted to be on the stage with uh what many people I believe to be one of the great entrepreneurs of of my lifetime and a patriot. Um and it means a lot to me to be here. Um uh so we we have a product called Ontology. You could think of it as uh a essentially a digital representative of your enterprise including security model which essentially takes the disabilities that have large language models and allows you to move decision-m to the front line with people without people depending on how you're doing it. um in the context of loaves and and other enterprises allows you to essentially automate decision- making like how would your supply chain work how would it work if it changed uh how do you get the cheapest good to the right place given that there may be disruption but in general what's very very special I believe about our our partnership is we're going to be able to move 2x and I think in the future even faster so you get a much much faster and actually because you can control it in a more granular way much faster much cheaper and then the macro thing that I'm actually most excited about which for our country is because of that you can do manufacturing in America you can make the workers stronger and better and you have more competition because you can use openw weight models open source models you can use you can use any hyperscaler you can decide not to use a hyperscaler this is much much better for America much better for workers much better for industry it's cheaper it's faster and obviously they have one of the world's top tech teams and we work very well with them
>> so Jensen just in in regards to that collaboration then who would actually be procuring the hardware Is this like a company like Lowe's? Do they have to put the upfront cost uh you know with their existing GPUs and then working with Palunteer? Is that how it works or
>> First of all, it's amazing to think that the Palunteer ontology platform has achieved all of this and they're the fastest enterprise growing platform in the world. Um uh in a lot of ways it gives enterprises what we all want which is intelligence and and the ability to make good decisions fast. and and now we're going to supercharge it with Nvidia's accelerated computing for the first time. And so Nvidia's CUDA accelerated computing is going to get integrated. We're going to be able to put uh Nvidia's AI libraries on top of that and open source model that that we're working on together in into the anttology platform and you'll run it in the cloud any cloud or you run it on prem or even a private cloud. And so, as you know, Nvidia runs everywhere. And so, you could buy a server from HP or Dell. Uh, you could be in another country and you want to set up your own private cloud. We got no trouble with that. And and so, it doesn't matter. We run everywhere. And Palanteer runs everywhere.
>> But you're talking about the future then. So, this isn't something that would be accretive to revenues just in the near term. You're still working it out. And like I know Lowe's is an example, but are there other customers?
>> Well, at Palanteer, we just do what's best for our customers. We work downstream for value creation. We believe we know when it's faster, better, more accurate and more flexible and uh creates a better future for them because they can choose how they want to run their applications, we'll do very well. And at Poundier, we we're doing very well on revenue and profit. And we're, you know, that's not actually our primary motivation now. And the reason we've done so well on profit and on growth is because you just have to create value. this creates more value for the end user be
>> and but you just said before too that the human may not even be involved with some of these decisions and I guess that is a major concern in this day and age that AI efficiencies could take away from or displace the job force. So
>> couldn't something like this collaboration do that?
>> Uh you know it's interesting when you say humans don't have to be in the loop that doesn't inherently mean there aren't cases where humans need to be in the loop. For example, 40 years ago, we had 40x we had 40 we 40 with 40x more manufacturing jobs than we have now. So it's like you can make more more manufacturing jobs which are humans, workingclass humans. You can build things you couldn't build in the past. And those humans become more and more valuable than they were in the past. In the defense context, you have situations where humans have to be in the loop. Offense situations where humans shouldn't be in the loop like defense. Our collaboration makes all those use cases better for workers, for manufacturing, for defense, for offense, and in general because it allows people to use any kind of model, any kind of compute structure, it makes America stronger and better. Whenever a business is more productive, whenever they can move faster, their business grows, they hire more people. And so, so I think this this idea that that AI uh is going to take jobs is going to change everyone's job. That's for sure. But I think it's going to make companies more productive. We're more productive today because of AI. We're hiring more people.
>> I know. And we saw some leaders of smaller companies, startups that have been around for just three years, valuations of $39 billion, 400 employees. And clearly that is a beneficiary of uh using AI. But I wonder with your proximity to the White House right now, you you're here quite often. Is that a concern that you're hearing from them? Like what about the workers? We have to make sure that we're not displacing them. And is there anything that you guys are Nvidia in particular is doing with the White House?
>> Look, look at what President Trump is doing. The first thing he my first phone call, my first meeting with them, it's manufacturing in America. Move manufacturing back to United States. It creates tons of jobs. If we could if we could move manufacturing the core technology, we have better security, national security. We have create more jobs. Second, because we're talking about the AI industrial revolution, all of these AI factories creates a ton of jobs. And so we're we're really he's really in the job creation mode bringing manufacturing back to United States. And
>> AI is is is exceedingly good for workingclass workers. Now you could argue is it good for consultants and people that that's a very different debate. But you're going to see remanufacturing. How would you build a culturally specific enterprise like we power Panasonic batteries? It's like you are you're building something that otherwise would have had to be built in Japan. Now you can build it in America. You can have train the workers so that they can behave like Japanese engineers. That's all AI augumentation. And by the way, the workers are more valuable and just like us, they get paid more because they're more valuable.
>> Everybody knows how to use an AI because AI is smart. And so AI is the first technology that has closed the technology divide. Everybody who didn't know how to program computers in the past, they know exactly how to program a computer now. It's called AI.
>> But for the workforce in general trying to learn all of that, it does take time. So do you think that maybe we're overestimating the benefits of this AI buildout in the near term which is reflected?
>> Let me sorry here. So I'm going to push back on this narrative. It's not first of all AI makes America the dominant country in the world. So just start there. Every other country in the world like I spent half my life in Europe. They're whining and crying and it's it it's like we have the right chips. We have the right software. We have the right engineers. We have the right culture. We have the right people. The risk appetite.
>> Risk appetite. Right people to ask questions. uh the whole thing is combining to become a juggernaut and then and and then and like then you these these these partnerships happen and that just throws gasoline on the fire se. So the classic the real question is will the GDP growth acrue to all Americans or just wealthy Americans and the answer to that is it depends what you do but I deeply believe I think we deeply believe%
>> well no manufacturing jobs
>> you build if you build manufacturing jobs which is what this president wants to do can you build them yes how do you build them you need AI can you train the people can you upscale them yes if you use
>> mechanicals electricals and plumbers and construction
>> and that I know the red tape you've discussed it but nuclear reactor The number one thing of this administration is pro- power growth.
>> Look at all the power generations that he's approved. Look at all the DOE land and energy he they've approved. I mean, this is really about this is a pro-energy growth administration, pro- manufacturing administration. And President Trump is pro jobs. When these things all come together,
>> yeah, it's going to be
>> Is that why you said make America great again at the That's the first time I've heard you say that at the end of a speech for GTC. Well, I was thanking everybody in the room. I mean, you know, look,
>> but was that also a communication to the president because you were expecting him here, right?
>> Uh, no, he's he's in Asia. I'm
>> No, but I thought you had said on a earlier panel that you were expecting
>> Well, I just I I think we're we're making America great again. I I think um uh all of the all of his policies relating to energy and manufacturing and um all of his all of his uh enthusiasm behind uh artificial intelligence and making sure that that American AI technology is the standard of the world that it's m it's is diffused um maximally and making sure that the rest of the world has the benefit of American technology so they can build on top of it. All of that is fantastic.
>> And Alex, do you feel like uh any outcomes for the end of this week? I know I know you're heading, you know, to Asia right after this. Do you feel like there could be a more positive outcome from the trade talks because it seems like the market's perceiving that all of the CEOs I've spoken to at this event too are very very bullish that uh there might be some good news. So maybe you guys both know something that we don't that you could share
>> and we're going to tell you right now. Um look that I I look I don't want to just make this about our partnership but it like if you already have a dominant position a profitable position a position that is growing in both cases in in a kind of way that is not what people have seen in the past and you somehow create more value for your customers that is incredible for our customers it's incredible for our country and it's not so bad for us and Palanteer on Palunteer is the most technically deep enterprise platform form company in the world and this collaboration is just going to supercharge that
>> and I I will end it but I just I did ask about China so is there any way that is do you believe that you're going to be getting for licenses or
>> well you know I think the the the important the important thing to take away is that that we need to win developers all over the world and there are so many open source developers in China I think it's a it's a mistake not to have them build on American tech so that's number one number two we all agree um that that we want America to win the only questions what's our strategy in doing so and and one of one of the best frameworks that I I uh I've heard uh is is David Saxs talking about imagine five years from now where do we want suppose American technology was around the world where do we want American technology market share to be do you want it to be 80% or you want it to be 20%. and and he believes and I as I believe that that um uh we want the world to be built on American tech standards. We want the same thing that happened in the in the good old days when when we first started wireless technology and it's no longer built on American standards and we really want to go back to those days and AI is ours to lose just as Alex was talking about earlier. We have the chips, we have the infrastructure, we have the technology, we have the models, we have the people. This is ours and we have and we will have the power. that this is ours to lose and we just got to get on top of it and make it happen.
>> And you believe that that is going to happen that the tides are changing and the relationships with other countries are working out quite well including China and so is that something that you're telling me right now?
>> That's only that's something that only the president could solve and and um if there's anybody who could solve it, I'm I'm certain the president will be the one to do it.
>> We're just building technology.
>> Yeah,
>> we're building technology. We want to be in the strongest position we can be in and we will we're repped by a president who seems to be extraordinarily good at figuring out to make deals. You saw the peace treaty in the Middle East which I don't think anyone else could have done. Uh you've seen that you saw in my humble opinion you see what hap what his reactions abroad including his uh sanctioning of our uh response to Iran. Uh, and we're, you know, we're in the factory building the best tools in the world and that should give everyone.
>> And the important thing is is China is out of Nvidia's forecast. If anything happens,
>> you said zero, right?
>> At zero. And if if the president pulls pulls out a miracle and it'll just be a bonus for the country.
>> All right, there you go. Jensen and Karp was pretty incredible to see. To break that down and a lot more of what happened at GTC, we got to get the most important Nvidia analyst that I think quite frankly exists on the entire planet. Ladies and gentlemen, Jose, what a day for you.
>> Yeah, definitely. It's been pretty exciting uh day and but but first, happy birthday yesterday. I texted you, but still, let me just say happy birthday one more time. Um hope everything was good. Um but yeah, back to this Nvidia stuff.
>> First of all, I appreciate that. Second of all, so on Zillow, I just want to know your search history today. Like, was it Hawaii? Was it, you know, Turks and Caos? Like, where exactly were you searching on Zillow after you saw me?
>> Definitely not searching on Zillow, but it it is funny. I was just looking at some hotels in Hawaii. Um, so the wife and I can go for uh for well, with the little one, right? The wife and I, little one go for a nice vacation uh this year.
>> All right. So, I mean, let's start off with this question before we get into GCC. Why do you think the stock hit all-time highs today?
>> Uh, I mean, easily, easily that number they gave with the Reuben and uh, Blackwell numbers of uh, half a trillion visibility. I mean, I I still I'm going to rewatch um, the keynote because these keynotes, we hear a lot of great things. Um but to digest them and to kind of put them in perspective of what kind of total addressable market they can hit. Um it takes some time for me. Uh maybe for others it's an immediate hit, but for me it takes some time. But this $500 billion figure from the keynote was the most important thing um in my opinion that really dropped jumped the stock. It shows that analysts are still very under estimating what this can do in forms of AI chips and this is visibility. Uh this to me I I feel like every time I come here I say I'm not bullish enough. And reasons like this this continues to show me that I'm not bullish enough in the AI market. Yeah. I mean dude 200 I think we all knew it was eventually coming but for it to come in such a uh for for for the velocity of the move to happen the way it did based on the announcements that were announced I think was really incredible to see. And then obviously that $500 billion number was also very important. So, in terms of the actual announcements at GTC, you got a bunch of stuff with the Department of Energy, Uber, Palunteer, uh, all of these broader data center companies. I mean, what do you think he said besides the 500 billion from an actual technical standpoint that got the street to also think this was one of those GTCs that really does matter for analysts to care about?
>> Yeah. And and you know, coming into this GTC DC, um, I was I wasn't expecting much if I may be honest because we already had kind of like the main GTC in March. Um, so I thought we were going to get like a lot of refresh rehash, but I was completely wrong. This was probably one of my favorite GTC's in the wild. Um, maybe because I was coming with low expectations and they kind of uh uh blew it out the waters. Uh, some interesting things that I uh I found I have my notes here. So obviously the number one was like that revenue number. I think that was crucial. Uh the second thing I would say is they they announced some massive supercomputer wins with the United States governments or US agencies uh for again I have to look at the press release to kind of get more breakdown of what's the time frame how many are going to show up and when they're going to show up but seven supercomputers is pretty amazing. I saw some crazy 100,000 blackwell GPUs in some of them. Uh so the demand there is wild. Um the third thing that I found pretty interesting and it's they announced what called what is called NVQ link. Uh so it's the ability uh to kind of connect GPUs and Q QPUs QPUs. Uh I don't know why am I saying my Q's weird right now? Whatever. Um but um is to connect these two types of products uniquely with a special type of connection Nvidia has done. And this is what actually has made Nvidia kind of like a core component or the main player in the AI space is their envy link. The envy link, the ability to connect a GPU and a CPU together where they can communicate almost like if they were the same chip is the greatest strength that I think many people don't know about. This is the greatest strength. This is the ability that Nvidia has to create that NVL72. If the NVQ link is something similar for the quantum space, I think this could if that market picks up and becomes a massive revenue opportunity that creates that moat there. So that one was pretty interesting. Um, so I think those were the
>> Do you think the amount of time spent on quantum has it changed your perspective on the industry? Do you like why do you think Jensen really focused on it at this GTC? has it changed my perspective in the industry. First, my original perspective is it's not investable for me and I still believe that's still the case for me. Um, it's still not investable for me as while you have companies that already have production made products um and and have customers. I think to kind of get to the billion-dollar revenue streams that I like to look at for for massive growth opportunities are not there uh for the vast industry in the short term, maybe in the long term. Overall though, it does seem like all these players are trying to get into the space and I think that's an indication that it might be a lot closer than what maybe I might have thought and what others might have think. Um, but
>> do you think do you think Jensen sees it as a multi-billion dollar opportunity? Because you spent a good amount of time talking about it today.
>> Yeah. So the way he's doing it is more through the hybrid approach, right? That hybrid approach of using classical and accelerated computing to help determine a lot of the error solutions in in in quantum. Um so I think that's the way he's going to play it out and I think that's the great way of like hey look if this picks up you can use our chips. If it doesn't pick up that's great. We're I think it's the best hedge for them. If it goes up, it allows them to have a massive opportunity. If it doesn't go anywhere, they pretty much just focus on the R&D on that connectivity solution aspect. Um, now for me, for him to really believe this is the next stage, I would expect more than just a connection or or some form of bridge between them, I would expect him to more focus on a firsthand solution. Uh, so I see this as more Jensen kind of hedging his bets in quantum. If it goes somewhere, look, we're right here. We have Aruda Q which is our kind of software acceleration applications and we have this NVQ that if maybe you are this great quantum computer company that develops some great uh cubit chips um you're going to connect them to our AI chips right you're going to have the ability to connect them with us and now we're part of the package whatever you sell we sell as well because you're going to be able to sell these supercomputers these quantum computers with our hybrid computers so I think it's more of a uh it's good if it goes good and even if it doesn't go good. We didn't spend a lot of money in it,
>> right? So, he wants to get into the industry if it becomes something super massive. Wants to be prepared for it with this hybrid approach and you know probably can't ignore that technology which is why they spent the time to to discuss it today. Um and if I may say a lot of the things that Nvidia does release, it takes time right for example CUDA uh came out I believe in 2012 and it only really became possible and really kind of created that mo um recently right uh envy link similar right link is more than uh few years old but it really kind of shined recently. So even if you hear them working on this it doesn't mean it's going to shine right away but it gives them that opportunity to when it does.
>> Agreed. What did you think about the Uber partnership? I feel like we've heard Nvidia partner with Uber for the past three four years and nothing comes from it. Uh do you think this one was a bit different?
>> Yeah, so it it's I feel like he didn't explain it as well as maybe in the press release. Um so there have been various amount of Uber partnerships. The one we heard about earlier I think I don't know if it was was it this week or last week we heard one as well where it was just Uber kind of sharing data and I thought that was it. They have a nice white paper on it that showcases a lot of the information and data that they are collecting and now it helps them train their form of AI models. Now, this one is I think a little bit more potential and being something because you're actually creating a form of an autonomous vehicle fleet with I forget what company it is. Is it the Stalantis? I forget what was the company. Oh, regardless, this is one of the first partnerships where you actually see a form of physical product being discussed in the press release. Normally, in the past few weeks, in the past few months, we've heard of a Uber partnership. It's more about data control, right? It's more about data transfer and kind of information sharing. I think this goes a little bit above that. So, there is some I I think some some bullish scenarios with that one as well. So Jensen said there's a $500 billion opportunity with Blackwell and Ruben GPU over the next five quarters. Hopper shipped four million GPUs. Blackwell Rubin has already shipped 6 million with the total demand tracked at 20 million units. All of that doesn't seem bearish for the data center plays, but your Nebius, your Cororeweave, your Iran, all of them took a bit of a beating by the end of the day. And again, it's a bit subjective since those stocks are up a lot this year. But any any thoughts on why the data center stocks got hit today? I I was my biggest thing is maybe the market was expecting actual direct partnerships with some of these during GTC events and they didn't get that partnership announcement. Regardless, I agree with your first sentiment that this is extremely extremely bullish for the cloud players. I like I mentioned I'm not I I feel like sometimes I'm not bullish enough to me, right? Reuben is coming out in 2026. So if there's visibility for Reuben in 2026, those data centers are going to run for five plus years even longer, right? But just on the Reuben chip, you would expect at least five years. So right now, if you have this crazy demand of chips and and let's just go back to thinking about it, right? Hopper was just came out and just with the Hopper and the little bit of Blackwell that we have, we're already data center constraint and power constraint. Now you're telling me you're going to send you still have to shell about 14 million more GPUs. Where are you going to get that power? Where are you going to get that infrastructure? So again, I'm not bullish enough, but it gets me extremely bullish for these AI cloud players either being your coreweave, your Nebas, your iron or whatever you want to own. The market is there. It doesn't mean the stock is going to go up straight every day, right? Massive volatility. You just mentioned it, right? Some of these had a crazy runup. Any pull down, I think I'm pretty excited about them. I think we both did the same play with Nebulous last week. We both sold puts.
>> Yeah,
>> those are those puts were just going to get the premium out of them. Now, if we see dips like that, it's going for me, it's going to be a mixture of puts and buying shares from now on just because it does that that was just a great indication that it's a healthy market for the uh hypers scale and those that are building the AI infrastructure space. Yeah, I mean now like we could possibly see those prices again, but it would have to create a little bit of a shock in the system for the street to feel worried about data center spend, but based on what Jensen said today, based on some of the Morgan Stanley estimates, based on what we're going to hear from the hyperscalers tomorrow, which by the way guys, Jose's YouTube right there, he will be covering all the tech earnings with me, so you can subscribe to his channel as well, and we'll be live tomorrow on the close. Um, all of that should give some pretty good guidance for the data center place. In terms of Google, Microsoft and Meta in general as a semiconductor investor, are are you looking for something very specific from those three companies to to report tomorrow?
>> Um, from tomorrow at le well and then we have Amazon on Thursday. Two out of the four I'm expecting to increase capital expenditure um tomorrow or or by between tomorrow and Thursday, right? So out of those four players out of Meta, out of Google, out of Microsoft and Amazon, whatever was said today, I believe at least two of those four can increase capex um or make some nice announcements of capex growth in this earnings. Uh especially right, OpenAI and Microsoft just made that deal where um OpenAI is going to buy $250 billion worth of compute uh for Azure. Where are they going to get that? They're going to get that either by building their own, by working with Core Weave, by working with Nebas as they both have as Microsoft has contracts with both or maybe who knows maybe some other player that they want to continue to diversify um into right so um I expect two out of the four to increase capex and what I'm going to be listening to is AI cloud demand. what's the balance like and Microsoft historically every earnings tries to tell us hey look next quarter we're actually going to see a balance in supply and demand and then they come up that quarter and say you know what we're actually not there and we don't expect to be there I want to hear that same commentary from all these players um this week
>> yeah because if they can say that we have to either increase our capex guidance or we don't have enough supply uh indicating that demand is outstripping that supply I mean that's bullish for a lot of the other data center plays as you said, uh, do you think Microsoft solidifying their basically 30% stake in OpenAI is good clarity for the industry that just didn't know what Microsoft's role is in in this OpenAI partnership?
>> Yeah, I think it also clears up the kind of questions of how OpenAI can do compute and how it can kind of um work with other players because now Microsoft no longer has the first the right to first refusal. Uh so before open AI used to go to Microsoft and say look Microsoft I'm going to go to Coreweave they're I'm paying this type of price. Can you match it? If you can't match the price I'm going to go with them. Um now they don't even have to go to to Microsoft anymore. They can just work with whoever in the return they got that at least that $250 billion incremental. We don't know how long that time frame is. I don't think they they told us. I don't know if it's still 2030 or to 2032. Those are the two years that been thrown around in that in that presentation. Um, but to me it opens up the opportunity for Open AI to make a lot more partners outside of Core Wee, outside of Oracle to kind of increase compute demands. And I think that's actually pretty exciting for the overall space.
>> Do do you have any uh any any thesis on this? Uh once AGI is declared by OpenAI, that declaration will now be verified by an independent expert panel. What are they talking about here? How could this even be in legal writing? What do you think that means?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, because right, OpenAI, I think if once they hit AGI, they could have taken away all the IPs and everything away from Microsoft. But that's when Open AI was to decide, I've created AGI. And you were like, how can I question you? Now when opened AI decides hey I've created AGI Microsoft and I guess both of them create this panel that are going to finally decide is this AGI or not. Uh so now it's no longer in one person's uh in one group's um court now the whole it's a it's a leveling field there. Uh but I agree I I don't I they have to find a way to first define it because how can you have a panel without a a definition right? It's like going to to a court without the the rule of the law. Um, you need to have that rule for you to have the jury and the lawyers and everybody else be able to make the claim of what and what it's not. Um, so I wonder if they're ever going to share what that definition is.
>> I love it. Well, uh, Nvidia's pumping after hours as well. 20360.
>> Let's go. That's crazy. 6% on a four trillion four plus trillion dollar company. Um, do you know the price we need to be five trillion?
>> I think it's 204. We're at 4.95 trillion right now. We need 204.
>> Yeah, we need like 50 cents to get there.
>> Um, absolutely incredible stuff, folks. Uh, this is Jose's newsletter. I'm putting it right here in the chat. What the chip happened.com. I literally got an update yesterday and, uh, he was talking about Amcor. So,
>> yeah, Amcore. Yeah, I I saw a lot of you your people were mentioning it became a little bit popular, so I decided to cover that one. Um and and this week is even though it's not a lot of semiconductors this week, we do have a lot of big tech players that are going to be able to um dictate at least how the spending is going to go within the AI and chip market. Uh so so appreciate that.
>> Uh I I just like two more questions for you, Jose, but real quick, I I I have noticed that you have a paid tier to this now. So just want to give you the floor to give a little bit of a pitch on this. What do people get if they were to enter the community? I think it's like 50 bucks a year for this newsletter.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, it's pretty new. I mean, a lot of noise in this space and I wanted to create a community of like-minded investors. In that community, I have a room where we can all discuss. I've also a lot of great analysis and just a great way to kind of keep away from the noise impacting the overall AI market because every other day you hear of some bearish thesis, some bearish stuff. So, if you're interesting about the semiconductor market, if you're interesting about the AI space, this is a great community. Um, and I created different tiers there for for all price points. But, um, I I follow the space like no tomorrow, man. So, to me, I I I honestly believe I'm providing a lot of value um, for a great price.
>> Yeah. And and honestly, getting getting the signal via the noise is very important. I mean, there's a lot of stuff on Twitter, a lot of stuff on YouTube, but if you want to be in a centralized spot, which is how I'm hearing this described, I think that definitely makes a lot of sense right there. So, there you go. That's his newsletter, whatthechip.com. For those that want to join the community, you can check it out on the website as well, and you can get those updates from Jose. Uh, all right. Last couple question for you, Jose. There was a Skyworks acquisition. Any thoughts on that today?
>> Uh, if that happened today, I I um I did not listen to anything else except the OpenAI Open AAI and Microsoft thing and the Nvidia stuff. Um,
>> that it's been pretty Yeah, it's been pretty crazy. I mean, yesterday was also pretty crazy. We had some AMD announcement where they had uh two massive supercomputers announced with the US government and we also had Qualcomm release a new AI chip. Uh so if anybody has any questions on those two, I also wouldn't wouldn't mind covering that either.
>> Okay. And then uh Intel, I mean it was a pretty good earnings. They beat EPS by 2200%. And I know you've not been the biggest fan of it, but do you think at all it's worth taking a gander at or is Nvidia and AMD just a better opportunity at the end of the day?
>> I mean, I I always have to see where I would want to put my money and I don't want to buy every stock. I as a US citizen and I want Intel to succeed 100%. This is a company that's going to uh continue to make United States an amazing and strong company. So, I want them to succeed in forms of investment. Um the turnaround story is just getting started. You have a lot of great things. You have the Nvidia partnership. Uh you have them slowing down capital expenditure. You have the backing of the US government. These are all the right directions for this fun company to make a massive turnaround story in the semiconductor space. It takes time. It takes time. Uh so if you are an investor, just be prepared for a for a strong ride. If you are and I'm sorry, I'm going to bring this back to AMD. you are an AMD investor, I think those earnings were really amazing for AMD stock investors because they mentioned a few things. They mentioned that the CPU space, they're still their supply constraint because they're working on still older nodes, their 10 and and Intel 10 and Intel 7. I believe that's going to allow AMD to continue to grab market share in the client space. And unfortunately, Intel during the earnings call, if one's listened to or or saw a transcript, Intel actually said that they're still behind in technology leadership for the data center space. Um, and if that's the case, and we're seeing all these massive data sensors investment, it's going to continue to show that AMD might continue to win a nice amount of CPU market share in the data center space. So, pretty good for Intel. Congratulations. Um, but, um, I think this is extremely bullish for AMD in general. Uh, I believe 20523 guys is 5 trillion. I don't think this is 5 trillion yet, but let me know. We But there you go. 204 after hours. Last question for you Jose is uh this
>> should should people be worried about Qualcomm uh taking in biddy's lunch or
>> um definitely definitely not. I mean it's crazy to see the market react like that. Yesterday the stock was up roughly 20%. Because AMD, let's just go back to AMD has been trying to compete against Nvidia for multiple generations of AI chips and they're just finally finally getting mad announcements with big players, right? They just got that open AI. You're going to tell me Qualcomm that has this is I think their second generation. There's the AI 100 that they released in 2020. didn't really get much adoption, but you're telling me that this company is going to come out with their second chip sometime in 2026 and it's going to be a market eater lunch for the rest of the industry. I don't think so. I mean, it's not Qualcomm is not just fighting Nvidia. It's fighting Nvidia, it's fighting AMD, it's fighting Broadcom, it's fighting Marllo, it's fighting all these ASIC players, it's fighting um all these other players that are also building AI chips that um are in the private and private market as well. The only good thing I would say about them is they did announce a partnership with Humane that they're going to make uh a 200 megawatt data center uh in Saudi Arabia. how real that deal is. We've seen a lot of deals in Saudi Arabia in the Middle East right now, but we haven't seen the chips actually getting sent there. Where are you in their tier list? Like if you're that company, Humane, are you taking orders from Nvidia first, then AMD, then the other players? And where in the list is Qualcomm on that pay sheet? Uh if if those deals are real. Uh so to me, not a worried, but Qualcomm outside of the AI play, they definitely have an opportunity with Internet of Things. I just wouldn't like it. I I wouldn't buy Qualcomm as a data center AI company.
>> That's a fair point. All right, there you go, Jose. 200. I mean, it looks like he wants to Who's buying after hours, bro? Where's this? You got some volume coming in.
>> No. Yeah, it's it's insane. I mean, I wonder if there's some keynotes happening because I GTC I think is still going on. There's a lot of keynotes happening. Um, I wonder if some things are happening during the event right now.
>> That's true. There are a bunch of keynotes. I mean, there's tons of people looking at different presentations and demos and they could be pulling out their phones right now and saying, "Screw it. I'm buying more." There you go. 20430. All right, Jose. Thank you. I don't think it's five trillion yet, guys. I My market caps aren't updating on Legend or Weeble, but if anyone has it, let me know. I still see 4.97. That is wild. That's crazy. This was just four trillion. What? Two months ago. I When did it hit?
>> It's wild. It's wild. The the AI market is crazy. I mean, yesterday I I I stood on my I I sat by my computer for like 12 hours just using AI to help me code some stuff. I think without AI, it would have taken me over a month to do what I did yesterday. And I was like, this is insane. If I who sometimes like to procrastinate a lot can do this in 12 hours, I can't imagine what some of these crazy people are doing with AI right now.
>> Agreed. Jose, thank you so much. Jose's newsletter, what the chip happened, and I will see you tomorrow. We got a big day tomorrow.
>> All right. Good night and thank you to to all the support. Appreciate it.
>> Good night. Later.
>> Yeah, guys. I think I don't have I don't have anything telling me if it's 5 trillion or not. Some of you guys are saying yes. Some of you guys are saying we need a couple more bucks. 208 I think is way way way past 5 trillion. But this is incredible. This is a hell of a day. Uh Steve's going to be on in five minutes. He said he wanted to come on. So we'll get his thoughts on what happened throughout the day. Uh in terms of the palry partnership, look, I mean I I thought it was quite incredible. At the end of the day, this is Nvidia's models being integrated into ontology and AIP. I think from a perception standpoint, it was very important to see Karp and Jensen, who are two of the biggest AI leaders of our lifetime, actually uh collaborating and having this relationship together. There's a demo specifically with Lowe's that I haven't seen yet, but Lowe's is the use case is the company with the use case that has already been working with Palunteer integrating the work they're doing with Nvidia. And it's quite incredible. It is. It is just quite incredible to see. The fact that we're alive and we get to see multiple multi- trillion dollar companies in our lifetime be created. I mean, the story of Nvidia will be told long after we're all gone. And the fact that we get to live through it and then have a chance to invest in it is pretty cool. And again, even if you're not investing in Nvidia, if you're investing in something that's a derivative of Nvidia, which Nebia's core, we've all these guys are derivatives of what's happening with Nvidia, then you know, you are a beneficiary of this company continuing to do well. So, it is quite incredible. We already got Visa's numbers. Let's see after hours if we had any changes. Uh, Visa had a double beat. Visa basically flat after hours. NFA still down about 5%. Bookings up a little bit. Seagate up 2%. And Bloom Energy having the best one up about 4%. Cheesecake down. They did have a beat and a miss. Co-star up a little bit or actually Co-Star down and then EA down. Mandles taking a bigger beating as that one is down about 4% as well. Pterodine. Oh yeah, that one's up. Pterodine is up. Wow, that's a big move on Ter. Did their earnings just come out? Because we didn't get their numbers an hour ago. Maybe their numbers just came out, but Pterodine, that's a pretty big pump. You got Josh. Great time to be alive. Josh, we we shared your portfolio, bro. You're you're you're inching towards that 10 millie. It's going to happen. Josh, what percentage of the port is SoFi? I I I thought it was like 80%. But I feel like maybe I'm too aggressive there. I know you have micro strategy. I know you bit mine, but I feel like a decent chunk of this is is SoFi. So, shout out to Mr. Josh right there getting some love. Yeah, Job's up 9% because of Nvidia partnership. I don't know the specifics on it, but their Evol is collaborating with Nvidia. That's why Job is getting some excitement right there after hours. And you're getting a bit of a move. All right, Pterodine. I just got their numbers. Revenue of 769 million. Um, strong AI related growth in compute and memory expected to grow in Q4. EPS was 75 cents. Yes, EPS a little bit down year-over-year. Revenues up year-over-year. I think still a double beat on both of those uh metrics. And that's why Pterodine is getting the pump. That's why Pterodine is getting the pump. Muckabe said, "I bought 160 1121 calls before the close." Well, there you go. You're deep in the money. 170 for Pterodine 172. Yeah, that one's moving. Moving. That one is moving. Pterodine, that's up 19%. That is up 19% as well. Um, okay. I mean, what else is the reaction that everyone else had today? I think it was just one of those epic days where we had so much news to dissect and understand and discuss. I mean, it was it was it was a pretty remarkable day and I think there's a lot of different moving parts. Not to mention, we got the rate cuts or the FOMC meeting tomorrow. So, that's also going to be really important to navigate and see exactly what we've got going on. Uh, but we barely got to talk about China, but there were some good updates here. Here's what uh the Wall Street Journal reported which seems to be positive for the bulls in regards to China tensions easing.
>> Scott, yeah, the Wall Street Journal out with some reporting this afternoon on possible concessions that each side might make if the US and China do come to a trade deal this week. Now, officials have not confirmed these details to CNBC, but the Journal reports that the US would roll back fentinyl tariffs back from 20 to as low as 10% if Beijing cracks down on exporting fentinel precursor ingredients. The paper cites people familiar with the talks for those details. Now, the meeting between President Trump and Chinese leader Xiinping is slated for late Wednesday evening US time. And in the run-up to that, the president's been holding face-to-face meetings with leaders of Asian nations, setting up framework agreements that he hopes are going to buttress US economic relationships in the region. He spoke to a group of business leaders in Tokyo this morning that included Apple's Tim Cook, SoftBank CEO Masoshi Sun, Salesforce CEO Mark Beni off, and others. The president touted a number of business development deals and said they're going to benefit American workers. Earlier, he flew to the aircraft carrier USS George Washington with Japanese Prime Minister Sane Takichi where they inspected American fighter jets and the president greeted American troops. President Trump Scott also joking on this trip that he wants Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant to take over the Federal Reserve, but he said that Bessant wants to stay at Treasury. He did not tip his hand though about who he is ultimately going to select. Scott Becker. So the reduction of those port fees good for China. Trump signaling some announcements today that he thinks he's going to get a good meeting with Gi. That could also be good for Nvidia because right now Nvidia is pumping without the China guidance. If we actually get the China chips back, that would be very bullish for Nvidia. And so overall that seems to be strong from a geopolitical perspective. But then you also get earnings like Caesars's folks. Caesar's down 9% after hours and it's because the consumer at least in Vegas not doing the best. Same store net revenue 952 versus $9.99. That's a miss. 2.87 billion versus 2.89. That's a miss. They lost 27 cents a share. Operating income at 513 million. Adjusted EBA at 8.84. The street thought they would come in at 940. CEO said, "Our net revenues and adjusted EB growth as a result of consistent operating trends and continued positive returns from our capital projects. As we look to the fourth quarter, we anticipate improved operating performance given stronger occupancy in Vegas. Volumes in our Caesar's digital segment were strong driven by continued product improvements while adjusted was negatively impacted." Dude, you know, Chris said this a long time ago and I think he's right about this. I think the prediction markets are taking away market share from from the from the hotels and from the casinos. Obviously, there's a lot of people that are not going to Vegas as much as as well and that that's an issue. But and then you have some issues with Canada and Vegas and you're getting a lack of people traveling, but if people can just gamble on their phones, you know, maybe it takes away the need or the necessity to go to Vegas. I mean, when I went in September, and I know September is usually not the best, but when I went for the hood summit, it was dead. It's completely dead. And so that that that's sort of like, hey, let's go to Vegas. Let's go have fun. Let's go get drunk and get a bunch of friends and buddies to go down there. I mean, now people might just be doing that as a group with their phones and they have their prediction markets pulled up.
>> Yeah, DraftKings, too. Dude, I I don't want to say I'm bearish DraftKings because they don't understand their business. I just think the fact that they had to Wow. down 5% today. The fact that they had to acquire a prediction markets platform after for the past couple years saying that prediction markets are not as sophisticated as what DraftKings offers just goes to show that consumer is picking prediction markets. That's what people love to bet on and it's it's not really some of the other conventional things that people used to bet on. Nvidia, wow, 20370. We hit 204, right? Yeah, we did hit 20450. So, a little bit of a red candle, but still holding above that 200 level. Diana says, "So true. The stock market is way better odds than Vegas. People should just trade for fun." That's also true. You have a lot better odds sometimes even buying call options on earnings than than gambling at Vegas. The hotel staff said it was more dead than usual. I asked them, "Louey, is that that's the Nvidia Louie, right? Nvidia Louie, is that you? I think this is Mr. Nvidia Louie. He was at the Hood Summit. For those that don't know, Nvidia Louie, Nvidia Louie has 90,000 shares of Nvidia at a $2 average. So, uh, this this has got to be a good day for you. This has got to be a good day for you. 12 bucks on the day, up 6.33%. Oh, sorry. It's 100,000 shares. My bad. My bad. It's not 90,000. It's 100,000. Triple V has 100 I think he has 150,000 shares, but he bought them at 160. So, you know, today's probably a a good day for him. That's wild, bro. I mean, there's not many names that take you on that journey where you buy at two bucks and it goes to 200. I mean, you got to really stick with the thesis. And from the conversations I've had with Louie, I mean, he he was just obsessed with Nvidia back in 2016. And he told everyone he could about what was happening. It's got to be remarkable. It's got to be remarkable. Louise says cost bases around one. Wow, dude. And and Louie, I know you don't sell a ton of covered calls, but with the covered calls you have sold, I would imagine if you're including that in the cost basis, it's probably even lower. It's not just the raw cost basis. And that is the American story. the American the or the American dream is you can take a chance on someone else instead of you know you being the entrepreneur and you know because the country allows the freedom to to go build there's a shot you can build uh top growth experts thank you for the 100 super chat amid happy birthday for yesterday man appreciate everything you do hope to catch up at UK meet up much love to you Michael Maven hoping to set up that UK meetup soon thank you again for the birthday wish and yeah excited to meet in the UK hopefully in early 2026 Six. Danielle, thanks for the super chat. The Fed plans to print 1.5 trillion after rate cuts. How will that affect the market? So, it's not exactly that they're going to print 1.5 trillion. I think some of these numbers are coming up because people are doing the math on how much less quantitative tightening is going to happen, aka how much money gets pumped into the system. How will affect the markets? It's good. I mean, we have that much more liquidity and money becomes cheaper, assets go higher. Like, assets kind of are programmed to go higher. Now, that doesn't mean we can't have a recession. It also doesn't mean that we won't end up into a broader asset bubble, but it does mean that in the short term, you're going to see asset prices likely catch a bid if you have so much money that is out there. The question is, can we grow GDP enough to make that happen? And also, the question on inflation because that's the biggest concern when you have all this money printing. I mean, one thing that Jensen kind of made clear today, even if it was implicitly, is that there is going to be a lot more deflation than we think simply based on the idea of how transformative AI is going to be. I mean, if he's right about where he thinks the market really is going when it comes to AI, we are going to see a lot of deflation, a lot of cost of goods start to come down, a lot of cost of labor obviously come down. And that's something I think we um, you know, we also can't ignore. Speaking of layoffs, I mean, I saw this today and and I don't really know what to make of it yet. I haven't formed an opinion fully, but take a look at this. These were the recent uh layoff announcements we had over the past two weeks. So, UPS and Amazon we all covered. UPS that that is that is an accurate headline. 48,000 30,000 operational, 18,000 corporate. Amazon says up to 30,000. They clarified it's more like 14,000 in corporate. Then you have Intel at 24,000. Nestle at 16,000. Accenture consulting firm. We we've seen a lot more of those layoffs at 11,000. Ford at 11,000. Novo at 9,000. Microsoft, this was reported a couple months ago, but that's still 7,000. PWC, Salesforce, Paramount, Target, Kroger, Applied Metals, and then Meta. This was off their AI division. I don't know if this is a structural problem with demand in the economy creating layoffs, which is what we saw three years ago in 22. It feels like that's not the case given these earnings beats that we're seeing and all these CEOs and banks saying demand is fine. We have no issue. the consumer's fine, etc. It feels more like AI and it feels more like PWC saying we don't need some of the people that we have. Salesforce saying we don't need some of the people that we have because they just don't need to do the job that an LLM could potentially do. Uh, and it is a scary thing to think about because you don't want to see anyone ever lose their job, but companies at the end of the day are going to do whatever they need to do to increase their margins. And cutting costs with labor is one of the easiest things they can do. if they have a very simple replacement via AI, that's something I think everyone has to prepare for. And I don't know as a society how we're going to deal with it. I really don't.
>> It's going to be a bit confusing in a variety of elements on what governments do, but nonetheless. Rile says, "I survived this round of Amazon layoffs. Nobody from my team slept the whole night. People were online at 3:00 to 4:00 a.m." Okay, but Rashelle, you're an engineer, right? Does engineer get get get uh well yeah engineer as corporate? I mean I think of corporate as management but engineer is like when we're talking about white collar job if we put engineer in the same mix. Yeah. I mean dude if they're if they're getting ready to lay off 15,000 people you got to be at the top of your game to not get to not get hit, right? Engineers are part of it. Okay. So then yeah, dude. That that's that's definitely something that's scary. And again, like it affects everyone in society. It's not just like, oh, if you keep your job and someone else loses their job, you're you're safe. It's like, yeah, in the short term, but that person is also contributing to the economy. And if they don't have a job and they don't have money to spend, that's not good for anybody. Like that, like the way capitalism works is you need everyone being productive and contributing. And without it, things can uh things can get hit. Louis says, "I live in the same house I bought in 2016 for $200,000. Looking to move soon, though I'm in no rush. I was happy then, I'm happy now. Money is just a number. See, that's, you know, look, Triple V would agree with you, Louie. I mean, at the end of the day, the number on the screen is not necessarily the path to happiness, although you're looking at a pretty big number on the screen now. Pretty big number on the screen at this point. Amazon fired quietly a lot of people from Twitch. That actually I feel like is very believable because Twitch is just not a platform that's working for them. bought it for a billion bucks and I don't think they monetized it over the past 10 years. Bitcoin 112.5. So, it makes sense that they'd be trying to clean up in certain areas. And look, you know, I I do think for shareholders, if they're making these announcements, they're basically trying to tell the market, we are ready to get our stock to move higher and we're taking like very significant cost cutting measures to make sure it happens. It's just the opposite perspective on that is that hey, maybe the business is not doing so well and you have to cut these costs in order to to to match some of the metrics that you need to get up to. We're going to find out on Thursday what Amazon says, but it's not good for anyone. It is not good for anyone. Amit, I work at a Dow 30 company and they recently offered anyone with more than 10 years with the company voluntary separation agreements. Wow. Wow. When he means Dow 30, he's talking about one of the 30 companies in in the Dow Jones. Yeah. I mean, this layoff thing, guys, we got we got to pay attention to it. We got to pay attention to it. It seems like after Amazon and UPS made the announcement, we started seeing a lot more over the past couple months. And now, and again, a lot of these are consulting firms and companies where it's obvious that AI is going to replace some of these employees. the other companies it's it's it's a question of just like hey is there a broader structural issue going on defaults on loans are going up see like we see all these charts about defaults on loans and things of that nature but then you see the big banks come out and say that the delinquency rates are lower than expected so it's hard to kind of match up exactly with how this is playing out but nonetheless this stuff is is indeed happening these jobs will never come back well that's the scariest part about I mean, dude, like I remember when I was in high school and I had little projects or not high school, in college, I would hire people from the Philippines on Upwork and Fiverr to like do little graphic designs for me that I I will never have to do that ever. Like I will go to Chachi Pete or Grock and just say, "Hey, like give me a picture of a cake." And like I you know, like I I never have to ask someone to do that. It's like that's done. And it's not like that entire industry is wiped out. But the average person like myself signing up to Fiverr and actually making an account and going through that process like some of these jobs are not coming back. They're not. I don't know what the implications that will have on society. Swift, thank you for the gifted five memberships. Appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the gifted five. Uh Muckabe, thank you for the $20 Super Jack. Congrats on Pound Churn and Nvidia Partnership. Both big positions in your portfolio. Just need Jensen to partner with Hood also. So, happy belated birthday, Makabe. Thank you so much and thank you for being part of the channel. Dude, if Jensen just said Robin Hood or Grab, I would have actually if Jensen had said grab, I would have gone to Southeast Asia and got a tattoo of Grab on my ass. I would have done it, you know, but he didn't say it. So, unfortunately, Unfortunately, it's not happening. Unfortunately, it's not happening. This freaking stock, dude, if if I had put the money I have in Grab and Invidia or Palanteer or Hood or Iran or Nebul or all these other freaking stocks that have taken off, it would it would have made, you know, the year to dates. Oh, let's do year to dates. We haven't even done year to dates over the past week because I missed Friday. So, let's do year to dates. But, it would have made the year to date better. But I do think this quarter could be a quarter that really can change the narrative on Grab. I don't know, but we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see. I also think, again, I just really think that them toying with it at 630, 640, then back to 570. I really think it's nonsense. It doesn't make a lot of sense to me. There's no fundamental reason behind it. So, I think that's more that's more shaking out the weak hands. And it's annoying to deal with. It's what you have to I dealt with it with hood. I deal doubled it with pounder. A lot of you deal with it with SoFi, but then you get a big daddy quarter that shuts everybody up. And hopefully we can get that from Grab next Monday. All right, my year to date 178. 178 on the year to date. Dude, back on October 10th, this thing went back down to like 120. I think the highest we were at was 204 at one point. This thing went back down to 120. So, it's been a wild swing over the past three weeks, but we're back to 178. Yeah, dude. I'm seeing a lot of triple digits right here. Carlos 373, Uzi 47, Quantess 477. She's crushed it with Quantum this year and a variety of other plays. Uh size 181, Tim 141, Schu 600. I mean, dude, these these are wild numbers. If you are anything above 18%, you are beating the S&P. Just remember that you have to beat 18% to justify not putting your money. If you can do 18% this year, you can justify not putting your money in the S&P and staring at candlesticks all day. You got to just beat that number to be able to say it's okay for me to stare at candlesticks all day. Tess said no options, no leverage. Well, that's even more impressive because I know a lot of us definitely use options to help magnify the gains. So, that's incredible. Austin 101. There you go. Austin right there. Triple digits now year to date. Again, he was pounding the table on the googs and that one has very well worked out. Alex at 43, Legit Scott at 158, Danielle at 78. Incredible. Stav at 768, Flyjack 706. Thank you, Nvidia. Nebia's hood. It's amazing, dude. Absolutely amazing. I think if we were to end the year today, all of us would be pretty happy. If we ended on October 10th, we would have been pretty upset. But if we end the end the year here, it's not too bad. And then look, if you got 7,000 coming up, you got rate cuts coming up, and you got these earnings that are going to crush, maybe these numbers can continue to expand. I don't want to be greedy, but like maybe there's a real shot that these numbers have some room left to expand going into the end of the year, but we just got to get good earnings. Doug's at 212. That's incredible. Tai at 137, Stephen at 56, June at 75. Yeah, dude. I mean, I think the average here has to be around that 40 50%. So, incredible, incredible stuff. Absolutely incredible. All right, let's bring on Mr. Steven Fiorillo and get his thoughts on one of the craziest days in AI today. Dave, what's up?
>> What's happening, dude? What a day.
>> Can I So, can I tell you something? Wait, before you show this, get go back to the regular screen. Not only do I have the whole milk light side, okay, we're not going dark side because it's a great day. A blueberry loaf also.
>> A blueberry loaf.
>> A blueberry loaf fresh out of the oven.
>> Did your Did your wife make that?
>> Freaking amazing,
>> dude. That's got It's b It's made with love, too. Now you got it. You got to enjoy that.
>> Freaking amazing.
>> Loaf and milk. Okay. Is that the announce? What was your announcement? You said you had an announcement.
>> Yep. Got an announcement. We're going to break it on AK Media. Why?
>> Wait, wait, hold on. Hold on. Hold on. This is like a legit legit. You're not trolling, but it's like legit announcement.
>> No. Why would I be trolling?
>> Okay. So, hold on before you say it. Is it stock market related? Life related?
>> Yes. Stock market related.
>> Stock market. Okay, let let's give everyone two minutes to guess what the announcement is. So, put in the chat what do you think? Dude, you better not disappoint. This better not be a stupid announcement. We gota now we're hyping it up now. So, this better be this better be good. He bought Robin Hood. He's coming out with a milk brand. Oh, I'm gonna guess I'm gonna guess I'm probably wrong. I'm gonna guess you finally bought Pounder, but I really doubt at 190 he would pull the trigger on Pounder. He bought SoFi. We He already has SoFi. He bought Grab. There's no way in hell he bought Grab. He bought PayPal. Quit his job. Well, he's saying it's a stock market announcement. So, it's about a stock, right? Or are you or is or can we guess more broadly? You
>> do whatever you want, buddy.
>> You're really enjoying that blueberry loaf, bro. You're really
>> It's so good.
>> All right, go for it. What's the announcement? What do we got?
>> Well, as you know, I took off today.
>> I
>> And I may watch more CNBC today than I have in past week. and come to a conclusion. We're not bullish enough. And how about this? There's a world where we hit 7,000 on Friday. There is also a world I can't believe I'm going to freaking say this with conviction, like not trolling. I can't believe I'm going to say it because if I say it, I can't take it back, right? I feel like the words that want to come out of my mouth is I have to raise my end of year target to 7,200 if this week goes well because and here's why. I don't see anything taking this market down if we get out of this week in the green. And here's why. Yay cut in the big five if they smash we're at just under 6,900. You don't have to. You could get two good days and be at 7,000 at this point.
>> Okay. So, I'm gonna do a poll in the chat, but before I do the poll, give me your number. Are you saying you're not officially saying it, but are you saying something?
>> I'm officially saying it, but I'm saying that if this week goes well, I will be upping my price target for end of year, and I'm not taking that lightly. Okay. So, 7200 end of year, yes or no? What do people think?
>> Do you think that's crazy to even think about at this point?
>> Well, you know, obviously as the market goes up, like this is this is the fallacy of price targets. It becomes very easy to see a price target up or down if the stock or the market goes in the direction you want. So, it's it's no, it's not that hard to see 7200 because we're inching towards 10,000. It was harder back when it was 5,000. Right.
>> Right. So it would be a lot harder to see 7,000 if we were read 5500. So um or 6,500. So I I I don't think that's crazy, but I think your logic makes sense because you have rate cuts and then the big five and if they crush, which given these smaller companies, I don't know how they don't.
>> If they crush, it should take the market higher. And then in November, you get Broadcom and freaking Nvidia for the end of the year tailwinds. And how about this?
>> In this market,
>> I don't know that you get a real tax loss harvesting se because nobody's gonna want to [__] pay taxes on this stuff. How about that?
>> So, call him Steve Lee.
>> Are we changing my name to Steve Lee?
>> Well, even Tom Lee doesn't have 72. He has 7,000 still. So,
>> right. Whenever this stuff happens and we have this conversation, there is a little bit of euphoria on a good day that we all feel and so I don't want to say 72 73 because I do feel like that's getting very aggressive. However, to your point, you got the rate cut and then you got earnings and then you got Nvidia that just said they're going to do five. You just heard that number 500 billion in five quarters is what Nvidia.
>> Dude, your chat is freaking amazing. Like they're the best. They are the freaking best. Steve Thomas, Milk Lee. The best.
>> The China deal as well. Yes, China deal is also really important.
>> Like I I've been trying to blow a hole in my theory about what could possibly take this market down. I'm not The only thing that I can see is if the Fed says, uh, we're shook. We're not cutting. Um, take a look at this. We got our Cactus Jack update right here. For those that don't know, Cactus Jack is our personal Bloomberg. So, whenever you see an update from him, uh, it is him getting the news and putting it out there. Wow. US Agricultural Secretary Rollins says soybean agreement with China is almost finalized. And you got soybeans.
>> Where's the S&P on the S&P 687? You got a candle again. Soybeans rate cuts, earnings. You've got some good news. My only other fear is that it might be priced in over the next coming weeks. I I don't think it necessarily is, but if it if it is, you could get a little bit of a just stag stagnation in the market. But if we stagnate around 6,900 6950, like that's okay. You know, eventually we can make that move.
>> Yeah. But how about this? In a world where people like think about it, everybody in your run this poll a minute is anybody tax loss harvesting or taking profits by end of the year at this point. I'm willing to bet people that are up three, four, 500% on stuff have no interest in selling and paying that tax this year. So if you don't have people doing that and a lot of these people don't have losses that they would even consider offsetting. So if you don't get a tax loss harvesting season the way that you have in the past and then there's just money coming into the market at some point it's going to go from 7.4 to 6.4 trillion in money market accounts because there's less of a reason to stay there. I'm just at this point not really seeing anything that's going to hold us back unless something out of the blue happens that we can't handicap. But it's not even November yet and we hit 6,900.
>> Yeah. And and Nvidia busted through basically five trillion on not even earnings.
>> I mean that is it's hard to say that's bearish, dude. It really is. You know, and you know what the next question is? If Nvidia holds this, when does Apple and Microsoft hit 5 trillion? And then is there a catch-up trade in Amazon and Alphabet and Meta?
>> You know, Apple hit four trillion today too, right?
>> I know. And that's why I said the next question is going to be when do they hit five and then when the when do the others hit three? This could be a free train that doesn't freaking stop. There's a ton of money on the sidelines.
>> Let me ask you this. Are you selling any Nvidia?
>> No, we I considered
>> See, I considered a couple weeks ago, too, but I I didn't.
>> Right. So, I
>> I loosely considered today selling 10% to move it into QXO, but I didn't.
>> Why? Why didn't you?
>> Because of the damn chart. That's why. And I got a little greedy.
>> Well, like dude, put in the chat if anyone's selling a video. I I like when you hear what Jensen says and you look at their Ford multiple and you look at the technology that like we're we're we're tech investors. When you see that, you're like, "How do I fade that?" Like, "How do I actually say?"
>> You actually don't say that.
>> No, you don't. I agree.
>> Robots aren't even here yet. Yeah, and I mean that's a whole another vertical as well. Um, okay. So, we'll get back to Invidia second, but but I mean you you just put an article on SoFi. I'm going to link the article for those that want to read it. Now that you've had
>> now that you've had 10 hours to to digest it, how are you feeling about
>> the quarter?
>> I can tell you I was one foot in, one foot out before, if you go read this article, I'm back in the camp that we're hitting 45. Do you feel like you're a little bit of a flip-flopper when it comes to SoFi? Because on SoFi Weekly, you were like 45, get the hell out. Now you're like, well, and that's okay to I I'm a flip-flopper on a bunch of different stocks, too. But like, do you feel you have that lovehate relationship with SoFi?
>> I don't have a lovehate relationship. I have a real reality relationship until not changes my freaking mind with how good their damn earnings are. And the things that put it over the top for me, stable coin, global payments, crypto by end of year, level one options already. So there's just there's a lot of it right now. So
>> a lot of that was known before the quarter, though. It's not like that's brand new in
>> Well, I didn't know that.
>> You didn't know they were doing stable coin stuff?
>> There was nothing official about that.
>> I mean, they definitely mentioned it a couple. Yeah, that's fair. They they talked a lot more about it today. That's That's fair.
>> They're next quarter will be a billion dollar quarter. Think about it. They hit 950 in revenue this quarter. There's no way they don't come out Q4 over a billion dollars and then every quarter going forward is going to be more than a billion. So, you think it's possible? So, so I had learned this last night and this actually got me on your side of the camp. Um, from what you said on SoFi Weekly, I don't even know if I mean, you probably know this, but it doesn't have to just get to 45. It has to stay.
>> So that means by March,
>> Yeah.
>> it's And if it doesn't get to 45 by March, it's got to be at like 75 for a couple weeks to balance out the volume.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. The volume has to be an average of 45 for 90 days.
>> I'm not saying it's not possible, but that's four months for them to make that move, right?
>> Which means it's got to happen like soon. I I thought that they had no freaking chance. Now, you know, I'm one foot back in on this. This this could happen. And and then the broader reason is you think crypto, stable coin, and more payment infrastructure is the catalyst.
>> Yeah. And look, here's the other thing. As a nationally chartered bank, they can increase the spread on their net interest margin as interest rates fall. Because if they have fixed loans and not floating rate that they already put out, they're collecting that fee and then paying less on the deposits.
>> Yeah.
>> So they automatically increase their spread on the NIM.
>> That's fair. That's a good point.
>> So that means that their banking profitability goes through the roof.
>> Okay. So would you would you buy a 31? Not look, I'm not personally buying it, but I'm no longer considering selling it.
>> Makes sense.
>> And you know what was the big thing today? The reversal. Staring at the chart because I look, I never look at charts. I never follow this stuff because I'm in meetings all day. Sitting here in front of a computer the whole time and having and trying not to look at my email even though I took two meetings and sent like five emails. Even though I did that, I had a lot of time to stare at charts and reflect. I'm sitting there watching SoFi and I'm like, "This thing's crashing. It's going to 25." Then the next thing I see it get back stopped and then fly. This ain't going to 25. You know, for those that don't know, Ste, this was Steve's uh uh first day in in what, 10 years, taking a day off?
>> Not 10 years, but since since last year. I think last winter.
>> It's been a year. Last year.
>> Well, I got sick over the summer, so I had to take a couple of sick days. I got violently sick.
>> No, but I'm not talking about that. When's the last time you took a day off to do something fun like SoFi earnings? Like, when's the last time you did that type of a day off?
>> I don't know. Last year.
>> Okay. So, it's been about a year since you took and you took it off for vacation. I lose vacation time every year because I never take days off. is when I take day I'm going to go back tomorrow and I'm gonna have 300 or 400 emails I have to read through plus all the other work I gota get done. So
>> you guys are nuts to call earnings fun. No, they're fun. It's just kidding me.
>> So much fun.
>> All right, so granted the SoFi earnings call was a little tedious but in general earnings are very fun. When are you quitting the job and going YouTube full-time? Because because it obviously seems like you like doing this. So,
>> it's not happening.
>> You You don't think there's ever a world where you
>> I mean, if I start having viewership like yours, it could be a conversation, I guess.
>> No, but to get there, you got to you got to take the risk,
>> right? Go [__] That's why I'm saying I don't think anytime I don't think it's happening. I did enjoy going live in the middle of the day for 45 minutes though and you guys weren't live because I don't want to freaking go live when you guys are live. So, I went for live for like 45 minutes. It was fun.
>> Wait, wait. I didn't get your thoughts on on I mean, dude, like, dude, we've been waiting for this day forever. It happened.
>> What happened? What do you mean? What happened? What are
>> we talking about?
>> Jensen finally said Palinger.
>> Yeah. And he says the most important software stack there is.
>> Were you Did you not
>> Did you not have one of those moments when you heard this or
>> No, I think we all knew it. But you still did it like did did your heart like my heart was beating but did that like did you not like
>> you know did you not you know
>> it it was good validation for the community.
>> I feel like you didn't care.
>> It was really good validation for the community.
>> I feel like Steve didn't care. He was like, "All right, cool. Whatever."
>> Dude, that was fun. Jensen finally mentioning and then carp and him on CNBC together like
>> I saw it.
>> Been waiting so long for this.
>> I saw it.
>> I'm surprised you don't already have it as a poster in your room.
>> Like I'm surprised it's not behind you as a poster already.
>> I mean, bro, I already have him as the background. Like I mean
>> I know. But like you really So you should find you what you should do is play the clip, get a still of them sitting there together, send it to Kinko and have them make like a beautiful thing for you to hang up.
>> I should.
>> You should. You should.
>> You should.
>> All right. So the big news of the day, Nvidia basically said AI is real. They reminded everybody increased guidance.
>> What's the bear case? Tell me what the bear case is. Like we've been trying to figure out the bear case. And guess what? When you blow up a balloon, like in order for a bubble to pop, right? It needs to pop. So if we look at this as a balloon, what happens before a balloon pops, it expands, it expands, and it expands. What part of the cycle are we in blowing up a balloon? from it.
>> Look, the only thing I could have pointed to a couple weeks ago was that there are some speculative companies that are running on, you know, no revenue, no earnings, etc. However, a lot of those came down. They're starting to normalize. They're not like
>> up as much as they were before. And again, even if they were, to your point you made a couple weeks ago, who cares if anything happens to them because they're not Amazon, Nvidia, Meta, Google, etc. I I don't see that as bubbish. I really don't.
>> Nope. Because they could get cut in half. They could get cut by 75%. It doesn't freaking matter. They're not part of the S&P. They're not part of the Dow. They're not part part of the NASDAQ 100. Who cares? And also, they could get a deal that change that justifies their market cap tomorrow if they're in a sector that, you know, is so important when it comes to AI, energy, for example, that that could change everything. So there there's there's a lot of nuance to some of these companies. Then when you look to the Max 7, the only one that's not really growing is Tesla. But Tesla just has so much potential that yeah, you can say the valuation is aggressive, but you can't say it's a bubble. I mean, it's hard for me to to believe,
>> right? It's an aggressive valuation based on what may happen. But at the same time, where's the bear case? It doesn't seem like we have any international fears at this point. It doesn't feel like we're in a trade war. Earnings are strong. You may have real productivity enhancements on a broader market. There's a lot of things to look forward to. The two things that get me worried still are unemployment and the potential of recession next year. But I don't even know if we have a recession that that even needs to matter for the stock market. I hate saying that, but how much of the stock market profits are driven by corporate America instead of individuals?
>> What about a lot of people are saying Trump could tweet? That could
>> Sure, he could tweet and then he's going to tweet something else in an hour or the next day. Think about the Friday selloff and the Monday recovery. I mean, if we know anything about Trump, he uses social media as a freaking bargaining chip. Yeah,
>> I agree. And if he tweets something, dude, Trump loves the stock market being up, so he does not want
>> And we're going into midterms. You really think that they're going to crash the stock market for midterms?
>> All right, so risk on.
>> I feel like we're going back into risk on. I hate saying it, but you know what? We're in 1989. I'm not going to stop saying it. I really don't think that we've left for the party yet.
>> I don't know if we're in 1989. I think with the amount of capex that's been spent, it's hard for me to say we're that early. Like I
>> But it's not just about capex. Think about what needs to happen now. You need a fullon robotic overhaul. You full-blown AI implementation. Think about what that runway is going to look like. Oh, that's
>> you still have companies doing a cloud build out.
>> I I would say there's sectors of the market that are 1989 because LLMs you cannot say are 1989. I mean, when we're seeing Grock 4, that's not the beginning of the party. There's no way. That's the worst it's ever going to be. But I think the party started with robots. I think we're at the beginning of the party. I agree. But then again, you had a robot company that shipped a robot today for $20,000. Neo,
>> what about full self-driving? What about all the productivity yet?
>> Full self-driving is not 1989, dude. Where FSD14 is very
>> Dude, you can't take a nap in your car yet.
>> Yeah, but that's not 10 years away.
>> I get that. What I'm saying is 1989 is the revenue expansion and profitability expansion.
>> No, but but but that implies there's at least a 5 to 10 year cycle for that. I think Tesla FSD in the next two years, if it's not unsupervised in two years, there's an issue. And it's not a tech problem. it seems to be more regulatory and all the other concerns they have.
>> I just think that we're in a golden age of freaking golden age of technology right now.
>> Oh, that I agree with.
>> And it's crazy to say because of the amount of technological advancements we've seen, but I look at it from when we were in 2005, smartphones weren't even a thing yet. Okay? You have Palm Pilots and Blackberries. Blackberries. It was amazing. You get your email on a cell phone and then Jobs came out with the first iPhone and then you got cloud and then you got SAS. And in the 2010s, the rate of expansion. We're seeing such a bigger multiple on expansion right now. not on price, but just how much freaking technological innovation we're having that I truly think the next five to 10 years is gonna be like something we've never seen before.
>> Well, that I agree with and you know whether it's the very beginning or very early, it's definitely not the end. That I think everyone can agree with and it's probably if it's not the middle then it's closer to the beginning than in the middle because basically we're making a metaphor for are we late cycle or not?
>> Correct. We're beginning cycle,
>> right? And in a bull market, it's hard. This is the part that this is why Tom Lee says it's the most hated market because it's hard to be late cycle. Uh or it's hard to be early cycle when the when when you're at alltime highs. You're supposed to be towards the end of a bull run, but we have that 30% draw down in April, which ironically starts a new bull market historically after you have that draw down, especially if you're able to hold a recovery after six weeks. And then two, as you're saying with the technological uh shifts, LLM, FSD, evol, robotics, drug discovery, all that stuff has at least five to 10 years of really being uh having having a runway to expand
>> and that means this whole cycle might have a lot more time as well.
>> Yeah. I mean, I would love to have this conversation with Ives so I could just be like to him, dude, 1996, we're not even at dinner, dude. We're We're still at freaking happy hour at the bar at 4 PM. Like
>> this bullish on tech.
>> If you had to steal man yourself, why are we not at happy hour? Why Why are we at the party?
>> I'm not going to do it. Because there's no logical explanation for me. Because here's why. CocaCola, Walmart, Costco, none of these companies are using robotics in their warehouses.
>> It's fair. None of these companies are freaking utilizing any of this stuff, you're going to see a gigantic overhaul going over the next 5 to 10 years that we're truly not ready for or we're not allowing our minds to agree with, but it's happening. We're seeing it happen with Amazon. They're the litmus test. And keep in mind what Amazon has today. If you bring up a video at JD.com from like 2017 2018, China was so far ahead of us on this. JD had fully robot ro robotics warehouses back in 2017 2018. So I I'm telling you the we are just scratching the surface on all this. If we are just scratching the surface on all this, then I mean what do you think? Nvidia is going to 20 trillion.
>> I think they're the one key to rule them all at this point. One ring to rule them all. Infinity Gauntlet
>> for them to get to 10 trillion. There's a lot. I mean, see, well, here's the here's the litmus test on this whole cycle question. It's like, all right, well, let me ask what you think in how long will Nvidia be putting up a couple hundred billion dollars of revenue because of selling GPUs? How long do you How many years do you think?
>> Well, a couple is two. Do you want to say several?
>> Say couple hundred billion in revenue, right? Several. Sure. Several. Whatever. Like 10 years.
>> Three to four.
>> That doesn't make sense. Then if we're early cycle,
>> what do you mean?
>> How can we be in 1989 and video only has three years of putting up?
>> No, no. You said when did they get to that point? Right now they're doing about 200 billion of revenue a year, right?
>> No. Well, this year they're going to do 206. Yes.
>> Okay. So, my question is how many years does Nvidia have
>> of them doing at minimum 200 billion or more of revenue?
>> Dude, at least a decade or two.
>> Well, I I feel like you have to believe that, right? If you think we're early, I agree.
>> Have you looked at the analyst expectations for revenue? Well, I know Jensen destroyed all those expectations today.
>> Uh, this is going to freak you out if you really haven't looked at. Bring up my screen, sir. So, we you got out in and keep in mind when this is a year back because they don't report on a calendar year. They end their fiscal year in January. So, January 26 is really the 2025 fiscal year. So in 2028, okay, you still have five analysts saying that they're going to do 350 billion. That's a 75% increase from where you are this year.
>> That's true. That's true.
>> Okay. And then you have three analysts that say they're going to do 378 in 2029. And then two that are saying you're going to get to 400 in 2030.
>> That's doubling in the next five years. Who's the one guy saying they're going to do 700 billion in 2035? That is wild.
>> I'm not going I don't like going out more than three or four years because you really get to where only like the most Super Bowl people are actually putting stuff out there. But even if you just want to look two years out after this year, you got 32 people 32 analysts on the street saying that we're going to grow by 60% over the next two years with revenue. Yeah, it is hard. It is really hard to sell Nvidia if they can live up to those expectations.
>> And think about this, they got a 55% profit margin. Let's just say they maintain a 50% to keep the numbers o easy, right? That's not operating, that's profit. So
>> yeah. Yeah.
>> Three. So on just 300 billion, that's 150 billion net income.
>> And when they're trading at five trillion, so what's that multiple? said 150 billion. 33 times,
>> dude. They're not expensive.
>> 33 times is not I mean you What? That 150 billion that's for 28 or or 27 or 29 2
>> 27
>> 27. Okay. So they're trading at 33 times. That's that's not
>> dude on an EPS metric right now. They're trading it 25 times on just EPS. And by the way, all of this, all of the everything you just showed, all of it is without China.
>> Is without China. So, I mean, yeah, do I do I sound crazy to people who aren't really following things closely? Sure, I could maybe sound crazy right now, but if you really take a step back and think about what I'm saying and look at the numbers, I mean, it's a good point. How wh why do we think that it's 1996 or 1997? Why do we think there's three years left? You're telling me that everybody's going to have a freaking robot in three years? Companies aren't even going to have what their freaking production orders are.
>> I I actually after looking at the numbers as you're breaking them down. I do. It's hard to really say it's 96 when you think in the next three years this stuff is just getting started, especially from an EPS standpoint. And I keep getting this thing going in my mind that technological advance advances do not slow down. They only accelerate.
>> Of course,
>> and when I look at the rate of change with just a CPU, the Commodore 64, which I had when I was a kid, to a 286 to a 386 to a 486, then they went to the Pentium chip and then all the other chips after that. Now what we have now, this is just a rate of change that is so crucial. I don't see that this is stopping anytime soon. I really don't. There's nothing that is going to derail this unless we go to war at this point or rare earth minerals. We can't make enough chips. Those are the only two things that can stop this at this point because every company is spending on this and we have not had a broad market rally. And then do we really think in 10 years from now we're gonna have humans working at McDonald's or stocking shelves at Target? You're telling me that that's not going to be all robotics?
>> Okay. So, let's transition to that, I guess, bare case that you've had for a while, which is labor market. I feel like that's the only thing that can really dethrone your thesis right now.
>> Yeah. Look, I think we need UBI. I really do. I hate saying it. Tell me what the alternative is.
>> Got a tax.
>> You saw this.
>> The only alternative is you have a humanoid robot tax or something, right?
>> But how can you even make enough money from a humanoid robot tax to fix the problem?
>> Um, I mean, bring up that list of jobs or like [Music] what are all these people going to do? at once. And think about this. This is the tip of the iceberg.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> so let let's play this out, right? You get full self-driving. Let's be conservative. Eight years from now, you would say probably nationalized allowed people feel comfortable using it in eight years.
>> 2035. I I would hope it's earlier than that, but yes, I would say so.
>> Okay. 2035, you now have nobody driving Uber. You have nobody driving Lift. You have nobody driving taxis. And potentially, you have nobody driving all the trucks there doing all the deliveries. Within that eight years, now you have humanoid robotics in the vehicles, trucking mainly to take care of all the deliveries, loading and unloading. So what about all those jobs? What about McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King? You're telling me that that's not going to be automated? What about stocking shelves at Target? So you're telling me that all these shops are still going to exist in 10 years?
>> And there's no way they're ever coming back once they're replaced? No, absolutely not.
>> I don't know, dude. It is a scary world to think about. Like jobs at the end of the day provide humans something to do. You I mean, if you don't have a like it's it's it's one of those things where not everyone can just, you know, sit around, be on a screen, invest for a living, like this stuff is not real for
>> people in the chat are saying robot maintenance. It's going to be done by robots. The same way that they're going to walk to a charger and just sit down and charge themselves, they're going to be able to do maintenance on themselves. Eventually, you're going to have robotic surgeons. You already have it through intuitive surgical. You just have a human controlling it. You're telling me that by 2040 or 2045, you're not going to have full robotic surgeries unmanned? No, I mean and you know I see ISRG is already working on a lot of this stuff there. There's a lot of different things that are happening right now that are laying the framework to make this happen. The the only answer most of us can have because we don't have an answer for what the world looks like is invest in those companies. That's it.
>> Like if Amazon's going to lay off 600,000 people, you got to have some Amazon stock.
>> Yeah, but half of the freaking country doesn't even own stock.
>> Well, I I get it. that there there's a big problem right now and unfortunately we're not in a situation to really find our way out of it because this is going to I hope I'm wrong. I really hope I'm wrong, but I don't I don't see how this is going to end with an abundance of jobs and I don't know how you're going to tax robots and how that money is going to get dispersed. Elon did say the cost of goods will go down so dramatically that people won't need as much money through deflation and jobs are optional.
>> Okay. What about the cost of property? The cost of doing things. Tell me all that's just going to go down.
>> I don't know. It's not easy to see it.
>> I don't see it.
>> I do have optimism in humanity though. Like I think there's a world in which we figure it out. I mean, we've already we've always figured it out, right, as a human species.
>> We've never seen anything like this before. This is dramatically different than the industrial revolution.
>> Well, and that that's a good point because what this is doing is quite literally creating intelligence artificially. So like if the one thing about humans that was always uh genuine was the fact that we are uh beings that can think and reason. That's what differentiates us from a lot of other species. If that's replicated, it takes away a lot of the specialness of being a human. And I mean, we don't even want to get into the conversation of what that means for relationships in the I mean, I cannot believe that the tech companies and Sam Alman are so focused on making sure that people can have AI girlfriends and boyfriends because I just like like objectively we know that is going to decrease the birth rate and
>> have they actually put that out yet?
>> Didn't we talk about Sam Alman literally said we are coming out with a with a quote unquote adult mode.
>> I thought that was a joke.
>> No. and he said he firmly said we are not the moral police of the world. We
>> there's a there was actually a study yesterday that said a lot of there's like 2.4 million queries a month on chat that are explicitly rooted in people talking about their depression. And so OpenAI is trying to figure out about like how do we now like how do we manage this AI talking to someone who's in a in a horrible spot in their mind. Um, and so because of that situation, Sam Alman came out and said, "We're going to create an adult mode and we're going to try to create some restrictions on the mental health stuff in the adult mode." Basically admitting you can create this character via Chat GBT and you can talk to it however you want and they're not going to stop it,
>> right?
>> Because it is going to be massive engagement for the platform and they need to turn a profit because they've promised hundreds of billions of dollars of revenue. So,
>> all I can tell you is it is going to get even more socially awkward out there.
>> Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
>> That's scary. Again, I think the only thing we all can do because we don't have the answers to how this plays out is you got to own some stock. You just have to. You just have to. You got to own these companies. I mean, we've seen it over the past five years, right? If you own assets, you've done well. If you don't, it's really tough.
>> Yeah. It's always been like that, though.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's just now that stocks have gone mainstream, you know, people have really felt the people have really felt the brutality of their neighbor getting rich and them not. I I think more ever in history, people have started to feel, damn it, Johnny invested in Nvidia. He was telling me about it. I didn't really care about learning about the stock market. And now, you know, I'm living paycheck to paycheck. This guy's freaking up 80% in a year. That [__] hurt.
>> I I don't talk about stocks really unless it's with you and Chris and Matt and Tanner and the guys. Like, people think I'm freaking nuts. Like, nobody wants to talk about stocks or anything. I don't understand why.
>> Dude, you're not the only one. I mean, I think the majority of us in this chat come here every day because we don't have people to talk to. And if we try, dude, I texted my sister. So, I texted my sister a screenshot of her Robin Hood portfolio because she doesn't even check it. and uh she's up $93,000 on Nvidia. She has 1,500 shares at 139 that I bought for her a couple months ago.
>> So I'm like I'm like you're up 44% 93,000.
>> This was her response.
>> Cool.
>> Oh, wow. Nice.
>> It's like I showed her a cupcake or something. She's like, "Wow, a cupcake." Like, bro, that's almost a h 100red grand on a stock that she doesn't even know what the hell they do. She's up 14,000 today and she's like, "Cool, whatever." This is my point. It's like, if my own sister who's up almost six figures on a company she doesn't even know about, she doesn't she's not she didn't ask me a follow-up question. She didn't ask me like, "Oh, cool. Like, what happened today? Why are they up so much?" No, she doesn't give a [__] Like if if you're up that much money and you still don't care, I can't imagine someone who doesn't have those gains. Why would they care?
>> Money is not real.
>> Money is not real
>> until it is. Right.
>> Until it is. It
>> It's crazy. people just the point is I think all of us are here because we know how important it is to invest and in the next 10 years it might be the most important thing to have assets and allocation to assets. It really might be the most important thing.
>> How about this? It may be crazy to say this. S&P 10,000 is coming sooner than people think. I'm gonna say it. I'm gonna say it.
>> So,
>> you went from 7,000 to 7,200 to Is that there's a little a little spike in that milk or something? What do we got 10,000 in the year? Is that what we're doing?
>> Finish the milk. And by the way, guys and gals, I don't appreciate the comments that I'm racist because I'm drinking white milk. You know,
>> I agree with them to be honest. I kind of agree.
>> I drink chocolate milk half the time.
>> Yeah, but whenever it's on stream, it's always white for
>> That's not true. That is absolutely not true. On Saturday night, I had chocolate milk with me.
>> Steve, you are now a public figure.
>> Your actions, your actions really matter.
>> Listen, cho chocolate milk. I just didn't feel like grabbing the chocolate milk this time.
>> Or maybe you have a subliminal bias towards an unconscious bias.
>> No, no, no. You know what it is? When you're eating a blueberry loaf, you don't want chocolate milk. You want regular milk. But chocolate milk is freaking amazing. But not when you're like when you're whatever.
>> Wait, he said 8,000 this morning. What have you been saying all day?
>> Not saying all day.
>> Hold on.
>> I did not say 8,000 this morning. What I was going to say is
>> Yo, they're they're ratting on you. You were saying a bunch of numbers all day.
>> I did not say 8,000 this morning. You were with me this morning. people.
>> I would I would remember saying 8,000.
>> You probably said it. You forgot because you're just throwing out all these numbers all day now. You forgot.
>> I definitely didn't.
>> Okay. So 10,000. Why? Uh
>> no. 10,000 20 by 2030.
>> So that would be that's five years. Four years from now.
>> Four four years two months.
>> So that would be a 42% move. That's not even crazy. Think about that.
>> Well, we given we've been having 20% moves for the past basically three years,
>> right? That's not even crazy.
>> It's not that crazy.
>> I mean, can you believe that we we're even going to have a discussion 10,000 or not by the end of the decade?
>> By the way, I'm pretty sure there's a clip, if I'm not wrong, of Tom Lee saying 15,000 by by 2030. I mean that would be freaking ridiculous if that happened.
>> Dude, I am pretty sure I remember this clip. Tom Lee S&P 15,000.
>> Every everybody who's been investing in S&P index funds in their retirement be so freaking happy over the next five years.
>> I I have it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, people would be very happy if that is how it plays out.
>> Previously predicted that the S&P would reach 15,000 by 20. Have you moderated it in any way? If so, how? And what are some of the key drivers that support your forecast?
>> Yeah, it's um yeah, that's still our case. You know, our base case by 2030, we estimate S&P earnings could be 600 to 650. And I think multiples will be higher because of the larger share coming from AI and technology earnings, which naturally have higher PE multiples. And so, if you just apply a 20 to 25 multiple, you're getting you know, 15,000. So, I I know it sounds like people say, "Well, 15,000 sounds crazy." And two years ago, it might have sounded crazy, even though we we had that forecast was in place more than two years ago. You know, that forecast been in place probably for five or six years, but, you know, now that we're at 6,000, we're that much closer to um 15,000. It's not a quantum leap any, you know, any longer. You've pre
>> You're not You're not as bullish as Tom. Steve,
>> do I need to go 125?
>> Dude, we can only get away with a conver we can only get away with a conversation like this when Nvidia hits alltime highs and we have a green day. Otherwise, if we were having this conversation and any other everyone in the chat would be like these [__] dumb asses going back and forth about 15,000 20 Only on a day like this is it somewhat listenable.
>> Only on a day like this. By the way, your dairy dealers in the chat.
>> Yeah. And he's lying.
>> You've never bought
>> I have the I have the chocolate milk in the fridge. Do I need to go get it?
>> Like I legitimately have it.
>> You never show it on stream. It's just always the white one. Of course I do. Siege, thank you for the $20 super chat. Cool. Same thing my sister said. Appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here and thank you for the super chat as well. Yeah, I mean look, yeah, agree. A week ago, no one was talking like this, but things change in a week. When Jensen ups his estimates by 100 billion, you know, it can change stuff.
>> I don't even know what to say anymore. This pretty crazy. Well, look, I'm happy I own Nvidia. I'm happy you own Nvidia. I'm happy we both bought as much as we could. There's a lot of people that bought derivative plays from Nvidia. Today's news was really important for all that.
>> I have a question for you. What are you doing tonight?
>> Nothing. Today's Tuesday.
>> So, I'm going to do an impromptu stream tonight and I got Chef Paul coming on. If you would like to talk about stakes with us, you're more than welcome. I will listen in the chat to hear you guys talk about how you shouldn't cook a steak because I know that medium well in my perspective is not really
>> Yeah, but you had medium when we went to Uncle Jackson. I think you liked it.
>> I did. I mean, it ended up being medium rare. So,
>> that was not medium rare, sir. That was medium.
>> No, it was medium rare. We We both looked It was medium rare.
>> Mine was medium. So was yours. This is not medium, bro. This is not medium. What are you talking about?
>> Medium.
>> It's not medium. Look at all that pink.
>> Yeah, pink. That looks delicious.
>> It was delicious. It was good.
>> It was delicious.
>> No, but I I I'll listen today. I'll hear what you guys have to say. I don't think I can actually make the stream, but
>> Yeah, it's up to you.
>> Is this a Who's What chef is this? This is your uh
>> Chef Paul.
>> This is like your your friend. Who's a chef?
>> Chef Paul. So, what are you gonna ask,
>> dude? You can talk about liquor stores. He used to own a liquor store. He's a chef. Interesting guy.
>> You should ask him how many people ask for medium well over medium rare.
>> I will absolutely ask him that.
>> And I feel like his response might surprise you because I'm not alone in this.
>> Oh, he's gonna freaking I I gotta tell you, he was roasting me the other day because I we were talking. It was like 11:30 in the morning. Like, man, you know what would be good right now? Cappuccino. He's like, cappuccino. He's like, the only time anything after 11:00 a.m. you drink espresso. Like, he's freaking crazy.
>> Yeah. I mean, I still don't think medium rare is legit, but I guess that's what the majority of the world eats. I'm not vegetarian.
>> He's not a vegetarian. And I will, this is what I'm going to tell everybody. So, we're sitting there freaking lunch. We both order appetizers. Both order steaks. Oh,
>> no. You ordered an appetizer. I didn't have an app. You had You had the
>> You order mac and cheese. What are you talking about?
>> That's not an appetude. That's what you eat with a steak.
>> That's an appetizer.
>> No, I ate it with the steak. I don't eat
>> No, but that's an appetizer. We got the garlic mash to go with the steak.
>> Anyway,
>> I mean that as a side, not an appetizer, but that's
>> Anyway, you ordered the mac and cheese. You ate half your steak and then you wanted to get two desserts. Like you legitimately wanted to get two desserts. And I bet you would have finished both of them.
>> I wanted to get two desserts because I thought we would each have dessert.
>> It was I I can't do dessert during the day.
>> So I picked the chocolate cake over the uh the tiramisu and it was delicious. And I finished it way quicker than I finished my steak. That's for sure.
>> I used to be like that. Uncle Jack is legit, dude. It was a really good
>> So good.
>> I I I felt it was better than Ben and Jack. I'm sorry. That steak was
>> 100%.
>> Yeah. Typical child behavior.
>> 100%. It's just so far from my office, but it is so worth the walk. It is so good.
>> Yeah, it was far. I didn't know it was that far from you. Like you had to walk a minute to get there.
>> Yeah, it was a good 20 25 minute walk. All right. So, uh, Nvidia 200s. I mean, dude, if it falls below 200 tomorrow, which of course is possible, it's it'll be like whatever, but if it
>> Who's How about this? Who's reporting tomorrow?
>> All the companies that buy from Nvidia,
>> right?
>> So, you know, to be honest, that's probably another reason why it ran today because everyone's anticipating all them.
>> They're trying to frontr run it.
>> They're trying like I didn't even think of that. Yeah, that's a basic reason for why they ran. How about Nvidia could be 220 at the end of the week?
>> Okay, I don't know who spiked your milk with all this bullish moment. Like, I get it. It was a good day. But that would imply uh $350 billion in market cap added,
>> right? And they added freaking It's up how much today? 10 bucks. How much market cap did they add today?
>> Uh 240.
>> Yeah. So you tell me in three more days they can't add another freaking three
>> 360.
>> Think about it.
>> 360 plus
>> we haven't even heard
>> 600 billion added in a week bro.
>> I mean admit think about it. Jasse and Sindar have been radio silent. Radio silence.
>> What? You think they're going to announce something big? How don't they think about it? Zuck comes out with 27 billion data center. Open AI comes out with the 26 gigawatts of freaking chips. Microsoft comes out with this announcement. How what are they going to do? Not announce anything.
>> That's true. They haven't really made a deal with You're right. They haven't said much with Google. Dude, that's I mean, look, if Nvidia's partnered with all these companies and they haven't really announced something with Google yet, then maybe that's what's gonna happen.
>> Pretty crazy. All right, there you go. Pretty incredible day. And hopefully this can continue. If you want to check out Steve's stream tonight, I'm putting his YouTube in the port in the I was in the portfolio in the chat.
>> I should put your YouTube in the portfolio. growing like crazy,
>> dude. AK Media should just buy me out.
>> Steve is a thousand away from 10K. So, for those that first of all, he doesn't only do like steak content or food content.
>> No, we do stock market, but sometimes we get a little crazy and we talk about stakes and cookies and all this other stuff and you know.
>> Yeah. So, you can definitely subscribe and there's a lot of good content that's there and a lot of important stock market stuff as he's doing a lot more previews for earnings and all that stuff. Are you earnings tomorrow or No,
>> I I'm working tomorrow. I got a ton of [__] to do.
>> Okay. So, no earnings from you tomorrow.
>> Maybe when I get home,
>> but Thursday I took off.
>> Thursday is Apple and Amazon. Okay, cool.
>> So, I'll do Amazon with them. And we got alternative assets. We got alternative assets as well. There you go. So, yeah, you can subscribe to Steve's channel. Uh again, fastest to grow to 10K ever. So very incredible to see. And also seeking Alpha I'm putting in the chat. He did a SoFi article. So for those that are interested in that can read that.
>> I'm actually interested if people actually want to read the article. I'm interested what people think because this is the first time I really did a deep dive on the financial services productivity loop. And it's it's interesting. milk.
>> Look at this. Gavin Newsome is furious. Joe Rogan won't have him on. Uh, okay. Wait, Joe Rogan said he he won't have Gavin Newsome on
>> Oh, there's beef with it. You didn't see him talking to Ken about it?
>> No.
>> Oh, yeah. Gavin Newsome just called Rogan the Facebook of podcasting.
>> What? Yeah, it was on CNN. Oh, hold on. I got I got the clip. I got to see the clip. By the way, thanks for the super chat. FNG says, "Milk to Steve is like open AI to the market." I can't disagree with that. I can't
>> disagree with what?
>> Milk to Steve is like opening eyes to the market.
>> Dude, I got milk run through the veins.
>> He won't Look, he hasn't for years and years. He's been attacking me and it's one way and he won't have me on. He's consistently not have me on. By the way, I'm moving on. I have no interest. I
>> You're done with him. Joe Rogan's the Facebook of podcasting.
>> He was sitting across one of the the the brightest minds in podcasting right now.
>> The guy was in the mic
>> and there are a lot of people at the mic doing extraordinary things. Yeah.
>> Uh in podcast,
>> Phil Rogan's got pretty big audience still.
>> You know what, but with all due respect, if he's
>> if he has a big audience and he but he doesn't have big enough confidence, I didn't go there to have me on.
>> Well, you've called him a chicken. But he's been attacking for but here's the thing. These guys, they all have something in common. It's one way they attack, they belittle, they demean, they take things out of context. But this is a serious thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And so often we just sit back and go, "Oh god, I really would love to go on." Oh, if Kla Harris just went on Joe Rogan, she would have won. It's not It's so much deeper than that. And the unwillingness for a guy like that to even have the common courtesy to attack someone and not have the DC say, "You know what? Why don't you have a chance to come on? Let's have a civil dialogue. I've watched you on on podcast with like Sean Ryan who's a close buddy of this. He had the curse on me have four hours, right? Sean Hannity, folks like that. And so if I can go on Sean Ryan and Sean Hannity, what are you worried about? What are you Joe? You're going to cook me or I'm going to cook myself.
>> You need find the clip with what Rogan said. That'll blow you away.
>> I mean, they're probably going to go back and forth. I think I have the clip that Rogan has said. Dude, the thing is it's either going to be Newsome or AOC for 2028. I really don't know who else the Democrats can put up. And obviously Newsome thinks it's going to be him. So
>> it's it's going to be Newsome, right? Like that's like there's no one like
>> I don't know who else they could possibly put up there. If I had a handicap, it gonna be Newsome and it's gonna be JD Vance.
>> Yeah.
>> They don't have any faith in Gavin Newsome.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Which is kind of funny cuz he wants to be president so bad.
>> That's what that's true what it looks like.
>> You can't ruin a city and then go on to ruin a state and say, "Guys, that was just practice. Once I get it as a president, I'm going to fix it. Fix it all."
>> I mean, it's so crazy. But he's such a great politician. I mean, it's so smooth. You think so?
>> No. No. Yeah, I think he's terrible. How's he remained in power for so long?
>> Low competition.
>> There's no one who's good is competing against him. There's no sincerity.
>> I should say he's not a good I should say smooth. He comes back.
>> I mean, he's a good [__] artist.
>> Yeah, that's what I mean.
>> But it's like what the things that he says when he gets confronted with you. We have the high highest this and the highest that. Like everybody's leaving. You have the highest unemployment. You have the highest homelessness.
>> Hollywood.
>> Money's missing. You killed Hollywood. Like Hollywood doesn't exist anymore. It's literally gone. They mandated vaccines for kids that didn't need them. You guys, he did horrible [__] They don't have any
>> What I find interesting about it is
>> I would personally like to see the conversation because Rogan left California.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> that's true. I think it would be a very important conversation given
>> I would love to see the the conversation. I I I do think it's going to be Newsome or AOC who's going to be running for 2028 for the Democrats. I just got Devin Ryan Sofi report after earnings. Dude, this guy is so scared to give a price target price target. NA
>> more
>> I really respect him as an analyst. He gave SB a $50 target. You can't give SoFi a target. That's weird, bro. This goes to Tanner's point that the institutional guys, they hate SoFi. I'm not saying he hates SoFi. He's bullish, but like he can't put his name associated with a number, which is not that hard to do if you just project their earnings because they don't want to be accountable for a number. But it's this type of stuff that's like it's it's it's hard sometimes for SoFi to catch a bid when these guys just can't tell their clients, hey, we think it's going to 50. Buy it. But it looks like he's pretty bullish after. I mean, how could you not be after that report?
>> I I I really thought he didn't have a price target since 18. I thought finally he would put up a price target,
>> but you don't have it. All right, that is it. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh Steve will be streaming at night, so you can check him out on his stream. And yeah, tomorrow will be a big day, guys. I'll be live the whole day. Um market open. We're gonna have some guests join the show. before FOMC FOMC at 2:30 and then at 4 p.m. it's going to be madness. Like it is going to be absolute madness with Meta, Microsoft, and Google and uh we're going to see if these guys can really put up the numbers. So there you go. Yeah, I think Redcat CEO will be on. I think Chad from Palanter will be on as well. I think we'll have a couple people that hop on. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Congrats to everyone. Great day. Nvidia, really nice to see the Palenteer Partnership. Overall, Nvidia increasing these projections, helping the entire sector 20389. And now we just got to get these earnings and hopefully a rate cut tomorrow to keep this going.
>> All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. See you tomorrow everyone. Uh probably 900 PM I'll probably be going on. So,
>> all right. Bye everybody.
>> Later everyone.