[snorts] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live. What a day it has been. What a day. What a week. It has been quite the journey navigating the equity markets this week and we are ending green. At least that's what it looks like. Now it's not as green as we were at the height of it today. 672 on the S&P 500. Quite frankly, we are very close to going red for the day, which uh you know, as I said in the morning, it's not the worst thing in the world to end red as long as the red is not as bad as it was in the pre-markets. 672 on the S&P 500. could um you know theoretically get to like 668 69 and still that would be better than the 663 level that we had this morning. Tesla green it was at 382 in the morning. Right now it's green. Robin got to 114. It's at 123. Nvidia was at 191. Now it's at 189. You're getting a little bit of a selloff as we get to the close. Couple different headlines that could be affecting it that we'll talk about in a second. AMD could not go green. Nebia is still down 5%. Corore almost it did go green for a bit. Capp to 80 now back at 77. That's down. Netflix down because of some concerns of them buying Warner Brothers Discovery. Pounder going green at 174. At one point, pounder got to 176. I mean, basically, you're seeing a lot of these assets either end green or end slightly green or end slightly red, which is not the worst thing in the world. S&P just going red right there, but still above 670. BMR wreck today down 6.3%. Why Ethereum right there at 3100, that's down 1%. Bitcoin as well did get back to 97 right back to 94 over the past 30 minutes. So, uh crypto assets really have not been cooperating in a meaningful way. We didn't get a big whipssaw to the downside uh throughout the day even if we are kind of going red towards the close. Uh but we didn't get a massive massive massive whipsaw backside alltime highs. The recovery from the pre-market lows I think was the move higher that kind of stabilized a lot of portfolios for the day and potentially got rid of a lot of margin calls and stop losses etc. But nonetheless still an ugly day and ugly week across the board for most people. Robin right there 123 Rock Lab at 4527. We got a lot of macro stuff to get into, a lot of different headlines to talk about. We'll be having a startup join the show at 4:30 and we'll get to hear from some of the new products that are out there in the crypto financial ecosystem. First off, we got Tom Lee. Let's hear what he has to say and then we will keep going from there.
>> Also the chairman of Bitmine. So, it's good to have you. Um, Ether's down eight and a half% this week. Bitcoin's down eight. Bit mine is down 20. What's happening here,
>> Scott? I think we're still seeing the repercussions of that April 10th crypto deleveraging event. You know, it was the biggest deleveraging event ever. And there are still, I think, some market makers that have some balance sheet issues that are trying to raise capital. So, I think that this is leading to a market that is kind of raised. You know, every time we get a bit of a rally, there's some capital trying to be raised. And I think that's what's suppressing crypto for now. That's of course going to end soon. But I think that's led to why crypto has underperformed equities since October 10th. Can can crypto treasuries uh like yours for example, can they trade as well uh or in tandem with a cryptocurrency itself or does one have to trade at the expense of the other? If I'm going to see money flow into Bitcoin or crypto treasuries, wouldn't it then come out of the actual pure play coin itself? Uh not exactly, Scott. For instance, when Bitmine uh has shareholders and institutional capital comes in and you know JP Morgan, Invesco, Black Rockck are buying big stakes, then that capital is then used to buy Ethereum. So it's it's actually going back into the ecosystem, but then it's going into a vehicle like Bitmine that's actually a permanent holder. You know, Bitmine owns three and a half million Ethereum, more than 2.9% of the supply. But now that is not going to be subject to liquidations because there's no leverage used to hold that Ethereum. And then at some point that 3.6 million or 3.5 million Ethereum is going to be staked and then generate, you know, nearly $400 million in net income. Well, that can create returns for shareholders. So, in a way, a crypto treasury is actually a a pretty attractive equity because there's a, you know, income component plus there's, of course, that ability to grow your Ethereum holdings per share. But, well, what if what if crypto treasuries become more favored than than crypto itself? There's there's no negative impact for either the way that Ether or Bitcoin would trade if just more money floods towards the Treasury part of the story. Well, one it's it's a conduit because as you know equity managers uh many of them the 4,000 can't own crypto directly. So that so they have to get exposure to Ethereum by buying a stock like Bitmine and Bitmine is the 438th largest stock in America today. It's not that different than if someone wanted to have exposure to energy. They can buy oil and trade a commodity or they can take like oil barrels at home or they can buy an oil related stock, you know, either a major or something in the supply chain. That's that's what crypto treasuries are is essentially an asset class that gives you direct exposure to the crypto asset. All right, let's pivot to the market itself. Um, is your confidence at all shaken in in where we are and what you thought the prospects for an endofear run could be after what we've seen this week? Well, it's never fun to see markets um wobble and then stocks that are quite popular like AI and the quantum uh and nuclear come down so hard, but it is consistent with the idea that, you know, we were up six months through October. So, the market's overbought. We expected two weeks of consolidation, which is what we're getting. And then, of course, as you know, there's hawkish Fed talk. So, there's a bit of a tantrum the market's having. But between now and year end, we still have really good seasonals. The earnings have been good. Sentiment has flipped negative, Scott, as you could tell. I mean, the AI went to negative 17.5. So, I I'd say the riskreward is still really good for equities into year end. And yeah, I think the S&P will be over 7,000 by the end of the year. You know, in fact, maybe over 7,000 by the end of the month.
>> No cut in December. Let's just say that that's the now the base case. Uh and AI remains volatile. you know, the broadening trade looked pretty good at times this week to where we were thinking of, okay, maybe we're going to get an everything rally. You think that's possible?
>> Uh, yeah. I mean, I think one reason the the Fed is backpedaling on a cut in December is not because they have more confidence that inflation is uh strengthening. In fact, you know, many of them said they just don't know, but in general, they agree it's probably not. It's I think that there are signs that the labor market is maybe stabilizing. So you actually have a Fed waffling for the right reason, which is look, if the employment market's holding up, the Fed doesn't have to cut. That's still a good environment for equities. I'm not trying to like spin it, but it's not a bad reason if the Fed is starting to have second thoughts.
>> Okay, Tom,
>> I got to leave it there. I I appreciate you. I've got some news that I have to get to though. I'll see you soon. That's Tom Lee. We are now getting The thing on a day like this is, you know, honestly, there's just not much that he can say that's going to alleviate the concerns that people have. I mean, look, BMR stock has basically been dead over the past couple of weeks. Uh, really, literally, I don't think he can say anything unless Ethereum makes a move. So, you can go into the technicals of a digital asset treasury and explain all the nuances. No one cares on a day like this. And then when you say 7,000 end a month, I mean, again, [laughter] if it happens, I think we'd all be happy. But obviously, it's a little tough to believe. And the reason it's tough to believe is because unfortunately, um, this December rate cut is looking like it's just not going to happen. If you look at the new Fed probabilities for a December rate cut, we are now under 50%. As Bitcoin goes down, we were at least at 51 in the morning. We're at 45. Uh based on what I've been hearing and we we'll discuss some of the headlines, you just got a lot of Fed presidents that are coming out. Even Fed Logan today said for December meeting it would be hard to support another rate cut. I mean, at this point, it's almost like the Fed presidents kind of came together and decided they would unilaterally start pivoting from their stance on the labor market versus inflation. There are legitimate concerns about inflation. Not saying that there's not. Uh but but the but it's almost a full 180 from what we heard a couple weeks ago and I think that's going to piss off a lot of people. One of those is the president who really needs this affordable economy and rates going lower would help to make it affordable. But I don't know gun to my head I would say it's tough to imagine we're going to get that rate cut just based on how the Fed's speaking. You got to have a little bit more unanimous consent and right now you're not seeing that. Tesla right there 404 Robin Hood holding 12260. Nvidia still holding 190. Uh, Palunteer is green on the day and the S&P slightly selling off pound right there 17393. And you know that is why I think that next week is going to be really interesting. Obviously we've got Nvidia earnings. Nvidia got a bunch of different upgrades today and we talked about some of those in the morning. All those upgrades, Bank of America 275, Morgan Stanley 220, all those upgrades are rooted in just reasonable earnings estimates if you go out a year or two to try to understand what the multiples should look like. Fear and greed by the way at 23. The problem is even if Nvidia puts up good estimates and that's why Tom at the end he said I'm not trying to spin it but at its core he was trying to spin it right and and the spin is that even if the Fed doesn't cut rates it's okay and the way you make the spin is by saying well if the Fed's not cutting because the labor market is healthy then earnings are good enough which means we don't technically need to cut. The problem is I don't think anyone believes the labor market is healthy. And so if the labor market's not healthy and the Fed's not cutting it, earnings will go down and you're not going to get any monetary easing support by the Fed. So it's it's like a double whammy that could really really mess up the end of year going into Q4. Now, we don't know how that's going to play out and maybe Tom Lee is right that the labor market is strong enough and the Fed is more worried about inflation. Therefore, earnings will be fine because, you know, the labor market will sustain itself and they don't technically need to cut. But it's hard to imagine$7,000 on the S&P not pricing in another rate cut. I mean, it's really hard to believe we go to 7,000 as he said, and you don't get a cut. Like I would imagine you think you would need to get a cut. And so for everyone saying, "Well, it's so obvious that the labor market is down. Why isn't the Fed recognizing that?" I don't know. I [laughter] I just I have no idea this week how they came to the conclusion that inflation matters way more than everything else. But that is the Fed speak we're getting and the Fed future pro probabilities are now heavily discounting the ability for a December recup. Labor market is fine as long as we don't get jobs data. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. It's amazing if we don't get the data. I don't know. We're going to have to see what we get going into next week. The one thing I can say is at least we are getting a rebound as we get into the close 671. We talked a lot about in the morning is the structural uh fundamentals of this bull market incomplete in regards to the AI trade. The answer is no. We do have some updates on AI in regards to Alibaba and Oracle that we'll talk about in a second, but that I I don't think that's the reason we sold off. I think the reason we sold off over the past couple days and you know we are relatively where we were a couple weeks ago, but the reason I think we sold off is because uh of this lack of certainty around a rate cut. I don't think it has anything to do with the AI trade. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think it really does have to do with we don't know if we're getting a rate cut. And if we don't know, then the market will be scared. Bitcoin right there, 94. Nasty candle as we get into the close. We were holding 96 for the better part of an hour. Ethereum has somehow stayed above 3,000. And you would imagine today with all the liquidations and leverage that Ethereum would have kind of chopped below around that 2829 level, but it did not. 3132 right there on Ethereum. And that is what we got. All right, folks. Been an ugly week, ugly day. It It could have been a much uglier day. So, you got to have a bit of gratitude here. Pre-markets were way worse than what we are ending on. Basically, we're going to be ending flat on the day, which I think anyone would take at 671. But, nonetheless, we are closing out the second week of November. Thank you everybody for being here. Friday, November 14th. The stock market is now closed. [music] All right, we end out the day flat on the S&P. 67196. 67196. Tesla 404. Tesla was at 382. So a $400 close. Not the worst thing in the world. Robin Hood got to 110 in the morning. 12250. Nvidia 190.17. That's up 1.77%. Nebas right there 8354. This one did bounce off the low 80s but did not get into that 90 level. It tried to at 89 but then got hit again. Corore right there at 7736. MP materials 5861. That's up 1.862%. Hims 3702 up 2.69. Micron up 4%. Bitcoin 94.4. before Ethereum 3100. Rocket Lab right there 4554. Rocket Lab did try to get around to that 4849 level got rejected around there. So 4550. It did get to the 41s in the pre-market. Uh Nvidia gets a 190 close. I think that's more of the market being excited about Nvidia um earnings that are coming up. And there's a lot to be excited about for Nvidia earnings because it's one of the best companies in the world. It's just a question of can it trade, you know, in that five trillion dollar market cap range like it did a couple weeks ago, even with the macro being off tilts. Oaklo closes the day below 100. Quantum D-Wave actually ends up green on the day. These stocks were all down 10% in the pre-market. INQ up 4% on the day. Regetti right here up 1.1% on the day. BMR down about 5.8%. You got Bitcoin 94,000. and then pound it right here. 174 green on the day. All right, let's get into some of these headlines because we have a bunch of different things that are breaking in terms of news. First of all, let's just look at the Alibaba headline that we had today because this was a pretty weird one, but it definitely took Alibaba stock down a couple percentage points. Let me pull this up real quick and then we will keep going from there.
>> Here's what the company is saying. They say the assertions and innuendos in the article are completely false. We question the motivation behind the anonymous leak, which the FT admits that they cannot verify. This malicious PR operation clearly came from a rogue voice looking to undermine President Trump's recent trade deal with China. That's the statement uh attributable to an Alibaba group spokesperson. So Scott, an aggressive response here from the company to that report from the FT, which as you mentioned
>> now again, what did the FT say? Official White House memo claims Alibaba is supplying Chinese military with tech to target the United States. Alibaba provides tech support for Chinese military operations against targets in the US according to intelligence studied in a White House national security memo raising concerns about the technology giant. Obviously, Baba was saying that's false today. The official memo provided to the Financial Times includes declassified top secret intelligence on how the Chinese group supplies the People's Liberation Army with capabilities that the White House believes would threaten US security. When I saw this headline, quite frankly, I was like, "Okay, I [laughter] was like, the idea that the tech companies in China are not supplying the Chinese military with the capabilities to target the US." I I kind of didn't think it was that much of a story to be honest. It's like, of course, they are. Like, there there was really no doubt that I think people thought that was going to happen. But Baba did fall three and a half% and about 2.3% as soon as that news came out. The bigger implication from this realistically is on Nvidia. And the reason it's on Nvidia is because look, Jensen has this dream of, you know, getting that 50 to70 billion dollar TAM from China if the White House lets him sell into China. I mean, if the White House memo is claiming that Baba's helping Chinese military targets, there is no way that I think Trump's going to be like, "Oh yeah, Nvidia, sell your chips to BABA that's just going to use those chips, the best version of those chips to then target the United States." So, I think it's very, very unlikely that we are going to get Nvidia revenue coming back to China. It seems like all the street analysts kind of don't care about that. And Jensen is stating so much domestic demand that it doesn't really matter, but um you know, more and more of these stories makes it unlikely that we're going to get that Chinese demand. Uh we do have some 13Fs. Draen Miller, here's what he did. New positions in Amazon, Meta, and Chipotle. Amazon, Meta, and Chipotle. New positions is what Draen Miller added. Top five buys were Amazon, Meta, StubHub, and Figure, the banking company around Bitcoin. And then top five sales included Eli Lily and Microsoft. New positions again, Amazon and Meta. He exited Goldman Sachs and Microsoft. Exited Goldman Sachs and Microsoft. I don't see Nvidia's 13F yet, guys. Let me see if I can pull it up if it is disclosed. There's a couple that still haven't been disclosed, including Altimters. Um it should be coming out like now. So it should be coming out any second. Then we'll see what Nvidia has um in terms of their stakes. But this is what we have from Stanley Duck Miller. Then after Stanley, you have our boy Chase Coleman from Tiger Global. Um he did not sell any of his graph. He has 92 million shares. Did not touch those positions. He did add Netflix, MongoDB, Crowdstrike, Eli Liy, and Novo. So, he did add those new positions. Again, Tiger Global, Chase Coleman about $ 32 billion. As we can see right here, he added 3% to Amazon, reduced Meta by 62%, reduced Reddit by 24%, added to Broadcom, added to Flutter, added to GE Veronova. Uh, he bought Netflix 201,000 shares, bought MongoDB, 340,000 shares, sold 72% of Sherwin Williams, sold 22% of Zillow. Uh, bought Bullish, Kathy likes that one as well. Bought Figure, another person that likes Figure along with Stanley Ducken Miller. Bought Clara, 175,000 shares. He bought Figma, 60,000 shares. And those were some of the main buys that he had on his portfolio. He kept all of his Weeble. He has 11 million shares of Weeble, and he has 11 million shares of New Bank. Did not trim any of those positions. UNH. Is he in UNH? Yeah, he kept his UNH. 438,000 shares for UNH as well. So, that's what you have from some of these 13Fs. And Nvidia should be coming out soon. Also, Altimter's 13F should be coming out soon. And um we'll be able to see what they did. Yeah, still not out yet for Altimter. Still not out yet for Altimter. pounder right at there 174 S&P 500 67191 and that one still flat after hours. Okay, Oracle. So, what was the big news on Oracle? We need to see Triple V's 13F. You know, he's he's he's taken stakes sometimes where he actually had to legit disclose with the SEC. So, he's definitely had those moments. Um Oracle. Okay, so what's going on with Oracle? Uh Oracle's debt is having some issue. We talked about this and this is another reason probably we had a bit of a sell-off into the close. By the way, Google investing 40 billion in data centers in Texas. That headline just came out right now. Is Google moving after hours on this. Google's Yeah, Google's up 2%. Is this the reason? There's got to be something else. There's got to be something else. 40 billion in data centers can't be up 2%. Also, that news came out right before the close, so I doubt that's the reason why we're pumping. Let's see. Did some Maybe someone took a stake in Google that's highly influential. Is there really the 40 billion? Could that really be the reason? Could that really be the reason why it's pumped at 40 billion for I mean, that's them spending money. First of all, super bullish for the AI trade because Google is spending 40 billion. But why would the stock go up 2% on them spending money? In fact, if they have to issue some debt to spend that money, which we don't know, but if they did, you would get the opposite reaction. Yeah. I have no idea. I have no idea why Google's there. Uh there's I mean, did did Birkshshire buy Google or something? That's that is weird to see Google spike on that. Still holding the spike, too. Still holding 2%. Irene after hours up a little bit. Nebius after hours up. I mean, all the data center plays up a little bit on the headline that they're spending more on data centers. They're probably going to outsource some of that 40 billion to these other players. Dracon Miller didn't buy Google. Not from what I see. If Birkshar brought Google, that would be pretty wild. Gemini. Yeah, but Gemini 3 is a bit older news. I don't know if that's enough to pump it after hours on a Friday. Is it Birkshar? Hold on. I'm trying to confirm if it's Birkshshire. This could also be fake. Have a lot of people saying fake stuff. I see one screenshot. Do not know if that's accurate. I mean, it looks accurate, but I could be dead wrong. Hold on. Is it Buffett by Berkshire? Hold on. Uh, I have to confirm for myself. I got Okay, hold on. I got the holdings. Let me see. Added. I've got to see. If he did, then that's a fundamentally different shift. New positions. Buffett. He added Google. He added 17 million shares of Google. Oh my goodness. Buffett's in. Burkshshire is in 17 million shares. of Google. [laughter] Holy crap. Is Birkshshire embracing technology now? Whoa. You would think Google would be up a lot more. Dude, if this wasn't a crappy week, Google would be up like 7% right now. Like this is Birkshar freaking Hathaway. the implications even if Buffett's not running it anymore of the brand of Birkshshire taking a stake in your company. This was Q3, right? So, their average price, I mean, we don't know yet, but it's got it's probably below 200. It has to be below 200. Google was trading between 150 and 180 that whole time. It has to be. Damn. That means they're already up on it. They're already up in a in a sizable way. Wow. I don't know if this was Greg Ael, if this was Buffett, but Berkshire buys 17.8 million shares. Four billion. That is correct. Four billion. Oh my goodness. Yeah. And this is after hours. So, obviously on on Yeah. on on the uh on the market open on Monday, you might get a different reaction from Google. Dude, again, the these guys fill out arenas for their shareholder meetings. Like people are disciples of the Birkshar philosophy. when they take a trade, when they do something, I mean, there's hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people globally that follow every single thing that Birkshshire does and they take them very seriously when they initiate a position. The type of validation that Google just got, I mean, Sundar has got to be Sundar's got to be pretty happy right now. And by the way, you know, they're going to hold it for a long time. I mean, I don't think they're putting in four billion just for the hell of it. You would imagine they're going to hold this bad boy for a long time. 1.7 29%. Don't believe the 243 average cost. You're not going to get the most accurate predictions from any of these websites. The quarter ended uh um what September 30th. Was Google above 243 before September 30th or even above 200? I think it was, but I doubt they bought all at once. September 30th. Yeah. Okay. So, Google got to 250 by September 18. So, they could have bought between July and September. I mean, unless they bought literally at the end of September, then they probably have an average closer to like 190 to 200. But, we'll find out over time. The market value next. Yeah, but the market value is just based on the current price. It's not based on the average that they have. And also, these websites, they they never have to disclose the average. So, these websites, you can't trust them. I mean, I've tried calculating the average from these websites before. They don't have that. They have the position and they have the number of shares. They can't actually give you the exact price. When Birkshshire's 8K comes out and all that stuff, then you get a much better understanding of like the actual price they paid. 280 on the goo. 17.8 million shares on Mr. Google. All right, Burkshar's in. Let me see if there's any else anything else coming out. Oh, Carl Icon. Oh, here's the here's the full thing from Buffett. Here's the full thing from Buffett. 17.8 million shares is what you have on the Googles. Uh they added 15% to Chub. They added 4% to Sirius. I still don't know why they have Sirius XM, but they keep adding to that. They sold 6% of Bank of America, sold 14% of Apple, Domino's 13%. They added 2% to Lamar Advertising and then 0.03% to LAR. That's a home builder. [clears throat] Goodness, bro. 18 million shares of Google. I don't know what the new leadership's philosophy is going to be over the next 10 years. But Greg Ael, how old is Greg Ael? Greg Ael age, he is uh 63. I mean, Buffett's what, 95? If Greg's going to do this for the next 25 years, I mean, do you think he's buying five billion of Google to sell it tomorrow. I mean, they're probably thinking that there is something they've got to seriously commit to here over the long term. UNH, Buffett did not sell or buy 5 million shares of UNH. 5 million shares of UNH. They did not sell or buy. They kept it. Amazon, they kept it as well. Amazon was a while ago. I I am going to be very interested to hear how they justify buying Google. I mean, they're going to have to speak to the implications of technology and probably AI. I would imagine they're going to have to talk about why AI matters for the economy and why Google is their bet to play it. Wow. Congrats to everyone who's heavy in Google this year. You got some deep deep validation right now by one of the greatest investment firms of all time saying that they are taking a stake in Google. I mean, the stock would be up a lot more if I think the macro wasn't as wonky right now. Also, I mean, Buffett's been holding on to a lot of cash. So, you're telling me the first time where they decide to deploy their 350 billion of cash is a tech company, and that's bearish. Like, they they don't buy tech companies. They're they're sitting on more treasuries than the entire Federal Reserve. They say, "Hey, we want to take a five billion stake." And they pick a tech company. They don't pick Craft Hind. They don't pick a bank. They pick a tech company. doesn't feel bearish for tech and you can't even say Google's expensive like you really can't. So it's quite incredible that they're taking this position and it is validating a lot. I mean if if Buffett is saying or Birkshar is saying we like Google that means they like AI they like the multiple that a company like Google is getting on AI which means why should the market be doubting the entire nature of AI. You could be doubting individual names in it but doubting the entire concept is a bit weird. Now, here was the headline I was going to talk about before the Google news. Oracle credit risk is getting repriced. 5-year credit default swap spreads. We looked at the chart yesterday on Oracle. It jumped 13.5 basis points to about 102 bips. The biggest move since 2021 as investors hedge tens of billions in AI related debt for data centers. Morgan Stanley is now seeing the net debt for data center buildout by fiscal year 2028 to 290 billion versus 100 billion. 290 billion would still be small relative to the many trillions that have been pledged to be invested in data centers, but it is higher, which is why you've got people purchasing these credit default swaps to hedge against that debt going the wrong way. So that's what you got on Oracle. And again, I think that's why it was creating a lot of just like uh fear for the broader equity markets towards the end of the day as those credit default swaps started spiking around AI and data centers. But that's what you got there for Oracle. Uh Cubit had earnings today. Qubt, I don't fully see their numbers. I think the stock is up. The stock is up 7%. This is quantum computing, $2 billion company. I think they beat on revenue. Get the exact numbers, but those guys are up. Uh, in about 10 minutes, we're going to have a startup join. I told you guys, we were supposed to do this interview a couple days ago, but we weren't able to do it. But this is a new startup. Just raised 15 million from Benchmark in the crypto finance space, kind of taking on Coinbase and Robin and all those guys. So, I did make an investment in them. This is the friend that I had from high school. They're going to be on the show. We'll talk a little bit more about their new product. I don't know if Steve's going to be able to make it today. He was really busy with meetings during the day. I'm gonna give him a call after this and see if he can hop on. But if he can't, then uh he will definitely be live tonight. Dude, he stayed up till like 1:30 last night on his I stayed up with him till 12:00 and then at 12 I had to call it quits and he stayed on for like another hour and a half, which is kind of crazy, but he might be a little tired. I ran right, they're up 2% after hours. All the data center plays getting some love. Nebius is up as well. Is this bullish for Monday? I don't see it being bearish. I don't see it being bearish. Amit, did we ever find out Birkshar's mystery stock purchase? Was is it just Google? Is the mystery stock p like No, no, no. That that was a couple months ago, right? Wasn't that another insurance play? Chub was the original one. Did we find that, guys? Do you guys remember? Did we find that? Oh, it was UNH. Oh, what am I talking about? It was UNH. Sorry. Yeah, it was UNH. Oh, yeah. Yo, Tanner, your boy bought the googs. Your boy bought the googs. Yeah, it was unh. So, this one was not a mystery one. This is one where they just decided to take a position and now it's in. Is Bill Aman's out? Oh, Bill Aman just came out. Let's see. Bill Aman, by the way, bought Google at 90 bucks. So, he's been in Googs for a while. Um, okay. Let's see. Bill Aman sold a little bit of Uber, sold a little bit of Brookfield, kept Google. No, sold 10% of Google Class C, kept Google Class A. And this is what I mean, guys. You guys are saying his average is 243. Look at the reported price on Bill Aman. It says 243. That doesn't make any sense. Bill Aman bought Google since $90. So, you really can't trust these reported prices to estimate their average. Like Bill Aman stake is not $243. Like he he he did not buy at all in Q2. So there's no way it's possible for it to be 243. But uh QSR he sold.3 2% then Amazon he kept the same. Okay. So he didn't do much. He's I mean he sold 10% of Google but he still has uh 10 million shares. He sold a very small amount of Uber and he sold a little bit of restaurant brands. That's it. Tanner says, "People are saying AI is overhyped and you have Buffett buy again. Make it make sense." No, I agree. It's hard to make the argument that the market's having a little bit of turmoil because of AI. I really do think it's because of the Fed and the lack of confidence around interest rates. Not because of AI being dead. Wow, this this Buffett news pumping everything after hours. Got a lot of stuff moving green after hours based on this. Marcus just happy to see Buffett put his hat in the ring and say I'm in. Nebas Cororeweave, all these guys getting a move. Google right there. 281 after hours. This is kind of crazy. I didn't Who who thought that was going to happen? Like I I really did not expect Birkshire to make that big of a purchase. If anything, I thought they would have added more to some of their core positions or or just raised more cash. But I guess Greg Abel's thinking about a different way. Altimter's out. Do we have it? All right, let me see. Altimeter. Okay, here we go. Let's pull it up. This is Brad Gersonner. Let's start off with new positions. Um, Google, [laughter] [gasps] 313,000 shares of Google, 1.6 6 million shares of Jimmy which is a crypto company 969,000 shares of Baba 744,000 shares of Broadcom 258,000 of Synopsis Pinu Duo 1.3 million and then I don't know what NTSK is and PTRN is but he bought a couple hundred thousand shares of those guys as well. Wow. Google, Broadcom, Baba and Pin Duo Duo, Aman, Gersner and Buffett all in Google closed out he sold Coreweave 650,000 shares IoT 2.9 million shares data dog 881,000 uh added to he added to Amazon 72,000 shares added to ARM 164,000 added to Microsoft 103 3,000 added to TSM 200 1,000 no change or reduced let's do reduced reduced they sold 650,000 shares of Hood which is reasonable they bought it at 30 bucks uh they sold 11,000 shares of Meta sold 8,000 shares of Mardo Libre sold 4 million shares of Confluent sold 1.4 million shares of coupon sold 891,000 shares of Instacart sold 600,000 shares of Nvidia still have 7.6 6 million left, but they did trim. Um, 11,000 shares of Meta, Uber, 364,000 shares. Snowflake 397,000 shares. Zillow 200,000 shares. He does not have AMD. He does not have AMD. So, Selling Hood normal. I mean, they bought it at 40. It's up triple. They were probably going to take some profits. Meta. Gersonner has been in Meta for a long time. Still has 1.8 million shares. So, it's not like it's not a large position. Nvidia also not that big of a deal. They have $1.4 billion of Nvidia. Decent position for them. Uber and Snowflake a bit more aggressive on the sales. Zillow a bit more aggressive as well. And then Instacart and Confluent. Confluent the big one about 4.2 million down. Huh. So the big story is everyone is is in love with the Googs. Dude, Sundar has got to be feeling like the man right now. Like Sundar has got to be feeling like the man is googs moving on this even more. Googs it it's it's only flat because it's been a crappy day or crappy week. If this was like four weeks ago and this news came out, you could argue Google would be above 300 by now. Dude, this is big freaking news. I don't see Nvidia's 13F yet. Um not out yet on this is whale wisdom for those that whale wisdom is the website and then data aroma is the other website if you want to go to it yourself. Uh code management we have there 13F um top by Google. Hold on. Let me pull this up. Is the top by Google? Let me see. Holdings. Uh, new CO2 is a relatively large firm. Wow. They added 2 million shares of Google. Oh my goodness, dude. 2.091 million shares of the Googs. They added Figma. They added Applied Materials, CLA, Snowflake, and Synopsis. Dude, why does everyone like Synopsis? I keep seeing this name pop up. What is so special about this freaking stock? It's down 20% year to date. Do we need to do a deep dive on this? SNPS? I keep seeing it pop up. Oh man, Benny Zold and Austin, you guys got to go to Vegas this weekend. You guys literally have to book a trip to Vegas this weekend and celebrate. And you have enough Google Gains to to book the trip, all three of you. And you got to take three shots. One for Aman, one for Altimter, and one for Buffett. That's what you got to do. Wow, that's incredible. Two million shares of the GooGoos. Let's see what they closed out. Uh, they sold all their Lily. They sold all their Yum. That's a Chinese food brand. PM, GRNC, and then LX. What about added to? They added to Marll. They added to Weeble. They added to Trade Desk. They added to Spotify. They added to Oracle. added to Meta, Microsoft, Baba, they added 1.1 million. Uh they added to iBit, they added to Nphase, Door Dash, Carvana, Broadcom, Applovin, and then they continue to add to Google. That was the other Google class C. So they have both versions now. Uh and then reduced, they sold 307,000 shares of Tesla. They sold 121,000 shares of GE Veranova. They sold 1.6 million of Nvidia. sold 1.1 million of new bank. Uh Tanner, I'm sending you the link on Twitter. Um and then they they sold 1.5 million shares of KKR. This is quite incredible, dude. This really is quite incredible. I mean, and again, buying Google is heavy validation for just this broader AI trade, which matters if you're in a lot of the other AI names, even if you're not in Google. I mean, if you want to keep this broader narrative up, then having someone like Buffett validate Google does matter. AMD right there, 291,000 shares down. Wow. They sold 11 million shares of Corewave. Uh they sold 105,000 shares of Chime. They sold 1.4 4 million of Amazon and then 2.3 million of ARM. Stanley Ducken Miller. Is that one out? Let me see. Nope. But we have Bill Gates. Let's see what did Bill Gates buy Google, too. [laughter] The founder of Microsoft. Just say I'm going to buy Google. Okay. He didn't buy anything. Sold 10% of Birkshshire. Sold 10% of Waste Management. Sold 65% of Microsoft. Bro, this is the Bill and Gates Melinda Foundation. That is what 65% of your Microsoft. I get that Microsoft's done well, but goodness, that's over a 50% reduction. They sold 13% of Caterpillar, 7% of Walmart, 5% of FedEx, 5% of Craft Hinds, and then 5% of Hormell Foods. That that to me is Bill Gates saying, "I'm just gonna take my profits. I don't care." I mean, they still have nine million shares, but goodness, that is a very heavy decline right there on uh on Microsoft. Uh let me see if the Stanley Ducken Miller one is out. Let's see if we have some coverage of these 13Fs as well. Nvidia one I still don't see yet. Fidia not out yet. Yo, dude.
>> What the heck just happened?
>> Brad Gersonner, Warren Buffett, and Kotu management hold the same position. [laughter] You [snorts] got growth and value all saying Sundar is doing the right thing. How's this possible? Did Did you at all expect Buffett to Did you even think they would they would do this?
>> No.
>> No, I wasn't thinking about it. I mean, it didn't you know, the UNH play made a lot of sense, but this is this is quite interesting. I I want to remind you of something really quick. Can I remember you showed this on your stream? Um you ended up showing this. Do you remember this?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, I do. This is the Kotu Fa Fantastic 40. These are their favorite 40 names for the AI and blockchain trade. Google's not even on the list. How crazy is that?
>> I remember you pointed that out. Google, Apple, these names aren't on the list. And now I thought I was going crazy cuz I clicked on their website. Google is on the list now. They can they changed the list, but whenever it came out, I still have this screenshot. It was not there. So they've completely changed their tone on Google. It just it just goes to show you how much, you know, people have have changed thinking about this name.
>> So do you think this is a Buffett decision or you think it's a paradigm shift that Greg Ael is initiating in the firm? No, I don't know if it's a a Buffett decision, but um I do just think that I I've always thought this search is probably one of the best business models there's ever been. Um the the the margins are incredible and the fact that they're not losing uh market share there and they're getting the same take rate from AI overviews and AI mode. It probably just confirms to them that they're sticking around and this business is going to last another 20 years. So I don't know. I It's really exciting to see though that they're in.
>> Dude, it's a heavy position, too. four million shares is not a not a joke. Like
>> I dude I think that this is like like you said uh this is kind of good for the entire market. I think this is sort of the seal of approval from Buffett to say hey this capex spend is fine. You would think that they would be on the complete other side of this trade. Where's the ROI on all of this spend? You know that they would be the most uh like like they would question this type of spend. But they're not.
>> I don't know, man. It is. Okay. So, when Buffett bought Apple, and I know you know the history of this, you know, they thought of Apple as a consumer hardware. They never really called it a tech company. They struggled to ever say it's a tech company. They said it's consumer hardware. Do you think there's some philosophy they're using on Google that is not necessarily intrinsically rooted in technology, but there's a bigger picture they're seeing to the investment? um to to some degree yeah I don't think that they care about the actual technology as much as they think about just the recurring high margin business like even in an AI trade is advertising going anywhere you know uh are they completely diversified in every single geography and across many businesses subscription hardware uh search YouTube like like what platform have they not entered um and and if there is a new uh paradigm or or place for Google to go. I think the you know the belief is now they will enter that space. They're okay to go after consumers. They're okay to go after businesses. They have a massive cloud business now that's doing extremely well. I'm sure just all aspects it looks very diversified and more of a safe play than people would have said $100 ago. You know, like it's gotten more expensive and yet people think of it as a safer name. That's an interesting place to be.
>> Someone says Amit's trying to make it more philosophical than it is. No, I I I'm serious though. If you watch those early Buffett interviews in 2016, he refused to say it was a tech company. He said the iPhone is a consumer hardware device that we think billions of people will continue to upgrade, which is why they kind of understood it as like, okay, people always need to eat ketchup with their hot dogs. People always need to upgrade their phones. I mean, this is how Munger and Buffett talked about it. So, I'm trying to think, is there any way they could apply that philosophy to Google? And I mean, you have Android obviously and you have that stuff. But I I I think it's deeper than that. And and to your point, Tanner, I think that it's them saying, "Well, search is amazing and the capex stuff is inevitable, and if we're going to take any bet on this industry, I mean, they already did have Amazon, so it's not like they're totally opposed to these tech companies, but it looks like
>> I wonder for how long cuz um Bergkshire Hathway is in in a pretty unique situation where there's only a handful of companies that they can even invest in that's going to make a sizable change in their portfolio."
>> Yes. So, how long, how many quarters, how many years have they had their eyes on Google and not pulled the trigger and something that happened within the last 3 months had changed their mind to say and and honestly, it could be that the keys going over to Greg and Greg says, "Hey, you know what? I've I've wanted this name for the last 5 years." So, but it does uh it is interesting the timing of this name going into the portfolio. Do you think I just thought of this, do you think they bought Google because they know the Gemini partnership with Siri is going to be so big and they have this obviously big stake in Apple and they're like, well, if if AI is going to change the world on consumer hardware and Google's the basis for that because they spend all the capex, Apple hasn't spent any capex, then we might as well buy into Google.
>> Well, how big is the Google? I thought it was like a billion dollar a year deal or something. Yeah, but it's going to be powering all the Siri on two billion devices. But you're right, it's not a lot of revenue. To your point,
>> it's not a lot of revenue. And my understanding it was uh private servers and private data. I don't know what the upside is for for Google on this Siri thing, but it's clearly not the revenue. I mean, $250 million a quarter. It like you could take it or leave it. It wouldn't even change the quarter.
>> Yeah. But this is freaking excit I I like it. It's not just Warren Buffett and a bunch of uh you know value investors coming in. You have Brad Gersonner and Cortu Management coming in. These guys are growth at all cost investors going in with Warren Buffett. How interesting is that? Like I don't know, man. I think that this is good for uh Nebius. By the way, I took a position the other day yesterday. Um,
>> you're in.
>> I had to trim Nvidia in order to buy Nebus.
>> Wow. You got that convicted on it?
>> No, it's not that. I think that um one is not going to do well without the other. Either the data center play is real or it's not. And uh there was quite the selloff on Nebus that allowed me to get into a decent position. And in the morning whenever I sold, I think Nvidia was down 3%, Nebius was down like 9%. I was just taking advantage of that single day trade. Um, well, you know, fiveday trade. Um, and yeah, I I don't know. I'm I'm looking at the uh price reactions, the the the market reaction. I don't think they're going anywhere. Um, until I see companies say that they are going to stop spending, I don't care what the market is saying. Clearly, everyone is saying, "Hey, capacity is like the second we get these chips set up, they are immediately running at full capacity. We're selling out every single uh, you know, GPU that we possibly have." Like, we cannot buy enough. They're not going into debt to just, you know, go into debt. It's because every dollar that they spend on these GPUs, they're getting $8 out,
>> right? And so I was listening to your conversation with Chris the other day or or yesterday and I don't agree with him fully. Like if they want to stop spending the the servers that are still set up today are still going to run at full capacity. It's just that they're trying to secure future capacity for future growth.
>> Right?
>> So the day that they turn off the systems is only going to affect bookings. It's not going to affect growth rates over the next couple years. These data centers are not popping up tomorrow. They're, you know, multi-year cycle. So, um, no, I think I think these large contracts are happening. I think AI is a very real thing and I think it deserves a premium.
>> Dude, I didn't I know I I 10,000% agree with you. I started to like the Neoclouds a lot more and Nebas given the diversified business model as well to me got a lot more attractive and their founders quite frankly. I just I just like their management team and kind of the the veracity of uh ambition that the guys that have that are running it. Um but I didn't expect Birkshar to do Google. I really I thought he would have added more to UNH before this one. So
>> I think it's a pretty good
>> like can Greg Ael go full finit? Can he get some Rocket Lab, some hood, some SoFi? Like
>> dude, doesn't it give you a sign of approval of just the where we are in the market as well? These are the names that people were most concerned about, right? And like what happened to the Buffett index? What happened to recession fears? You're throwing out $5 billion to or or it's probably less than that. They probably put a $4 billion purchase on it, but you know, $4 billion out to Google uh in an AI bubble. I don't believe that
>> Bergkshire has more treasuries, more tea bills than the Federal Reserve. There is no way they are investing in Google if they think this is all a bubble because if it is a bubble and it pops, Google will survive obviously, but it's going to get slammed. We know that's going to happen. And Buffett entry price is a big deal for Birkshshire. They're not willy-nilly going to pay whatever price and just average down. Like they are very serious about their entry. So they had to take a lot of consideration into buying at around 170 180 whenever they bought. They they trimmed Apple, the company that's being extremely conservative on capex. They trimmed Apple and they bought a company that's investing handover fist.
>> Like
>> it's a good point.
>> I don't know, man. [laughter] And I think it's honestly just goes down to valuation. You look at Google and potentially even Meta in in future quarters, they look extremely cheap just based on the forward pees that they're expecting, let alone the beats that they've been putting up for many many years before this capex cycle. Like these are great businesses. It's not just about technology or artificial intelligence. They have high margins and they move quickly. And that should be exciting for all types of investors. And you're seeing that between Brad Gersonner and Warren Buffett. Is there another company that both of those name like how often do they do those ven diagrams go over top of each other? Cotu management and Warren Buffett that that ven diagram must you know cross over once a decade. Brad Gersonner is basically a retail finit trader but takes sizable positions on his bets. like the fact that he is the o one of the only hedge funds that I know that has an actual like brand image and took a position in Robin Hood at 30 like like no other no one's doing that. So the fact that he's and he was not the biggest fan of Google. You remember those interviews a couple years ago where he was like Google's dead
>> for him to pivot and for uh Aman to you know stay consistent on it and then Buffett to get in and then CO2 you're right this this ven diagram does not happen often. You got growth in growth investors, activist investors, and value investors [laughter] all buying Google right now. Like that is pretty interesting. I wasn't even bullish on Google a few years ago. Like like I didn't get the dips. I remember talking with you and Matt money at like $90 and I was like, "Dude, Chacht is going to eat their lunch."
>> Yeah. And then they started to talk about, no, I mean, we have the cloud, we have the data, we have the the people, we have the distribution, we have every aspect of this future. Like, it's ours for the taking. Their founders came back to work. I don't know. It's pretty interesting. Anyway, I'm not going to stay. I just uh once I saw that uh Cortus Fantastic 40 has just changed, how freaking interesting is this? I'm Oh man, I I'm super excited for Google's future, Amazon, Meta. I've become the opposite of a DGEN through this AI cycle. I'm actually not chasing gains as much. I'm going more towards the Mag 7 than ever in my life.
>> Me too. Me freaking too.
>> Like my only Mag 7 was Nvidia because of you. And as we've seen the impacts of hyperscalers, it's like, well, how do you ignore those? How do you ignore them? And now uh what are your mag seven names now?
>> Meta Google or Meta not really Google. I had calls on Google. I sold those. Meta, Amazon, Tesla, and Nvidia.
>> Isn't that crazy? That's crazy to me. Like that's so exciting. And no one out of all the people that we talked to, not enough people are buying Microsoft, I don't think. I mean, even Bill Gates [laughter] is selling Microsoft.
>> [gasps]
>> Um, but hey,
>> you don't I I honestly I think in this market, you don't even need to chase these extreme gains and go to Quantum or uh like EV toll type names. You don't need to to buy names that are not making money. You can buy the companies with the highest profit margins and make out like a bandit because people do not for some reason want to buy companies with a T behind it. Like like if it says it's a trillion dollar company, people think there's no gains.
>> We saw this with Apple. Like I whenever Warren ended up buying Apple, it was like a trillion dollar company. They were the first company to break a trillion. Then they were the first to break two trillion, three trillion in a matter of a few years. That's a triple. Like he had way outdone the market by buying the biggest company in the world. There's so much money to be made at the top as long as they continue to expand. And it does look like that's what's happening here. I'm done with my my tiraate. I'm just
>> This is exciting times.
>> No, it's real. And those companies have moes and it's easier to sleep at night especially through these draw downs when these companies have modes. There's Tanner's Twitter. Tanner, just last question for you real quick terms of the draw down, the volatility of this week. I'm assuming you're just staying steady and not really changing your philosophy. No, man. I'm um I'm buying a few names here and there like like uh I ended up getting in tiny positions in Meta, Axon, Nebius, Reddit. Um today, actually, can I can I break some news?
>> Yeah, go ahead.
>> I I repurchased PayPal. Um small small small small position. Okay. But if you guys look, it's the cheapest price it's been from an enterprise value in a decade. Like I mean, you look at uh EV to free cash flow. You look at uh there's so many metrics that this is ch uh you know, being priced at the cheapest valuations. And I think just Google
>> 62. I didn't know it got to 62 today,
>> dude. 62 after their open AI deal, after aentic uh commerce plays, after they're offering 5% cash back and people still think they're going to lose market share. I just don't believe it. Brainree is reacelerating at really high margins. Now, I'm just I'm calling the bluff. You know, your boy uh bought four million shares in New Bank, too, right?
>> Are you talking about yourself? Who who who's my boy?
>> Yeah, I bought four million. Yes. I put $72 million into New Bank.
>> You're doing well these days. I've seen the donations and everything like
>> Oh, so you didn't hear this news. You don't know who bought New Bank.
>> Uh, no.
>> Howard Marks.
>> Oh, I did. Sorry. I I did hear that yesterday. Yeah.
>> Yeah. He bought New Bank.
>> Yeah. No, I think that's a exciting name as well. Dude, everyone hates payments right now. And I think very much like Google, they're not all going to go away. And I think it's just a an extremely hated part of the market right now. And I think they'll do fine. I mean, I'm sure that like there's going to be margin compression and everything like this, but a lot of them are actually beating on revenue and beating on EPS and then people are complaining about take rate. Like why are you complaining about take rate if they're beating on revenue and EPS? Like make it make sense. You know, it's like, oh, their employee count is uh is going up, but uh or or they're beating on topline and bottom line, but they have to hire more. Who cares? It's it's working there. [laughter] The market
>> I don't hate the PayPal. It's it's it's low risk. It maybe it doesn't go to the moon, but it is you you're not going to I think lose too much sleep with PayPal. I do not hate that one at all.
>> You have a couple more years before they reby this entire business. Honestly, the buyback is like 10% of the entire company per year and they just issued a dividend. You don't think these dividend companies are holding, you know, tobacco businesses and oil and like many of these uh older names and they go, "Oh, we can actually diversify into this fastmoving tech name." I know people don't think it's fast moving, but but PayPal's been making a lot of changes. So, small position right now. I'm going to look at it like a trade and uh see where we go from there. All right, I love it. Thanks for your opinion. Talk to you later.
>> Bye.
>> All right, folks. Let's get our next guest on to the show. We were supposed to do this interview last week, but it got delayed, so we're doing it today. Actually, after this interview, it's going to lead me to an announcement that I have to make, and it has to do with the Wednesday New York City event that I was at. So, I'll be able to talk about it today. But, this is a new startup. It is a company that I invested in after the founder messaged me after 10 years of not talking since high school, which is just crazy, but like you know, life happens. You grow distant and then sometimes you reconnect. And uh they just raised 15 or 17 million in a series A from Benchmark. I did tweet about it for those that saw this last week. The company is called FOMO. It's an incredibly interesting product. I got pitched on it within 20 minutes. I was like, "Okay, I'm in. Let's see what this can become." Here is Paul and Say, the founders of FOMO.
>> What's up, guys?
>> Hey, man. How are you?
>> How's it going?
>> Dude, you uh you got me suckered into this whole startup thing. So,
>> after 10 years. Yeah.
>> Do you know do you know, Paul, do you remember because I don't think we we we talked about this. Our last round was at Barum Hills in the round robin.
>> No way. Really? I actually don't remember that.
>> Or no, I think No, no, it was at Harrison. Harrison round robin. I do remember. You're right. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. In the finals. I think it was the finals.
>> Yeah, I do remember.
>> Semi-finals maybe. I don't know. Yeah,
>> it might have been semi-finals. Yeah, it might have been.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, I'm still I'm still mad you beat me at Scarsdale. Do you remember that one?
>> I do remember that one. Yeah, I think we were one and one, right? I think we both won one. So
>> yeah, that was that was bad loss in mind, but we didn't talk for [laughter]
>> we didn't talk for 10 years. He hit me up. He said, "Hey, I got an idea." So I'm going to give you guys the floor. What is FOMO? And then uh we'll take some questions from the audience.
>> Yeah, thanks for having us. And yeah, really excited to have you as an investor. Um FOMO is a social mobile trading app. Um it's available on iOS and on Google Play Store. Um the best way to learn about it is just to download it. you can onboard in about 30 seconds um and really easily access pretty much any asset on chain. So the tens of millions of assets that exist on chain, you could instantly access them on FOMO. Um super easy to access. Um and then there's a social layer. So everything's transparent and I think that's the whole ethos of crypto, but everything today is obuscated by block explorers and it's just super hard. Crypto UX is just really poor, right? And I think Robin Hood did an amazing job that like created this brand new user experience for brokerages. And I think they onboarded millions of people that wouldn't be using Charles Schwab otherwise. And it's similar on FOMO. I think there's millions of people that want to access uh digital assets. And obviously mostly native digital assets now, but as everything comes on chain, equities, prediction markets, perpetuals, uh we'll have FOMO savings account with onchain yield, etc. Um and you could constantly discover new assets. So, if I go to a meet invest profile on FOMO, I can see every trade you've made, um, every trade you currently have open, and I get instantaneous notifications when that happens. So, it's not like Nancy Pelosi places a trade and then she discloses once a quarter. Um, but as soon as you make a trade, I can know and uh, you have a pretty good track record. So, I hope we can get on FO you get you on FOMO and I can follow into some of your trades. [laughter]
>> So, the reason I got hooked on the app is because I downloaded it. I tried it. It's on the iOS app store and obviously I'm a big Robin Hood guy. Uh, a lot of my community is invested in Robin Hood and to me the thing that Vlad keeps talking about is tokenization is going to eat the world in the financial
>> and the onboarding onto FOMO and the ability to trade anything it felt like it felt like it was a regular financial app although there's a lot of crypto backend that made the experience I mean even through connecting through Apple Pay. So I guess say can you speak a little bit about the tech behind it and why is it so easy to use the product compared to a lot of the other crypto apps and can you speak a little bit to the growth because you guys raised from one of the best VC firms in the country like benchmark le Ubers's series A so why do you think they were so confident in you guys? Yeah, I mean first thanks for having us again. Um long time coming and I think it's been um pleasure to watch the previous people on your on your segments and yeah I think there's a lot of things here. So I think for one a lot of people in crypto have typically built an app that is for crypto users right and these users have the ability to actually go through set up different wallets use different protocols you know go through the bridging go through the signatures approvals and all the complicated processes that the most um normal person today is not really willing to do. And I think we're finally at a point in technology where you can actually do these things almost in a fashion that's similar to web 2. So you have embedded wallets which allow you to use Apple ID or Google ID to exactly spin up a wallet under the hood. It's stored locally in your device um and charted in such a way where it's very secure. You don't have to deal with signatures. You don't have to deal with private uh seed phrases and you don't have to like manage the security of it which is very cumbersome part for a lot of people. On top of that, the thing we actually allow you to do as Paul alluded to is like tap into assets that already exist. There's great liquidity on chain for assets. These assets typically originate onchain before they actually go to centralized exchanges for the most part. And now we're giving you the vehicle where you can trade not across just Salana, but you can do Salana base and a bunch of other chains to come in one universal experience where you just have a balance. It's just like Robin Hood account. You just pick your asset, you swipe. We do all of the technology under the hood. So you don't need to worry about gas fees, you don't need to worry about signatures, you don't need to worry about connecting to the right liquidity pools. You don't need to worry about bridging. You don't need to worry about what happens when you sell. Everything is taken care of, abstracted away. And I think we're finally at this point where, you know, web 2 experience has paved the way and web 3 can kind of start to rival that. And yeah, there's been a lot of growth. We we launched in May. I think we got off to a pretty decent start. We were able to kind of get this first wave of virality once um once uh we added Apple Pay feature, which allows people to just come onto the app within 30 seconds, buy crypto. And I think it's a best-in-class. Like it's something that we spent a lot of time perfecting. A lot of other companies suggest they have Apple Pay, but you still have to go onto the platform, provide your email, your license, your bank account, and do all these things before you can get started and that's not really like a good starting experience, right? You want to be able to come on, find the token, and buy it immediately. And I think that that was something that's really important to us and we've done a lot of efforts to make sure that can be the case. And then we saw a second growth event last week when we start or last month when we introduced crosschain trading. So, you know, back in July when we added the Apple Pay feature, we're probably doing about1 to $2 million of volume a day. Now we're doing 20 25 30 mil sometimes and
>> it's a it's a 20x increase
>> right over the course of a few months. Yeah. So it's it's been a tremendous growth and there's a lot we've learned, right? We've learned what users like, what users don't like. We're very good at getting user feedback and really listening to and understand at the core what they're trying to ask us for. And it's important to get to a place where you can iterate quickly on these things and you know create the best user experience over the course of time. And uh actually think Paul can probably speak on the benchmark piece and you know how that story unfolded. Yeah, I think one thing I would just add to that is um I think one thing to add to that is that on Robin Hood you have access to about 100 to 150 digital assets but on FOMO you instantly have access to hundreds of millions, right? So um I think Robin Hood has done an incredible job creating a UX that people could access. Um but on FOMO there's like all these other onchain assets that no one has access to, right? So the goal is to give them access to that for the first time. where benchmark comes in is I think a lot of people typically raise from these cryptonnated venture funds and uh we raised an angel round earlier this year with about 150 to 200 different angels and they're across they're like builders across the industry a lot of CEOs that you might know and a lot of top traders and what that allowed us to do is create a distribution channel but also tap these different ecosystems right so like we love Salana we love the base ecosystem we love Binance and all these other ones and then where benchmark came along is you alluded to it, but they led the series. They have Uber, they led the series, they have Snapchat, they did Instagram, Twitter, uh eBay, and they've just basically done every big consumer rep um that's ever existed. Yeah. And
>> they they don't do it lightly, which is what also got like it's been a few years since they've done a real consumer product.
>> Exactly. So, they haven't done a real consumer product in a while. And the last crypto investment they made was chain analysis in 2018 and then I think they liquid bought some ton token because they did an investment in telegram but um yeah I think Chaitton like initially saw the vision almost instantly and that's what really drew us to them and the goal is to create a consumer product that can scale to hundreds of millions of people. I think the really interesting opportunity for us is it's a lot more than crypto and we truly believe I we totally agree with Vlad's view on um digital assets will eat the world and I think that all these things will be tokenized and all these things will be available on FOMO and what's really special here is the social layer and I think e Toro Weeble like all these apps have tried in the past social finance and I think the reason it didn't work is because it was still obfuscated there was confirmation bias like if you want to be part of the social experience you write a message right but you're only going to do that if you did well And it's also kind of noisy and but on FOMO because there's full transparency in everything. And by the way, you don't have to be like fully transparent with your own name. You can be anonymous if you want, but everyone still has full transparency into every trade you've ever made. And because of that, you hold people accountable, but you also automatically participate in the social experience. So if you make a trade on FOMO, then you have a high enough notional or if you're consistently a good enough trader, you automatically will appear on the feed. you'll auto automatically will you start to gain a following on the platform and then people will start to get notifications etc. And we truly believe that a social finan finance application that starts to actually grow to all digital assets it must start on chain because it's the only way you could create this mechanism where you get visibility into what everyone's doing. So that's kind of the thesis here.
>> So so let me ask you this question because I'm sure everyone's wondering this. Um h how do you compete with Robin Hood? Why why wouldn't they launch social? Why wouldn't they launch more assets on chain? Like uh I I you know I I I I've invested in Robin Hood early and I made the investment in you guys kind of on a bet that there there there is a different form of differentiation for you guys going after but also that the TAM is so big. So I do think there's going to be more than just Robin Hood out there but they are a big elephant in the room. So how are you thinking of them and Kraken and Coinbase and all those other guys? Yeah, I think one of the things that you know the view we take on this is that it's actually better for the industry at large as more and more large participants come on chain, right? Robin Hood has Robin Hood wallet, Coinbase has Coinbase wallet and a lot of these platforms are letting more and more people access these things directly on chain through their app. But the way we've structured our application and the economy here is such that the best traders in crypto are always going to be on FOMO. So what does that mean? That actually means that these are the people who are going to discover assets the earliest. They're going to be able to find trending assets before they're actually trending. And this is an experience that is consisting of two parts of the economy. Creators and consumers. Consumers are, you know, everybody who's kind of getting into crypto, learning how to trade, understanding the market. And then creators are crypto traders. These are people who are using the platform because it's great UX. You can do things crosschain very easily. You can do it under one balance. You have alpha. And also, you just don't have to worry about some of the things that actually end up kind of plaguing your experience as a crypto user, even if you are somebody who uses every day. So, I think for that reason, we're always going to have the advantage on FOMO. And you get to this point where every user will come to realize I actually am better off on FOMO because I can see directly what's going on and I can see the sausage making before you know it's too late and before the centralized exchange participant you know gets to a place to see them. Obviously we very much respect what Robin has built and they are trying to do a lot of social features as well. But I think the way we view this is like crypto does have to be the place where social starts. So right now everything as Paul alluded to happens on chain. It's transparent. We just expose it in a very different form that's not the block explorer. Robin Hood's trying this social feed where you need to have an opt-in feature, you need to, you know, publish your comment and there's a lot of confirmation bias and I think there's a lot of like consumer protection laws that prevent them from actually sharing this information at scale versus for us, we're just taking this thing that's already decentralized, that's already permissionless and we're just giving it a very good UI and UX everybody can understand it.
>> Okay, there you go. 17 million from benchmark is not easy. So, I'm happy I got to uh participate in I guess last question for you guys is in a year, where do you guys want to be? Whether that's growth or numbers or just overall size of the business. How do you think this is going to grow over the next year?
>> Yeah, I think these things grow exponentially. There's definitely some market dependence because you're a trading application and we're really focused on the next 5 to 10 years, right? Trying to build a behemoth here and and something that people love to use. Um, and I think everyone's been looking at the moment where we can onboard millions of people to crypto and our goal is to try to be the gateway. I mean, I hope that we can have millions of daily active users in a year from now. Um, I think that's our goal and um, just create an experience that gives people joy and that people want to use. Like the reason we got into this is not because we were trying to make money. It's because we say was trading trying to get me to trade and the experience was just abysmal. And we were like, there needs to be a product. If you want to send me Bitcoin, it shouldn't be that I have to send you this like 32 random alpha numeric key string that you lose or you type the wrong number or it just it's just not a great experience. There should be some seamless experience to access onchain assets and be able to send your friends crypto, etc. And that's what we're trying to build.
>> All right, I love it. Paul say thank you. I will uh thanks for having us in New York. Yeah, thank you guys. Pleasure. Take care. later. Okay, there you go. That is FOMO. So, that is the investment that I made. Again, does it do well over the long term? Does it go to zero? I have no clue. But there are some things about just people in your past life, especially if you've kind of, you know, known who they are. Uh, and I know it's been 10 years since I talked to him, but, you know, Paul was one of the best debaters back in 2016. And so something about work ethic, the ATM, and the overall idea of tokenization is what got me excited. I don't know how they're going to largely compete with the other crypto apps that are out there, but the point is, you know, how did Robin start competing with Coinbase with crypto? I mean, you just built a better user experience and ultimately that created the moat that allowed more people to get in. I think the broader question here about tokenization too is interesting because if you have other assets not just equities that get tokenized on chain and you have more liquidity pools that are offered because so many more people are trading a house on open door for example um on chain and you can access that via Robin Hood, Coinbase, Kraken or FOMO. The question just becomes who has the best go to market to be able to get all those users on the platform and you know we're going to see which ones end up winning. Now, the reason I also made the investment, and this goes into the announcement of what I did on Wednesday, or where I was on Wednesday, um, and this is now basically official. It's getting confirmed next week, so might as well say it here, is I am becoming a scout for Andre Horowitz. Andre Horowitz, one of the best VC funds in the country. I'm becoming a scout for them. What is a scout? A scout is essentially someone who tries to find new startups to invest in um without my own money. So, basically, they're going to give me a pool of capital. It's a couple hundred thousand. And that's becoming a Girl Scout. Yes. [laughter and gasps] And they're going to and I'm going to get to be able to invest that couple hundred thousand into a bunch of different startups and founders and ideas. Um so, how did this all start? First, before I get into it, I just want to say this. Um, before we get into it, if you have an idea, next week I'm officially making a website. It'll probably be like a MIT VC venture. It'll it'll be like my my sort of venture angel investing profile website with a specific email. Uh, email me if you have an idea, you're trying to start something big, if you're trying to build out something. This is why I said it could be very interactive with the audience. I got Andrea Horowits money now to to throw somewhere. And uh the event I went to in New York was basically them having a fireside chat on a framework on how to invest. And it's very LZ fair. So I'll talk about the details on how this happened, but at its core they don't really care about the money. They care about the ability to connect with influential people and then those people potentially find the next Uber, the next Robin Hood, the next Snapchat. And Jason Calcanis has the classic story. He was a scout for Sequoia. Sequoia is one of the biggest VC funds. They were actually one of the earliest investors in Robin Hood and Jason Calcanis back in 2008 found Uber as he was scouting for Sequoia. And because he had Sequoia Capital that was institutionally supporting him, he was able to invest in Uber and you know that built his brand. Obviously Uber became a multiund billion dollar company and Jason made like a couple hundred million off that. And so the investment did very well, but his brand as an angel investor grew and then Jason was able to invest in Robin and all these other companies. And so you kind of got to get that one big investment in the angel space, but it's really hard to get it. I mean, just like it it takes, you know, a lifetime to find that pounder or that hood. And I've been incredibly blessed over the past couple years to get those names and and get them early. Uh VCs go a lifetime trying to find an Uber at 5 million that turns into 200 billion one day. And I don't know if I'm going to be even good enough to find it. I I quite frankly am taking this opportunity because I don't know if angel investing is something I'm good at uh or something that I would even be interested at. If you gave me like a $100 million and said start a VC fund or a hedge fund, I would start a hedge fund any day of the week because I just love investing in, you know, public companies and analyzing them. But uh there's a lot more upside if you find a Robin or Uber when it's two guys in a garage and you could give them 50,000 bucks and that 50,000 could turn into five billion. So, having said that, when I put out the new website next week, if you have an idea you're working on, if you're passionate about something, I'm trying to invest at the absolute earliest of stages, uh, can't guarantee that you will get an investment, but you can send a pitch and I'm willing to listen to it, willing to look at it, and quite frankly, if there's a little Uber somewhere in this chat that's willing to uh, you know, take a pitch and and potentially become the next big thing, then I would love to be close to it. One of their pieces of advice was try to invest in your friends and people that are close to you and at least in some proximity because like at the end of the day you're investing in people and the idea is secondary to the people and hopefully the idea is good enough for the person to execute on it. But you know if you're going to take a flyer then you're going to have to do the best you can. Um and then on top of that so so how did the story even get started? So the the way this got started they didn't reach out to me quite frankly. I reached out to them. Um, and the way this worked is like I made the investment in FOMO with my own money. And so I just started thinking and I I made a figure investment. I invested in Derek startup. Uh, Atronic, I invested in that. So I I just started thinking over the past couple months like, yo, is there a future where I can broaden my reach of angel investing and and you know, hopefully get a little bit more experience in finding these companies. And then for some reason that Jason Uber story just hit me. I don't know how it hit me, but it hit me somehow. And I was like, let me message one of the guys at Andre. Again, this is one of the best VC funds in in Silicon Valley. It's them and and Sequoia. And uh let me just see if they'd be open to having a conversation about me being a uh a scout. And so I I go to the profile and this is why building a brand is so important and like continuously creating content and you just never know where it's going to go. I click on one of the guys profiles and he's already following me and I'm like, "Oh shit." [laughter] So So I send a DM and I was like, "Hey bro, can we talk? I I would love to be a scout for you. Within two minutes, he responds and I'm like, "Oh." Like, he's been keeping up with my content. He's like, "Yo, bro, I love your content." I was like, "Holy shit." I was like, "All right, let's get this done." So, then we set up a Zoom and the Zoom was last week and uh yeah, the Zoom was like 10 minutes. He was like, "So, what do you want to do?" I was like, "Well, I'm just building more of a brand. I'm, you know, building more of a connection. I'm getting a lot more awareness. So, I think there's a chance that I could find the next Robin Hood. I don't know if I will, but like just given the the gravity of the brand that there should be a shot that I can meet enough founders where there's a potential to to make the investment. And one of the biggest things that that these VC funds look for is people that have a little bit more distribution and reach because like to find the next Robin or the next Uber, you have to go through thousands of deals and ideas and even then it's almost impossible. Like these are really once in a-lifetime companies, which is why they return so well and why, you know, American venture capitalism has has done so well over the past 40 years. So, you got to really find people that have a chance to even get access to those deals. And uh so then, you know, within 10 minutes, he was like, "All right, sure. Let's do it." And the event I went to in New York was their scouting event. They do a couple every year. And this was the one in New York City. And [laughter] it's like, I found this great startup. It's called AKB. Can I invest in myself? Can I just take the whole fund and put it in me? That would be that'd be hilarious. Um and then so I went to the event a couple days ago and u yeah, it was a great event. met a lot of people and it was super cool and I think there's like 40 50 of the scouts that they have and some of them have been doing it for years some of them have been doing it for a couple months and I think I was the earliest one because sometimes you got to just ask bro sometimes you got to just ask and so I just had the idea to ask uh Bitcoin by the way back to 95 S&P up a little bit 672 after I was Google are we still holding Google up 1.5 281 sometimes you got to just ask made the ask and we got the job So, it's going to be super exciting. Again, if anyone has any ideas, I will get out an official email next week, and this will be the start of the angel investing part of my career. I don't know if I'm going to be good at it. Quite frankly, the the batting average is like literally 0.1%. It's really not easy to find good deal. And that's why, you know, whether you hate or love FOMO, uh, Benchmark is giving them $17 million. I mean when you see freaking company VC funds like benchmarks Aoyer Andre investing they did way more due diligence than I did you know I did 30 minutes of work they probably did months of work before making the investment they obviously saw something that was special in spite of it potentially failing because maybe Robin Hood eats them alive which I know that could happen but I'm also like well if they don't and they work then the investment will do better than any investment I made in Robin Hood because it's going to do way better than 10x you know these VC um investments tend to compound aggressively Um, and then second of all, you know, it's just one of those things where it's like, okay, how many good opportunities and deals are out there? And, and for those that missed it, they said they were doing a million dollars in trading volume a day, which is already impressive for a brand new company. They're doing 25 million a day now. Like, that's 1 to 25 in three months for a company that none of you guys even knew about, right? Like how how do you get $40 million of trading volume happening per day for a startup that's in the crypto space that a lot of people just think is going to be the next FTX or some random crypto scam that's going to go to zero? Like that's not easy to do. And so I I think from that perspective, they really nail distribution. They nailed the product in and of itself. They're not giving you some like 25% yield to get you to deposit money like FTX was doing. Like there's none of that. If you download the app, it's just pure social interactions that's getting people to be addicted to it. Uh now if we get into a bare market, the thing probably goes to [__] right? because but so is Rob Robin's going to go to like everything's going to fall if people stop trading crypto that's going to be bad for them but whenever things do get bullish if they are one of the products that survive you know that's why I took the chance so my idea right here is to uh try to do that for everyone else and so that's it so there you go that's the announcement your boy's a VC now your boy's a VC [laughter] can I have a million dollars I'm taking the chance. I'm asking. Yeah, the checks are going to be small, guys. They're going to be like five to 25,000 max. They're not going to be big checks, but there is I just want to say you guys now have the potential access to some institutional capital that's there. It's uh it's just, you know, it depends on the idea and then it depends on if there's something to invest in. I'm not leaving. So many of you guys thought I was like taking a gig at CNBC or some [__] bro. So many of you guys thought I was like freaking going to Bloomberg or some [__] No. Like this literally affects no part of my day-to-day outside of potentially taking more meetings to see if there's any investment opportunities. But outside of that, that's it. And you know, the other reason I did it as well is because and and quite frankly, this is what the the Indre guy said yesterday. Um they don't really want scouts to help them find the next Uber. I mean, like yes, that would be phenomenal, but they're induced in horitz. like if there's the next Uber potentially around, there's a good shot that Andre is going to somehow find their way to getting into it. And you know, if they miss it, they miss it. But there's very rare misses that they get. They really just want to be connected to people that are growing in a niche. My niche obviously being finance. And um they in their words, they said they want them to be closer to the firm because at one point, you know, at some point in in decades, these the people running the firm are not going to be running the firm anymore. So they need new talent to navigate it. And I don't know if I'm even talented enough to be a VE VC or even a a VC partner at a firm like that. But you got to try. And being a scout is like the best way to at least get a chance to try. What happens if you're wrong? Do you owe them the money back? No. So if you're wrong and the money goes to zero, then that is the risk they take by giving me the money. So again, you guys, they have 65 billion AU. They're giving me a couple hundred thousand. Like they really don't care quite frankly if it goes to zero. if it doesn't go to zero and the one Robin Hood happens to pop out of amidst random $10,000 check to some person like that could become a $65 billion company one day, right? So, it's like for them it's really a spray and prey approach. But when you're spraying, you have to have people that can effectively get the distribution to even have a chance to then to then do the praying. And that's where the scout program comes in. So, that's what we got. That is the announcement and that's what we're going to do. Yeah. Oh, that's another thing. Are you going to let some of us invest in the startup? So, that's the other thing I wanted to mention. Thank you for that comment. If there is a really good deal and the deal is raising money and I'm able to put some money in from Andre, then I will show you guys if the founder is willing to like let other people invest it. So, that's the other thing I wanted to mention like if I can find a really and again I'm saying this with a with a lot of uh conservatism here because I'm saying if I find a good deal like we're talking about it's hard to find really good deals. It's really freaking hard to find good companies like incredibly difficult especially at the early stages is when most people lose their money. I will only bring a deal to you guys if I really think there's a shot and even then there's more likely a shot that I'm wrong than not. But if the branding of Indre Horowitz allows me to help find some of these companies and I really do think that there is a shot that this kid is going to be the next Vlat tenant then I'll bring it to you guys and you know hopefully I can convince that kid to let my audience put some money into it and then it goes from there. But that is the that is the idea. It's a roulette table. Yeah. It really is. And the only way to make it not a roulette table is to have deep personal connections with the people you're investing in and truly see if there's potential and if there's vision for them to build something big one day. But again, that takes time. It's hard. Like I met some people at the at the meeting a couple days ago that that haven't even spent all of their investment capital. It's been like two and a half years because they just can't find the best opportunities. And so now their approach was, hey, like they want you to spend the money quickly. They don't want you to like hold on to it forever because eventually you got to take some risks, but they also want you to just be diligent enough to try to develop a framework to find the best investment. I told Steve already he likes it. He thinks it's a great idea. This is what I asked Triple V about. By the way, Nvidia uh 13F is not out yet. Dan Loes is out, but Nvidia 13F is not out. So, I'll see if I can get it. But, um I was asking Triple V about this, and basically the idea was, you guys know I don't do brands. I don't do sponsors. I don't do any of that stuff. So whenever I take a career o and I'm not getting paid by them by the way. I I own the unit economics on this. If I do find the next Robin Hood then I keep the carry if the investment ever you know returns in a in a significant way but it's not like they're paying me a salary or anything like that. Like the fact that I even access access to the capital is enough right? But I don't do brands. I don't do sponsorships. I don't do any of that stuff. So for me in terms of like career trajectory and expanding what I'm doing first of all VC is very exciting. It's totally different from the public markets. By the way, Brad Gersonner kind of does both. Brad Gersonner, his fund is basically a VC fund and a hedge fund at the same time. So, he's kind of he's kind of the the the sort of he's the he is emblematic. He's the perfect sort of recipe of what I'm thinking could happen one day. Obviously, there's a lot of room to build to get to that level, but you've got to start early and be able to take those risks and see if you're even good at it in the first place. Um, but the VC model I think is really interesting. And so in terms of expanding the brand, the question then becomes who can you be associated with that has the institutional support on your side to help you expand that brand. And there's three names, Sequoia, Benchmark, and A16Z. And the thing about Indre is they actually are embracing media. If you've ever gone on their YouTube channel or Twitter, Mark Andre, Ben Horwitz, again, legends in the tech space. Mark Andre built the first web browser. I mean, they put out a lot of content. Like they are like Sequoia and Benchmark. Benchmark says nothing. Sequoia, you know, says some things, but these guys put out a podcast every freaking day. And so, from a media perspective, I'm like, well, I do a lot of media. And so, I I saw a lot of synergy between connecting my brand and Andre's brand because we all do content and we're all constantly communicating. And so, if there ever was a synergy with a VC fund that actually has a public image, I think it would be Andrea.
>> Do you get dental benefits? No. there's no healthcare or dental benefits, but I thought it would be a good idea and I thought it would be at least worth a shot. And then when I reached out and they immediately said yes, I was like, "Okay, so this is something that they they they at least knew who I was and they and they were um excited to talk and then you know after talking we got it done. So I think it'll be cool. I think it'll be fun. Hopefully 2026 you know we can find some investments. I fully expect most of the investments to not work out, but again, you just got to put your hat in the It's kind of like stocks, right? I I've just been very lucky and privileged that the first two real public ones ended up working out. There were a bunch before them that when I was much younger and didn't have a brand on YouTube, I made that went to zero, but the two big ones that were public, pounder and Robin Hood, have worked. And so, if we can find the next ones in the angel space, you know, maybe that could be exciting. That's what we got. Okay. Okay, Nvidia 13F. I don't think we're seeing any changes on this one. It looks like they didn't do anything in this quarter. They still have Coreweave. Um, if anyone has a specific one, let me know. But I don't see any changes in this. I don't see any changes in this one. Can you put your own money in, too? Yeah, I believe so. I believe if I really like the deal, then I might put my own personal capital on it. But, you know, the reason I even decided to do this is because like I have personal capital to invest in some of these deals, but I'd rather use someone else's capital because more likely than not, you're going to lose, right? You're going to fail. And so, like, it's going to be very hard for you to actively invest if you know you're losing your money. But with with a VC approach, they don't care if you lose money. just want you to try because they know it takes so many attempts to try to find the right one. And then, you know, it's easier to go up to a founder and say, "I'm a scout from A6Z" than say, "I'm Emit." Because they might care about the Emit brand, but they really care about the A16Z brand. Like, that brand is a legendary brand in Silicon Valley. And so, you know, from that perspective, it should be easier to beat some of these founders. But long-term, no, FOMO was my investment. So, so FOMO, electronic, figure, uh, and there's one other one that I can't say, but I I did this one a couple weeks ago as well. Those that was only me and my Capital. I didn't even know about these guys. I didn't even know there was a scout program before FOMO, but FOMO is what influenced me to think like because I think FOMO is a good deal, dude. When when you talk about a good deal, it has all the things you would check mark off a good deal. Now, will it work? Who knows? But it's a good freaking deal in my opinion. And there's a shot that you know the hundred million dollar company potentially one day turns into a billion dollar company which is 10x and you know if it can turn into a billion I think they can go to 10 billion but um if I got access to that type of a deal and the reason I got access it's not just he's my friend like he's Paul has seen my brand evolve over the past couple years and he really would like someone who's in the finance space help him be able to navigate finance social media with a product that is intrinsically social within finance and so the synergy made a lot of sense. The question was just would I actually make the investment? And then after I heard the pitch, I'm like, well, it's a a better deal than not. And so, the fact that he even valued what I could bring to the table and I got the opportunity to be on the table because of what he valued I could bring, that's where I was like, maybe this could happen a lot more often with other startups. But then you just need the ability to to actually deploy the capital. Yeah. Katie Han uh was a former prosecutor and she joined on the venture side as well. A16Z has a lot of these partners that have just I mean dude the the whole American dynamism stuff like the whole VCs investing in defense tech companies to find the next pound and I mean Andre was one of the earliest guys into Andre that's been led by Andre Horowitz. They've been on this whole idea of like we need to defend the west and we need to find companies that are actively trying to do that. So that was also another idea. Will you mentor those you invest in via the VC company? It depends, right? If the founder is willing or needs some type of mentorship in whatever way I can mentor, if there is even a way, then I want to be helpful in whatever way I can. And I don't know how, you know, whether that's, you know, navigating social media, whether that's public speaking, you know, there's there's a lot of different things I think I could help it, but it really just does depend on finding these deals and if these deals ultimately have any value. You guys saying Peter Teal sold 50% of his BMR. That does not surprise me. I mean, Peter Teal sells aggressively all the time. This guy sold Meta at the IPO and a lot of it. And he sold it at 40 billion. Meta's at two trillion. So, he's not he sold 34 billion or 34 uh he sold a billion dollars worth of pounder stock at $34. So, he's not afraid to take profits. Yeah, Peter Teal is selling half of his BMR position. Nvidia. I really don't think anything on the 13F changed. It looks like they're still holding all the same companies. I'm trying to get the exact uh do I have it right here? No, this website doesn't have I'm trying to find the exact holdings, but it looks like it's the same. Oh, Tom, that's awesome. Hey, Mr. Erlanger, it's Paul's dad. Congrats on your amazing media channel. I believe I was a judge for one of your debate rounds. Is that correct? Yeah, Tom, you were one of the judges, dude. That's great. Well, congrats to you and congrats to your son. Uh Tom is the son is the father of Paul, who was just on the show just now. And uh yeah, your son built an incredible startup. Happy to be an investor in it. And yes, you were the judge of one of my de debate rounds back in I think 2016. That's great. That's so awesome. It's a small world. It's a super small world. you were you were actually one of the uh judges for another student that I coached in 2017. I remember because we went to that same tournament the year after and I was a coach and I'm pretty sure you were one of the judges now that I think about it and uh I think you voted for my kid. So, [laughter] thank you. I think we got your ballot. But thank you Tom for being here and congrats to Paul again. was super super excited when he hit me up and happy to have been part of the of the journey for him. Um, okay. Is that it? Is that all the 13Fs? I mean, the big news today again, Google and Birkshshire. Yes, Teal got in at 450. Teal got in early. So, obviously Teal taking some profits right here is not crazy. Warren Buffett 18 million shares of Google. That was a big one. And I think that was the big news of the day. Let me call Steve. I don't think Ste Steve would have texted me by now if he heard this. I don't think Steve heard the news. I don't think Steve heard the news on this. Like, there's no way Steve wouldn't have texted me if he saw this. That's how you know he's busy.
>> Hello.
>> Yo, are you are you What are you doing?
>> Oh, I just made myself some oatmeal and I'm about to eat it. Do you even know what's happening in the I'm I'm live by the way. Do you even know what's happening in the financial markets right now?
>> No, I have no clue what's happening in the financial markets right now.
>> Do you know who bought Google?
>> Uh, no. [laughter]
>> Dude,
>> would you like me to and see my reaction?
>> Okay, guess I I Why would I know? How would I know? I haven't looked at anything. Warren Buffett bought $5 billion of [snorts]
>> Stop it. Get the Can I curse?
>> Go ahead, dude. It's worth it.
>> Get the [__] out of here.
>> Warren Buffett buys 18 million shares of Google.
>> Get the [__] out of here. You know, it wasn't him.
>> It wasn't him, but it's better to say it was. It feels better to say,
>> right? But you know, it was somebody else on his team. It wasn't him. Yeah, it was uh it was probably Greg Ael.
>> Yeah, it was definitely Ael. And by the way, did you see what I sent you? And did you listen to Chamoth talking about Palunteer?
>> I I've been live for the I Let me pull it. I've been live for the past hour. So, let me uh pull up.
>> It's somewhere in there. He talks about it and he I mean, it's interesting.
>> Is he Is he bullish or bearish?
>> Let's just say he ain't bearish.
>> Okay, I'll pull it up in a second.
>> Send me a link. I'll hop on if you want you ending soon.
>> Uh no, no, I'll send you a link. We'll watch it together.
>> All right. Later.
>> All right.
>> I told you guys he would have texted me if he saw the news. You saw his re You heard his reaction. He would have text me immediately if he saw the fact that he didn't hear about this. This freaking oatmeal was more important than than freaking Buffett. Dude, that is crazy. Bergkshshire. Bergkshar is in. I haven't heard this Chimamath Pounder thing. So, we'll pull it up together. We'll watch it. That's wild, bro. That's wild. All right. So, Birkshar's in. Could you imagine if Birkshshire [clears throat] was in Palunteer? That That one would be crazy. That one would be crazy. But yeah, that's uh that's kind of wild. That's kind of wild. Sold Apple and got the googs. You're reaching now. Well, who would have thought he would have bought Google? I mean, who knows? Maybe one day. Maybe Greg Ael. Dude, if Birkshshire put their money behind the retail fintit trades, it would be up like 5x this year. Now, none of their investors would be able to sleep at night, but still, it would be fun. I did see the Tesla FSD added to the referral program. I saw that today. It's good. I mean, they need to get more people to get people to get on FSD. So, um, just like you can share your link to save like $500 if someone buys a Tesla on your link, it makes sense for them to do that with FC. Uh Jeff, thank you for the 28 super chat. Congrats a minute on the scout thing. What do you think is your skill set that let you find Hood and Pounder early? There's a lot of time I spent psychoanalyzing why I bought Hood and Pounder at seven. And so there's a lot of detail I can go into. I think the number one thing I'll say is that I really, really, really studied Carl Vlad. I think that's the biggest thing. Like, and again, there's a lot of nuance to it, but like I was thinking about this the other day. I think like after listening to a lot of Karp interviews because I think the Wall Street Journal like interviewed me about that and they were it was wired magazine and they were just asking like you know why' you as I think it was Karp it really in those early days you have nothing other than because I didn't understand the technology so it really just came down to like the philosophy of why they built it and then for Vlad it was kind of the same thing obviously I used the product every day with Robin so it made more sense and the market cap and the cash and all that stuff but but like at its core I saw Vlad as an immigrant founder who was like who somehow built a exchange that 20 million people at the time used to buy stocks for free like like who does that? That's what I'm saying. So like a lot of these investments come down to people. And so that's why from an angel perspective I I have a little bit of hope that if if if the pounder and hood investments were based not only on the numbers, the balance sheets or the growth rates, but on the people that built them, aka the founders, that's part of my thesis on Grabb is Anthony Tan as a founder. as a VC, could I find a younger Karp or a younger Vlad in their early days and invest in them at the beginning? I don't know if I will. It's a totally different challenge obviously, but maybe there's some level of synergies that could make it happen. But I guess that would be the the kind of core reason. Yep. Hours and hours and hours of research with Robin Hood. It was definitely also valuation. And again, 8 billion in cash, six billion market cap. But but I had to I had to fight for that conviction because and and you know, shout out to Steve. I remember him telling me like it's not a good investment at eight bucks because he was like look at their operating leverage. And he was right. Like the numbers didn't look that pretty. But I was just like there's a reason like Vlad is able to like keep building and growing. It wasn't growing as fast as it's growing today, but like there was something and and obviously it was the right bet on Vlad. I mean the product velocity of Robin Hood is a bet on the uh product innovation cycle of Vlad as a founder pushing it down the ecosystem. Same thing with Karp. A bet on Palunteer is a bet on Karp's ability to actually craft a narrative to sell to the government to international governments to commercial enterprises around why they need an ontology to operationalize LLMs. Like betting on the leader absolutely does matter. So yeah, I think that was kind of the core reason. Okay, Steve is not on yet. Let me pull up this Palenter Chimath thing and see what he was talking about. Let's Let's pull this up. Yeah, let's start watching it. He'll be on in a bit, but he already saw it already, so we can we can watch it here. Okay, let's see. Oh, there he is. All right, I'm I'm uh I'm going to play the Chimath thing right now. We'll listen to it.
>> Never fear, Mitt. The milkman is here.
>> What'd he say?
>> Never fear, the milkman is here.
>> Did you eat your lunch or your oatmeal yet or no?
>> No. I I just came up with a new way to make my oatmeal and I put cherries, blueberries, and a banana in and I simmer it for 10 minutes to liquefy them almost. So, it is so freaking good. It doesn't even look like oatmeal. It looks like I should just show you. Like it looks amazing. It looks freaking amazing. Hold on. It looks I'm so ready for this.
>> Show that again. Show that again. What?
>> I'm so ready for this,
>> dude. That looks like chili.
>> It's not. It's freaking oatmeal. And I I it took me legit maybe 10 minutes to make it because I did on a simmer with a banana a full banana, big cherries and fresh cherries and fresh blueberries. So they popped inside and all the natural jam went all over the place and it came out this color. I'm so excited for this. [clears throat]
>> Okay. Well, I'll let you choose. Listen, this is what happens when you have crazy ideas. You just start making food really fun, you know?
>> Okay, let's listen to this pound. [laughter]
>> Chili oatmeal. Can't believe you did. [laughter]
>> What? You can't believe what?
>> I just can't believe you put all that together. I really But if you enjoy it, that's what matters.
>> It's so freaking delicious. I guess the other shirt we should take a look at is the Palunteer one because Palunteer is man it's way out there. Alex Karp has been doing some great interviews. He's a national treasure. Incredibly entertaining. They obviously have a great business. They're on a $3.5 billion run rate according to their last quarter, but the valuation is $480 billion. This puts them at 137 times their sales. It is extraordinary. It's way out there. Data Dog and Snowflake, Microsoft, you know, these are at uh 13 times their sales and I guess Cloud Flare is out there at 37 and Crowd Strike at 30. So, this is truly an outlier. Free bird, if you were to give Palunteer the same price to sales ratio as some of those highly valued ones, probably be a 6070 billion company, $29 a share instead of $170. So, what do you think of his palunteer shirt? Dude, Chamath is eating while Steve is eating.
>> Great minds think alike. Sir,
>> did you just bring the food to like be like Chamath, bro? Like
>> No, I had already made it and I sat down to eat it when you called me.
>> I think you just wanted to be like Chimath.
>> No, I was You heard the TV in the background. I was sitting with my wife and one of her friends.
>> That's true. I did. I did hear
>> one of our friends. So
>> Freedberg,
>> based on the statement [clears throat] you just made, you're saying that a company is worth their historical sales numbers. And I don't think that that's how shareholders often do or perhaps should think about what they're buying, which is an ownership interest in the future of the enterprise that they're buying a piece of. When you invest in a startup, you're not saying, "Hey, that startup is worth what the employees did last year before they even started the company." You're making a bet on the future potential of the business and what you think the cash generation over time will be. your time horizon may be different than mine and that's how a market finds a price. Uh as a result, I think there's probably a market trying to find a price for talent here where folks have a great deal of difference in opinion over what the future potential of the business is and as a result what the earnings generation will be at different time scales in the future and that's how they're getting to the current market price. Who am I to judge? I am the person who would make my own decision of my own time scale and my own estimation of the future of that business if I were putting my own capital into the business. I've not studied the business well. I don't have a strong point of view or opinion on the value of the business relative to its future earnings potential. That's how I would look at it. I would make an investment for the long term if I were to buy the shares, not look at the last year's numbers and say that there's a valuation arbitrage opportunity and that's what I'm buying. So, you know, to each their own. Over time, the market corrects itself as they say, you know, it's um it's a voting matter today and it's a weighing matter in the future. That's Warren Buffett's famous quote that the actual earnings generation in the future will determine whether someone paid a good price or a bad price depending on the point at which they bought in the past. Meaning at 400 billion market cap, you could be getting a steal or you could be significantly overpaying. That's going to be based on your assessment, your judgment as an investor.
>> And I think you know looking at like 30 to 45% year-over-year growth cham and saying, "Yeah, it's got a lot of to fill in that valuation would just take a lot of growth. Maybe the growth accelerates. We saw that with Nvidia, right? They they started to have unprecedented growth." Any thoughts on Palunteer short while we move on to our next object?
>> Well, I think the Palunteer short is stupid and I think that those people will lose money. The thing with all of these other companies, put your chart up there. The thing that the people that are shorting this company don't understand is that all of these other businesses that you put up there, there is a viable competitor of some kind that you can switch to. And so what I would say is the opposite of what they're saying, which is you have a low multiple to sales when the churn risk is higher. So look at the one with the lowest multiple to sales, MongoDB. There's 90 versions of what MongoDB does. I'm not going to say whether MongoDB is good or bad. It's actually a good company. It's an extremely well-run business, but it's not unique. It's just extremely well-run. Snowflake is not unique, but it is well-run. Palunteer is both unique and well-run, and there's no clear alternative, so there's no place to turn to. And so I think the reason why it has a premium valuation is because the duration and the durability of these cash flows are much longer than what you typically see in any of these other companies. And if people took one 1,000th of a second to actually use their brain, they'd come to that conclusion.
>> Lack of competitors would be the reason you think it's uh more defensible.
>> By the way, I'm neither long nor short. I was long in the private markets. I I was an investor in the series B a pound two, but I'm not long anymore. I wish I was, but I'm not. So it's not like I've vested interest in this being right. But it's just so obvious that what they do is completely unique and completely differentiated. There is no alternative in the market for it. That's why they trade such a huge premium to sales. And if you look in any market for any product that is unique and is effectively where they are the only competitor for what they offer, you will see an equivalent market dynamic like this. And there is no competitor to the greatest holiday party ever. Boom. That's got to make you excited going into the weekend. Boom. What more can you say? I mean, that's I mean, Karp says the same thing. He just says it in a more philosophical way that doesn't seem to resonate with everybody, but maybe Chamat saying it that way resonates with investors more. There's no competitors.
>> You ready for what else you can say?
>> Valuation's about to get much stupider. What do you mean?
>> Higher.
>> What? You think it's going higher?
>> Valuation's about to get stupider.
>> I mean, look, it was at 220 a couple weeks ago. So, it's not like
>> why can't we go to 250,300?
>> I mean, we we could. I don't know if that's going to happen soon, but I just think being able to hold the premium that it's trading at today. Look, the thing about pounder right now is that there is a debate around investors on does this stock deserve its valuation. And that debate kind of died out a couple months ago, but the Bur thing really brought it back to life even though it's like a $9 million put position. Um, so now that debate has got a lot more attention and with Karp and his sword and everything. You got all these people saying, "Oh, this guy doesn't know what he's doing." Got. So now everyone's questioning the valuation again. And so I think Pounder just holding their premium is a big FU to all those people because if they even hold a $450 billion market cap, that's enough at the moment for Pounder.
>> Yeah. I think the big thing here is it's not and you can say what you want about Trum. You can think that his spaxs were a scam. You can not like his investment style, but what the hell is that? Anyway,
>> what what did you see
>> the that super chat that just came up? [laughter]
>> Like really? [gasps]
>> I guess uh you have a lot of metad oatmeal. Okay, [laughter]
>> you have your own channel. You should know by now. People send weird super. By the way, can we throw some W's in the chat? Steve just hit 10,000 subs.
>> Yay. [cheering] Thank you.
>> Couldn't have done it without him.
>> Well, you you you built it.
>> You built it.
>> The bottom line is Chamath has his ear to the ground. He knows more than most people about companies that are private. He knows more than most people about tech companies. He helped build in the early stages Facebook. He's been involved in so many tech companies over the past two decades that when he says Palanteer does not have any competitors, you have to take that very seriously.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I believed Karp a couple years ago when he said we don't have competitors. It's nice to see Chamat say that, but like when he says there's a trillion versions of MongoDB, I'm not a big tech guy and even I know that and I don't even engage with those softwares every day in some corporate setting, but even I know from the basic research I've done, there's a lot of different versions of these different companies,
>> whereas Palanteer really is a one of one. So, are you buying?
>> No.
>> You said it's going higher. Why do you keep doing this? You say it's going higher. just buy the damn stock. Why?
>> You know why I did it? Because the last time I joked around like this and I said, "Ah, we could get to 150 and it went past and everybody thought like, no, there's no way." I'm just trying to help everybody out.
>> No, I I look I still think you are deeply afraid of the valuation.
>> I am really shook. The valuation makes zero sense tonight.
>> But then how do you get how do you get so excited about what Chimat says, but then you're still so scared about the valuation? I'm excited for everybody else. [laughter] I want the community to make money. I'm excited for everybody else. And I think that it's a big vote of confidence. Look, Chimant is a polarizing figure. You got people who love him, you got people who hate him, and you have people that are indifferent, but you can't say that he doesn't understand technology. And you don't have a lot of people that don't have a ulterior motive that are that much with their ear to the ground coming out and saying that Palunteer does not have any competitors. So I think it's very bullish for an aspect of the valuation.
>> I agree.
>> I agree with that. I think that is a very fair point to to make. And you're right, he doesn't have a stake in them. So, it's not like he's saying it's pump his bags.
>> Exactly.
>> And it makes me rethink what I had said last week about layering PowerBI on top of fabric would be a competitor to Palunteer. And now I'm not so sure anymore. Okay. So, can we talk about your boy buying Google?
>> Sure. It definitely wasn't him. Let's be clear.
>> I don't even think he knows what Google is.
>> No. No. He's still the head of the firm technique. He didn't retire,
>> right? Sure.
>> He's retiring December 31st. He's still the head of this thing.
>> So, you think that you think they're not going to tell the boss they just spent five billion bucks on?
>> Oh, I didn't say they didn't tell him, but I don't think he knows what it is. I mean, don't be disrespectful, okay? Don't be disrespectful. He He knows what Google is.
>> You can't even say that with a straight face.
>> But no, he know Buffett knows what Google freaking I just don't think he would ever say, "Pull the trigger. Five billion. Let's go." Um, but I do think it's pretty bullish. Do So, here's the question. Do you think that there's As Tanner this, he was on before you, do you think there's a new philosophy that Bergkshire is going to have?
>> Yes. with technology.
>> Absolutely.
>> Do you think that's necessary for them to survive in the next decade?
>> Survive. No. Outperform. Yes.
>> I agree.
>> You have to remember they own pull up Birkshshire's site of their companies that they own. They own like 60 independent companies. And a lot of people that haven't looked at this. Fruit of the loom, Duracell, um, Hers, something Jewelers, freaking Business Wire, go down the list. I mean, Benjamin Moore that they own freaking Benjamin Moore, you know what I mean? Obviously the insurance companies, but think about how many freaking Dirtel batteries are sold, you know? Think of this is a holding company that you'll never rebuild. They own freaking NetJets. I mean,
>> dude, I just saw I didn't know they own NetJets. That's crazy.
>> The Dude, Se's Candy, by the way, everybody knows that I'm a food crazy person. Do yourself a favor. Seize Candy is unfreaking believable. Okay,
>> you know, I've never had it. I know about it, but I never had it.
>> Anybody who has a sweet tooth, Seas Candy is freaking legit as hell. So legit. So, what do you think of them selling 15% of Apple to buy five billion of Google? I
>> mean, think about how much they're up on Apple buy. I don't hate that move because if you had to pick one of the two for the next five or 10 years, I would say they're both great companies, but I think there's more upside potential with Alphabet than Apple.
>> I you know, I like I think so. And I think at some point the firm was like, "Wait a second. There's no way we can go into the next decade without having a sizable stake in a Mac 7. Well, here's the other question. Is Buffett or does Berkshire buying Google shut everybody up about AI bubble?
>> No.
>> But you can't buy a company doing a 100red billion in capex with Birkshar's capital and then still say it's a bubble.
>> Why? But I mean people will still say it's a bubble, but I'm just I feel like it really like Buffett wouldn't or Birkshshire wouldn't put money into something they thought was they were spending money on something stupid like
>> no the freaking cash flow statement like any normal person and realize, huh, this is not a bubble. I mean, sorry, but look at their balance sheet, look at their cash flow statement. That's all you need to look at. This is not an AI bubble. And I'm going I said I was going to do this and I got preoccupied the other week. I'm going [__] scorched earth tonight on Twitter. Like real scorched earth. I'm going to do like a 12-500 word freaking thing once again about why all these people are wrong and put the dagger and twist it because I'm sick of hearing it about an AI bubble. There's no [__] AI bubble.
>> Google 284 after hours. Yeah. And I also think I also think Birkshshire is um is um probably content with the capex they're spending knowing that the capex inevitably is going to end and it'll go back to free cash flow as you said
>> just bring up a cash flow statement go to seeking alpha bring up the cash flow statement their cash from operations has been growing year-over-year and they're generating I don't want to give a bad number but it's around 140 billion in cash from operations something like that. It they they are it's them and Microsoft that generate the most in the market.
>> Yeah. And the other the other thing that's really interesting about it is that uh they are the ones that have the best bets outside of just
>> when it comes to when it comes to
>> Yeah. So do me a favor. go to the cash go to the cash flow statement not the income statement is that's the most important thing. So when you look at cash from operations
>> 151 billion dude cash
>> do it on a TTM basis.
>> Yeah. 151 billion.
>> Okay. I'm you have it left to right. I'm not used to looking at like that. I'm sorry. 151 billion and it's gone up from 125 to 101. They're adding more than 20 billion in cash from operations year-over-year. And then when you look at the capex, scroll down just a little. There you go. I mean, do you really care about spending 77 billion in capex when you're putting up 151 billion in cash from operations and you know that all those investments that you're going to make are going to continue to make your cash from operations expand? No, you don't freaking care because you have a huge backlog for cloud demand.
>> Yeah, 100%.
>> And here's the other thing. They are in a position nobody can freaking mess with them. Nobody can compete with Amazon, Alphabet or Microsoft. Nobody. And it's just gonna get more drastic that statement. And these companies are just going to get bigger. So for people to say that this is a freaking bubble. Well, they're spending half of their cash from operations on capbacks. Who's to say that they're wrong? Like they create, think about it, they create a company that's generating the most cash from operations in the world. Who's to say that they're wrong what they spend their capex or how much they allocate to capex?
>> Not wrong.
>> Not you, not me. Not Greg Ael.
>> Exactly. Look, I I don't know how the end of the year turns out, but they they did not buy five billion dollars to sell it in December. I mean, this looks like it's a decade long investment.
>> Probably is, but it's an investment where if AI becomes much bigger than what it is, Alphabet's going to be one of the companies that truly benefits. And it's not just from cloud services. Think about how much they'll benefit from YouTube. I mean, they may be able to do a package for creators to embed AI to do stuff or advertising and allow an advertising platform for their entire suite of products across search and Gemini and YouTube. So, they're going to truly benefit. So, I am not worried about this at all. I agree. I agree. A lot of you guys are saying that me Kevin has gone bearish. That's fine.
>> Good for him.
>> Good. Good for him.
>> Ask me if I care. [laughter]
>> There's a lot of comments about Meet Kevin's bearish. Meet Kevin. I'm like, isn't he been bearish for like five years or something?
>> I don't know if there's much to analyze there.
>> I mean, but speaking of bearishness, uh the probability for December rate now is less than 50%. How are you?
>> Yeah, the Fed is freaking ridiculous.
>> [snorts]
>> You know, you
>> that was gonna happen.
>> You rant about the Fed a lot. I don't rant about the Fed as much as you, but over the past 24 hours, seeing these guys all for some reason coordinate this now new stance around inflation versus the labor market when I thought it was the opposite for the past three weeks. It makes you want to just say the Fed is [__] regarded. Like, you really want to say
>> that this institution is ridiculous. I came on here last week and said that this was going to happen. I called it. I hate it. And I am one of the few people and I'm fine. People can roast me for this. I don't care. Okay? Unless there is a situation that is dire straits, keep the rate at two and a half%. the free market will figure it out and if inflation goes up at some point there will be more demand hitting the market because that means that there is a supply issue. I care way more about American jobs and making sure that we have an environment for entrepreneurs and businesses to thrive and that is very hard in a restrictive Fed environment at five and a half percent or even four and a half percent. And I freaking don't care. There is no difference when people start talking about really think about this. Oh man, the difference between 3.75 and 3.25. Really? So you're going to tell me there's a big difference between spending $10325 versus $103.75? You're really going to try to sell that to me?
>> Bro, one of them said one of them said we might have to hike next year today. That's what really pissed me off.
>> They're so dumb. They're so How do you not see Verizon 20,000 layoff, Intel 5,000 layoff, American Airlines 900 layoff, Amazon 30,000 layoff be like, "Oh, we should hike rates right now.
>> These are not this is not just headlines. These are real people losing their jobs."
>> Right. Right. And where do they think the new jobs are going to come from? Most people that want to start a business do not have the personal capital to go do so. They either have to do a seed funding round, borrow from friends or family, or try to go get a small business loan. Okay? You have to make the profitability model in a range where these businesses are actually incentivized to get off the ground. And it's more important now than ever before for that to happen because we're about to see a huge productivity boom. And that word gets thrown around a lot. And it is great for the big companies. It is horrible for workers. Horrible. These layoffs are going to keep coming. And in the age of AI and robotics, we are going to see even more. You didn't stay last night. But I'm not I think you may have watched part of the video in the chat or not. Barry Stern said everything I was basically saying about his companies having to lay people off, etc., etc. Did you listen to it?
>> Yeah, a couple parts of it. I The part that mattered I heard and I I understand why you wanted to share the video. I mean, people don't freaking understand what is actually happening and they're not listening to the people that are actually making the decisions. Like, he is actually making these decisions. He is actually utilizing an AI call center for his hotels, which he owns a [__] ton of, instead of people now. And he is saying that this just happened with Delta and this just happened with other companies now. more and more Americans are going to be without jobs or opportunities because more is going to be taken over by AI and robotics. And I'm sorry, nobody is going to convince me that we're not going to have robotics doing plumbing in 15 years. 15 years is a lifetime with technology. Think about where technology was 15 years ago. In 2010, you just had what, the second version of the iPhone. You had no cloud computing, no SAS. Think about it. That's a lifetime and it's going to speed up even quicker because of all the advancements in the foundation you have today versus then.
>> Do you do do you think there's a political motivation for why they're thinking of no cut?
>> I don't really want to go down that road. I just want to say that they are going to use the node data as a scapegoat for some reason and I am not happy about it because I'm a firm believer that you need rates at 2 and a.5%. Especially in an environment, really think about this. You're in an environment where people took mortgages out and refied at levels of 2.8 to 3.3%. the housing market is locked up. You also have businesses taking out loans when the Fed funds rate was less than 1%. So, they're getting great rates on their loans of what 4%, four and a half percent, maybe 5% if they weren't creditworthiness, they have to go refi and now they have to pay seven, eight, nine%. that destroys their profitability model and that means that they got to get those margins back somewhere and that's probably going to come from riffs reduction in force. A higher rate environment is not good for the business landscape which everybody should care about because that is where jobs come from. And I don't care what side of the aisle you're on. We should all want a booming economy with jobs for everybody. And not just jobs, but good jobs. I agree. And I just I really don't understand how three weeks ago they cared more about the labor market and now they care about inflation. And inflation's probably up. I mean, the fact that Trump is talking about getting rid of some of these tariffs on food is him admitting it's up, but it's not like 2022. Like 25 bips is going to kill us. Really,
>> dude? Look at that comment right there. Dude, I'm in mortgage lending. We've been in a full-blown recession since late 2022. Nearly four damn years. That's because anybody who took out a mortgage, if you just bring up a mortgage calculator and you put just a what arbitrary price, you can put 300, 500, 700, whatever you want to put in, do it at a 3% and then do it at six and six and a half and look at the dramatic difference in the monthly payment. And that's applicable to any type of loan. So,
>> but so this whole 50-year mortgage and stuff, do you think that's just like a band-aid on the
>> I don't want 50-year mortgage is not a good idea at all?
>> Are you a good idea?
>> No, I don't agree with it.
>> 50 years. Think about this. Okay, so what are we trying to do? Get people back to the average age used to be 28 years old to buy your first home. Okay. What's 28 plus 50?
>> 78.
>> So tell me you're not going to be done paying off your own till 78. [sighs]
>> Yeah, it's not not the most.
>> And then let's not then we don't have to go down the numbers, but think about the amount of interest you're going to pay on a 30-year versus a 50 year. It's going to be a lot more. It's great for the banks and the financial institutions. It's horrible for the American public. Dude, they should do a thousand-y year mortgage so that you die and you never have to pay it off.
>> I am just I am so against the 50-year. You wouldn't need a 50-year mortgage if we didn't play around with these rates. Like, like, is anybody seriously going to sit there and try to say that if the Fed didn't raise rates past two and a half or 3% that this wouldn't have worked itself out? You're telling me that if there was a way for companies to make money, they're not going to try to make money? Like that's the whole idea of supply and demand. If there's a demand for a product, companies are going to step in to fill the demand.
>> So, okay, let's say we don't get the rate cut, which it looks like we're not. I mean, based on
>> I don't think we hit 7,000 this year.
>> Oh, wow. So, the rate cut is your your
>> I don't think we do. I mean, I think it's going to send fear in the market and I think that it's going to cause people to sell off and wait and take a beaten and see what happens. Now, I did say that Trump is going to do something with tariffs based on if the Fed comes out and says this, and it looks like they did today. So,
>> but what he's doing with tariffs right now is so confusing to me. Like, it it's it's like he's admitting that he was wrong for putting the tariffs on in the first place, which is a lot of ammo for the other side.
>> It's just for the headline. It's only for the headline.
>> Only for the headline, right? It's not like real like
>> only for the headline. co almost coffee and banana. That's like that's not
>> only for the headline.
>> Here's the other wild card. What if we get a horrible labor markets report for November?
>> I think we're going to
>> Well, then that might increase the probability for the rate cut, right?
>> What if I drilled into your head for the past two or three years? Unemployment is the biggest factor of a recession. Correct.
>> Yeah. If you go back 50 or 75 years, every time we've hit a recession, unemployment has increased by 1% or more. They do. I got bananas in my oatmeal. Coffee goes great with oatmeal. But we do not want to see unemployment continue to increase because when unemployment increases, spending goes down. People that don't have jobs are in a lot of pain. They're not spending. And then people who think they're on the bubble of the next riff save every penny that they have because they don't know if they're going to have a check coming in in six months from now. You do not want the labor market cracking.
>> Yeah. And like if the labor market cracks and then the Fed cuts, it's like okay, but if it cracks to the extent where it doesn't matter if they cut, then we're all it's we're all like all right, we're we're done. Basically, it's not
>> But that's my point. We should never get to the point where the labor market cracks. We should be proactive instead of reactive with rates. It makes sure that we have an environment that makes sure that the labor market doesn't freaking crack because look, if you have if you have a good job, I'm sorry, paying 102 or $104 doesn't [__] matter. Eventually, it's going to right size.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And it's like it's like we're not try we're not being super aggressive by saying this is not, you know, 2022 inflation's 9%, we're talking about we need to cut rates. This is 2 and a half to 3% and this is intense labor market fears backed by real headlines. This is not a COVID rebound where we're adding 500,000 jobs a month and we're asking for 25 bips in a world in which subprime auto and credit card delinquencies are through the roof. Like I have no idea in what world the Fed looks at that and says we're going to wait. How could they possibly? This the first time I felt passionate enough to like feel angry that these guys aren't getting it.
>> Yeah. I mean, I'm annoyed about it. And you got to make it where these businesses are in a position where they can hire people. You got to make it where they can expand. And you also have to make some Look, a lot of student loans are predatory. I got news for everybody. A lot of credit cards are predatory. And we need to we need to do a much better job at financial education. And this is where I get into a lot of trouble with people and people think I go crazy about this, but I don't care. Financial literacy literacy should be the number one thing that we teach in high school. We should not allow anybody to graduate high school without core competency of financial literature because they're going to use it for the rest of their life. There is nothing else you're going to learn in high school that you will use to the day you die. nothing except financial literacy. So
>> you're saying we don't need espanol.
>> That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying that look, if you're becoming a physicist, you're not using that until the day you die. You're using it until your career is over. Financial literacy used for your entire life. And why are we allowing kids to come out of high school or even 18 year olds that are still in high school to sign up for a credit card with predatory rates? Why are we allowing them to take student debt out for a degree where they're not going to be able to get a freaking job where they're going to be able to pay back that money? Like, we need to do such a better job. We need to teach people about taxes, about saving for retirement, compounding interest that what you do in your 20s actually matters a ton, way more than what you do in your 40s because just the time value of money. Like why we're not teaching this and why we are not hyperfocused on making sure that the youth is set up in a better position than we were is freaking ridiculous. I I get super passionate about this and I'm freaking annoyed at it because I see all these young people that truly feel like the system doesn't work for them, but I feel like they haven't been taught how to set themselves up and utilize the system.
>> Good. And we were talking about it yesterday, but I was watching actually a clip from a a news segment on this today. We were on to something last night. This idea that there will be a politician who stands up and says, "I will make sure AI cannot take your job away and that politician will garner an audience
>> 100%.
>> It is gonna I mean, I was I was hearing a couple people talk about it today and and they were saying like, "Of course that's going to happen." Oh, uh, what's the guy's name? Matt Walsh. Matt. This guy's on uh the Daily Wire, Ben Shapiro's thing, whether you like him or not. I mean, he had a long tweet that had 5 million views today, basically saying there needs to be a politician to stand up and stop the spread of AI,
>> you can't do it.
>> You can't. But
>> can't do it.
>> That was
>> because if you try to put safeguards in, okay, you [__] us. And now every other country now has technological advances past us. And when you think about that on the warf front, can't do it. Can't have it. We have to be the superpower of it.
>> It's like it's like Uber in the limos. You're not going to stop Uber or Airbnb in the hotels. You're not going to stop technology from producing, but there will definitely be someone who garners an audience to promise that they're going to stop doing that. Especially if everyone who's losing their job is, you know, looking for someone who can stop this. That tweet got four million views and he had a lot of comments saying, "Yeah, like why are we letting chatbt?" There is a argument and it's an argument that's out there that people are saying why don't we just stop people from building the robots like just like like let's just keep this job and we never have to let's make a law to never let technology get to the point where it replaces workers and that's a legitimate discussion that people
>> I think what's crazier is that people actually think that in 15 years we are not going to have a society where there are the same amount of jobs as now. I mean, maybe there's going to be other jobs that are created, but if AI and robotics is going to take a lot of these jobs, why would we think that we're going to be able to create other jobs from it? Like, really think about that for a minute. I'm going to go down a list, and I'm not going to answer. I'm going to ask you these questions. Do you think food service workers will be here in 15 years from now?
>> No.
>> Okay. Do you think waiters and waitresses will be here in 15 years from now?
>> Yes, I think fine dining and that that like like Yes. I think I think wait I don't think that's
>> Think about Optimus and where it is now where it will be in 15 years.
>> That's a good point. It's a good point.
>> You're telling me 15 generations later, we're not going to have robots doing the waiting.
>> Oh, that's a good point.
>> Okay. Dishwashing at a restaurant. Robotics.
>> Yes. Yeah. Okay. Uh, call centers picking up the phone, AI agents,
>> 100%.
>> Okay. Uber drivers,
>> driving, right?
>> Yep.
>> Trucking industry.
>> I've always think trucking is going to be harder because it's on the highways and but eventually the AI will be good enough to
>> 15 years. I'm not talking about tomorrow.
>> I think that one might be like 25 years, but maybe. Okay.
>> Stocking shelves at a grocery store. Yeah, that's gone.
>> Stocking warehouses,
>> that's gone.
>> Okay. Pulling stock out of warehouses and shipping.
>> No, you don't I don't think you're going to need people for that.
>> So there, think about how many industries that impacts just those very several things that we rallied off. And then if we really want to go down the road, what about accounts? In 15 years, do you think you're just going to be able to scan all your documents and then have them done?
>> I was talking to Chad GPT today about some tax stuff. I haven't had a conversation. It was actually Grock. I haven't had a conversation with Grock like this in a couple months. It was the first time in a few months I was like, "Oh, I'm happy I pay for this every month." Like it was an intense and I was asking it to think and like I was like, "Dude, that saves me a lot of back and forth with my CPA."
>> I'm gonna give you another one. What about elderly care? Okay, now think about this. A lot of insurance claims come in from patient handling because people lift other people wrong. They strain a muscle, they pull something, etc., etc. Also, we are going to have more elderly people than before in 10 to 15 years from now. So, robotics is going to be very big in elderly care. And then we already have the Da Vinci machine for surgery. You're telling me we're not gonna have robots doing surgery in 15 years from now?
>> Have you heard this headline? Sam Alman and husband reportedly working to genetically engineer babies from having hereditary disease.
>> Yeah, I'm not shocked about that. [laughter]
>> It goes to your point like of course we're going to replace people at a warehouse if they're trying to genetically engineer human beings. like
>> and the Fed thinks that inflation's the issue.
>> Inflation, but that's my whole point. Inflation's not the issue at all. You know, you think about all these jobs and then I love when people say, "Well, you can just go work blue collar jobs." You're telling me that you're not going to have a robotic plumber like really in 15 years? You're telling me that those optimist bots are not going to be able to freaking do plumbing? It's like, stop it.
>> That's just being narrow-minded.
>> 100%. 100%, dude. And also, it's just not easy to tell people to go get a new job and restart their life at that. Like, you can't like
>> how Okay, look at technology. Look what happened last year with coders. Look what's happening this year with coders. You're telling me that we're going to need coders in five years from now? You're going to need managers, not coders. Everyone's saying the robots can't replace the plumbing. [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Your broader point is that they're going to replace a lot.
>> Has anybody even seen a house be 3D printed yet? Because those videos are actually real.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. You're telling me we're not going to have robots doing plumbing? Like, come on. Well, look, if the humanoid robot gets to the point where it can do the dishes, do the laundry, it probably can do a lot of other things. So,
>> right,
>> I mean, we're talking about this is going these are robots are going to be trained on Nvidia's what 2032 generation chip. We're not talking about Blackwell in 2026. I mean, we're this
>> this is going to be
>> I'm talking 2040. I'm not talking next year. 2040. We have a lot of things that we have to worry about. We have to take seriously because there is going to be a lot less jobs out there. And everybody who thinks that all these jobs are secure, all I'm going to say is come back to this video in 15 years and let's see who's right. Because if you're not willing to admit that there is actually a possibility of this, you're crazy.
>> So look, if that's the case, the Fed needs to cut rates because all of that is going to be defl so deflationary. It's not like it's not going to be the upside risk to inflation that they're worried about because of tariffs.
>> No,
>> like but I I don't know d like it the fact that we went below 50 today makes me so okay. So let's say we don't get the cut. Where do you think the market really if you had to put a target on the S&P?
>> I don't know. If we don't get a cut, I'm I'm worried that we see um a good retracement of 5 to 10%. Oh, so that's like 640 S&P basically.
>> Yeah. Because I think so many people are expecting it and I think it's not just that 25 bips is that important. I think it's what it signals and I think that the ramifications in an environment where companies are laying people off. It's truly significant to freaking get this rate cut.
>> This is the first Russian AI robot. No,
>> I agree.
>> I mean, that doesn't look like what Optimus does.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Oh,
>> that looks pretty bad. But you look at Optimus, Optimus looks pretty freaking good.
>> But that's al that's also the worst it's ever going to be. That's the
>> Right. And I think that's what people don't understand. This is the worst it will ever be.
>> I I I don't like when people laugh at the robot videos and they say, "Oh, it can barely do the dishes." I'm like, the fact that it's even trying. Exactly.
>> And people people have the nerve to be like, well, it can't do anything. It's like, dude, this is like, yeah, the first version of Uber sucked.
>> Yes. First version of everything sucks in retrospect.
>> And also, what you going to go against Elon? This is not some random kid who has this. This is Elon freaking Musk saying that it'll be the biggest product in the world.
>> Yeah. Like, we're going to have landscaping companies. We're not going to have pool cleaning companies. We're not. It's all going to be done by robotics at some point. And think about this, it's incentivized in business for this because it's going to make business owners margins increase. Everybody is driven by capital as an incentive. And if you can generate more capital for yourself, you're going to want to find out ways to expand margin. And guess what? You have robots. There's no more workman's comp claims. There's no days off. They're not calling out sick. Anybody who deals with employees knows what I'm talking about. So, we should be very eyes on the ball with this and keep an eye on how this is going because a lot of people are going to freaking move to this area.
>> What do you say to Muhammad who says you're freaking me out?
>> We should Everybody should be freaked out. And I don't know if freaked out is the right words, but aware of what is happening and look at the trends and just think about what's replaceable in the mi in the short term and what has the potential of being replaced? You're telling me that the dexterity in the hands of Optimus when it gets better is not going to be able to do plumbing. I find that very hard to believe. You're telling me it's not going to be able to cut a piece of wood? You're telling me it's not going to be able to use a hammer? Think about it. It also has an infinite amount of learning capability from every other robot that is doing these things. So to say that these are things that can never happen, I don't believe in never can happen. Something can always happen. A meteor could come and crash into Earth tomorrow. So
>> capital going into this. And with Elon Musk driving this, it's his mission to make this happen. Also, keep that in mind.
>> I don't even think it's about freaking out. It's about as an investor, you always have to see a competitor to your investment. And in this case, you know, the best investment is yourself. Everyone, no matter what industry you're in, has to be aware of the competitor, whether it's an agent, a chatbot, or a physical robot that can compete with you in 10 years. Which is why it's scary, right? Because it's almost like we have to like unless you're super rich, you have to compete for your livelihood with this thing that the super rich are creating. And one of the ways to hedge against that is for all of us to invest in the companies that are making this so maybe we can have a chance of participating the upside. But it's it's survival of the fittest in the context of these robots. And I mean and and if I think the perfect example about this is the taxi driver. If you look up documentaries about taxi drivers in New York City in particular that have not been able to continue their career because Uber commoditized it, it's a real thing that could happen.
>> That medallion used to be people's retirement plan selling that medallion for 250 300 grand.
>> Yes. And they had infinite demand because it's New York City. It's the capital of the world. Everyone needs to transport now. Uber lift.
>> Yeah.
>> Whimo coming in. Like
>> look, I'm not trying to freak people out, but I'm being a realist right now. I mean, I always try to be a realist, but these are things that can absolutely happen. Will they? Who knows? I don't have a crystal ball, but to think that they can't happen is a little naive.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's it's it's not something that I mean, just look at Booze Allen Hamilton's contracts from the government and how much they've been cut. Guess what? All those consultants, a lot of them are getting laid off because there's not enough work because the government doesn't need them stuff. And Booze Allen is like, "Hey, we can use a lot of these LLMs to do with these consultants." Like, this stuff is affecting everything. And it's not something to ignore. But so, so then the question is, okay, so if the Fed's not going to cut and we have more layoffs, you're saying 10% correction, 5 to 10% end of this year, then let's paint the bearish case. Fed doesn't cut 5% correction. We have layoffs and then a shutdown again on January 30th.
>> How about this? Who cares if there's a shutdown or not? I mean, obviously, yes, we want people to get paid. I don't think there's going to be a shutdown. The bigger thing is we go into a recession and unemployment continues to go up. I'm more worried about that because you can set the stage for a recession in Q2, Q3 because we could be in one right now and not realize it. I mean, literally, the White House said Q4's GDP could be cut by 2%. Because the shutdown,
>> we could be in a recession or the start of a recession right now. The stock market is not an indicator of the economy. I don't care what anybody says.
>> Yeah. And I mean, did you even did you look at the markets today or were you kind of busy?
>> No, I have no idea what happened.
>> Well, so we ended slightly green, but it was a bloodbath in the pre-markets.
>> Okay. And within about 30 minutes, it reversed. But my goodness, in the pre-markets, if you woke up and checked your portfoly bounce, to be honest, there was no headline. I think the markets were just like, we can't go that much lower off no reason. But it doesn't really make me that confident for next week unless we get some clarity around the tariff and interest rate issue. Look, we truly need rates to come down and we need to have a bigger conversation and stop bickering and complaining about where we go with unemployment. We have to get unemployment lower.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. This rate cut thing really changes stuff, dude. The 7,000 was price for a rate cut. There was a part of that Barry Sternage video in the beginning where he talked about operating hotels in New York City. I never realized how big the expense is. And when he said, "You want to know why orange juice is $8 a glass?" He's like, "We don't even make money on that because of how expensive it is to operate a freaking hotel in the city."
>> Yeah.
>> That's another problem. And once again, that's something with freaking robots that will be solved. The owners of businesses, it just creates a more beneficial model with margins. And that's the scary part. I agree. Uh, SoftBank's up 40% after hours. I'm not sure why did Buffett buy SoftBank, too. Um, no. I don't see the reason, guys. If anyone has a reason, let me know. But they are up 40% after hours. They sold their Nvidia this week. So, put up, do me a favor, put up Nathan's thing. Robots aren't always the most cost effective solution. Yeah, today they're not always the most cost effective solution, but how do we know that they won't be in 10 years from now? Think about this. You buy a robot for $22,000. What are your expenses on that robot? Electricity to charge it. And then if you need maintenance throughout the year, there's no workman's comp. There's no health care benefits. You look at actually owning and operating a business that has employees. Health care plans are freaking expensive. Payroll taxes are freaking expensive. Insurance is expensive. All of these costs get lowered with less staff. Telling you it is when you really look at the economics of running a business of over a 100 people or 200 people and then think about if a robot can do a human's job and what that does the actual operating expenses of a business. I think you'll be shocked at what happens especially on productivity when there's no more oh eight hours and go home. Robot can work 16 20 hours a day pay on the charge.
>> Can we have the robots replace uh the senators?
>> They probably be able to negotiate on a deal.
>> Probably not. I mean, that's a job that's probably
>> No, I think our I think the robots could figure out how to open the government quicker than
>> Well, look, I think that at the end of the day, people are not going to vote for robots, but sure, we could technically vote.
>> I'd vote for a robot. I vote for a robot over politician in a heartbeat. You're telling me a a perfect LLM with thousands of years of data can't make a better decision than Nancy Pelosi?
>> So, what nobody will hold on. Nobody will go to restaurants or robots. They'll be boycott and they'll be too expensive for small and regular businesses. Oh, think about this. A robot at $22,000 for the upfront cost. How much is it going to be to charge it throughout the year? Think about what a salary is. Even if you pay somebody minimum wage and they work 40 hours a week, there is no way that you can sit here and say that it's not going to be cheaper to have a robot.
>> Yeah. Also, people won't support restaurants with robots. I mean, people go to McDonald's that don't have cashiers.
>> Uh, got news for everybody. Robots may be better than human chefs at some point. Why would we think they wouldn't be?
>> Yeah, your robot waitress will probably flirt flirt with you better than a regular waitress.
>> I mean, we're already seeing San Francisco airport, s San Francisco International, the coffee stand that has no humans and it makes cappuccinos, it makes espresso, it makes coffee. We're already seeing it. You're And this is the worst it's ever going to be. The way Mitt said.
>> Yeah, bro. It's It's a real threat. It might be 10 years away, but the point is eventually that will lead to deflation. The Fed being so concerned about this is kind of
>> it's in the future. Look, what I'm talking about could be 20 years off. I'm not saying the next two years, five years. I've been saying 15 years. But we have to freaking think about that this is a possibility and these are the problems that I want solved because we have to figure out how we're going to support a society of humans. And half the stuff that we argue about or politicians argue about is ridiculous.
>> Okay. So what's what's your I'm putting you on the spot, but what's what's your S&P target for the year?
>> We got to wait till the next Fed meeting. I I I'll give you two.
>> By then the year's over. There's no fun in making a prediction at that point.
>> Listen, I'm sticking with 7,000 unless we don't get a rate cut.
>> If we don't get a rate cut, I think 63 6,400.
>> Dude, that's not a fun year. We did all this. We went through all this [__] for 6,300. [laughter]
>> I think it's more the message it sends.
>> We went through all these ups and downs and emotions for 6,300o. You know, we were 6,000 in January. So, it's like for all all this earnings growth for 300 points. I know we're up from 4,800, but still like
>> Yeah. I mean, this freaking this worries me. If we get bad jobs report, if we get unemployment that increases, and if we don't get a Fed cut, you are going to see headlines that we're going into recession, we're going into recession, and that's going to kill sentiment. People are going to want to protect profits. you're going to get a huge sell off the end of the year.
>> So, yeah, it could go to 6,300.
>> I agree. I 100% agree. The Fed completely switched this end of your rally. And I'll ask you, I don't know if you want to comment on it. I mean, I have a take on it, but uh Trump investigating Bill Clinton for Epstein. I'll give you my take if you don't want to give a take.
>> It's not that I want to give a take. I'm just sick of it.
>> Here's my
>> Why can't we just say this? Anybody who did anything wrong should be held accountable. Why can't we just say that? Whoever it is.
>> Well, here's my take. I think that the Epstein stuff is becoming an overhang on this administration. Trump is not taking questions in five days because he doesn't want to deal with this even though he's been public twice. I think he flipped the script. I think he said, "Okay guys, if you really want to release the files, then let's go in on all the people that are influential to the Democrats, Reed Hoffman, Bill Clinton, etc., and let's see your relationship to this guy." And I think he's sending a dog whistle to these guys to tell them to tell the guys who control everything to make sure this vote doesn't go through.
>> Look, I don't care who is involved, whoever it is should be held accountable. If Trump did something wrong regarding this, he should be held accountable for what he did. If Bill Clinton did something wrong, he should be held accountable to what he did. If XYZ actor or actress did something wrong, they should be held accountable. I don't know why this is a freaking issue that people are fighting over. Like, it's a very simple thing. Hold people accountable for what they did. Period. End of story. Full stop. Doesn't matter who they are.
>> Well, they're fighting for it because Trump doesn't want the files to come out. That's the whole controversy.
>> I I feel like it's an overhang. I think the markets also are a bit worried of just like what worst case scenario what happens if like there is something big like does Trump have to step down like like you really start going down the rabbit hole like how does this play out?
>> Look, I don't think that we should make speculations. We have no idea what any of these people did. So, I'm not going to make any speculations. But I think that we have laws written. There are consequences to the laws. And if it is proven that people broke the laws, there are consequences. I agree with you. It's just we've seen time and time again in history, people break laws. And the people who break the laws, if they have influential power, like a Reed Hoffman, like a Bill Clinton, they make sure they get away with it. And so I think Trump really flipped the script by saying, "All right, let's investigate if you want to investigate today." I just think it's another thing the markets I mean that's the only thing he tweeted about. He had one other tweet about inflation, five tweets about this Epstein stuff. So he obviously is concerned about it to an extent and I don't know how the market's thinking about that.
>> We'll see what happens. Do you think Nvidia can save us next week from the Fed talk or no? Is that not enough?
>> I want to say yes. I just don't know at this point. It's one company.
>> I don't think I don't think they can like they're going to have a amazing Morgan all these guys inviding quarter. It's going to be amazing guidance. But is it as amazing that we're going to overlook the job market? I don't think so. Now, what if the first two weeks of November were the chop and the next two weeks are Nvidia earnings and then enough data comes out to justify the rate cut. I feel like that's your bullcase.
>> Yeah. Then then you get 7,000.
>> You got to have Nvidia win and then you got to have a labor market that says rate cut.
>> It could go either way. Like this is one of those scenarios where it's not weighted skewed toward one side. This is truly 50/50. This could really go either way depending on what happens over the next two weeks. Neither would surprise me.
>> Percentage chance on this is Q4 2018 again.
>> I I can't handicap it. I don't know.
>> I think there's a 20% chance. I wouldn't put it at 5050, but I would say there's a shot it could play out like that. Granted, the Fed wasn't hiking or the Fed was hiking in Q4 2018. We thought the Fed would be cutting in Q4 [clears throat] of 25 and now they're talking about potentially hiking, which is insanity. But that's where the similarity comes.
>> Yeah. And think about play that out. Oh, we start hiking again.
>> Oh, good.
>> Two things. Here's the first thing. Does anybody even take it seriously because Powell's leaving in May? So, what are you gonna do? You're gonna hike and then maybe hike again. Powell doesn't get reappointed. And then somebody else comes in and says, "You morons, we need to cut." And then they freaking start influencing people and then we go back into a cutting cycle. So why would we even freaking raise for six months? That's stupid.
>> It's stupid.
>> Well, that's the other thing. Everyone knows we're going to get a dove by May. So I do think try to pull forward
>> a decent chunk of that happening before it happens.
>> Like we know come May, this is going to be a different Fed with a different tone. There's going to be a directive from the administration. The new Fed chair is going to be a super dove and I don't see the point of starting a hike now. Also, the other side of this is you start hiking now, you're pretty much guaranteeing there's going to be more layoffs if you start 100%.
>> That's why when he was it was the Fed's Logan when he even mentioned a hike, I almost lost my [__] I was like, really?
>> Yeah. Because I'm sorry, do do these people they're all in the freaking Fed voting committee. They obviously understand economics. Higher rates equals restrictive equals harder to expand.
>> Yeah,
>> I agree.
>> Put me on the Fed, please.
>> Dude, Steve for Fed chair tomorrow. Steve for Fed chair. rates 2 and a.5% until further notice. [laughter] Period.
>> Dude, I can't imagine you actually taking questions from reporters. Oh my god.
>> Oh my god. If If I was the chair, that press conference would be so fire.
>> You would there be so many answers where you say, "I don't care." Next.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> It would be great.
>> 100%. I would not care if it was the Wall Street Journal or the New York Times. All right, I think that's it. Um, Tanner bought PayPal, by the way.
>> Yeah, I spoke to him on the phone at some point and this week and he said he was going to do some research on it.
>> He also bought Nebus.
>> He bought Nebas.
>> I'll talk to him tonight about that. He bought Nebus and PayPal. Buffett bought Google. Oh, Altimter. Brad Gersonner bought Google. [laughter] [gasps] They all decided to come onto the Google train. Um, and then what else happened? And then,
>> oh [snorts] my god, you know what? The chat's right. You know how I run my freaking Broadcom Broadcom as well. Brad Ger,
>> I go either way on Broadcom. You know what? It wouldn't the my pre my Fed meeting, the press conference would not be seats just like a seat style the way it is. We'd have tables and at every seat would be a glass of milk [laughter] and a couple of chocolate chip cookies. Get everybody relaxed. Dude, just say ju just eat your cookie next.
>> Can we do that at the New York City meetup? Can we Can we get a glass of milk and cookies for every You have to come though if you if we do this. We have to do that.
>> I mean, I I mean, it's going to be in the winter, so I guess the milk will stay cold. I mean, I maybe I can work something out with Ronnie Brook and uh do something, you know.
>> Oh, yes. Get Ronnie Book milk, dude. People would love Ronnie Book milk. We'll raffle off a thing of milk.
>> Yes, exactly. No, everyone should get a custom Ronnie cook yogurt before they leave. Uh, Siege, thank you for the super chat. Watch the movie Alisium if you want to see an interesting interpretation of what a future with advanced robotics could look like. William Fitner plays John Carile and is the Elon Musk that movie. It's fascinating look at future social inequalities. Have you seen this, Steve, or no?
>> No, I'll chuck it. I have not seen it.
>> Okay, Siege, thank you for the super chat, man. I will put that on the list. Also, another one on the list. Have you seen Steve uh Lord of War?
>> Yeah. Nicholas Cage.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Uh Triple V today told me to watch it.
>> I don't know if you'll like it. Um it's a good movie. I enjoyed it.
>> I I I love Nicholas Cage.
>> Did you see God in 60 seconds?
>> Then you do not love Nicholas Cage.
>> I don't know. Have you seen The Last Mimsy?
>> I don't even know what the hell that is. Nicholas Cage was in that one.
>> You see Matchstick Men?
>> I don't know what that is.
>> Of course. Raising Arizona, Family Man, Face Off, Conair.
>> What's the other big one that he's in that everyone knows about?
>> I just named all of them. Conair. The Rock.
>> One you're not naming, bro.
>> The Rock.
>> No, dude. It's freaking uh
>> Leaving Las Vegas. No, it's
>> I mean I just named all of his biggest movies.
>> Oh, there's another one that like guys, there's another one that
>> I know.
>> Yeah, you guys are right. I did not name National Treasure, which is freaking awesome.
>> I guess I've never seen The Last Mindsy is a movie with Nicholas Cage.
>> Go watch Gone in 60 Seconds, please. I'll have to watch Lord of War first.
>> Gone 60 Seconds is hands down his best movie. [sighs]
>> Oh my gosh, what a week, bro.
>> What a week.
>> I'm tired, bro. Like, I'm mentally legit tired.
>> Oh god. You know, I streamed till 1:30 last night. Got up at seven today.
>> Okay. But you also don't talk for eight hours in a row. talking about.
>> What do you think I do at work?
>> No, no, but but it's different talking in your interpersonal meetings versus talking and analyzing the new. There's a different type of just
>> I wor I worked all day. I freaking wrote articles for Seeking Alpha when I got home and then I freaking streamed.
>> Look, that's incredible. I'm just saying mentally this week has been exhausting after the ups and downs and SW because again, I'm in it all day. Like you're in it at the end of the night. You need to start meditating.
>> No, meditating doesn't work. At least
>> burn some incense, meditate, you'll be all right.
>> No, I have my own ways of like relaxing and just laying watching TV and stuff. But like the point is just like it's just it's dude when these headlines are coming at you back and forth and you're getting these violent swings and like if you didn't look at your port portfolio for a week, you probably didn't even notice anything because we're almost
>> even notice. But like if you're covering it every day, eight hours a day, every little 2% move, it like
>> it's just exhausting after a week like this. [laughter]
>> All this [__] to be back at 672. Like, it's just
>> it's amazing. It's the greatest show on earth. You You deserve a nice juicy steak.
>> You You know I uh Well, I showed you the picture of steak I got last week.
>> I know. I was very proud of you.
>> Good steak.
>> Very proud of you. All right.
>> All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Steve, thank you for joining. Steve's YouTube putting in chat.
>> We'll be live at 10 p.m. tonight. I'll put a link out soon.
>> Okay. And again, Steve, uh, this is his YouTube. Congratulations on 10.3.
>> It's crazy.
>> 10,000 is not easy, bro. I'm just like, that's a big big number.
>> And he's committed because he works a real nine to five and still comes back and does the stream. So, [cough]
>> all right. Thank everybody. See you guys.
>> Everyone,
>> I'll see you guys on Sunday for the future show. Bye everybody.