Everyone Hello, social media on, such as chow-na-na-now, also can learn a lot also can learn some people, but it's not from the bad-die-lack-stich in-bid-out-use- to find-to-use- information. Today on Twitter, I saw a tweet He said, He said, "Shoyeroye to give people Rue-Moo-Chun-Fing feeling. Believe me, your life will be far. As a young man, I think this is I need to learn. This is the way. This is the way. I've always over the I've been and think this is a really a very real people we're from from the people people don't say not not talk and the not people don't school or not all all all and all about is people and talk and people people know people talk many Another way, and he wrote And then He gave a short of the and it's, I'm just a done Promp's in the brain-naut-co-cide-per-gid-liu-cure in 99.9, in the same-down-concings on, "Share-Sewsince' "What a good-deafety." I'll read-the-uptupper of the opinion, I'll "'What'"aI.I.S.E.I.S.D., "'Who's on communication?' "'It's "Col-town." These years, many new-men technology will be out-tied. But, people with people, people-gen-any-each, including AI, communication is important, is always-of-st-of-st technology. But-sue, this is the short-back. Many people many people people-established students, not-the-s many-shan- not-o- that way that's the word was the art but he talked to some he's talking to talk about they're talking about they're saying she's even he's was a one but it is the case that the things on the things and that's name to get to the and the I'm being I'm I'm but that the thought too not too too not English, some of the professors often say, "Borce' This is a PhD. What means? It means is so permanent head damage, the long-signor brain-surned. Some Li-Congueckor did not know booker, just named the booker, but, but, then, but, then, he had-shaned permanent head-dage damage, and so much, A few Li-Cong-Koe very many in college and the at school did not at the college and the many do you do over some about the books very with other people to get to get and people and and very and very and I never never heard I never hear them and Wyn Kherst and Li Kherst, all have got high-sacring and character and very young-gonged to students. It all have some just learned to beware to beiss-lien's-down-the-er-hurt. One-pian-one-your-one, one-one-know-know-know-know-she-way, with them learn-est, but they're not, but their talents, with their talents, and their ability-trand-down-kind-know-to to turn-concounter-can-can-all. There are some students, been pretty smart, be be forced and being and then the college, to get a people they're they're they don't how to get them different thinking different things and to make people This was out of them They've got got lost channel and it's also out of their brain and power the mind and things the way like that's the same and how you don't know with people people is the people is the community student board this is a society technology and this is a This is this is a question Although it would impact One of the market But in the most In fact, in the most situations not to be Toeuxed from the market But AI is at a.I. Is it's a.I. A.I. One of the communication is not is getting on the top-thewater-thewater-haw- And is become a big-beye-be-to-hacin key-nong. In AI In the Ineux of There's not Our own Can't even work We're not Without We're On the We're in Twitter on We're Talked by question Overty Two-30 year World War Year's foreign security and Were Keyes all were turned to It's being seen been Now, the Wallerget and Gai-Gu all started a.I. can do the market can't make data-marr, can do design, can send-s-pings. These are the traditional-should-to-re-all-than-all-kind job-in-stri-eat. One, one, the university, to get work, just so that can go to work, is because he has got to the new example, he will make a business, the company, he's just in the he had in he's just a work. But now AI also AI also also up and people do you do better and pay and the cost cost and not even need to use this type of people and so you so it's there's there's there also it's These two years, Google, Wyn, Amazon, these techs, and social, fern ferns, ferns, ferns, and fun-fing-to-since-beck, which are by side of the number, and software, and so that many people get to quenho. On the college, it was a real-man-tron-eat, b-eat before, also, is going to find out, how the direction just turn-bent-and-and-and-all-thou-turned. Actually, the answer is very simple. AI is in p, line, get-guan, to perform, in the work. One, a lot of people need a group, everyone, work, and one of the different, work, being a design, but in AI time, a big- design, is, using AI, use using just need a few hours, to can make the time, the time, a, last year, Inouye's boss, Huang Renxun, had a turn to end up on a lot, he said, he said, "You know, 'I.'since," but AI technology will be mottling "lain"grain.'" It's not even though not need to bea a billion""gian." That's "It's'""""""""""""" "Orenschen," "What other need need to be able to bea""chewen." "Wong"""Hun""" "Chun," In a short one year, over the 10,000-1-1-trans-1-2020 software. The American-year-old student-Betka-Betka-Jerns, job, is often difficult. Some old technuians said, they've lived in the first-year online pout. Pau-mort go to the world, the online industry, shall-chun-monged-monged and career is still-stern-old, and the programmers won't have been working. They probably was the "Povet and work-eastern the work-stead. Toadepa-pour-pour-pocket just have not yet do-sue-of-scied, the industry through the high-shing-li-life-life companies still will fendmonged, but technology growth-ins or technical-gombing if a time that technology over-sh the company can't use using over-s the technology to make the company. AI, GeoSuchu, get it's the the next the new technology go to people people that the new work and the new work and Amazon company in the his his company's in the The question is, AI will create out of new work? These new work need some kind of technology. Now, you know, over-stscied technology, software, software, software, the system, and the management, and they have no new work, and new work, need to the new work, This is the real question. Open AI is a very a great name is Sean Grove. He in a in a speech data in the AI in the amount in AI's down the chunk of its'emate just on 10 to 20 and and about 80 to 90% the value from structured communication is just getgoed co-tecou-to-o-tune communication BianCen, it's through the software to get the problem the data is a the data in the in the AI time the the end of the core is can't can't provide and around people and the and give Groove said, "Grews' said, 'jecture communication is the 'tick up to "o' clear' decision to design the 'we' and the work" and then we're "What-tooltune, and afterbara' and, "if' talk-tune, "ifupto'hue'hullion, This work's value to end up the project 10% to 90% Huang Renx said AI has been people everyone to today this is to this is it is a AI industry and the Shang Groh, also said very in the eye-is-day, in the industry and every other can become a programmer, a student-execist, law-s, law-s-sue person, juror, system-s, technicals, and then. AI will make every good-shel-en- people, you-shoe-tron-en- a good-execuer become a good-o-of-the-old, here, here's the core-sin-key-n is the whole-thune. This is not just any a company needs to and is any industry is need be able to be able to a small a single. This is a new secret power. Grove I think now AI model are more more powerful, but in in-em- motion to deal when when the being in a un-n---of‑p pin-in, this pain-king is human just people human and people the The program is through data-mach and the computer-co-tong. But from Huang Renxhune and Grow's' and grow-with-to-look-back, the future just using data-mars and key-key-co-tonging even far. That's the technology is by AI AI-tie-i-wobot is people-to-one and people-the-cuit-of-kind- communication-cou-tonged. From this view to this two years, the two-year-old, the time, the technology and it's a. It's a kind of a change. The year keyeatial is 10 to 20% can be AI and it can be AI and the direct value. And a lot need to is can create the 80 to 90% 90% to the cost people people people people. In this book, the last year-sthung-monged in the long-remered some of the student-the-send if they're if they're they're, they're going to work and if you're working, do you, do that the data-the-loss-din, also, And those who have high-tall-co-couconged-eat-o-tonged people, will be as well as good-y-the-sue-due-de-none. Can you say, "Co-Tonguechon "is-none' "'It's not' is the "'is-fow-tied' "'eat' a time-tonged-h-h-h-h-hign-ean-a-n-n-n-n-h-n.' AI's world, and call-tonged as a job, being not just can say right-o-fongued. Many Tau-tow-be-do-do, but the effect, like a few words even say a few-point-it-all-your-being, or be able to be able to-hout-all-all-lothed logic, or is the tool logic, or is forer in the change, and logic, there's real-being-religuing co-tongue, including two big part. The first part is the face-to-one, which is we often-sue and the policy-syn. In this part, is the point-in- is the short-bant. The English education by students train to gette-go-s college and students be able to become like all the teacher and the small-s-o-tie- and the small-of-cue like school-out-to- this-e--cuit-e know-and- quite-and is one- the-eus- one-e-e This is the way model has made a lot of Gingongue-Sing people. In fact, the most of the university, the education, and education, basically is the class, teachers and students in their small in their basic knowledge, and basic knowledge and knowledge and If you go out the shah-shajohnie, in front of the vast people and society, they often are self-o-wit-who-wrote, they're used to use, they're in due-to-the-right, fie-cich-bigh, and right-the-the-cich-bigh, but-the-the-cest-bigh-bigh. But, and, the, world's world full-hous-sing and human-the-sing. People's-the-same is full-certained-sion. In the in the way in the way to the situation, if you get to without any of the same, they'd feel like to unseeked. They'd put this this way to do you know in a project environment. In the product, in the amount, many Maun don't understand the market work, also not understand the work, not yet not yet what is the product, not understand what's the product, and not understand the user. This is the communication of traditional, not impact on the work and it's not. Because they've got to biancinge's shrewed. But now, Huang Renxun and Groh, these year-gey-da-law said, AI, than they banded more sullen. The industry is not need this non-suelling-com. The industry needs is have high-co-cou-tong-n people's-n-l-court-n people, but they're not, but they can't even co-court. understand people's and get people, you're taking with a true and the social, this is a call-to-the-control but but the quality-of-school system so that's being-the-te mind-sac-sach and the people can't un-o-t human-n, the front- on-the-one man-the--out-n- communication in-the-court- and the form-the- people-and-the- in-one, Here is the second part, Merexiae of communication. Its core is accurate and and the it is there is there is not just about you about the in the in the in the in in but in but in the in the in the using to the the through the the and the These are the group in the in-gown in the other core-in-gain, is the wayfuscification, get-s, spec. AI, started in the life in the people, people know, write a simple the keysts, is prompt, "Wen AI and from AI to get to pen-eelute of data-and. There are answers, some answer, some are some, it's just just, hugh-bian--l-lund-z--all-all- This is just with AI communication not need to not need any pay-shund, not need any of using, like Google Sousor like Google social-as-as-a--court-a-court, is GROV-o-o-o-tac-o-cuit, get-go-en-git, and-cuit-kind, the way-firm- GROVs, GROVs, called this kind-of-s new-a-mach-Mas. To take-more this new name-mar just as a number of the end-gyneux-know-ynged. In here, we can share a small-jet a-I-ist. In, in the AI, whether it's people with people-combe, or people-in-geek-co-comptone, will-sa-who-coeat-all-a– short skill, but is a big-beigh-hose-n't-a-huh-nety. In the German world, would-swer-word-word-word-talk-word. That sort-word, in AI time, there's not value, no idea. Because AI than any who can't say that talk about. The real-of-word, and real-re-react-of-react, in-of-y-y-eem-y-eas-hear. In-kind-ggy-cuit-cuit-court in-the-case-coucourt. First, it's, is clean-the-pial-yto-quietto. Not-round-chunz, not-n-h-h-hye. And also, also, also, also, also, not just is information, and is just like that the way, that's the way, and it's that, can be can't make and the To get AI to add a.I. Sharely, through the point in the bottom. It's in need to make sure get over, end-in- direct, the key-in- can-each- the way- will-e-eat- and it would get- to get to or get to or a pre-eli- or logic and question even full sure much and actually full-s-siss--s-o- and- So in AI-Side, 'We say a "WRawrowering, but is a one-is-one-eat-one, and a thing-it-with-all-hieting, "'you-shape, "'are-hye-trial-Ren-Gon, "'ren-gen-Gy-Chi-Kee-Kews. "'Cas-Hehm-Hawruch' "'is the "What-Poeveringer-Chi-Eight-Ean.' "'They would "Tefoieter""tude,' "'They will bea-tout-eat-heu-tout. They've even had certain language and use-tall-li-li-you-ion and use-tall-li-heap-ture and learn-ton-shan-win-kir-he. Some Li-Cong-Kong-Kuh-scent-techews, into the Now, Hwang-Sew-S-Lead, and then-Growe-Sheat. I'm not, "Groo'u' tell us, and the, the students'n.''ucoe, 'O'all' tell them, "I.''u'u'a,"'u'u'u'u'a. " At AI-is-theid-air "What-o-tongued-all "'in-a-eye-same. "'What-the-streach-send-court-know-stand-cou-tonged-contest-con-all-ststap-a-stah-tie-l-kka-knot-ma-ock-'naw-harm-a-starm. "'A.I.I.I.' "'A.I.'sci-Eight-old—' "'And also important is, "'what-one-old—'' "'It's-old. This new daymarr, not only also the business and the project and also it also also the humanity the human rights of the great in the in the is a one who's a run to and the ideas of knowledge to the knowledge and the ability and the people the people can't the future the AI's time, the time iso, it's very much. It's a lot of people, it's going to do you know, at least there's the next few points can come to meetling, the This is a very important thing-shape, T is the English in the form of the T. T's that one's that is the the the student's number. The person is, we're sure in a language, that's enough enough to understand. But more important is that a hand, it is that the the the knowledge, quite, quay-neigh-neunger, and there is we If it's a lyrgumker's Begings, you have a need to get some some people, people, and learn their language to get to learn their writing, if the work education, you have been need of be able to get a bit to get a logic, security and learn it's the AI's general AI's time's change, almost all will happen at different schools' and cross-de-day. A.I.I.C.D.D.S.E.S.D.D.D.D. The one is, the technology, I'm going to be able to create the group of people, like, I'm a.muchist, I'm a in AI's time, people can't make sure would become the Qom I'm sorry. Those people are those are in the keyet little bit of quickie-eat-five-the-sixthes of four-form. No one to that sort of knowledge of not-of-'o-e-chee-e can't-eat-o-scient- but even children would be choukett. In AI Not in the AI time don't do that the Koon-eat Don't use these these form to use using these Hongan Gros and there many all know and so much people and the world the future be cross-gated are not just-weigh-the-ma-mong. In this at least-year-old in the career-dicts in, not use use-of-comfit to define to define, and use you can't get-eget-the-kind to determine you. For example, I'm going to build-a-old-kind-an-change-system-stiton-shiton- I am I was for the old year-year-us-chon-un-all-ass-trial-sue-ty-en-street-she-teen- and these job-en-send-kind, "This-stief-stere"n't, "'Yes,'' "What""""" "There are'n't." "No,'n't," "'No, anyone is "You',"', '9", '0." Third point is, to build self-syned-wr ability. A good-taught one-sachers-achy-nown-been people, like, a programmer, a new-of-scent, the technology-of-since, and it can't, it's-necinct, it can't soon-cuit-cund. to study some cross-sturekker of some and some to be the but I'm used to but it's very much the knowledge and the point say it's saying it often and it and the and use and you work and and it's and there's thinking and there to and there people all right so the but can't do but there can't you of the This is a learning and training of course, not a new-sense of the technology. From Grove's to get-in-the-can-the-can-a-i-i-i-mere that's new data-mars, those who have high-chaeas-shaired so, to help self-shrou-noyer can from training-sheas-o-art start. This is a very-git-shut--the-down-are- very-use-use-. Growl also, the future of the future of will be an integrated thought clarifier, the deepened thinking key. He's not is simply telling the machine to do what, but is using the key key the strong thought to help people, to help you make sure people, and I'm thinking This is a is a very and then to question and in unctue the process and it's a whole from hondoon zah-lun-z-r-r-lun- to get-go-h-h-li- logic- and logic- and this process the heart is the is the co-to- AI long-chao, just like each other each single every single different like it, will take down and it will create new work, the question is the point in the question of is you have no there's you have no new new new new and you know Those are to be light-of-kind-rich-sauting key-ness are being quickly out-tall-taught. And that's going to do-to-you-en-ru-en-ru-en-she-school of good-laught-noying, think-eas-eve-pest-coveveecent-cou-tonged, is end-coct-o-o-counter-of-cure-cuit ability. This also, the-the-one-be-human the-cuit-the-catch-the-capture in what? Today's said I said And next See Bye next again.