[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. This is Bloomberg Intelligence with Scarlett Fu and Paul Sweeney. How do you think the Fed is looking at tariffs, the uncertainty of tariffs? Let's take a look at the sectors and how they perform. A lot of investors getting whipsawed every day by news events breaking market headlines and corporate news from across the globe. Could we see a market disruption, a market event? Are people just too exuberant out there? You see some so-called lowquality stocks driving this short-term rally? Bloomberg Intelligence with Scarlet Fu and Paul Sweeney on Bloomberg Radio, YouTube, and Bloomberg Originals. On today's Bloomberg Intelligence Show, we dig inside the big business stories impacting Wall Street and global markets. Each and every week, we provide in-depth research and data on some of the 2,000 companies and 130 industries our analysts cover worldwide. Today, we'll look at how AMD landed a deal with Open AI to build AI infrastructure. Plus, why Dell Technologies is roughly doubling its growth estimates for sales and profit for the next two years. But first, we begin with a big deal in the banking sector. This week, Fifth Third agreed to buy Comica for about $10.9 billion in stock. It is the largest US bank deal this year. The deal will create the ninth largest bank in the country with about $288 billion in assets according to the two companies. So, we called in Herman Chan, Bloomberg Intelligence, senior analyst for US regional banks, and we began by asking Herman for his take on the deal. Yeah, I think it's a win-win for both. Uh, Kamea has been sort of in the doldrums over the past couple years after the SBB debacle. Um, it's taken some long time to get it under its own footing. Um, and they've gotten a lot of uh agitated investors and activists pushing for a sale and this was a great outcome. On the other hand, for Fifth Third, it's it's a great deal. It moves them into growth growthier markets in Texas and California. Yeah. Supplements their Michigan presence and and really uh builds out their their branching presence across the the southeast and southwest. So, within the regional banking space, what does this deal put pressure on? Who does this deal put pressure on to make a move of their own? Yeah. So, that that's a qu question, the follow-on question, like who's next? So there are other uh banks that are operating within the size of of a fifth that have also done deals like a PNC and a Huntington and the others that are still on the sidelines are are banks like regions in the southeast. Uh uh uh key cororp in Ohio as well and Mnt and Citizens in the Northeast. So those are the ones that probably are going to get asked a lot of questions on the 32 earnings call about M&A. So what do we know about the Trump administration and its view towards bank consolidation? Are they opined on this at all? Yeah. So we can see that these bank deals are getting approved at a much faster clip. So I mentioned Huntington earlier. They're they're buying a bank in Texas named Veritex. That's right. And and it's going to take them about 98 days from deal close for merger announcements. And that contrasts with under the Biden administration, it's taken 400 to 600 days for a large bank deal. So these deals under Trump are being fast-tracked and it's really encouraging the management teams to to really go out there and search for deals. So for so long a lot of people had commented that the US is overbanked. Uh by one count there's almost 4,500 FDIC insured banking institutions here. Are we still overbanked Herman? I would say so. Um there there's a lot of competition. Um these and that's the reason why Coma is looking to sell uh because they they were lacking in a retail branch presence. Um they they mostly bank uh middle market uh commercial customers that are great but it doesn't create the diversity that they needed during times of stress like the SVB environment. And so that was a lesson learned um for for a lot of the banking industry that you need to diversify your deposit base and and one way to diversify is to sell to a larger organization. Which segment of the banking industry is uh bloated needs to streamline the most? Yeah. So there you mentioned 4500 banks like is does there need to be that many banks within the United States? Probably not. They don't have the scale to operate a retail branch presence. they don't have the the capabilities on the fee side and the advisory side to really help their customers on the commercial side and you see so much competition from not only larger banks uh but also the fintexs that are just uh you know biting at the heels on the consumer side so it's a really tough operating environment and and we expect more consolidation over the next several years all right riddle me this year why do banks even have branches I hear banks talking about adding branches I haven't been into a branch in years across the street from Bloomberg headquarters, City Group just city branch right across a lot of it is marketing um because uh and a lot of it is scale. So for a bank like Fifth Third, they're growing organically in the southeast and that's been a major growth driver for them. If I need a branch to you you don't need a branch but you need the branch for a marketing aspect. So you need a big billboard, right? It's a big billboard and big expensive billboard. in markets where you have a lot of foot traffic and higher growth markets. So it's a big billboard and it's been a proven growth driver for banks. But on the other hand, branches are declining. So if you have critical mass and scale in your existing markets, you can trim your branch presence and not affect your your depositors. But if you're entering new markets, then then opening new branches is the way to go. I didn't think I could find my checkbook. Well, that raises a question. Does a fintech that wants to be a bank need to therefore have a retail presence? Do they need to open up a branch also across the street from our office? So that's that's the beauty of the fintech motto is that they're issuing the the the branches. It's not a requirement. It's a lower cost to serve because you don't have the physical retail presence. And uh it it's one way to to really compete effectively with these with these legacy banks where you have a really easy to use app and you you aren't burdened by this cost basis of owning the physical presence. All right. So when we had a couple little blowups in your world a couple years ago, I did I found this KRE, the Spyder S&P regional banking ETF. That's right. Um how are you how are the regional banks trading these days? Yeah. So, they're really doing all right. Uh, we're talking about price to tangibles around, you know, 1.5 to 1 point timesish. During the height of the weakest point during the SBB debacle, it was, you know, less than one time. So, they've rebounded really nicely um despite some of the uncertainty on the economy and with tariffs and and so we've seen some growth from them, especially on the commercial lending side. That that's really helped um grow their top line. Our thanks to Herman Chan. Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst for US regional banks. We move next to some news in the telecom space. This week, Verizon Communications named Dan Schulman as chief executive officer, replacing Hans Vber. The goal was to boost mobile subscriber growth and shares. Schulman is the previous CEO of PayPal and brings financial and operational leadership experience as well as expertise in telecoms, technology, and finance. Vesber will stay on for a year to help ensure a smooth transition. For more, I was joined by John Butler, Bloomberg Intelligence senior telecom analyst. I first asked John if this change was expected at Verizon. Not at all, Paul. I mean, you know, when you think merger Monday, I've had a lot of of busy Mondays lately, but the last piece of news I expected was this change in leadership at Verizon. Uh, the company had really been sort of um I guess prepping the head of the consumer business or grooming is a better word. uh summer Ryan Sam path who is just a a phenomenal talent in my opinion and he's been sort of pushed out there doing a lot of investor conferences and giving the investment community the impression that he was the next in line. So when the news broke that Dan is taking over as CEO, it really surprised a lot of people including me. So what's the company saying here? Why do you think they they chose this outsider versus somebody that again uh an insider that maybe the street thought was going to be the next in line? You know, I think for telecoms, all three of the majors, the wireless business is slowing very rapidly on them. Uh we're seeing subscriber growth down a lot this year. There's a lot of pressure on pricing. And I think the thought is Dan Schulman used to be CEO of PayPal. He's got experience at AMX in the consumer finance business. So, they're thinking in terms of how to monetize the 150 million consumer relationships they have to move into adjacencies. The naming of Schulman in my mind tells me they're looking to tap the consumer finance market. You know, they've already got a credit card business. Um, I think it's probably doing pretty well, but they're not actually in the loan business there, but they're doing a lot of device financing. And so, I think the hope may be, this is my speculation, maybe that they can take that perhaps a step deeper into the consumer finance market and maybe other adjacencies to be able to monetize that base a little bit more and diversify away from the slowdown in wireless. Yeah. know Verizon uh they've kind of dabbled over the years in other businesses uh purchasing AOL and Yahoo. Um so what's the focus going forward here? Is it to try to just manage the wireless business as you know the decline in the wireless business as best they can? So again it's the strategy here Paul I think is to sort of build off that base that they have. The wireless business is stable. It's not going anywhere. It's a typically a GDP plus business. Again, we're seeing a slowdown now, so it could move down to a GDP like growth rate, but again, it's all about extensions. So, all three of the majors here are pushing hard into consumer broadband. They're doing very well there, both in the fiber and the fixed wireless access business, but even that business is starting to mature a bit as it saturates here in the US. So the question becomes what's next? And maybe the what's next could be consumer finance. If you look at T-Mobile, they've tapped the outdoor advertising market which actually is growing double digit. I I never would have guessed, but there the thought is, hey, as people carry around these phones, we know where they are. perhaps we can leverage that and come up with very innovative ways of increasing uh eyeballs on our outdoor advertising. So I think they're looking for that type of creative thinking to come up with new ways of generating growth and again you're trying to leverage that huge core base of wireless subs that you have. Just looking at their balance sheet, John, uh this is a this is company Verizon. It's got $170 billion of total debt there. How's the How does the market feel about their balance sheet? So, I think of the big three, Verizon is probably at a point where they want to be in terms of financing the business. Can they load on a bunch more debt? It's it's hard to say. I'm I'm going to defer to our credit analyst for that, Steve Flynn. But um I don't view their ability to finance new ventures as an issue here at all. It's a very cashrich business, wireless that is. And um you know, I think that will allow Verizon to bankroll any of the new ventures they plan to push into from here. Certainly pro shareholders is 6.6% dividend yield. Is that safe? I think it is safe. That's a good question. I think Verizon of the big three really sort of gets it when it comes to the importance of the dividend to the investment community. There's a lot of telecoms out there, AT&T included, that have cut the dividend in the past and learned the hard way that that really I call it the third rail of telecom. I mean, you do not want to cut the dividend. Yeah. So, my call here is that I think the dividend is safe. Yes. Our thanks to John Butler, Bloomberg Intelligence senior telecom analyst. Coming up, a look at how IBM is planning to integrate AI tech. You're listening to Bloomberg Intelligence on Bloomberg Radio, providing in-depth research and data on 2,000 companies and 130 industries. You can access Bloomberg Intelligence via BIGO on the terminal. I'm Scarlett Fu and I'm Paul Sweeney. This is Bloomberg. [Music] This is Bloomberg Intelligence with Scarlett Fu and Paul Sweeney on Bloomberg Radio. We move to some news in the tech space. This week, Advanced Micro Devices landed a deal with OpenAI to build AI infrastructure, and this gives the chipmaker AMD a chance to challenge Nvidia in the AI computing industry. Open AAI will deploy AMD graphics processing units over multiple years. The deal also sets the stage for Open AI to acquire a large stake in the chipmaker with the ability to buy as many as 160 million shares of AMD. So, we asked for context from Ed Ledllo, Btech co-anchor. We first asked Ed what he makes of this week's deal. The specifics of the deal are really important. What is uh OpenAI going to use AMD's technology for? It's going to use it for inference. In other words, running the models that already exist, not training them. It is 6 GW of uh capacity. Uh the reason that that figure is critical is that it equates to the peak electricity demand of most major US cities like these are huge numbers as you say but it just speaks to what's happening to the mind of the participants in the industry which is they will need this capacity. Um you guys are using words like top and bubble and I think that's completely fair. Maybe you saw my column on the debt uh role that uh in what's happening but I would say that AMD has done something interesting here which is different to what Nvidia did which is they will uh issue stock to open AAI. AMD shares going to open AAI but only once openai has spent some money and actually built some stuff. So where's open AI going to get the money? Well, that's why Sam Alman has been traveling the world meeting with all kinds of investors, uh, trying to get some funding. You said the specifics matter, Ed, but we don't know how much this partnership or this deal is worth beyond the very generic tens of billions of dollars, right? That could be $10 billion, that could be $99 billion. Yes, that's correct. I mean, AMD CFO framed it as being tens of billion dollars of revenue opportunity. But that's why I I think the specifics of the terms I've made a careful examination of them are really important to understand versus what Nvidia did with OpenAI. So Nvidia said it was going to invest $100 billion into Open AI. We don't even know if that was cash or chips in lie of cash but basically Nvidia would get some equity in Open AI in return. In this instance, AMD and Open AI, Open AI is getting AMD shares, but they are deliverable in tanches against milestones which relate to literally building the data centers. So for each gigawatt of capacity that comes online, AMD would then say here is this tunch of stock. And that's why I'm saying focus on the open AI obligation here. They need actual money to dig up the dirt, put the foundations in, get the data center up, and put the servers in before any of this stock uh comes into play. Our thanks to Ed Lelo, BT Tech co-anchor. Staying with tech, this week, the tech company IBM announced a plan to integrate anthropics AI technologies into its software solutions. IBM said it will make the startup's claw family of large language models accessible for its clients. Shares of IBM jumped after the news. So for more we're joined by honoragana Bloomberg intelligence technology analyst. We began by asking honor how he evaluates this latest partnership. See when you come to a company like IBM I think they have done a very good job of being open and partnering with other vendors. I think they the acquisition of Red Hat was the first such example a few years ago and frankly speaking the company has turned around quite a bit. Now it's more of a software company than it is a service or a hardware company. IBM still has a lot of footprint in legacy companies and their internal infrastructure whether that's a regulated entity whether that's you know an on-remise software what they're basically saying is for these companies who want to add more AI capabilities into their infrastructure we're going to use one of the best models that's out there and that's anthropic um they're not you know just solely dependent on IBM's own internal models but you know we see more and more of that happening that companies like IBM and other services companies will go out and partner with you know anthropic with open AAI with Gemini and give more enterprise capabilities to to to vendors or to companies basically how does anthropic differ from a open AI if at all it's a very good question Paul and right now what we are seeing is anthropic is pushing more and more stuff on the corporate side or the enterprise side um on open AI side you know their core business is still chat GPT which is the app and that's more of a consumer app right now and the question is you know which one of the models will somebody use whether if you are let's say a JP Morgan or a city corp you know would you be going to be using one of their models or an open source model um I think they're going to be using all of the models what anthropic relationship with IBM does it actually helps them to spread the word out across their entire customer base so if you are trying to get more coding done for example in an IT department and you have all the legacy products that there now you can use you know an AI model from Anthropic rather than using you know whatever tools you had before. Okay, so it makes sense why Anthropic is a good fit for IBM or how it's going to incorporate uh Anthropic into its software. But what does IBM specifically offer Anthropic? What access does IBM have that Anthropic wants and needs? Yeah, that's another excellent question. In this case, you're looking at IBM's entire customer base. IBM has a very large services business called IBM Consulting. These consultants will go out and sell anthropic software into the enterprises and say hey bank let me help you to you know automate this particular process and you can use it with this software. It drives their consulting business and it also helps out their software business which is you know fairly popular right now. IBM hit an all-time high on a rug. This stock has found a new life hasn't it? Absolutely. And and this is something that we've been saying it for almost 5 years now. you know, the the acquisition of Red Hat completely changed it. You know, if you go back and look at, you know, some of the comments we've made on TV about IBM prior to Red Hat, it was a very closed company. It only wanted to sell their own products to people and was not very keen on embracing, you know, what I would say is open source. With the acquisition of Red Hat and the company saying, you know what, Red Hat can work with any cloud provider. I think that was the biggest difference to me was it allowed Red Hat to work with companies but based on Amazon Web Services or Microsoft. So they were not just pushing their own cloud products and I think that really made a difference. Their software business has been doing so well comparatively to the rest of the world and I think that's where you see the market validation that this is the right strategy for them. Our thanks to Honor Ragan, a Bloomberg intelligence technology analyst. We move to some more news in the IT hardware space. This week at its investor day, Dell Technologies roughly doubled its growth estimates for sales and profit for the next two years. Dell also said demand for artificial intelligence products will extend those higher projections at least through 2030. Separately, Cisco systems says it is releasing a new chip networking system to connect AI data centers across hundreds of miles. So for more on both of these companies, we were joined by Wuenho, Bloomberg intelligence senior technology analyst. We began by asking Wuj to break down what we heard from Dell. This is a very seasoned management team. they have a tendency to give out three to four year uh guidance plans. Um I I think the surprise here is what's driving um that uh 7 to 9% growth outlook for uh from 2026 to 2020 uh for 2030 and it's going to be AI servers right and one of the things that they said at the analyst day that AI servers are going to grow at a 20 to 25% compounded rate. Um I I think there was some skepticism there uh heading into the into the print in terms of is there an AI bubble and by laying out a 20 to 25% AI server growth going through 2030 off of already high numbers shows that there is some durability to AI server demand. So when you get an analyst meeting together it's a big day for a company they put a lot of time and effort in putting getting their senior management together putting together presentations presenting a vision here. what were some of the two or three takeaways from you from this this investor day? Yeah. So, so the the one highlight here is uh the AI server demand, the durability of AI server demand. Uh but more importantly, um and we talk about this all the time, you know, Paul, it's it's about earnings and cash flow, right? And the at the end of the day, uh we're talking about EPS growth about 15%. And how do we get to that 15%? we're talking about 8% o of the uh sales growth dropping down to the bottom line, but given all that cash generation, there's going to be a fair amount of capital returns uh through buybacks. So, you're going to get a lift on EPS there. So, shareholders are going to be happy uh from uh from an EPS standpoint. And we're already seeing that from from a valuation standpoint uh because it is lifting from an 8 to 10 times PE to about 15 times growth, which makes it into a one times peg. Uj another story that we're tracking here and that I've been fascinated by is this idea of legacy tech companies um finding their feet in this AI wave uh whether it's Oracle, whether it's Dell and now Cisco as well. Cisco is releasing a new chip and networking system uh to connect AI data centers and this is a move that pretty much puts it in more direct competition with Broadcom. How big of an opportunity is this for Cisco and should Broadcom be worried? Yeah. So, so we we published in React. Uh, and essentially I don't think Broadcom should be fully worried. There's a couple of things that I'll say, right? Cisco is actually one of the biggest chip networking chip manufacturers uh, globally. Uh, but more for their legacy enterprise IT chips, right? They they produce their own chips that that powers their own networking gear. Uh, they're fairly newer to the game in the uh, the networking uh, chip side. uh from a revenue standpoint, it's really not a big driver. Uh but it may be able to push more boxes. A couple things that I'll say, they did about $1 billion in uh AI backend revenue, but to put that into context, um you know, they're doing about 55 to 56 billion in total sales. So, you know, from from an overall percentage of AIO as an overall percentage of sales, it's still about 2 to 3% of total sales. Are they going to challenge Broadcom? I I I I doubt it, but I do think there'll be a second source uh to the cloud providers uh uh versus Broadcom. Wooge, in your coverage area, what's your best AI play? Because I'm sure you get that call from clients all the time. You know, I I mean I I have a handful. Uh Dell was one. Um you know, HP is another one to to take a look out for. Uh they have an analyst day next week. uh but uh from from a networking standpoint, Arista has actually been one of the high-f flyers uh from from the uh from from a networking uh standpoint. So uh I I I would look at Arista and uh people have been uh taking the AI networking angle uh and and using uh Arista as one of the tools. I like that. Orisa, I haven't heard that one come up yet, you know. Um HPE or HPQ, just to clarify. Oh, HPE. So think think of it as a mini Dell and a mini Cisco in one. Our thanks to Wu Jinho, Bloomberg Intelligence senior technology analyst. Coming up, we'll look at why the owner of the Corona and Modello special brands reported positive quarterly results. You're listening to Bloomberg Intelligence on Bloomberg Radio, providing in-depth research and data on 2,000 companies and 130 industries. You can access Bloomberg Intelligence through BIGO on the terminal. I'm Scarlett Fu and I'm Paul Sweeney. This is Bloomberg. This is Bloomberg Intelligence with Scarlett Fu and Paul Sweeney on Bloomberg Radio. We move next to some news in the consumer product space. This week, Constellation Brands, which owns Corona and Modella Special Brands in the US, reported better than expected results for its fiscal second quarter. The company cited robust beer and wine sales. This comes despite the company's stock falling more than 30% this year. Beer and alcoholic beverages in general have broadly struggled as younger consumers and women drink less. So for more on this and other news in the consumer space, we were joined by Ken Shay, Bloomberg Intelligence senior consumer products analyst. We first asked Ken more about why Constellation Brands had been struggling this year. It's definitely um a slow beer market. Um uh tariffs are playing a role uh and also uh some of the um crackdown you know that ICE has had in inner community is hurting the Hispanic uh community and their socialization trends. All these things have been a factor for the last couple quarters. The company said that um their beer volumes were not quite as poor as a lot of street analysts expected. Uh but the pressures are still on uh and and they're very real for this company. Uh and that's because their their suite of products as you mentioned Corona Medel these command high price points about twice the level of a popular beer. So in times where consumers are pulling back a little cautious about expenditures got to remember you know you've had high inflationary pricing in this category for the last few years um these brands aren't doing so well right now and then compounding that with some of the factors that I mentioned and some longerterm issues like cannabis substitution things we talked about GLP1 user not drinking as much moderation among Gen Z all these things are weighing up a company right now. Yeah, I I'm I'm super interested in what you said about the last part, like the structural changes in consumer taste, especially from Gen Z, younger people overall. Um, beer is just not where people want to be spending their money necessarily. That seems to be the case. You know, it's it's it's been around a long time. It's a $15 billion market that is growing very slowly. It's essentially flat. In fact, volumes are expected to be down low single digit this year. So, clearly, it's a very mature category. And what we've seen over the last few years is consumers just want different tastes. You know, you have a proliferation of the rated drink cocktails you you know like um Truli and White Claws and more sophisticated you know margaritas in a can and so on. That's where a lot of the consumer who wants taste experimentation are going and then you have other more mundane factors like just uh you know calorie more conscientious calorie counts and all these things are just weighing on this very very mature industry. So, somebody like Constellation Brands, do they go out and look to maybe buy some of these brands or or verticals that within the spirits business may be growing? Well, they've had a kind of a mixed uh history of M&A over the last few years. I I'll put it I'll be kind say that way. Um not really. The you know, they're downsizing their wine and spirit segment um and try to shift it to more of a high-end mix, which I think they're having success with. But what that does is it makes their beer business even that much more important. It's now about 85% of their sales. So as beer goes, I mean the company has really good brands um and a lot of brand loyalty there, but again it's not a lot of wiggle room. So So with beer becoming less popular and you mentioned other big trends like um Ompic weight loss drugs and greater uh cannabis use, what is Constellation doing about non-alcoholic beverages? Oh, so they so they've rolled out a non-alcoholic Corona brand. They've come out uh a couple years ago they came out with a low calorie uh brand uh called Medela Oro Corona no alcohol I think I mentioned. Uh so those two brands while they're relatively small they see uh you know a lot of opportunity that's on trend uh with what you said. So um you know they're doing that. They're also modifying some of their portfolio for more taste. There's consumers that want a lot of taste. They're coming out with, you know, um a fruity uh survea and uh so they're doing as much as they can to stay on trend with consumers. I love myself a grapefruit beer. Yeah. There's a German grapefruit beer that I really like. Yeah. Tastes good. Talk to us about this legal cannabis and obesity drugs and the impact that's having on kind of the beer business, the spirits business overall. Ken, is that something that a lot of your companies are calling out? BI came out with our fourth annual consumer survey on beverage preferences and again u we see that consumers are substituting uh cannabis for alcohol. Of the of consumers that do partake in cannabis now more than half have substituted for alcohol at least once a week and that's up from 46% last year. So that's a trend that just keeps moving. Now, uh, you're seeing a lot of these cannabis companies coming out with hemp THC products, uh, beverages that are sold in mainstream liquor stores. You know, traditional cannabis, uh, legal cannabis sold in dispensaries, it was not really a big hit. But now that some of these federally legal uh, hemp based THC products, beverages are sold in liquor stores right next to the beer aisle in about half the states of the country. That's really chipping away also at at beer consumption. Uh, final question to you, Ken. What about return of cash to shareholders? I'm looking at the dividend yield about 2.9% if you're being generous. Um, is Constellation Brand still able to make good on its dividends, continue buying back its shares? Yeah, that's an important point, Scarlet. Um, yes, they can. Uh, despite the the pressure on sales, believe it or not, the operating margins a Constellation generates are best-in-class. They're about twice that of other alcohol and beverage companies in general. So they have strong cash flows. As a matter of fact, they're winding down um construction of a brewery right now. Over the next couple years, you're going to see free cash flow likely rising. So it's high in rising and that's enabling them to continue to uh meet their commitments to share buybacks and dividends. Our thanks to Kenneth Shay, Bloomberg Intelligence, a senior consumer products analyst. We move next to some news on Intercontinental Exchange or ICE. This week, we heard the company plans to invest as much as $2 billion in cash in Poly Market, which is a crypto-based betting platform. The transaction values Poly Market at roughly $8 billion, and ICE will become a global distributor of Poly Market's eventdriven data. We are joined by Katherine Doy, Bloomberg Finance reporter. We first asked Katherine for some more background on ICE. It runs on the blockchain. So you have this storied institution ICE that owns the New York Stock Exchange as you mentioned and they're putting their money where their mouth is. It really is an indication of where the the market is headed. So you have these institutional players that are teaming up with either cryptonative firms or in this case it's also the prediction market based players and we have seen this recently with also CME the derivatives exchange based in Chicago. They're partnering with FanDuel and most people associate FanDuel with sports betting. Um, but they are big in prediction markets as well. And with CME and FanDuel, they're doing a uh a marketsbased prediction of yes or no. Will, for example, gold be above a certain benchmark? Um and it this announcement also shows a storied institution kind of getting behind the newer incumbents and showing where they see the the next phase of the market headed. What does Poly Market really do? I see them quoted around in the press and things like that. So you've probably seen Poly Market around the time of the election. They were one of the platforms that um users were placing bets on who was going to win the presidential election. um they at a time were also in the news around 2022 because they were prohibited from actually operating in the US and more recently in the last uh few months in 2025 they've re-entered the US market and they've done so um through two avenues one it's a changing regulatory environment it's a cryptofriendly um regulatory regime and number two they bought their own uh regulated derivatives platform that essentially allowed them it was a pathway back into the United States market. So with this deal which values Poly Market at about $8 billion um IC ICE becomes a global distributor of Poly Market's event driven data. What does that mean to have that data now in its hands? What can it do with that information? Because exchanges don't just they're not just a platform for collecting commissions on trades. They're also huge source of information data that they then sell. That's right. It's a huge part of their business. And you have these big institutions that are paying millions of dollars um for access to this data. And as the market becomes a mix of institutional client base and retail clients, that data, these companies, you have ICE, you have Poly Market. This combination is giving ICE access to retail clients that they otherwise wouldn't necessarily have access to. and vice versa. Poly market gets now all of their data displayed through ICE channels uh that institutional clients have been set up and working with ICE for for years. So it's a fast entry way for both companies to increase their user base, increase their access and how they market themselves to an entirely new client. So it just feels like some of these traditional ex exchanges, if you will, I think that are they saying basically, hey, if we want to grow in the future, we have to embrace some of these new asset classes, whether it's crypto or whether it's predictive markets and things like that kind of what they're telling us. I think that it's very much where they see their clients headed. Um there's a blurring line between you have hedge funds and traditional institutional firms and then you have retail investors that at a time there was so much news during the memeto era uh around who these users were um that were in their basement. But now these are really sophisticated investors that are playing in the options market um prediction markets. Many of the leaders of these exchanges are saying there is no difference between what we've been running and at least a binary yes or no. Is this uh index going to be above or below a certain threshold. Um they're they're combining to what was presumably two different worlds into one now. And competitors of Poly Market include Koshi and Crypto.com. Are you anticipating, Katherine, that there there's going to be similar tie-ups for those companies as well? There is a race to um I I believe that this is just the start um or really the CME partnership with FanDuel was kind of the first indication. This is just another and I think that it's going to be off to the races in terms of who partners up next because you to build something from scratch is is hard and when you partner with a existing client base too it is an easy way in to an entirely new market. I tell it wasn't cheap. I'm reading uh Bloomberg Intelligence Research React from Paul Goldberg. Uh this acquisition implies 50 times revenue is the purchase price there. That's not cheap. And it's an allcash deal. They're they're just saying we're in. Our thanks to Katherine Dhy, Bloomberg News finance reporter. That's this week's edition of Bloomberg Intelligence on Bloomberg Radio, providing in-depth research and data on 2,000 companies and 130 industries. And remember, you can access Bloomberg Intelligence via BIGO on the terminal. I'm Scarlett Fu and I'm Paul Sweeney. Stay with us. Today's top stories and global business headlines are coming up right now.