[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Thursday, October 30th, 8:47 a.m. What a week it has been. It's hard to even believe that it's Thursday given how crazy this week has been, but yesterday was one of the most important days in the stock market for 2025. And we have got a lot to talk about. Uh we've got big tech earnings, Meta, Microsoft, and Google. All three of these companies incredibly important. One of them did really good. The other two did okay. One of them's dumping. The other one's actually going up. The other one's flat. Meta's dumping. Google's up. Microsoft's flat. So, we'll talk about it. Uh we got the Fed rate cut yesterday. That was a big deal. We got those 25 bips. Market kind of didn't care based on some of the comments JPAL made. I think it was less about the comments JPAL made. I think it was more about the fact that a lot of it was already priced in. We were already trading at all time highs. We're basically already still at alltime highs even though we are red in the pre-markets. And uh so we will talk about kind of the implications of that rate cut. And then yesterday uh last night we had two major thing happened uh two two major things kind of take place at the same time. Number one is you had this guy hit $200 overnight, which is kind of crazy, but Palanteer has a two-handle in front of it or it had a two-handle in front of it last night. Maybe we get it back today, maybe we don't. Uh either way, very grateful for Palanteer to even be in this position. And I think a lot of people were grateful to see uh the the momentum and potential of that momentum last night. And then number two, you also had Trump and Xi communicate on the deal that they supposedly make. Now, a lot of people are asking right now, wait a second, why are are we red in the pre-market? Like, what's going on right here? Have Trump and G officially signed a deal? And this is what we're going to start off with for the show, and we'll kind of talk about what's going on. But a deal was made, but a deal was not officially signed. And I think that's the issue. aka after the two hours of negotiating, uh it was about an hour and a half in this private military room in South Korea, uh Trump and Xi came out and they didn't really address the media. They didn't have a press conference. They didn't officially say exactly what's going on. Trump on Air Force One then said a bunch of different things for what the deal would entail. Bass clarified some stuff in the morning and that's why you're getting some of the red momentum you're seeing in the pre-markets right here. I genuinely think it's because the market doesn't fully believe we have a deal yet. And you know S&P is at 684. It's down half a percent. We were at 689 yesterday. Like this is not some horrendous red. We'll see at 930 what happens. But Nvidia 212 to 203. Palanteer 200 to 197. Robin Nood 147 to 141. Tessy 465 to 455. I mean you definitely have red candles across the board. One of the only stocks that's not really red is Google because I mean it was just a perfect quarter and that's why Google's up 8% right here. But it it is quite fascinating how the market is interpreting this shiny deal. Almost like the market's saying we are not going to fall prey to what has happened over the past couple months when you told us there was a deal and we're going to wait until it's actually official. Even if even though Trump did give some specific details that you would imagine had to be negotiated, but because there is no official statement from the US embassy, no official statement from the Chinese foreign ministry, the market's kind of just like we don't believe it. And so I think that's why we're red. We'll talk about the implications of that deal, but that's my best kind of logic for why we're red. Now, why is crypto red? I don't know, dude. Crypto cryptos I if someone else can explain to me why these two assets, Bitcoin and Ethereum, cannot catch a bid, I would love to hear. Bitcoin back to 108. It was 116 on Monday. Back to 108. Rate cut, don't care. China cooperation, don't care. I mean, I feel like something deeper is going on with Bitcoin and in crypto, but we'll talk about it and we'll see kind of what's going on. Um, all right. So, let's get into the China deal and we'll get into it. First of all, real quick, we're going to talk a lot about Meta, but what's going on with Meta? The the simple thing for Meta right here, actually, why don't we start with Meta? Let's do big tech earnings, then we'll do China because I see a lot of questions right here about Meta. And so, let's get into it. And again, thank you everybody for being here. Thank you for those who stayed for the uh nine hours and 45 minutes yesterday. It was a fun experience. My mom texted me. She was like, "Were you were you live for nine hours?" And I was like, "Yeah, it was it was a pretty wild day." My dad called me. He was like, he was he was upset. He's like, "Did you eat anything?" Like, "What's going why are you live?" I was like, "Dad, like it was a big day." He's like, "Did you eat?" I was like, "Yes, I ate." As as long as you eat, Indian parents are like, "If you eat, they're happy. That's all that like as long as you eat, they're okay." I was like, "Yes, I ate. I had some chicken and broccoli on the street. I ate." But uh yeah, no, I appreciate everyone who stayed. It was a really fun day. And uh it didn't even feel like nine hours to be honest with there was so much going on that it kind of just it felt like it was it was it was hanging out with your friends for nine hours. So it's a good time and thank you everybody for being here. We'll probably do it again in the future if we have those crazy days um where we have to cover everything for the markets. All right, so let's get into it. Meta, what's going on with Meta? Meta basically there there's two reasons why Meta's down. Number one is that they took a onetime $15 billion tax charge. Uh I thought that was a stupid reason for Meta to fall. So I bought the dip yesterday. So, I bought at 750, bought five shares for the hell of it. Say, let's have some skin in the game for earnings. And then I bought a little bit more at around 684 when it dropped yesterday, which I I thought was a decent price given that it rebounded all the way to 75. Now, it's back to 672. So, obviously, the dip keeps dipping. And I think a lot of you guys in the chat from what we were talking about also uh bought the dip. There's two reasons. The six this basically $16 billion tax charge was something that the street was annoyed with. Uh I don't know why because at the end of the day, companies have to pay their taxes. So, it's like I mean you can take the stock down for them paying their taxes, but it's not like, you know, it's not like they're not paying their taxes, which would be a different reason to take the stock down. So, that uh caused an EPS miss. And as a result of that EPS miss, um the stock put up a dollar six a share versus 660. And the street got pretty upset about that. If they didn't have that $16 billion tax charge, they would have beat by 720 or they would have beat by 10% because the EPS would have been about 725. So, that was the first thing the street was upset about. The second thing the street was upset about is that Zucks basically said for fiscal year 2026, yeah, diluted EPS was great. For fiscal year 2026, they are spending more aggressively on capex and the street really didn't like that. And I am a bit confused. We have a couple of analysts that that have put some thoughts out on beta that that we'll talk about in a second, but I was a bit confused by that because the street wants them to spend more. I mean, Google said they're going to spend more on capex. They went from 85 billion to 93 billion. Why is the street not upset about the gooks? Now granted, Google had other parts of its quarter that were really good, but it's almost like they're punishing Meta for spending more on capex because it's like they don't believe that it's having an impact on their operating metrics. But then when you look at the operating metrics, revenue is up 26%. This is a $2 trillion company. Google's not growing at 26%. You know, Meta Meta is growing almost like a like a SAS company in the early days, which is impressive. Operating income is up 18%. Daily active people is up 8%. I don't know how they keep finding more people to use this platform. Ad impressions, their core metric is up 14%. And their price per ad is up 10%. So, you know, Google had an incredible quarter, but it's almost like the market is thinking that AI is having a bigger impact on Google. And there are some metrics to to make that analysis with Gemini usage, API usage, all that stuff. So, so that's fair and Google deserves their premium uh and their momentum that they're getting right here. And quite frankly, it would not surprise me if they break 300 in the in the market open. But it's almost like the streets just doesn't like what Meta is doing with AI and they don't think that it's going to have the type of impact that Google is getting from AI. Also, Meta doesn't have a cloud business. And you know, Google has a very juicy cloud business that increased their operating margins from 17% to 23%. Not easy to do and kept the growth rate at at 34%. And so, and so maybe that's the difference. Uh my overall thought on this is that I think a year from now we're going to look back and if Meta has any meaningful impact from their AI prowess, then I think this will be something that people look back and laugh at. I did say over the past couple days though that I was worried about Meta simply because Zux is spending like crazy and the street could get upset about that. And yeah, the street is upset about that. But it's not like him spending like crazy affected the earnings. And and and you know, and this is kind of the the typical issue with Meta on on the on the sort of like base surface level. You're like, "Oh, Zux is spending like crazy. There's no massive AI moat outside of the AI increasing the advertising. So maybe the street gets upset." But when you look at the numbers, the the numbers are phenomenal. Even if he's still spending like crazy, which means they're able to stomach all the crazy spend. But uh but but but this time the street just wasn't happy about it. And I think it's maybe because of the perception of not only the tax charge they took, but then the way he answered questions on the earnings call that just made them feel like maybe he doesn't have everything together in regards to an AI story, which again, I think in a year from now, it's going to be stupid. Meta is now trading at 21 times fiscal year 2026 earnings. We're talking about Meta. We're talking about a multi-t trillion dollar company trading at 21 time. I mean, I I think it has to be the cheapest Mac 7. When the market opens, we'll look at the multiples, but I don't know. It feels rather attractive. I am curious to see how bad they're going to take Meta down. EPS down 84% is not good. Again, their EPS is not actually down 84%. They had to pay their taxes. So, I would rather a company pay their taxes than not pay their taxes. And at some point, you have to pay it. It's a one-time charge. You know, that's why when I saw the numbers originally, I was like, this can't be real. But then when you look behind the hood in the accounting, it's like, okay, so they have to pay their taxes. So, I don't think the taxes the tax charge is why the street is taking it down 10%. I think there's something deeper here around the trust around Zucks and AI because the street's smart enough to move on from a tax charge, but nonetheless, you're seeing the pain that you're getting right here on Meta. Um, so let's read some of the analysts and what they had to say. So, uh, Bank of America, they lowered their price target from 900 to 810. Again, going to this argument that the street is not exactly the happiest, but they still have a buy target. We expect Meta stock to be controversial giving an a limited EPS growth outlook in a year-over-year free cash flow pressure in 2026. However, we see Meta in a position of strength with a massive user network and the opportunity to integrate compelling AI products over the next few years. We believe the bad news on expenses is now mostly in the stock while product catalyst including a new large language model and content creation tools can drive upside engagement and revenue in 26. Also, while free cash flow will likely decline in 26 at the 695 after hours price, Meta is valued at 10.5x 2027 IBIDA and 19x 2020 2027 core business EPS. that means it has to be probably closer to 17x given that MET is now at 670 which we think can help support the stock. So they lowered their price target but they also think that it's cheap which you know makes sense and the cheap could get cheaper. So we're going to have to see. Rosenblat says hey uh 1117 is our price target. Meta's 3Q 20225 was great. The guidance for the high end of 2024% year-over-year growth in fourth quarter sales is 3% above estimates. So they beat on guidance. Consternation postc close comes from spending. Meta advised of expectations to spend 72 billion on capex up from 66 billion. So their increase in capex to absorb expenses this year of 118 billion. In 2026 capex spend is up to notably larger that was the exact word Zux used notably in dollar terms while 2026 expenses are set to grow at a significantly faster rate rate but we net it out and still end up raising IBIDA and adjusted EPS estimates for fourth quarter in 2026 driving our price target up 3%. The topline ROI on these AI investments appears to support the spend. We maintain our buy rating and raise our price to 3%. Which is an EV of 20x 2026 adjusted EVA is supported by a low 20% EVA keer over the next two years. So you have two different perspectives. One perspective is hey it's cheap but we're not going to give it a super big price target because we're afraid of expenses. The other argument is hey it's cheap even with the expenses we're going to give it a high price target because the growth is as strong as any other tech company that's out there. So that's what we got for Meta 674. I mean, I'm curious what the street's going to do it. It would not surprise me if this rebounds to 700. I think maybe max pain is around 650. If they actually take it to I mean, again, like when we look at real multiples, this thing would be trading at close to 15 times 2026 earnings. That's not I I don't know if that like that that's Google back in April at that point without the liberation day. So, I wonder what we would see on Meta. But, nonetheless, those are the reasons why I think you're seeing a bit of pain right there. Uh Santiago says it's not the capex expense stuff. Zux is spending too much on the glasses. Well, that's another concern. Zux is spending on the glasses and Reality Labs continues to lose money. So, that's also not the best thing in the world for Meta. I'm not a big fan of the glasses. I'm not a big fan of Reality Labs, the metaverse thing. I don't know why he keeps working on it. But again, when you look at the numbers, even if you take all that into consideration, Meta still becomes cheap if they're able to put up this earnings growth. Now, if their AI is not able to do anything other than advertising, which has been the concern I think a lot of us have been thinking about over the past couple weeks, that it's just ads. There's no cloud provider like Google, Amazon, Microsoft. Amazon and Apple do have earnings today, so that's going to be important. There's no uh LLM like Llama is not something that people use. Gemini just hit 650 million monthly activives. There's not really any of this of a consumer product outside of Facebook and Instagram that is using AI on a daily basis, although they have like their meta AI. If there's nothing else besides ads, then it's like where exactly is all the spend going to? And I think that's what a lot of people are thinking about as well. When everyone is unemployed due to AI, people will finally understand what the metaverse is for. Yeah, maybe. Maybe when all of us don't have a job. That's when we learn what the metaverse is for. All right, Google. Let's talk about the googs. First of all, if you own googs and you're heavy into googs, uh you got to give yourself a pat on the back. I mean, this stock did take a bit of hardcore conviction to stick through uh in the months basically from January till call it August until it finally started making a move. Google has basically doubled in less than four months for a company that is now worth almost 3.5 trillion. I mean it is just incredible to see. So what did Sunder put up? Well, they're doing 7 billion tokens per minute. They have 650 million monthly activives up from 450 million in uh Gemini. 34% year-over-year cloud first hundred billion revenue quarter $155 billion backlog and $300 million paid subscriptions across Google One and YouTube. I mean, even Elon had to say, "Nice work." After seeing those earnings, I thought this was a perfect quarter. I mean, I we listened to the call yesterday. Call was incredible. Sundar was on top of his game. Basically explained how they are building the ecosystem that they're building and how it's starting to work and you're really starting to see the advertising result. I mean, I think the first thing Sundar said is that our AI ROI is starting to show itself evident in our earnings and as a result, you know, the street's getting pretty excited about that as well. This is what it looks like on a visual basis. Gross profit was 61 billion. Search, by the way, up 12% year-over-year. Search is not slowing down. Or actually, sorry, search is up 15% year-over-year. Last quarter was 12%. So, it actually accelerated quarter over quarter. YouTube's at 10 billion. Uh Google Play is at 12.1, Google Cloud at 15.2. And then overall net profit, Google, basically every dollar that came into the business, 35 cents of those dollars came into the net income. 35 billion in profits. It's incredible. It's absolutely incredible. Google deserves it. I think this one's going to 300. Seems pretty obvious right here that it has a shot to get there. And the fact that Google Here's the other thing. The fact that we're red in the pre-markets because of this China stuff that we're about to talk about and Google's green. I don't know if Google can hold the green, but the fact that Google is going the opposite of the entire market and saying, "Nope, we are not letting this one fall away." Uh, you're seeing a lot more excitement with how the tree is thinking about it. Here is what uh Goldman said. They raised their price target to 330 and they said uh Google cloud was the highlight of the results with our in our view 34% revenue growth 79% revenue backlog growth a change of 2025 capex guidance from 85 billion to 93 billion results in an adjustment our forward forecast management was not ready to guide 2026 capex capex at this point but we have adjusted our capex estimate to 122 billion is what they think Google is going to spend and they overall feel that the search momentum YouTube momentum and Google cloud momentum is enough to fund growth investments while still producing a normalized upside upward margin story and long-term upside optionality inside the overall structure with Whimo and quantum computing. You've also got Whimo and Quantum, right? You've got Whimo that is starting to grow. Uh Sundar said it's going to Tokyo and London next year. And then you got quantum, whatever that could turn into, Google's making progress there. So, you just got a lot of different elements to Google to be excited about. And I mean, I don't think it's it's something people would be scared of selling right here. here. I mean, you're probably going to have some people that trim, but if you got Google anywhere below 200, even around that 200 range, this could be one of the best performers of 2026. It's one of the best Mac 7s that's showing the ROI from AI. And I think that's why it's continuing to catch a bid even at the levels that we are uh we are seeing right now. Alibaba's dumping. Are we getting a dump on Baba? Baba is not sure why we're getting a little bit of a dump right there. That's down about 3%. see if there's any headline. But you do have Alibaba. Some of these Chinese names are going a bit red. I mean, a lot of the Chinese names are also probably going red because, you know, there's not an official deal signed with the US yet. We'll talk about that in a second. But there you go. That's what you got on the Googs continuing to go green. 296. And they deserve it. They deserve it as they absolutely crushed. All right. Microsoft, last one we'll talk about, then we'll get into China and all the earnings that we got this morning. Uh Microsoft 525, that's down 3%. Microsoft, the reason they're down is for two reasons. Number one, they took a $3.1 billion OpenAI hit uh as per the restructuring. By the way, OpenAI reported last night, well, Reuters reported that they're trying to go public in 2027 at a trillion dollar valuation. So, I mean, that's something that's going to be quite interesting to see how the how that plays out across the entire AI ecosystem, but they're going to be filing in 26 2027 to go public. Microsoft would own about 30% of that trillion dollar IPO. So that is bullish for Microsoft, but they did take a $3 billion hit and they're going to be adjusting their revenue estimates going over the next coming quarters because OpenAI is not going to be included anymore. But 17% increase in productivity and business, 28% in cloud, and then 4% in personal uh computing. The other reason that Microsoft is down is because the whisper number on Azure was slightly higher than what Microsoft reported for guidance for Q4. And as a result, although Azure grew 40% for Q4, Street was expecting a little bit higher, they came a little bit lower. Microsoft's probably going to beat that number anyway. But in the short term, until you give the street what they want, you know, they're going to hurt the stock. And so Microsoft is up 30% year to date. We saw it go to 550 on that opening ideal a couple days ago. I think this one is absolutely a nothing burger. This one is way more of a nothing burger than Meta because Meta, you know, Meta had to take that tax charge in the streets, not really believing their AI story as much as Microsoft, but Microsoft did get hit. the the real summary of all three of these tech companies is that they put up the results they needed to put up to justify the S&P 500 potentially getting to 7,000. Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not this month, uh, you know, maybe not even in November, but if you're talking about an S&P that could get an exact a increased multiple based on companies continuing to report, Meta, Microsoft, and Google did not disappoint. Maybe Meta disappointed a bit with this tax thing, but if you look past that, you've got a beat on the top and the bottom line consistent with a lot of other companies, the big three companies in tech put up a beat on the top and the bottom line, which is very important. And now it just feels like Meta is, you know, a bit cheaper than some of these other companies that are out there. But overall, they all put up the earnings they needed to do. Uh, Amazon and Apple is today, correct? Amazon is and Apple is today. I'll be live in the market close. We'll see what we got for Amazon and Apple and we will cover those results. All right, earnings in the pre-market. Let's look at that real quick and then we'll get into what happened with China last night. So, we had a bunch of different companies. Uh, first off, Mastercard beat on the top and the bottom. Mastercard beat by 2% and then they beat by 1% on revenue. So, 8.6 on revenue and 438 versus 431 on EPS. EPS is up 13% year-over-year. Um, and revenue at this point for a company like Mastercard, another payments infrastructure company, is up 17% year-over-year. Mastercard stock, let's take a look at that, is up flat. Now, a lot of these financial companies have been getting hit uh like a Fiserve based on potentially not embracing the new financial revolution of crypto. Uh, Mastercard and Visa have been relatively flat, but Street's not giving them an added premium even though even though they are beating on the top and the bottom. Then you had Roblox. They lost 37 cents a share versus 51 cents. They beat by 27%. Another beat on the top and the bottom. Uh EPS is flat year-over-year. Beat by 13% on revenue. 1.92 billion versus 1.7. Roblox has actually had a good year. Roblox right now down 7%. All right. So although you had a top and the bottom beat, looks like something in guidance or something in the call maybe not going the best and that's why the street took them down. Crocs consumer company beat by 24% on EPS. Again, another beat on the top and the bottom. 292 versus 236 996 million versus 961. That's a beat for Crocs on the top and the bottom. That stock is up 5%. So you're getting a little bit of momentum there. Uh you had Hershey's, another consumer company, beat on the top and the bottom 23% 130 versus 106 beat by 2% on revenue 3.1 versus 3.12. EPS is down 40% year-over-year. Revenue is up 6% year-over-year. Hershey's which has been struggling since 2023. Yeah, basically flat down another 1.4% right here. not getting too much excitement. But again, I'm just curious, can companies continue to beat at the level they're beating at? And we're seeing major major beats across the board. One of my favorite companies, Estee Lau, dude, beat by 78%. 32 cents versus 18 cents expected. Then 3.4 versus 3.1 3.38 billion beat by 2%. EPS is up 130% year-over-year. Revenue is up 3% year-over-year. And you're getting Estee Lor shares to go up 2%. I don't think Michael Bur still owns this. He was long this. I think he's not in this anymore, but um this one still continues to execute. Big Pharma, Eli Liy top and the bottom beat 19% 702 versus 589 on the bottom line, 10% on the top line, 17.6 versus 16.0. EPS is up 500% year-over-year. Revenue is up 54% year-over-year. I mean quite literally tech company types of numbers. Eli Liy right there up 3.74% in the pre-markets. Then you had Merc more big pharma up 10% EPS or a beat by 10% 258 versus 235 17.72 versus 16.98 billion. EPS is up 60% year-over-year. Revenues up 4% year-over-year. Again, another company that beat on the top and the bottom. Mercy here is down 2.4%. I think what we're seeing across the entire market are these margin efficiencies that are causing these EPS or just overall better operating structure from a lot of these companies that need to continue inching out a profit. I mean, it's hard to see almost 80% of the S&P 500 beat on earnings and say there's a massive structural problem in the economy. And maybe there still is. We've got this labor market that, you know, continues to potentially weaken based on layoffs, but it doesn't feel uh like demand is the biggest issue given these companies are beating. Then you had Bristol Meyer Squib 163 versus 152. They beat by 7%. 12.2 billion versus 11.8 billion beat by 4%. Again, another beat on the top and the bottom. And that one continues to go up. Bristo Miles is up 1.4%. I don't think Mardo Libre had earnings today. I think they had earnings a couple days ago, right? Ricardo Libre, I don't think had earnings today. Um, did they Was this yesterday? Was this last night?
>> Oh, yeah. This was last night. Okay. So, Mart Libé, uh, they also beat on the top and the bottom. Beat revenue by 2.8%. Beat GMV by 1.9%. Oh, they missed EPS. Okay. So, they beat revenue. They missed EPS by a dollar. That's why that stock is relatively flat. As you can see right here, their revenue growth by country. Brazil's up 38%, Mexico 44, Argentina 40%, others are 39%. Did not go that deep into their quarter. Stocks basically flat right here in the pre-markets. Yesterday after hours, the stock is also flat. Yeah, I mean it's down 1.1. The Brazil tariffs affected them more last week when Trump announced it. That has been relatively resolved with the election of Malay, but you do have a move uh on a bead for revenue, but a miss for EPS and that's what you got. Yeah, last night. It was last night. The other company that we should talk about that had earnings last night and then we'll get into this China stuff is Chipotle. I don't know what's going on with Chipotle, but it's down 18%. We listened to the CEO a little bit and basically he said that um the consumer that makes less than $100,000 is not showing up to our store. Ages 25 to 34, income of 100,000 or less, they are not uh the foot traffic of how they're showing up to the store is significantly lower than what they expected. I don't know exactly how they've calculated uh this stuff. I guess they have their own proprietary ways of finding this data, but uh they missed by 1% on revenue. EPS came in line with expectations. It just wasn't what the street expected. The stock has already been having a horrible year. Now it's down 45%. One could argue people just don't like Chipotle food anymore. Uh McDonald's did say the same thing. So it's something we have to keep track of. Are these consumer companies that are catering towards people in that 100,000 or less income bracket? Are they not seeing the type of foot traffic because there's a demand issue and like people can't afford to eat Chipotle, McDonald's, etc. Or does the food just suck? Chipotle is not giving me enough chicken. I maybe that's it, dude. Maybe that's it. But yeah, credit card data. That's another way that they find this stuff. The CEO left CMG. That was also true. He went to Starbucks and this new CEO is not really getting people that excited. I don't know, d I mean I don't hate Chipotle. I think I had Chipotle last month. I don't think it's It is a bit more expensive than I thought it was. I mean, so it's like Yes. the it's almost like a Starbucks issue where it's like are you really going to pay that much for a burrito? But maybe there's something more structure going on. So that's one thing we have to look out for. But that one had the worst earnings yesterday. Big tech companies and the companies that reported today obviously had a much better earnings. Okay, let's talk about China. Let's talk about the US and China. I know a lot of people are confused about why we're red right now after the uh supposed deal that we got with China, but let's uh let's talk a little bit more about kind of what's going on right here. So, this is uh this is the we have a bunch of clips that I want to play and then we'll talk more about what's going on with this specific deal. So, first of all, this was Trump and uh Xi meeting for the first time. I actually fell asleep and then I woke up and I I woke up to this clip last night. But this was uh this was them meeting for the first time in about four years.
>> Mr. President the president of the People's Free Public to see you again.
>> Good to see you again.
>> Me, too. And we're going to have a very successful meeting. I have no doubt.
>> But he's a very tough negotiator. That's not good. all.
>> We know each other well,
>> Mr.
>> All right. So, that was the first uh that was the first meeting between them for the first time and yeah, the handshake was strong, but it's not, you know, people were observing the body language and they were like Trump didn't like legit pull him into uh you know, Trump usually pulls somebody into when you're doing the the handshake, so it wasn't as aggressive, which people were saying was a sign of like respect or whatever. But the meeting seemed like it started to go well at least by that initial uh introduction. And then this was Trump on Air Force One basically talking about the meeting afterwards even though they didn't have a press conference
>> much left out there and we've come to conclusion on many very important points and we'll be handing that to you in a little while. You know we're having because there was a lot of a lot of different things many of them very important. We're uh we're in agreement on so many elements uh large amounts tremendous amounts of the soybeans and other farm products are going to be purchased immediately starting immediately. If you notice, uh, President X authorized yesterday for China to start, did you know that, right? China to start buying in very large quantities of soybeans and other things which I appreciated. That was a very nice gesture. Uh, and uh, many other things like that. We on fentinol, we agreed that he was going to work very hard to stop the flow. You know, it's a very complex subject because it's used for lots of different reasons, including including anesthetics and things, but he's going to work very hard on it, precursors, and uh I think you're going to see some real action taken. I've agreed.
>> So, what were the summary of what or what was the summary of what Trump said? Uh if we look at this right here, this is basically the outcome of what he said on the on the Air Force One. The US and China will collaborate on Ukraine. Trump will visit China in April of 2026 and Xi will visit the US soon. China will begin buying soy soybeans and resume rare earth exports. On Nvidia, he did say the US and China will continue to further discuss Nvidia chip restrictions. He specifically said, I don't know about Blackwell, but we will still discuss chip restrictions. Which is discouraging if you're an Nvidia investor because, you know, if Blackwell can't be shipped, you know, the Chinese probably don't care. Uh, but the guidance that they gave without China is still pretty good. So, I'm less optimistic we're going to get China revenue in the next six months, but if it does happen, that would be nice. And then overall, China tariffs are going to be cut from 57% to 47%. And then fentinel tariffs will be slashed to 10% and China is going to be working on the stop of the spread for for China. By the way, the European Central Bank, they left their rate at 2%. They did not cut they did not raise they left their rate at 2%. We're getting that in just now. This is after the Bank of Canada and the United States cut rates by 25 dips over the past week. The European Central Bank left their rates unchanged. So, I put a poll right here in the chat and the question is, do you think we have a legit deal? 60% of you said no, 40% said yes. I want to say yes, we have a deal based on the specifics of what Trump said yesterday. descent also this morning was on an interview and he clarified a lot of those specifics as well uh in the in the interview. The problem is we didn't get any joint press conference with with both of them and you would think after a deal I mean it's not like these guys can easily just go on a plane and meet each other like this was trip was planned for a long time. You would think after the negotiations they would have a dual press conference and have a conversation. Maybe logistically they felt that the trade representatives like Jameson Greer and Bent and Lee from China need to have a deeper discussion after Trump and Xi met in person and it was kind of a formality for Trump to meet Xi and for them to just like handshake agree on the stuff and then afterwards their trade representatives would come to a deeper technical conclusion on what the specifics of the deal would be like. Maybe that's what's playing out or maybe there's no freaking deal. I don't know, dude. But I think the market, there's two reasons why the market's red right here. Even after an amazing big tech earnings and after this China stuff is number one, the market doesn't think there is a legit deal. And until it's signed, the market's not going to care. And then number two, we were at all-time highs yesterday. So, I mean, you know, we were pushing 690 on the S&P. You're probably going to have some people take profits. You're probably going to have alos come in and say, "Hey, it's not that easy to get to 7,000. You know, you need to go through some stuff first." And that's probably why we're feeling a little bit of red. Wow. Oh, they're really taking Meta down to 650. Dude, goodness. If it loses two bucks, it might hit the 660s. I mean, that is incredible. They're taking Meta down this much. You know, the the one thing about Meta right here to think about versus buying the dip. I mean, look, I think in a year from now, this this is probably not a dip that is uh is looked at in such a negative way given it's now trading at 20 times 2026 earnings, 17 times 27 2027. I mean, those numbers just feel incredibly cheap for the growth that it's putting up. But if there is a narrative overhang on Meta, which is something to not ignore because we've seen stocks that get a stupid narrative overhang, which might not be that stupid given the nature of their business, do a lingo, that AI is going to kill them, and then PayPal, which is that they're just not embracing the new world of finance. Uh, if Meta gets a narrative overhang, I mean, Google had a nar overhang for nine months that the DOJ was going to crush them. If Meta's narrative is that their Zuck is spending too much, I mean, we saw what happened back in 2022. I'm not saying that it would go that low again, but it could be something that is just not the easiest for the stock to recover from in the short term. But that is something to watch out for. Now, there were some people that bought lots and lots and lots of calls on Meta going into earnings. I mean, someone had like 45 million collectively if you look at the option flow of 815 and 830 calls for this week. Yeah. All those went to zero. And unless Meta somehow gets to 830 by the end of this week, a lot of those call options are going in the gutter. So if you bought puts or if you sold calls, you did well. If you bought calls, you're not the best. But that's what we have on meta. Yeah, a lot of the price targets as well got an increase. It's just straight's not that happy about how they're ultimately acting right here. Um, so that's what we got on Meta. SoFi is down a little bit right now. Overall pre-markets are getting a bit hit. Pounder did hit 200 last night, 1968 right here. Nvidia hopefully can hold the 200s which would be very nice. But 20370 that's also down from 212. Did Trump just post? Where's my phone? Oh, there it is. Where is my phone? All right, let's see. Did we get a true social post on Trump? Oh, here we go. We got a post. Well, this is this is from five hours ago, not recent, but basically Trump said, "I tr I had a truly great meeting with President Xi. He's going to be buying more soybeans. China has agreed to continue the flow of rare earth, critical minerals, magnets, etc. Very significantly, China strongly stated that they will work diligently to stop the fentinel flow. After this historic trip, I am now headed back to Washington DC. I want to thank the great countries of Malaysia, Japan, and South Korea for being so generous. Okay, there you go. Meta 25 billion bond sale. Is that a headline that we have? That could be the real reason why Meta's getting hit. Oh, yeah. Oh, that came out about 20 minutes ago. Oh, folks, I think this is actually the reason why Meta is taking a deeper hit. Let's get some coverage on this. Oh, that changes the story. 25 billion in debt is a little different.
>> What's your sense of how much more some of these tech giants are going to have to tap the debt markets to fuel some of their AI spend?
>> Yeah, it's it's data that I've been tracking really closely. Meta's six part is really interesting. The duration range.
>> Wait, hold on. If this is the same 25 billion that the Black Rockck ETFs are buying, this is kind of old news. This is kind of old news. This I mean there was 25 billion for a data center buildout that they were I'll try to get an update on this, but yeah, this might not be the newest news nonetheless. On a day like this when Meta doesn't have the best earnings, it could be affecting the stock even more. Let me see if this is new or old. A couple of you guys saying new, a couple of you guys saying old. Let me see what I can find. is five years to 40 years which like at one time and Lisa you know this better than me we'd be like 40 years what that's insane but it's not unprecedented even in this part portion of the year if you remember Oracle did a 40-year note that was 1.37% over treasuries this metal one according to a Bloomberg source is 1.4% 4%. Um, but it it speaks to the imminent capital need and the longerterm capital need.
>> Guys, this looks new. This looks new. Meta is doing a six-part bond sale seeking to raise 25 billion ranging from 5 to 40 years. These are corporate bonds uh at a premium of 1.4% above treasuries. Oracle was 1.37%. They're doing the Oracle playbook right here. This looks new. This is from Bloomberg 40 minutes ago. Meta looks to raise at least 25 billion from its bond offering. That okay, that that that that is actually why I think the stock is getting hit. The street does not want to see capex finance through debt. And Meta is the first company outside of Oracle to legitimately tap the debt markets. The other 25 billion was with Black Rockck, but that was for Louisiana Data Center. That that actually is old news, but that was discussed like two months ago. We did get some further updates on that, but this seems like a fresh 25 billion of bonds. It seems like a fresh 25 billion of debt that Meta is raising.
>> That Meta has and you know the story from overnight is that capital expenditures in the next fiscal year 2026 will be notably larger than they are this year at a top of 72 billion. That that's the stakes we're talking about. And
>> do you have a sense of what Meta is spending on given the fact that they don't have the cloud that say the Microsofts or the Alphabets have?
>> Yeah, this is the what spooked the market, right? You know, Meta is not a hyperscaler and the way to look at it is that it's aggressive investments in capacity are in part to meet internal demand which is a also a part of the evidence that the CFO Susan Lee is trying to put forward that they're seeing returns straight away. When you bring a new data center online or new capacity online, meta often has to look within its own teams and say what's the biggest priority here. um that is difficult for analysts to model how it immediately translates to topline growth, right? And so that's the brinkmanship going on here. Meta's sort of willingness to to frontload investment is how Zuckerberg put it and the visibility of the market to see revenue growth that would justify it near
>> Yeah, guys, this seems new. This seems new. This is a fresh new bond offering. uh their new total to debt load is 70 billion. In 2021 they had 14 I mean all these big tech tech companies have debt. It's just the debt is you know insignificant compared to their free cash flows. But Meta now is doing 51 billion in revenue a quarter roundabout. So call it 200 billion a year in revenue. Uh 70 billion in debt post the bond sale is what we're looking at right here. Yeah that's actually that I mean that's probably the deeper reason why Meta is red. Now again, the same conversation happens every time you see this debt for capex. Do you think there's going to be an ROI on this? Today, I think the street feels that there's less of a chance that there is an ROI. For whatever reason, they feel that there's less of a chance. But nonetheless, if there is an ROI, whether it's Oracle, Meadow, whatever other company it is, then you could argue that is justified, especially if the debt is relatively cheap compared to the ROI they're going to make on it. But I think that's why Meta is uh is getting hit. Are you buying Chipotle? No, I'm not buying Chipotle. I I I am I do want to look at their numbers. I mean, stocks down 50% this year. it feels like it's worth a look at like is there any value here? But if the CEO says they're not getting foot traffic from people that are making 100,000 or less that that that that's more of a structural problem either in Chipotle's business from a price perspective or for a consumer in that demographic which is Chipotle's main demographic which is still a bad thing for Chipotle. So I would not be like easily compelled to buy the dip but I do think it's worth taking a look at Google right there 29250. That one's still green. BMR. This one's getting hit because Ethereum BMR did not have earnings yesterday as people thought they did. I think they will have earnings next week, but again, their earnings really doesn't matter. I'm quite surprised that that many people care about their earnings. Like, I have a position in the stock and I don't care about the earnings because there's nothing they can say. The only thing that matters is Ethereum's price. So, uh, and I don't even think you're going to get Tom Lee like answering questions. He's not the he's not the CEO. So, I would be surprised if they actually gave like a legit earnings call because again, it's just the treasury at the end of the day. But the reason that one's getting down is because Ethereum is gonna get Yeah. November 5th, right? That's the number that I've been seeing as well. Um, so there we go. Tom Lee took a screenshot of one of your posts on X yesterday in his research note. Well, that's cool. I think he did that a couple months ago, too. That's dope. Yeah, look, Tom Lee is always on Twitter. He's always engaging and he's always looking at people's content. So, that's super dope. I mean, look, again, Ethereum, the reason Ethereum, I think, is weak is because Bitcoin's weak. I mean, I don't see a fundamental reason. It's not like all these uh companies are like, "Yeah, we're going to use Salana for all of our blockchain of choice in terms of payment infrastructure." It's like, no, they're all going to Ethereum either on Ethereum's layer 1 or on the on a layer two that's connected to Ethereum. So, I'm not sure exactly why we're seeing the weakness in crypto, but it feels a little bit more structural. Last thing before the market opens, this is what JPAL said yesterday. We'll talk more about what he said in regards to the meeting, but he was pretty bullish on the state of tech right now.
>> Right now,
>> yeah, this is this is different um in the sense that these companies the companies that are so highly valued actually have earnings and stuff like that. So if you go back to the '9s and the dotcom, they were these are ideas rather than companies and you know we're we're so there's a clear bubble there whereas the you know the I won't go into particular names but they actually have earnings and you know it it looks like they have business models and uh and profits and that kind of thing. So it's it's really a different thing. um you know we it's the the investment we're getting in um equipment and in all those things that go into creating data centers and and feeding the AI it's clearly part one of the big sources of growth in the economy. Consumer spending also though has been you know is is much bigger than that and has been growing and and has defied um a lot of uh you know negative forecasts continuing to do so this year. consumers are still spending. Now, it is it it may it may be mostly higherend consumers or may be skewed that way, but the consumer is spending and that's a big big chunk of of what's going on in the economy, bigger than substantially bigger than AI. You can point to the to.
>> So, JPAL does think, hey, this time feels a bit different from the dot bubble because at the end of the day, you do have companies that are spending. 9:30 a.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Here we go. Hoodie down 1% as we get into the market open. Palinger 19756. We did hit 200 yesterday in the overnight markets. That one is down. Tesla loses 460 back down to 450. Nvidia a little bit of a gap up from the pre-markets. to see that green candle right there from 203 to 205. So, you got some people buying uh the dip on Nvidia from the pre-market. Google loses 290 to 287 as Google goes down. AMD is down about 1.5%. SoFi down at 30.5 down from 3150. Grab right there at six bucks. Reddit is down 2%. Meta 665 665. that bond sale that definitely changes a bit more of the narrative on Meta if they are taking on debt for those that are just joining 25 billion in corporate bonds they are raising paying about 1.4% above a US Treasury note and as a result I think that's why you're seeing some weakness right there Meta 11% down 87 market cap just lost about 300 billion for Meta PayPal 6987 Salesforce is green is down 1.64% 64%. Apple, wow, 273. Markets bloody red and Apple goes up. Apple well above a $4 trillion market cap. Nvidia's at five still. Meta's at 4.04. And then Microsoft's at 3.9. Where is Microsoft stock right here? Microsoft is at 532. I mean, this is a nothing for Microsoft. I mean, down 2% is nothing. Meta is the one that's really getting hit. Microsoft was at like 515 last night, but that one's starting to recover. GameStop's down 1%. Intel's down 2%. Disney's flat. Duolingo's up a little bit. I ren below 60. The Bitcoin miners, I mean, everything the hyperscaler said about capex is not uh bearish the data center plays, but all of them today are red. Bit farms 11 cents away from falling below four. Hives down 2%. Wolves down one, CleanSpark's down one, Riot's down two, Galaxy down 4% on the day. So, all the data center plays getting hit even with the increased capex guy from the big tech companies. Rocket Lab, that's down 2%. ASTS is at 78.50. Meta. Wow. 654. I wonder if they're going to take her below 650. Gold is down, by the way. Gold loses 4,000 again. It It briefly captured it last night. Back down. I mean, dude, the 25 billion bond thing does change a little bit of the narrative for Meta, at least in the short term. at least in the short term. I didn't know they were tapping the the debt market as aggressively as they announced today. That's a bit aggressive. Now, Grant, at this point, I want to get the calculated numbers, but I think Meta's below 20 times next year's earnings, which is kind of stupid. Like, we're talking about a company growing 30% that's doing $200 billion of revenue a year. I mean, like, that feels kind of dumb, but nonetheless, the street's not liking it. Coinbase right there down 2.6. Crowd Strike down 1%. Coreweave. Wow. Corweave getting nuked down 5.4% and Nebius down four. Nebus and Cororee both down four. BMR are we losing 47? We are at 4737. That's down 4.7% as Ethereum continues to get hit at 3809. There you go. That's what you got in terms of this reaction. Meta recovering a little bit at 660 right there. 12.4%. AMD still down about 2%. S&P down half a percent. That's a pretty big move on the S&P. Granted, it ran up a lot this whole week. So, not crazy to see it retrace a little bit. I mean, again, I don't want to be super greedy, dude. The S&P was at 690 yesterday or 689.7. Like, it's, you know, as much as I we all want it to go to 7,000. That doesn't just go up straight in a line. So, I think taking a bit of a breather here is not crazy. Palantry down 1.4, even poundry, as much as I would love for it to still be at 200. Like, I understand they haven't even had earnings yet. And so, you could see a retracement there. Tesla's still holding 450. I know it was at 465 yesterday, but the fact that it's holding 450 is not too bad. And then Nvidia at 203. You saw from that JPAL clip, he does think that this stock market in regards to the tech revolution we're seeing is a bit different from the dot bubble in that these companies have real earnings and every time we look at earnings every day, you're seeing an average beat of almost 10% on EPS. So, this is very real in terms of the growth that's being put up in earnings. It's just some of that multiple might already be baked into the market which is why when we got a rate cut you know we didn't see a massive rally as well since the market expected it. Google unfortunately losing 290 still up 4% which is a massive day for Google but it is losing that 295 level that it had. Microsoft almost I mean I don't want to say almost recovering but only down 1.4 which is not too too aggressive right here. Fizer or not Fizer Ferve. Wow, they're taking this one down another 5%. It fell 42% yesterday. Now another 4.7% today. Now another 4.7% today. Okay, there you go. Five serve. I don't know who's I don't I mean is anyone buying the F serve dip? I haven't really gone through the earnings. I just know that it feels like a falling knife, but at some point 50% retracement maybe it, you know, tends to bottom. SMCI down 2.6, Six Ethereum down and then Bitcoin continuing to get down. Roblox is dumping as well. Not sure what they said on the call. Wow, Roblox 10%. They beat on the top and the bottom. They beat so not sure why Roblox is getting hit right here. But indeed it is getting hit. One of the reasons the market could be down as well, which again I think is a really weird reason. But yesterday pal started off the call by saying we are not going to confirm the validity of a December rate cut. And again, I mean, I think everyone already knows that Pal can't literally say we're gonna get a December rate cut, but the market was pricing at 90%. Now, the odds came down to 70% and everyone was just like, "Really? Is Pal actually not going to cut rates in December given the labor market that we have?" No one believes it, but because Powell was stressing it yesterday, that could be another thing that's making the market a little bit more hesitant before going higher. And you could see that as a reason along with the fact that China US deal is not officially confirmed. We have Trump's comments and Ben's comments. We don't have any specifics from the Chinese foreign ministry and as a result you know you might not be getting the excitement from the market that a China deal is legitimate yet and that's why you are getting some pain. Where's Oaklo? Oaklo is down 4.8%. How about Quantum Dwave down 4.5. So pretty much everything getting hit. Nvidia what? Dollar away from losing 200. Bitcoin 108. Bottom for Bitcoin was 104 on October 10th and then we hovered around 106. 100 bucks away from losing 108 right now. Hood losing 140. Yeah, expected that would happen as Bitcoin and Ethereum were getting hit and that is down. Trump said they have a deal on Air Force One. Yeah, Trump said they have a deal, but you know, the Chinese haven't confirmed anything yet. And I think that's also why the street's just like, well, we're not going to be that excited about this. Let's see. It's 7 minutes into the market open. Let's see if we have any intraday lows that start to get formed. Right now, it's just a falling knife across the board. I mean, anything you buy right now, unless in the next 10 seconds is the bottom, you're probably seeing a little bit of a lower price. So, you got to know that you are quite literally DCAing into what you're buying. But, let's see if there's any bit of a Vshape that we get across the board. Meta 660. Meta feels like it bottomed a couple minutes ago potentially at 932 hit 654 then made a recovery to 661 still down 12% on the day and we got to see if that one can continue or not. New bank is green. Okay, so what's green? New bank is green. Google's green. Rathon and Loheed Martin are green. Um let's look at the semis. Semis are all red except ASML and Lamb Research. By the way, remember that Neo robot video we looked at yesterday? I looked deeper into the Wall Street Journal article. It was all tea operated. All of it was tea operated. All of it. They did an interview with the CEO and he just he was like, "Yeah, it was they showed the guy teleoperated." I was like, "So why?" Like I don't know why people were hyped up about it. Like it's not real. It's not autonomous. It's not doing anything autonomously. So that was just a joke of a video. I don't even know why they put that out there. But yeah, that's that's that's not real. It's just not real. Apple, are we green on Apple? Apple still losing some of its green but holding on to 271. Margin rates came down on hood. Yeah, look, the Fed cut rates by 25 bips, right? So margin should be down. Your APY should be down. You should be getting notification from your banks or your high yield savings accounts soon that uh your rates will be coming down. I mean, across the board, you should be getting rates taking that 25 basis point hit as per the Fed officially getting rates down yesterday. Wow. Bitcoin 1077 loses 108 losses 108 108.3 now 107 what a whipssaw dude over the past week what a whipssaw Monday all-time highs Friday was getting to all-time highs Tuesday was whatever and then yesterday Wednesday you had tech earnings that were good but I guess not good enough for the street to kind of hold on to this given you know the street was at all time highs So expectations were really high and I think all the tech companies delivered just didn't deliver at the level that you need to kind of bust through. Meta right there 658 going back into the 650s. So not holding on to the 660s right here. OpenAI did not go public but they did file or there are rumors that they're filing to go public in the back half of 2026. Officially they would go public in 27. Uh they are trying to raise 60 billion in that IPO. 60 billion valuation would be a trillion. Again, love or hate OpenAI, they are too connected to the AI market. I feel like if you hate Open AAI and you think it's a scam, you've got to sell all your AI stocks because the amount of market cap that AMD, Oracle, Nvidia, Broadcom, etc. have moved because of announcing something with OpenAI makes them too big to fail. Like, love it or hate it, it really makes them too big to fail. And so, and you you could say, well, Google's a better chatbot. You could say you could say you like Google more and all that stuff. The problem is all these companies have signed deals with OpenAI. So it doesn't really matter if like Gemini is better than Chatty. The fact is that all these backlogs of remaining performance obligations that the street is giving a multiple to is because of one company and that company is OpenAI. It is a bit scary to think that they are the lynch pin of this but like at the end of the day they have to win. They pretty much have to win right here. Oscar is almost green. You're getting a little recovery there on Oscar. I don't know why UNH tanked yesterday. UNH back to 353. Fell all the way from 390 to 353. I guess it was just an earnings dump, but United Health is down. Open AAI helps unless you're PayPal. Yes, unless you're PayPal. Open AAI can pump your stock. At least PayPal's low green today. Did lose the entire pump yesterday, dude. It was crazy. The entire pump. It got hit. SoFi 29. Really? Wow. The Sofi 29. SoFi is down. Mid said big tech was going to crush. Yeah, it crushed the market. That's that's what big tech did. No, but big tech did crush objectively. Like we went through all the numbers. Big tech absolute absolutely smashed it. The problem is you had I mean look this is why trading earnings. There was a couple people on Twitter who took these screenshots of like buying these calls on Meta for like, you know, 780 by the end of the week and they were paying 5,000 a premium. And I'm looking at these screenshots. I'm like, dude, that means the stock has to be well above that price plus the premium that you're paying. And you only have a couple days to make that happen. You don't know what Meta is going to say. Guess what? They have to pay 15 billion in taxes. This is why it's hard to trade earnings. If they didn't do that, they would have beat EPS by 10%. Microsoft and Google crushed as well. Microsoft not as big of a crush as Google. Google crushed like crazy. But Google also was at all-time highs before they crushed. So, it makes sense that they're not like going to the moon because, you know, they were pumping 3% on a multi- trillion dollar company before they crushed. So, I I don't think this is unhealthy by any sense of the imagination. I do think it's a knee-jerk reaction on Meta and the bonds that they raised this morning complicates a little bit more, but like sometimes you never know what these companies are going to report. Just like three quarters ago when Google reported an EPS of 40%. If you were short Google because you thought they were going to suck for whatever reason and then their SpaceX investment they get to finally realize that $8 billion gain and EPS by 40%. Like some some of these things just come out of the blue and you have no idea how to trade them. But I think big tech earnings did crush. Now Amazon's got to keep up the party today. And we'll talk more about Amazon. I have no I I have an idea of what to expect, but I'm a bit scared because there's two different directions I think Amazon could go in regards to the layoff announcement and AWS growth. But Amazon and Apple today is also going to be really important as well. SPGI, this one S&P Global, they crushed earnings as well. They're up 5%. This one usually doesn't move 5% as well. Carvana didn't have the best earnings. That's why Carvana is down 14%. Uh Jim Chenos is probably very happy about that because he's short. But S&P Global, they beat by 7% on EPS. Uh 473 versus 441, 3.8 versus 3.8 billion on revenue. And that is a beat as well. Um Carvana missed on estimates, but the used car market, I mean, we've been talking about it for a while, has not been in the healthiest situation. And so that's why I think Carvana has, you know, been having some issues keeping up as well. Um, okay. Let's see what else do we have. Gold is still down on the day. eBay shares down 15%. Wow. We didn't have a chance to look that deeply at eBay's earnings, but it looks like they missed on one of Wow, eBay 15%. Goodness. Uh, I'll pull up those numbers in a second. eBay. So, a lot of these consumer companies, eBay, Chipotle, you have other consumer companies that are crushing it, but then you have other ones that are signaling potentially that there could be a bit of weakness right here. eBay beat on the top and the bottom. I guess they had to say something that got the street upset. 2% EPS, 3% revenue. That's down. Chipotle again, uh, just not a good quarter. and CEO said that there's declining foot traffic in their most important demographic. Right? They're down 19.2%. Bill Aman, if the data is correct, he could have sold since Q3. Uh but Bill Aman owns Chipotle. How much does he own of it? He owns 21 million shares now. I I think he's owned it since like 2014, but this one's definitely causing a bit of strain on his portfolio today. He also owns 5 million shares of Google, which he bought at like 90 bucks. So, you got Google going up, but Chipotle getting hit. Uh, Doug says, "How are we red this day and VIX is down? Is the VIX actually down?" Wow, the VIX is actually down. You know, I think I think the reason the VIX is down is because this is not like a sort of immediate panic cell type of moment. This is a more natural, hey, some earnings were good, some earnings weren't good. We're confused about China, yada yada, and you've got you've got tons of buyers coming in, you got tons of sellers coming in back and forth, but it's not like a VIX spike type of moment. You would expect the VIX to go up a little bit more, though. S&P potentially forming a bit of a base right here on the bottom at around 942 681. Are we seeing that with other companies? Yeah, we're seeing that with AMD at around 940, 257 to 259. Same thing with googs 280 to 282. Same thing with Tessie 4 940 448 to 452. Robinet as well back to 140. At 940 we had 13911. Now you're at 14122. And then Nvidia also was at 2011 to 203. So let's see if that 940 bottom potentially is able to hold. Oh, Snowflake. Dude, the story on Snowflake is crazy, bro. The story on Snowflake is crazy. So, what happened yesterday with Snowflake? Well, there was to do with Tik Tok. Everything comes back to what goes on with Tik Tok. Uh, there was this Tik Tok account that like follows people and asks them about their like their like their their life and how they've how they've been successful and all this stuff. And this dude ran into the snowflake chief revenue officer and he basically asked him, "Are you guys going to like hit your metrics?" And he admitted yes in the video. And it was just like it was it was weird cuz the way he said it kind of got the street upset. This was the video. Let me just pull it up right here. And then Snowflake had to file an 8K clarifying what he said.
>> Instagram feed.
>> How old were you when you became a millionaire?
>> Oh boy. Four years ago. And what line of business?
>> Technology.
>> What do you do in tech?
>> Uh CRO for Snowflake.
>> Did you guys just go public?
>> Uh we went public 5 years ago during co couldn't ring the bell. So this is our
>> Do you recommend entrepreneurs take their company public? Because there's a risk there as well when you bring in all that capital, you bring in voting shares. What do you think about going public as opposed to staying private?
>> Good question.
>> Sorry. I promise. We got 17 million followers. This is this is the best marketing he can do.
>> I know.
>> All right. Just keep it rolling. Hey, we're keeping this [ __ ] rolling, man. Sir, real quick. Could I finish real quick with you real quick for one minute?
>> We'll do 30 seconds.
>> 30 seconds is cool. All right. What do you think most people get wrong about cash flow when they're building a company?
>> Pre-p profofitability. Cash flow is king.
>> What does that mean?
>> Cash.
>> Okay, we're not going to listen to the whole thing, but basically he ends up admitting that their numbers are doing well. And then Snowflake has to say on October 26, the Instagram account named the school of hard knocks posted an interview on Instagram and related platforms with an executive officer of Snowflake in which the officer made certain statements regarding the company's future results. No one should take these uh results seriously. The company reaffirms the revenue guidance for Q3. Hilarious, bro. Absolutely freaking hilarious. 270 right there on Snowflake. Uh but basically he admitted Snowflake's going to have a good Q3 and hopefully that continues. All right, we're seeing a little bit of a potential V. Meta, a couple bucks away from 670. Couple bucks away from 670. Grab above six. It was at 592. Amazon still down two. It did get to 223. Amazon at 225. Meta now 667. Nvidia almost back to 204. Maybe 940. Maybe 940 was the bottom, folks. Maybe. How is the dude who bought millions of 685 spy puts doing today? Well, he's doing a lot better than the person who bought the meta calls. There was someone who there was actually someone who bought 5 million of Meta puts as well at at around that same price, 685 to 690. So, you did have some people definitely think that Meta was not going to crush and they didn't. But, you know, when the S&P hits alltime highs, you have a ton of put buyers coming in because that's when puts become cheap, right? So, if there's going to be any weakness, that's where the puts can start to print. BMR 47 4767. Yeah, that's up a little bit from 4714. So, you got a bit of a move there. He knew about the tax charge. Maybe maybe he knew about the tax charge, but you do have Meta trying to recover right here. That channel, that Tik Tok channel I've seen before. It's actually not a bad channel. It's actually like the guy walks around a bunch of these uh rich cities like Naples and he gets a bunch of good interviews. It's just if you're a CRO of a public company, you you can't tell him what you told him. Like you got to you got to give him general business advice, not you know, you know, we did great for Q3. Our operating cash flow was incredible. It's like, dude, this guy this guy's not an analyst. He's an entertainer. But that was hilarious just seeing that yesterday. Okay, Bitcoin also potentially back to 108. You're getting a little recovery, right? Yeah, there you go. Bitcoin 108. Okay, at the worst of it, I was down 115. Now I'm down seven. I I think that's a legit V that we're starting today. If we can go green on the S&P, that would be incredible. I'm looking at my portfolio right now for the first time today. At around 940, it was down 115 and now it's down 8,400. That's not too bad, bro. Look at Look at this. Look at these green candles on the S&P. Look at that. It's back to 685 from 681. Bitcoin 106 to 108 and then Ethereum. See, Ethereum is not really moving the way Bitcoin's moving in a pure V. This one's getting a little bit more complicated in terms of making a recovery, but it is trying to move. And then Apple back to 271. Apple back to 271. Don't have any Trump tweets yet. Not seeing it at the moment. Salesforce, look at that. 256. Salesforce going green as well. That's up 2%. Uh, do you think Amazon will have good earnings? We'll talk about it more. Look, I think that, let me just say this unequivocally. Amazon will be below 200 or close to 200 if AWS growth is not what the street wants to see. Having said that, the reason they cut 15,000 people with another 15,000 layoffs getting ready to happen over the next two months is because I think they want to cushion the lack of potential AWS guidance by saying, "Look, we cut a ton of jobs and therefore, you know, our operating margins are going to inflect even if AWS growth is not that good." That's the bearish scenario. The bullish scenario is Amazon comes out and says, "We have way more demand than we can handle. This is why we have to cut some of these workers to kind of increase more capacity to be able to buy GPUs, yada yada." Uh, and also, you know, the streets expecting 18%, we come in at 18.7, right? Any level of a beat off of a big base maybe gets the street to think this AWS story is a story they can't easily fade. And that sends the stock to 240. I don't think anything else in the business, advertising, e-commerce, I don't think anything else is relevant. Meta, by the way, back above 671. I think it's about operating margins and I think it's about AWS. And I really could see the stock falling below 200. I I'm just convinced at this point Meta is a 10-year hold. In the age of robotics, there is no other company besides Tesla that is going to benefit like an Amazon. Uh and I am more convinced than not that Amazon is going to have so many different verticals that they can they can expand to over the next 10 years with AI, with the advance of robotics as well, uh to just make themselves more efficient. Remember, Amazon's operating margins are 12%. That goes up to 15% in the next couple years. We're talking about tens of billions of dollars of net income. And Amazon is trading at its lowest EBIDA multiple in its stock price history. And it's trading at a 56% discount to every other Mac 7. Maybe not Meta today because Meta took a dip. But if we get a dip, I would welcome it. I really wouldn't be too upset as I want to keep building up the position, but I also could see it moving much higher if AWS is not as bad. So today we're going to see what happens with with Amazon. Amit, should we sell BMR? You should sell BMR if you lose conviction in Ethereum. I mean, it's just very simple. You either understand the ETH thesis over the next 5 years or you don't. If you don't and you don't want to be leveraged against it, then or maybe you do and you just don't want to be in a leveraged digital asset treasury. So then you buy ETH and you don't have to buy Bitmine. But I really don't think there should be complaining about Bitmine if you understand a deeper understanding of what's going on with Ethereum. And I feel like more and more and more we are seeing the advance of tokenization and stable coins at scale. I mean this was Larry Frink yesterday for those that want a little bit more context on this speaking in the Middle East about how serious this tokenization revolution is and why the future of finance is tokenized. Which means if you believe the future of finance and the future of that tokenization happens on ETH, that is your bullcase for Bitmine. I would say the biggest question from central banks is what is the role of tokenization and digitization? How quickly should they think about digitizing their own currency? What does that mean for the role of the dollar? If every currency digitizes and we have a you know what does that mean for bank payments? What does that mean for the for the payment companies like Mastercard and Visa? All these are being questioned right now. I will make, you know, we I think we spend so much time talking about a AI. We're not spending enough time talking about what how quickly we're going to tokenize every financial asset and the opportunity we're going to have to have a digital wallet and moving, you know, ETFs and other things through a digital wallet. And I think that's going to happen worldwide very rapidly. And I think most countries are illprepared for that and underappreciate how technology is changing that not not unlike how technology is changing AI and other things. It will be changing uh the technology around the plumbing of finance.
>> I think you either believe that or not and Larry Fank's not the only guy who's making that argument. You got a lot of smart people in the industry. Vlad being one of them that you know I deeply respect who believes that it's going to happen. And so that's your that's your bullcase. But obviously I understand Ethereum's price has been lagging and so people you know price drives all the sentiment and all the emotions behind it. So if you hate the price action that much then you get out of it. It's that simple. But if you think there's a fundamental thesis then you you keep going. Also I mean again this is why we talk about selling covered calls on the channel. I mean like if you really are are annoyed at BMR price action the covered calls are still incredible. you can get, you know, getting 10% in a couple weeks on these premiums. So, if you really believe BMR will be stuck between 47 and 55, let's give it the range. You can sell a covered call for 55 a month out and collect a decent chunk of premium and you get paid to hold on to those shares, reduce your cost basis. Now, if it runs up to the moon, you can't be too upset, right? Because then your covered calls are underwater. But if you really do think, look, if I'm going to own this and it's going to be stuck, I might as well yield some income off of it, then the options market and it's the 28th most liquid stock in the market. There's plenty of premium that you can get from people that are buying those calls. Google, by the way, trying to get back to 290, getting a real V on Google from 280. It almost lost 280, now up to 287. did hit 289, but that one is slightly green as well. Um, okay. Let's see if we have any macro data coming out. Microsoft, where is Microsoft? How's that one doing? Who bought the dip today? Did anyone buy anything? Palent, by the way, trying to get back to 199. Meta, SoFi, Microsoft, let me know in the chat if anyone bought anything. Paler, right there, 1988. We did see 200 yesterday, which was really nice to see. And that's making its move before earnings. Uh, Monday is going to be a big day for Paler. That's when we got earnings. So, we're going to see. Oh, where's Amcore? Amcor is 3242. Rubric, why does anyone know why Rubric got smashed over the past week? I don't understand. I I don't I feel like we would have covered their earnings if they had it, but I don't know why this is down 12% in the past month. This one did get hit. I see a lot of buy metas. I see a lot of metas. Lots and lots of metas. Uh, sold Tessie 30% profits. Yes, we have Grab on Monday as well. Coreweave, Reddit is Reddit. Reddit's uh next week, right? Reddit's not today. Today, what do we have after the bell? We have Amazon. We have uh Apple, we have coin Oh, we have Reddit today. Coinbase, Reddit, Micro Strategy, Cloudflare, Roku, First Solar, Twilio, Amazon, Apple, Riot, Rocket Mortgage, Lumen, GoDaddy, and Zillow Group. Okay, so today's going to be a wild day. Wow. Pounder 1990. She's going for the 200o. She might allow us to ring the bell at 200o. She might let us do it. There you go. Dude, the fact that Pounder is going green and everything else is still pretty much red. I mean, Google goes green, everything else trying to recover red, but it shows you the strength on that one. And then Robinet also 14292. This just fell to 139. Bought Meta, bought Microsoft, SoFi. Yep. 30.52. Look at that. SoFi from 2950 to 30.5. I think SoFi is being controlled in a range as well. did get a couple upgrades. Still a couple not downgrades, but sell ratings after those earnings, which is I don't know why some of these analysts just don't really love the story. But you do have some down some some sell ratings after those earnings. Uh Nvidia right there, 20392, S&P is flat, AMD 262. Where's Open Door? That one's down 5.2. Open door is getting hit. The meme stock ETF is getting hit 2.89%. ASST this is up 2% 128 and then BMR is at 9 4745 bought QXO. I have not read Steve's article yet. I have to look into it. Um we were talking a little bit about it on the phone but I've not done any real due diligence on this one yet. Why is Meta down? Again, we talked about Meta uh that tax charge they took, the increase of capex significantly that they guided for for 226. All of that could be getting the street to be a bit more upset about operational cost efficiencies and I think that's why you're seeing a little bit of pain right here. Now, another reason you could be getting some pain is due to the labor market and the thesis on what's going on with the labor market. Um, as per what we saw yesterday with uh with JPAL, he said a couple different things about the labor market that to me just signals we're going to get that December cut, but nonetheless, he is admitting the labor market is potentially weakening, which is something we cannot necessarily ignore. Nick says, I ba dip at 660. Yeah, it looks like a decent chunk of people took 650 or 660 to buy the dip. Um yeah, I mean so far you're seeing a bit of recovery here. This market is resilient. This market has been resilient all year. I don't think anyone really had a reason why we were down outside of the China deal not being official. So that itself could be a reason for the recovery as people start to come in. Rocket Lab, are you getting a recovery there? That was down 2%. Rocket Lab still down three 64. Well, it actually fell to 6289. So, that went back 264. Roblox, I'm not sure why Roblox is crashing at all. 11% hit. I will try to get some updates on that one. It's got to be something they said on the call that's getting people upset on Roblox. Let's get the China update and then we will keep going from here. site lit up with a message noting that China is quickly catching up to the US in number of nuclear weapons and announcing that the US will restart nuclear weapons testing which it hasn't done since 1992 at the end of the cold war. Now, despite that nuclear saber rattling, the meeting between uh Trump and Xiinping did go forward as planned. But afterward, a lot of details remained unresolved, including the fate of Tik Tok and the question of advanced Nvidia chip technology exports to China. They're going to be talking to Nvidia and others about taking chips. Look, we made great chips. Nvidia is the leader. And uh I'll be speaking to Jensen from Nvidia, but they're going to be discussing that with the video to see whether or not they can do I said that's really between you and the video, but we're sort of the arbitrator of the referee.
>> And President Xi, for his part, struck a measured tone in his description of the tensions between the two sides. Given our different national conditions, we do not always see eye to eye with each other. And it is normal for the two leading economies of the world to have frictions now and then. And in the face of winds, waves and challenges, you and I at the helm of Chinese US relations should stay the right course and ensure the steady sailing forward of the giant ship of China US relations.
>> In a TV interview from South Korea this morning, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant said the Chinese had agreed to renew soybean purchases at a level that would put them just below what they purchased back in 2024. And President Trump said the two sides had agreed on a number of items. A one-year agreement on Chinese continuing exports of rare earths. US reducing fentinol tariffs on China from 20 down to 10% that would be effective immediately. China, he said, is going to work very hard to stop the flow of fentinol to the United States. Trump said overall Chinese tariffs will now be around 47% and he's not going to impose those threatened 100% November 1st tariffs. And the president said he's going to go to China in April. Now on Tik Tok, guys, a Chinese Ministry of Commerce spokesman said simply, "China will properly address issues related to Tik Tok." Not clear exactly what that means. Bessant said in his interview that the Tik Tok issue could be resolved in the coming weeks or months. And in the end, the president said that nuclear weapons post made just before the meeting wasn't directed at China after all. He said it was directed at others who he didn't name. Back over to you guys.
>> Okay, so that's what you got with the Chinese update. Markets once again get a red candle. You were making a little bit of momentum and then boom, you get hit at what 10:04. 10:04 everything gets hit again. This is a choppy day. This looks like this might end up being a choppy day. Uh let's take a look at the heat map right here. And again, you can see even from that from that clip about Trump and China, it's like there's not a full resolution yet. And I think that's also the reason the markets aren't just straight to the moon because of this photo op. Like we we don't know exactly what the deal will consist of. So you have green in financials, you have green in healthcare, you have red in tech outside of Google, Meta obviously getting hit the worst now. Uh uh Adobe, Salesforce, into it, Service Now, they all had well Service Now had earnings it was good, but all those are green. IBM's green. Apple's up today. Amazon Tesla. Wow. Amazon Tesla, Meta, Nvidia, Microsoft are red. The only Mac 7 that's green is Google. The only Mac 7 that's green is Google. Uh IBIT or Bitcoin ETF overall trading volume surpassed a billion in the first 30 minutes of trading today. So, we do have a lot of people trading more Bitcoin. Uh Marjorie Taylor Green did buy some more Bitcoin as was disclosed yesterday. Bitcoin still down on the day, but you do have a decent amount amount of trading. TSM going green, some of the semis going green, but overall it looks like the MAG 7 are red. And that's why the S&P is red, right? Because they are the majority of the MAG 7. TSM right there at 306. Where's the rare earth companies? Let's see if they're doing okay. They are all down. Not down as much. I mean they are down a lot from where they were last week. I mean the these were trades that if people chased again they got they got hit. TMQ is still up 123% for the month but you know it peaked out at around 10 bucks. Now it's at 470. So it's down 50%. From those levels and the rare stuff that you know Trump announced with China was not bearish. You could say just might mean not that much domestic demand is needed. Google right here trying to get back to the 290. Rumble's running. Rumble, they got a little bit of a move on Rumble. This one up about half a percent. Open Door still down 5%. ESTs.32. How about Lemonade? That had a bigger day yesterday. Lemonade down 2.7. And then Amazon 227. Okay, let me ask this question in the chat. Um, let's do this. Are you long Amazon or Apple for earnings? Even if it's just an earning play, do you own Amazon or Apple? So, it's Amazon, Apple, both or none. I think there's a decent chunk of you that have owned Apple for like years and just never sold it. But I do think more people are are long Amazon. Yeah, we will have Coinbase, Reddit, those companies also matter. I just I don't know what to expect out of Coinbase because I don't think in Q3 well actually it'll be look Q3 trading volumes will be important to to signify what happened with Robin Hood. But uh Coinbase still has a lot more institutional trading volume than retail trading volume. But Bitcoin and Ethereum have been, you know, not the most exciting story over the past three months. So, I'm not sure the trading volumes are going to be that massive. Granted, we did get alltime highs on both of those for a brief moment in August, but yeah, that's going to be important as well. And then Reddit, we're going to see. Did Trump post today? Did he just post? Let's see. Trump said Joe Biden should be in jail. Okay, that's your uh that's your latest post. Biden is a criminal and should be in jail. A major low life and failure. Uh an ugly person both inside and out. I beat him badly and love watching him squirm now. Okay, that's a little aggressive, but all right, there you go. I love watching him squirm now. Okay. Well, we go from China to uh to Biden. There you go. China to Biden. Let's hear from Ed Yard Denny. Get some of his thoughts on what's going on in this market and uh then we'll keep going from there.
>> Double digit growth rates on a year-over-year basis. Uh and so I think that's uh all very good for the market.
>> Yeah, certainly the big picture continues to move in line with with probably what the bulls would like to see. Although I wonder just about the some of the details, right? So the last few days a lot more attention on how the the rally had narrowed out again. Semiconductors and some related stocks really doing most of the work. Breath measures not that great. And then I guess the idea that maybe people had started to chase a little bit anticipating a strong finish to the year. So I I guess tactically where where do you put that?
>> Well, I think you know when you look at the uh S&P 500 over the past 10 years and average the year-to-ate percent change. Uh what you find is that uh year-to- date on average we've been up 8% and then in November December uh we clocked another 4%. So, we got up to a 12% increase. And I think um investors are expecting that kind of Santa Claus rally. Uh when I talk about a Santa Claus rally, I look at basically November and December. And when you look at it from that perspective, maybe we'll get another 4% increase in the S&P 500, which will handily get us to 7,000 on the S&P 500. Uh but as you said, there's um a potential here for uh I think one of your favorite words is a pullback when things go down. That leaves a lot lots of options of of how how much we can go to the downside. Uh but I think we could have pretty moderate pullback. My my concern is sentiment is too bullish. Everybody seems to be bullish right now. So we need to take some of that froth at least on a short-term basis out of the market. And so I wouldn't be surprised for the next
>> That's a fair point. I mean, look, we did have a 3% pullback already over the past couple weeks, and that did get a lot of froth out of the market. Uh, but we're still at alltime highs. You can make the argument that there's still be there could still be some more potential froth. Uh, option flow. Okay, we got some things coming in. Take a look at this one. AMD. Wow, someone just bought 40 million of puts in a single transaction. This is probably a hedge fund. 240 January 2026 put 240 January 2026 put for AMD damn 40 million 25,000 puts they paid620 they paid the exact ask price to get access to those puts I agree with what Suchin said yesterday on AMD and Suchin has a lot of AMD and we're talking about seven figures of AMD and he said uh if Lisa Sue doesn't increase guidance like Larry Ellison did off the hopes and dreams of what the opening partnership could do. This stock is tanking because it's been giving a lot of premium for no revenue growth, just partnerships. They need to put into their RPO. Even if it's not real yet, if you want to keep the stock up, you got to put into your RPO that OpenAI is going to give you like 80 billion bucks eventually to keep the street calm. And Larry Ellison figured that out a while ago. It could be a protective put. Yeah, I mean if it's a hedge fund obviously could be very protective but definitely something that I think Lisa Sue needs to say again data center growth is 14%. So it's like it's not impressive like it it has to increase compared to Nvidia and it will it just won't in the next two quarters because opening I still has to build out these data centers but if they can contract it in their RPO I mean Oracle didn't have fancy revenue growth but they had really fancy RPO growth and that's what got the street as excited as they got when Oracle reported a could you help me understand how we have record numbers of money on the sideline yet we are still shaking out froth of sideline came in, wouldn't that just be more froth? Yeah. I mean, look, the sideline money when we think about money market funds are people that just want to not worry about taking risk. Institutions and individual investors. And as a result, they say, "Hey, I'm happy getting 3.75% now. It's probably three and a half% because we got the 25 basis point cut." And we're not interested in risk. The idea of money coming out of money market funds is if rates get so low to the point where the risk premium of being in a money market fund or the risk-free rate return of of of being in a money market, the equity risk premium of being in the stock market, it becomes so bleak that you have no choice but to take a bit more of a risk because your money is just burning. One could say even to inflation. If inflation stays at 3% and Trump gets us down to 2 and a half%, you're literally losing money keeping it in cash. The froth argument that Yard Denny is talking about is more so money that has been into a lot of money that has come into a lot of companies that don't really have earnings and they're not showing earnings, but they're still holding their multiple. And for the companies that are showing their earnings, you know, there's still alltime highs. I mean look in I don't think Nvidia 203 is necessarily frothy when you look at multiples but to give some context and I think this is I think Yard Denny's kind of core point on why there could be some level of froth um it took Nvidia 6,000 days to reach a trillion dollar market cap and then 597 days to reach a 5 trillion market cap. It took them 200 days in between four trillion to get to five trillion. I wouldn't necessarily say five trillion is frothy when you look at the earnings growth and you look at this $500 billion number over the next five quarters, but my goodness, Nvidia is a $5 trillion company and it didn't take them that long to get to 5 trillion after they got to 4 trillion. And then when you look at the estimates of Nvidia compared to other countries, if you rank the countries by market cap, the US is number one, China's number two, Japan's number three, Hong Kong's number three, Nvidia is number four. It is 5% away from overtaking India's entire market cap or entire GDP essentially. So that's where you can make the argument where look there's a lot of money on the sidelines that will only come out of the market money market funds if there's actually a reason aka rates come down enough you still have companies that are you know up a lot four 5x this year and they don't have any earnings and then you have a a a company that is worth more than most countries on the planet outside of the big three and that could be frothy even if when you look under the hood you know the numbers might suggest it's not frothy but having said that that's the same argument for the wall of worry right like every time people say it's a top the reason we continue to go higher is because in my opinion there's so many people ready to call the top people see this Nvidia's worth more than uh India news and they're like wow that's toppy it's like yeah like the headline is toppy I get it but then when you look at the numbers you look at what Jensen is saying you look at the growth rates look at the forward multiples it doesn't become that toppy it becomes actually quite reasonable and so I think part of the reason we have all this fraud is because of just the headlines of what people think, but under the hood, it's not exactly the same story. Apple right there, 270 down from 274, but that one's still green. My guess is 7 trillion will be deployed in the next massive engineer drop in 2026. So, the money market funds, I don't think we're ever going to lose multiple trillions from the money market funds. Uh, now on average, we have three trillion, but that was in a 0% interest rate era. uh now that interest rates are probably not going back to zero. We will probably have more than three trillion. I mean I would be shocked if over the next couple years we have you know seven trillion down to three trillion. My guess is going to be similar to 2009. 2009 you had about 565 billion leave money market funds and go into the stock market when we bottomed in around February. I'm thinking a similar thing could happen. Maybe it's a trillion this time because it's just law of big numbers. I think a couple hundred billion leaving money market funds and going into the markets if rates get attractive enough is what you can expect. I I don't think it's like three or four trillion coming out unless Trump takes rates back down to like 1%. Maybe then but I agree with you Chris. There would have to be some type of drop in 2026. And by guys we're going to get a drop in 26. I don't know when it's going to happen. I don't know how it's going to happen. I don't know if it's S&P 7000 to 680. If it's 7500 to 7,000, if it's, you know, 695 to 645, but there will be some 10% drop. Historically, since 1950, there has been at least a 10% drop once every single year. Meta right there at 664. So, there's got to be some cash on the sidelines ready to buy that dip. The question is why and how will it happen? But eventually, it will. And I think the question is just if companies keep putting up earnings, then maybe that drop is not going to matter as much. Yeah, January people could take profits, people could sell for taxes, etc. There could be another drop in December. Yeah, there could be another drop in December. I mean, again, we are entering the best time of the year seasonally, but nonetheless, this entire year has been not exactly matching up to historical precedence, so we're going to have to see how this plays out. Uh, we will probably question AI again next year. Yeah, I think we'll probably question AI again next year, but given the capex guide we saw from Google, Microsoft, Meta, I mean, again, these guys are continuing to spend for a reason. And Google putting up the earnings that they're putting up is at least one company, even if you don't love Microsoft or Meta's numbers, showing that uh it's having a real ROI. I mean, 650 million monthly Gemini users, that was 450 million three months ago. If they keep up at this point, they're going to be at a billion by middle of 2026 and that would also be very very exciting. Grab still holding above $6. We got Grab earnings on Monday. We're going to see what Grab can do. Oh, by the way, an update on Grab. Go to their rival had earnings in Indonesia yesterday. Uh I went through the earnings and I looked at it. From my understanding, everything that Goto reported should be very bullish for grab. They increased IBIDA estimates, free cash flow positive, profitable, etc. If you look at Goto and Grab, their businesses are actually very similar, especially how they report their numbers. Like, if you literally go through their slide decks, it's almost like a carbon copy of both because, you know, they're both foreign companies that are trying to appeal to American investors. So, it's a very similar kind of aesthetic appeal. And I think Grab is going to have the exact same quarter, but I think they're going to raise their estimates by more than what go did. And as a result, you know, that should be beneficial for them. But the fact that Indonesia is booming in the ride hailing, delivery, fintech ecosystem, you know, Grab is in Indonesia plus eight other countries. And as a result, I think I think we should get a good Q3. We're going to see Monday. We're going to see what happens. Aid, do you think the big beautiful bill thing could happen with Amazon? You're talking about the tax credit. So, I don't know enough about what exactly happened in the big beautiful bill that caused Meta to take this $15 billion charge off because none of the other tech companies had that charge off. My understanding is that Meta delayed tax payments on an investment that they didn't fully recognize. And then as for the big beautiful bill that allows you to write off data centers, they had other investments that they had to finally recognize which means they have to pay taxes on. Could that happen to Amazon? I have no clue. Like I genuinely have no idea. If it does, Amazon's probably gonna have a knee-jerk reaction to the downside. But I'm thinking it's more of a meta thing, especially because they made different investments that caused them to uh to to recognize that issue, but I could be wrong. So, we're going to have to see after the close. Um, what happened to the go-to fraud situation? That is still there. I mean the the the original founders and some of the executives have been you know dealing with that controversy but that that's not stopped the actual company from you know continuing to execute as a company in the region but look that controversy is not there caused a lot of protests caused a lot of brand sentiment damage and so you know that is something that could also be a tailwind for the competitors in the region. Oh wow take a look at this core scientific shareholders reject the core merger. Wow. The deal failed to secure the required votes. We talked about this a couple months ago when Cororee tried to buy them out. Uh this was supposed to be like what a $9 billion deal. Corre down 3.5% right here. A lot of people didn't like the offer that Cororee made and as a result shareholders are explaining that they're not going to allow it to happen. There you go. Gets rejected. similar to uh Adobe and Figma a while ago. Well, no, that was more legal with the European regulators. This is more shareholders, but that might leave Core Scientific to continue being a public company on its own. Hims, where's HIMS 4646? Hims continues to stay below 50. Hims continues to stay below 50. What do people think? Do do we think we're super frothy here at these levels? S&P 684, Nvidia 2011. I mean, if if if you had to say frothy or not frothy, put in the chat. Are people thinking we're frothy? We just went through a 3% draw down. We obviously have had a pretty good recovery as we're hitting all-time highs. Uh earnings, I mean, again, every day it looks like you're beating on the top and the bottom from every company. Is this FE the all the unprofitable companies they all fell by 30% over the past two weeks that you know you got some of that money out of the system. Yeah, let's do a poll on it. I see a lot more not frothy than frothy. Uh by the way, 50% of you are long Amazon, 9% are long Apple, 14% both, 27% none. So majority of people here long Amazon. Okay. Are we frothy? That is in the chat. Um 876, thank you for the super chat. Take a look at CNBM after Starlink announcement. It's done 900%. Yeah, we saw that yesterday. I mean, that was crazy, but uh wow, it's up another 100% today. $176 million market cap. Starlink partnered with them. as stocks up now a thousand percent this week. Now, I don't know if people are just chasing it, if it's up another 111%. But yesterday up 4x that seemed to be based on that uh that announcement. Uh Feds, thank you for the $200 super chat. In celebration of this glorious day, I want you to buy one share of pound on me. 200 never felt so good. You were there the whole way and deserve the success, man. Congrats to you as well. Fats, thank you so much. when we get to 200, I will definitely buy that share uh at $200. But it was pretty cool to see that yesterday and and pretty epic together. I I also got a picture from Chad at GTC. You know, when Chad came on the show yesterday and he was he was explaining the Nvidia Nvidia Palunteer partnership at GTC when they were demoing AIP in in Nvidia. Someone was watching the market open there. That was crazy. So there's me and Chad on the screen as they're demoing AIP at GTC. So pretty pretty cool from yesterday. Nvidia right there down 2.4% than the S&P down about half a percent. Rob, thanks for the super chat. Admit OpenAI believes they will be worth one trillion next year. Do you think that's possible? And if so, could that affect pounders valuation? I mean, look, I don't know if OpenAI is going to have an actual IPO that gets valued at a trillion. to be honest, it could be even more than a trillion based on the demand for the IPO. For pounder, I mean, look, pounder is pushing 500 billion. Obviously, the valuation is up there. Uh, one could argue that OpenAI not being profitable means that Paler should be worth even more given that they're profitable and they're actually creating meaningful use cases. It's just a question of what OpenAI's revenue growth looks like. Palunteer will grow probably 50%. Hopefully 50% next year as well. OpenAI is thinking of growing like two 300%. So the question is going to be what does the growth trajectory look like and can they get to free co free cash flow positive with adjusted ebida positivity by 2027. But yes if openi goes public I think it will affect every AI company that uh you know that that is seen as a company in the broader sector like a trillion when's we I don't think we've had the last time we had a trillion dollar IPO was Saudi Aramco. I don't think we've ever had a trillion dollar IPO in the tech sector. I think the other one besides that was Baba. That was like 250 billion or something, but that would be the largest IPO in history. Tesla, by the way, getting hit 3.65%. Tesla getting a 4% hit right here. Bitcoin still 107 as that one continues to go down. Aid, I had the market open on in the bedroom this morning and my wife had pound her 200. She's still pissed at me for those $25 covered calls. It is what it is. I was actually talking to someone yesterday or not yesterday, it was a week ago. He had 32,000 shares of Palunteer and uh he had covered calls at 35 and when Paler got to 35, he was like, "Oh, it'll fall down. Then it gets to 40." He's like, "It'll fall down." Then it gets to 50. Then he's like, he rolled it to 37. He's like, "It'll come back down." I remember 35 to 37. It just got called away a couple weeks ago. All of them, all the shares at 37 bucks. He had 32,000 shares, bro. It was He was just like, "Yeah, bro. That was uh that was a little bit of a mistake." I was like, "Yeah, that one sucks." And he could have saved it like even it when pounds was at 7080. He could have paid a bit of a debit and rolled it and and gotten at least like 130, 140, you know, and then when it got there, he could have had an opportunity in August because we fell to 140, could have managed it, rolled it up to 190. But he just kept thinking it would come back and it just didn't. That's what happens. It happens in different situations. VIX over 17. All right. So now the VIX going a bit more green. There you go. VIX going green. So below 30 again. S&P are we below? We are not below the 940 level at 681. We're at 683. Um, I did that in Tesla in 2019. Dude, I was buying freaking Tesla in 2019 as a dumb college kid. I remember seeing it get to like I don't know what the postsplit adjusted price is, but it was one I bought it at 170 back in 2019. I don't know what that is post adjusted split, but uh then I sold when I got to 300. I thought I made money. Should have held. Should have held. BMR, what's going on there? BMR is at 4729. 4729. Did that too in Meta in 2022? No. Sigma's down 17%. Goodness gracious. What the heck? This is another healthc care company. Did they have earnings today? Sigma 17. Yeah. Uh, looks like guidance is intact. They beat on the top and the bottom. Um, there's a couple of issues with their pharmacy benefit services segment and on the earnings call, they didn't reaffirm their guidance or they didn't reaffirm their operating margin guidance. That's probably why UNH was taking a hit in the morning. There you go. Sigma down 17% on the day. UNH down 3% as well. Same with Bax that's down 16%. Baxter down 15. Another healthcare. Dude, a lot of these healthcare names not been able to hold on even though Oh, Sprouts Farmers Market. That one also got hit. Yeah, 25%. This one just was like, again, this is the part of earnings so far that I think is the most weak, which is uh these consumer companies, grocery stores, restaurant chains that are showing declining margins and missing on EPS guidance. Now, granted, if you look at this chart right here, Sprouts was trading at 40 times next 12 months earnings. So, you can't say it wasn't a little bit expensive. I mean, 2024 was a massive year for this company. It's down 40% this year, whereas in 2024, it was up almost 100%. But that stock took a hit. That stock and Chipotle took an ugly hit. Oaklo is up about half a percent. Again, there got a lot of the nuclear stocks excited. Yeah, core scientific announces termin ter termination of major gum with core reef. So that's official now. That is not going to be happening. And then Nvidia still down 2.23%. Uh macro stat right here. US luxury home prices rose 4.8% year-over-year in September to a record 1.26 million, more than double the 1.8% an 8% rise for non-luxury homes, which reached a median of 371,000. Since last year, luxury prices are up about 11% versus 6% for standard homes. Wealthy buyers often paying in cash with small loans, aren't waiting for low rates. They're confident in using real estate as a stable investment amid economic uncertainty. Again, more bifurcation of this economy. You know, someone actually asked JPAL yesterday that question. Someone asked JPA, I think it was the last question. uh they asked them, hey, do you think the stock market is the reason why consumer spending hasn't gone down? Because people who are wealthy are able to keep spending and uh people, you know, if the stock market were to go down, that would essentially collapse any of the spending that we've seen. The question is just going to be, you know, if that ends up playing out. here is the uh the question that was that was asked there
>> to the financial system or the outlook for the economy. Is it a warning sign?
>> So, you know, we're we're obviously we watch this these things very carefully, credit conditions very carefully. You're right. You've seen rising defaults in subprime credit for some time now. And now you've seen a number of of subprime credit uh h automobile credit uh institutions having s significant losses and some of those losses are now showing up on the books books of banks. You know we're we're looking at it carefully. We're paying close attention. Uh I don't see at this point a broader credit issue. It doesn't seem to be something that that has uh very broad application across financial institutions, but you know, we're going to be we're going to be monitoring this quite carefully and uh and making sure that that is the case.
>> And then separately, um many you yourself have said that we're in a bifurcated economy right now with high netw worth individuals continuing to spend with the lower income pulling back. How much of consumer spending continuing hinges on the stock market remaining strong? In some odd way, does the market help keep the economy buoyant?
>> So there there is some there's some relationship there, but remember uh the more wealth someone has, the lower an additional dollar of wealth matters. So your marginal propensity to consume declines quite dramatically as you reach as you reach levels of stock market wealth. So, you know, the stock market, it it would affect spending if the stock market went down, but it wouldn't drop it wouldn't drop sharply unless there were quite a sharp drop in the um you know, in the stock market. I didn't fully love the answer from JPAL because when he says your marginal propensity to consume goes down as you get more wealthy, it's like yeah, technically like from an academic perspective that makes sense. But I mean, people continue to spend. As you can see right here, luxury home prices, the only reason they're up 5% year-over-year is because there's demand for it. And even if you, you know, you can't buy everything in the world, the more money you have, the more money you're going to try to invest. So, at the end, when he admits that, uh, you know, if the stock market were to have a major decline, that would create a major sense of weakness. I think that's objectively true. It's like if But now, granted, what is a major decline? I don't know. Is that 10%, 20%, 15%? I have no idea. Uh, it's probably not 5%. It would have to be at least upwards of 10%. But you would need to see some some reckoning in the market for people to say, "Hey, I can't afford to buy a 1.26 million house by taking a margin loan against my Nvidia." Until we see that, you might have wealthy people continue to spend and that prop up the economy. And then the layoff picture gets also very confusing, right? Because it's like again a lot of these tech workers that were making nice tech salaries at these white collar jobs, if they're not getting paid the tech salaries they were getting paid, are they buying a $17 sandwich in San Francisco for lunch? Like I don't know. I mean, I went to San Francisco a couple months ago. The those sandwiches are kind of expensive and then it's like an $8 latte on top of it. It's like it's almost 30 bucks for like a sandwich and a drink. It's like it's you got to have a have to have a good salary to be able to take on that purchase. And if you're not getting paid like that, you're not going to buy that stuff. So, I think there there still is this bifrocated view of the economy and we're not officially sure exactly what's happening. 17 is cheap. I paid 33 for three pancakes in San Francisco. Dude, it pains me when I have to pay for food. Especially if the food's not good, bro. The food's really good. It's like you can justify it. I told you guys I I ironically I went to a pancake shop the other day near the the the the new place that I I moved to and I was just testing it out because I was like, "Is this a spot that I want to come to? This is a place that I want to bring people to." And the pancakes were horrible. And it was kind of expensive, too. And I was like, "All right, that's a lesson for me to never go back to the spot. I'm gonna I'm going to psychologically justify it as, hey, that's a that's a lesson that I learn. I have to pay to learn that lesson." But it still stings because when you pay that much, you like expect to get a little bit of a return. No, it's not IHOP. It's like a local pancake shop. It's not just pancake. They sell a bunch of different things, but I thought they were known for their pancakes. And then I eat the pancakes. I'm like, bro, these are trash. Like these are like IHOP is better than this. This This feels like I made these pancakes. Like this. They're not even fluffy. It's like what's going on here? Crowd strike 545. That one not getting weak either. Is that one holding up? But yeah, dude, this bifurcated economy thing, we cannot ignore it as investors because it affects everybody and it could be the thing that comes up in 26 that people might not be expecting if the layoffs get worse. VIX, by the way, back down to red or at least close to red. I ran back to 60. I definitely think it's something that we have to figure out. Um, NYC salad are 20 to 26. Yes, that's also true. I mean, NYC salads are stupid as well. Laura says, "I still eat at Whole Foods." Look, Whole Foods is not horrible. I've eaten at Whole Foods before. It's not bad at all, but Whole Foods can get a little expensive as well. Universal Music Group has signed a deal with artificial intelligence music generator UDIO to launch a new platform trained on licensed songs, the company said. All right. AI music I guess AI music is not uh slowing down. There is a company that's doing about 150 million ARR uh and they're an AI music generator. So you are seeing more of an ecosystem play on what we're getting for for AI and music. Uh remember that politician who bought Big Bear AI, Lisa Mlan? She bought another 50,000 of it on July 10th. She forgot to disclose, quote unquote, forgot. Uh, the CEO of Big Bear AI is Trump's ex- secretary of Homeland Security and according to multiple sources, the majority of the revenue comes from government contracts. She's also the first politician to buy Big Bear AI. She now has bought a 100 grand of Big Bear AI and she will be fined $200 for not disclosing that she bought it back then. Now, again, the actual fundamentals on the stock, they're growing negative 32.5%. However, politician buying it means maybe there's some contracts down the road that she knows about and know that could be a catalyst potentially for this one as well. But she did own about 100% of this. PRM had earnings today. They're up 20%. Perimeter Solutions, $4 billion company, provision of global solutions for fire safety and specialty products. Okay, I do not know about this one, but seems like a smaller company. Wow, 108% year-to- date. It's always cool to see those smaller names that people don't care about too much, but if you, you know, I think Amcor is Amcore is a 7 billion company, right? Amcore could be one of them in 26 if they continue their momentum. Looks like this one had a pretty good earnings and that stock right here up 24% on the day. Um, where is Andos drone company? Let's see. That one's down. Is Redcat down? We talked to Jeff Thomas yesterday, CEO of Redcat. Redcat's also down. All right, so all the drone companies taking a little hit. Is Meta still holding 670? No, Meta right back to 660. Okay, guys. Is Meta a buy? Is it a buy here at 660? The lows of the day was 651, right? I feel like it's at least a nibble. Feel like it's a nibble. It's definitely still weak. That dude that 25 that 25 billion bond thing came out of nowhere. I I didn't that is fresh debt. They didn't announce that on the earnings yesterday. They say they were taking out 25 billion in debt. I mean that complicates things a little bit. But the multiples are still pretty cheap. Doesn't feel the most expensive. Let's get a Gene Monsters perspective and then we'll keep going from there. margin 2024 revenue growth about 23% expense growth about 8%. The first uh two quarters of this year revenue growth 20 22% expense growth 12%. They report their September quarter with 23% revenue growth but expense growth of 32%. And throwing insult onto that is the commentary about the third party capex spend for next year and this aggressive is the word that they're spending substantial increase expenses related to that. We're probably going to see something like 18% revenue growth for next year for the top line. the streets at 16 right now, but probably 18% and probably expenses growing north of 30%. And so essentially the script that we've seen with Meta over the past two years got flipped. And I think it's just that simple. Uh if you look across the board at Zuck's ambition around AI, what he's trying to accomplish, look at their engagement, I mean just like profound engagement growth, accelerating engagement growth. 43% of the world uses their products on a daily basis. Those rate of usage is accelerating. So it was a great quarter with the exception of that dynamic, Melissa, and I think it really stung investors.
>> You know, Jean, um this is one again uh I saw your notes earlier, you're kind of confounded. Microsoft similarly. Um, you know, when I look at the down tick in earnings growth though for 2026 for Meta, I mean, isn't that the sort of thing that you would probably expect for the stock that's outperformed pretty dramatically um, you know, over the last two years or so to kind of take a pause?
>> Well, a pause is understandable, but I think that that that shift, that expense shift, that was something new. Like a pause to me is they've got good numbers. They beat the numbers. that onetime charge that people are talking about that $15 million tax charge that was that's a nothing just throw it out doesn't matter but so I I I think Dan that it's um I'm trying to look at like what was incremental I could understand if the stock was down 3% on good news that's to me taking a breather but down 8 n 10% uh investors are trying to to to just recalibrate I think something bigger and again that dynamic around uh them going more to cloud now I'd also point out like around the ambitions and around AI and and I'm all in on this being uh more transformative than where I think high expectations are, but Zuck basically is setting himself up to be the most optimistic of any of the big tech CEOs as evidenced by their increase in capex. So, it's going to be up the street's looking for 40% growth right now for 26. Uh they're they didn't give detailed guidance around that, but it's probably going to be up more than 60%. It seems like again, I think Gan is right. I think that's why the street is upset. Like they don't have the guidance on how aggressive this notable quote unquote capex um increase is going to be in 26 and that's why Meta is getting hit. But again, like it's so weird because it's like the street wants these these guys to spend money now. They want the ROI, but the street's not stupid. Like Nvidia is worth five trillion because there's a handful of companies that can buy their product. Meta is one of like 10 companies outside of the sovereign nations that actually has the money whether it's in the debt markets or the free cash flow to buy Nvidia GPUs. So it's so weird for the streets to be like well Nvidia should go to 5 trillion but the reason it's going to 5 trillion aka a hyperscaler spending as much money uh as necessary that's needed to justify five trillion. We're going to take them down 11% because we want them to spend less money but then we're going to take Nvidia up because they're spending the money. It makes it should be conducive and and and uh symbiotic with each other because one is feeding the other's revenues, the other one is feeding the others future revenues in terms of AI ROI. But it's almost like the street doesn't want to see Meta spend this much for whatever reason. And maybe it's because they're ticked off about Reality Labs and the metaverse and the glasses and they're just they don't think there's an efficient use of this money buying GPUs. Obviously, Meta doesn't have a cloud, but it is weird. the way they're acting back and forth with Meta. I don't understand what you find weird in the story. Okay, so the weird part of the story to me is the only reason Nvidia is getting the multiple that it's getting up to 5 trillion, is because companies like Meta, which there's only a handful of them, can continue to keep fueling Nvidia's revenues. So when Meta says we're going to keep spending in 26, which is bullish Nvidia, the street's like, "Oh, we love Nvidia, but we hate Meta, but the only reason you love Nvidia is because Meta is going to keep spending." If Meta wasn't spending, Nvidia wouldn't even be worth the multiple. It's worth that metaphorically, right? Because Meta is a metaphor for the companies that need to keep buying GPUs. So it's like you can't have one or the other. Like they're both synonymous with each other. And you have to believe that the reason Meta is spending on Nvidia is because they will get a massive ROI one day in the future. So in some respect you would think the street should be happy that there it's not like Meta is not growing. It's not like Meta is not profitable. It's not like outside of that tax charge everything they needed to do they did. Same thing with Microsoft and Google. But for some reason the street wants to punish them more. I mean look at what Microsoft said. Microsoft spent 35 billion in capex in a single quarter which is an increase of over 10 billion. Half of that 35 billion in the last quarter was on GPUs and CPUs. I mean, the street's not upset about that, but for Meta, it's like a totally different angle. Oracle getting hit. Dude, Oracle has just been a disaster over the past couple month. Wow. 264. Dude, remember this thing went from 232 to 350. There's that big candle right there. Two or sorry, 223 to $350 or 345 to be exact. Down to 264. That is a bit ugly. And again, that's also weird to me why Well, it's also weird why it jumped as much. It's not as weird why it's coming back down. But I think the debt financing is what the street's upset about. And that's why Meta is a little again, you got to be just watch out for it. If the street took Oracle down 35% because of all this debt offering, what if they do the same to Meta? I don't think it would be 35%, but what if they, you know, continue to punish them a little bit more? If this goes down, is anyone buying the Oracle dip? See, I don't I'm not even interested in the Oracle dip because they just said all they said was like OpenAI is going to pay us 300 billion. And from the get-go, I was like, that's not real until it becomes real. And unless I really believe in Oracle, like I understand their business so well, which I don't, I can't buy it based off a RPO increase that might not materialize. Nonetheless, you know, it is getting punished aggressively and you might have some people come in and buy that. JS, thanks for the super chat. Admit if you compare Google call versus meta, Google was discussing the return on AI. Zuck chocked it up to just wait and see distinct difference in my opinion. Yeah, no, I don't disagree with that at all. I do not the call wasn't good. The call sucked 100%. I just think a you know 15% haircut I don't know if that's justified, but 100% agree. You know, Sundar was on his ZX didn't even feel like he wanted to be here. Someone asked him a question once and you know Zucks was like um I don't think we can give that guidance. You know, he was kind of ask he was answering the question in a way that implied that the person asking it was an idiot. And it's like I get it. He probably thought it was a stupid question, but his stock's worth two trillion. You know, on these calls, you kind of want to beively friendly to the people that are going to upgrade or downgrade the stock. And he didn't have that. He didn't have that personality. It was kind of just like, hey, take it or leave it. This is my answer and it is what it is. Sundar kind of leaned into it. As that one's moving up 9%. Uh, that is recovering from a Wow, that fell to 111 today. Oh my. Fell to 110. Okay, so that that seems like a little bit more of a recovery as it got hit. Uh, Bitcoin still not really recovering fully. Again, ASSD is a Bitcoin treasury trading below NAV. So, you got Bitcoin at 108. Bit mine's nav now is still 1.3. Are we at Are we below 47? Bit mine. We are just above 47. 4706. MNAV is still around 1.2 to 1.3. The word is condescending. Yes, exactly. That's what I meant to say. a bit more condescending. Cororeweave co-founder and CEO, we expect the views of core scientific shareholders and look forward to continue our commercial partnership. All right, Coreweave uh not going to be acquiring Core Scientific. Let's see Roblox. We got the Roblox CEO live. Let's see if he can explain a little bit why the stock's getting hit here. 50 million daily active users. And on the way we run the the business, which is cash, our free cash flow was up 100% yearonear to 442 million. We did give a hint that we've cumulatively grown on average over the last two years 37%. We are going to spend and invest in our infrastructure to keep up with that growth, but overall it was an amazing quarter and we raised our guidance for Q4.
>> So it's this it's the spending that's going to weigh down margins sort of preparing for the future. Can you give us a little more more detail on what you're spending on?
>> We we continue to be optimistic about this vision of having 10% of the global gaming market run on Roblox. We announced during this quarter we passed the 3%. It's driven by amazing content on the platform and we also in in the last month in August burst to over 45 million people on the platform at the same time with some games. So we do need infra to support that. Uh that said we spend judiciously and thoughtfully and we we invest to support our growth.
>> Okay. I'll try to go deeper into the numbers and see why the stock's getting hit. Why does he talk like he's quietly yelling? I think someone said that in the chat. Yeah, why is Shen Pasa? Why is he talking like he's quietly yelling? Roblox down 10%. Oracle's about to own Tik Tok. That's also true. They will have access to Tik Tok. Wow. Oracle 263. S&P still holding 680. S&P not giving that up yet. Remember, we were, guys, we were at 647 on the S&P two weeks ago, two and a half weeks ago. So, as annoying as some of the red may be, it's in context, you know, it's not as bad as what it was a couple weeks ago. And Google basically still holding 290 as well. Amazon implied move is 6.6. Okay, so we're at what 225 on Amazon. Are we below 225? We are at 226. Let's just call it 227. So that means we are looking at a $12 move up or down. So we're looking at either 214 or 241. Oh, let's Well, let's do the Amazon pump or dump poll. See what people think. By the way, 64% of you said Meta is a buy at 660. Meta is a buy at 660. Meta's implied move was $100. Yeah, I guess so. I guess the implied move, dude. Like, as soon as I saw the numbers, I was like, "Oh, this is like I'm looking at the wrong source." And then it was confirmed. I was like, "Oh, they actually missed EPS by 85%." And I knew in my head immediately it had to be the tax thing or a charge off or an accounting thing. But still, you just can't see those types of numbers when the stock is outperforming as well as it is. Meta 657. No, Meta is not an intraday low yet. 65 650 is the intraday low. Look, I don't have a big Meta position. I have always talked about for the past like two years. I had Meta at 200. Um, I bought at 240, then I bought at 320 in 22, then it fell back to like 210, I sold it, I bought pounder at 12, and then I never got a chance to get back in. And then I've traded it back and forth here and there, but I've never really established a meaningful position in MetaT. And I've always wanted to. The question is, is this the opportunity? I don't fully know, dude. There's a I I I don't want to be super greedy as we're into the end of the year. I also don't want to be super scared. So I I want to think about this one for a minute for a minute and say like hey is this worth like like if you're if you're going to decide to DCA then you DCA like like I think the philosophy on DCAing into a position is you have so much conviction that you are right about the narrative or the stock trajectory whatever that you will take the [ __ ] from the rest of the world and from your own internal mindset that's going to give yourself [ __ ] about buying a stock that keeps going down and you won't care. And the only Mac 7 I did that with this year is Nvidia in a meaningful way. And I guess you could say to an extent I'm starting to do that with Amazon. It's definitely a much much heavier position than Meta. Average is 219 on Amazon. So I feel confident on that. But it's nowhere near the size of the Nvidia position. And the question then becomes you only have a limited amount of capital. Do you go 50/50 on Amazon and Meta or do you go in on Amazon for 2026 and leave Meta in the dust? I mean like these are these are things to think about. And I don't know, take a little bit more due diligence to I definitely want to see Amazon's earnings because that would help because if Amazon gets a juicy dip, you know, maybe Amazon is where the capital should go to besides Meta. That's a broad Okay, let me ask this question. What do you guys think for 2026 in terms of just portfolio building philosophy? Would you rather I guess the question sums sums up to would you rather diversify or solidify? But specifically for the Mac 7, everyone wants to have some level of Mac 7 exposure. I would imagine most people want to be exposed to, you know, the NASDAQ in some way for 2026. Would you rather pick two or three and put all your money into that that you want to allocate for the max 7 or would you rather pick, you know, five or seven and do it that way? Like if you had 70 grand, would you put 10,000 into all of them or would you put 35 into two of them? I feel like most people would put 35 into two of them, but that requires being right on two of them, right? Like, and that's the hard part. Obviously, yeah, pretty much everyone's saying two or three. Nvidia is not going anywhere. I I really don't think Amazon's going anywhere for me. So, then I I think there's room for a third one. And the question is, is that meta? Is that just doubling down more on Amazon? Should it just be Amazon and video? Should it be Google? Tesla is just tough with the earnings. I mean, I really I think there's just you're going to need to see earnings trajectory towards the end of the year. You know, it's just like when Meta is trading at 20 times earnings and Tesla's trading at 200 times, it is it is tough to pick Tesla over Meta unless you're so convicted on the robo taxi robotics thesis, which look because I have robotics exposure in other private companies, it's not the biggest sell point for me on Tesla. FSD is a more compelling thesis, but again, that's, you know, that's got to start to scale in a meaningful way. Solidify shares so that I can do cover calls. That's another good point as well. I mean, meta premiums are pretty juicy as well. It's not like meta premiums aren't good premiums from the market. Where's Microsoft? Are we recovering a little bit? Microsoft still down 529. I also have my Rocket Lab. Dude, I've thought about selling Rocket Lab because I mean I'm up like 150% on it thanks to Matt money and I'm like dude that would it would be nice to just take that money and put it into one of the big tech. But then I'm like Rock Lab's going to be $100 one day. I have this stupid thing at 26 and I'm just telling myself just leave it and don't touch it and forget about it. You know what you know one of the things I'm doing on my Robin Hood account with these individual accounts I was talking about this a little bit yesterday. I am making separate individual accounts on Robin Hood and I'm literally calling it Google or calling it XYZ stock and I'm just telling myself whatever money I want to allocate every month goes into Google and it goes in that separate Robin account and I never see it. So, I never even have a like u an emotional reaction to sell it in my main account. It's actually a really useful feature because you kind of even forget it's there. Like it's it's at the top of your screen and it's all the way at at the bottom if you scroll through the accounts. And I'm like it's almost like your retirement account. It's like you kind of forget what's what's in your retirement account if you're not actively trading on it. I did that with LG. Yeah, dude. I really think it's not a bad idea. like if you want to own a stock but you don't want to be tempted to deal with it and if if you know the stock is maybe a bit speculative and you know that you would be tempted if it goes down to sell or something make a separate Robin account say look I'm not going to touch this I'm going to put in whatever amount of money I want to put in and then I just leave it there I don't even have to look at it what I what I wish Robin would let us do is transfer shares from your main account into one of the separate accounts they need to allow us to do that because I would transfer Rocket Lab immediately and just not look at that [ __ ] be like that's over there and just hope they become a mini SpaceX one day. I've done that for grab a midset and forget. Yeah, I don't think it's a horrible idea. You can do that. You can do You can actually transfer I thought you can only Oh, dude. I haven't played around with it enough. I thought you can only like deposit money. You can legit transfer shares from one account to another. transfer assets. Wow. Okay. We're gonna make a Rocket Lab account then and just keep it there. Dude, I didn't know that. Wow. Shout out to Vlatty. Vlad. I didn't know that. I didn't know you could do that. I thought you could only put in money. Dude, I think Vlad's going to give us a good quarter. I think Vlad's gonna, if you look at the estimates on Hood, they raised the target from 1.1 billion to 1.2. 2 for the earnings. I think Vlad is going to come out and really give us a good quarter. Question is the crypto volatility which is still associated with Hood. Can the quarter be good enough to overlook that? Also, the stocks up almost 3x this year. So, is the quarter going to be good enough to to deal with that? I did see the two and 3% transfers till November 19th. They're doing a 2% transfer as well. Um, but yeah, I didn't know they would allow you to transfer Tesla 443. Tesla's getting hit. Tesla's getting hit. Dude, the other problem is if I freaking if I freaking sold Rocket Lab, the amount of [ __ ] I would get from you guys every day. The amount of [ __ ] I would get from You guys are actually a really good force to hold on, dude. The public peer pressure The amount of [ __ ] I would get from the space mob, the amount of [ __ ] I would get from Matt money alone is not worth it, bro. Because as soon as Rocket Lab makes its gap up to like 80 bucks, I would let's I would get a text message from him every day. That's for sure. Yeah, Irwin. Oh my goodness. See, I'm not emotionally tied to Rocket Lab. I can hold on to Palunteer trading at this multiple and not not even for a second, not even for a millisecond think of selling. But some of you guys are emotionally tied to Rocket Lab. I I just never got into it like that. But given that emotional attachment, it's hard to sell. Uh here are a couple people in the crypto world working on uh different blockchain startups and their thoughts of the four-year cycle. curious what people have to say on if we think this four-year cycle is going to end in 2026.
>> I think people are overindexing a lot on the cycle.
>> When I think back to 2018, it was very different. Obviously, the the composition of market participants were very different. 99% of people in 2018 when the market cycle ended knew what a four-year cycle was, right? It was technically only the the second coming, but people were talking about the having cycle that that it was very cemented in people's minds. And then 2021 comes around and everyone's like, "Okay, it's happened twice. It's definitely going to happen a third time." And in 20 and in 2021, I think a lot of people still probably 80% maybe 85% of people that owned crypto knew and subscribed to the four-year cycle theory. They knew about the having argument. They knew about all this and so it became a self-fulfilling prophecy. Now, four years later, it's happened three times in a row, which obviously is a data point that we need to look at. But I don't think the average holder of Bitcoin or crypto, maybe of Bitcoin, people that own crypto probably do, but Bitcoin specifically, they don't know about the four. They don't care about the four cycle.
>> They didn't invest because of the having.
>> My uncle who bought the Black Rockck ETF is not doesn't know about a four-year cycle. He doesn't even know what the having is.
>> Yeah.
>> He doesn't even know that there's 21 million coins. He
>> he he bought Bitcoin because people are like, "Oh, Bitcoin is a great it's a it's a comp to gold and it's going to go up." And it's
>> What do you guys think of that? Because I do think that argument makes sense. We've been having a lot of internal debate on, hey, is there a cycle and will that cycle result in a cataclysmic decline on Bitcoin, which obviously Ethereum is going to get hit pretty bad if that happens. 2026 is the year in that four-year trajectory where you should see a collapse theoretically. But I think his point makes a lot of sense. It's like, look, your uncle buying the IBIT ETF, he's buying Bitcoin for whatever reason his financial manager told him about Bitcoin or because he got interested in it, not because he's preempting some cyclical decline. He probably doesn't even know there's a having cycle or anything like that. And I wonder how many of the normies like myself that got into crypto are so obsessed with a cycle and know that it's cyclical, therefore they need to sell or are they just going to hold it because it's like, okay, I have Bitcoin, it's my exposure to digital gold hedge, and therefore I'm just going to keep it. And you know, if you're in Robin Hood, Coinbase, Micro Strategy, BMR, you kind of need that cycle to not be as aggressive as what people expect. Metate there 657 still getting hit. Um or else, you know, those stocks can take a beating. 21 million coins, no more, some loss, some stolen. It's going up based on basic principles. Yeah. I mean, I think Sailor was on yesterday as well, and he said, uh, basically when he dies, he's going to leave all of his Bitcoin, and that's the best thing you can do as a proraic contribution to everyone in the world who owns Bitcoin. What I would say about Bitcoin, which is just wonderful, is if you accumulate a lot of wealth in Bitcoin and you just burn the keys when you leave, you're making a pro rata contribution to everybody that owns Bitcoin in the world based upon their contribution and their knowledge of Bitcoin. So I I think that supporting Bitcoin as a protocol for prosperity is just a great thing to do. And otherwise, I think, you know, take the Bitcoin with you. Yeah. Well,
>> take the Bitcoin with you. You can tell the guy philosophically really believes in uh in Bitcoin if he were to not sell it or not let anyone sell it when he dies. Tess says, "I made a contribution to the world and burned enough keys." Yeah. I mean, I I I wonder if this cyclical thesis actually ends up playing out. I'm taking my paler with me. Oh my gosh. I really do want to give my kids some of these stocks, you know? Like, how cool would it be if I bought a stock when I was 22 and I and I give it to my kids when I'm like 52. Now, granted, given how expensive kids are getting, I might have to sell that damn thing to pay for the kids, but it would be pretty cool. Um, you need to find a wife first. You can't have kids with another man. Thank you. I didn't know that. I was not aware of that. IBM getting a little bit of move right here at 1.2. Grab kind of holding on today at 603. I think investors are giving it a little bit of juice before earnings. It's not really tanking back to the 580s, 590s. And then Monday, we're going to see what they got. Tesla still is down. Pounder did not get to 200 today. Did get close at 19967. And then Nvidia down about 2%. Down about 2%. How much are you down in the day? We're down 29K. We were down seven when we bounced at around 1020. Now we're back down. Not at the lows of the day, but still down. And they why do they play with you like that? I don't know, bro. They just like they love they love teasing me about this. I showed them some pictures the other day on my birthday. I thought that would change the narrative, but it only made the narrative worse. It's like, you can't do anything, dude. Once people have an opinion, they have their opin. I mean, dude, I dude I will have a kid one day, right? And I'll tell the stream, "Hey guys, big announcement of life. I have a kid." First comment in the chat. So, what what uh what firm did you adopt it from? You know, because obviously no one's going to believe that it's like, you know, natural inception to have a kid. There's no way that's possible to believe. That's obviously that's obviously that's how it's going to play out. See, look at this. Look at this. Before I even said it, we had the adoption comments before I even said it. Bro, I know you guys. So, there's there's a stream there's a delay between Streamyard. So, you guys said this 15 seconds before I even said the word adopted. It's ridiculous, bro. It's absolutely ridiculous. All right, folks. I think that's it for today. I think we're pretty much done. Uh again, markets red, not as red as they were in the morning. We're going to see how this plays out. Today is going to be a big day on the close. Again, to let everyone know, we have Apple, Amazon, Coinbase, Cloudflare, Reddit, Micro Strategy, Roku, First Solar, Twilio, Atlassen, Lumen, Rockin Mortgage, GoDaddy, and Zillow Group. So, we have a lot of companies reporting today. Obviously, Amazon and Apple. That is the those are the two biggest ones for us to look at. 65% of you say pump on Amazon. 35% say dump. I'm not going to be buying any Amazon before because uh I'm in it already. I'm definitely not trading Apple. Although, I do think Apple's going to I mean, I think the iPhone 17 stuff is good. So, I do think Apple can make a big move. But, I've got skin in the game for Amazon and we're going to see what we got. Yes. Yes, Micro Strategy is today. Micro Strategy is today as well. There'll be a bunch of companies. Steve actually took off from work today, so he might go live before the market close. He said he was taking off today, so he might actually be live at like 2 p.m. or something. But it'll be a very, very big day on the close and we're going to see what we got. What do you think about Fiserve? I don't know enough about their business. I do think 50% is a bit aggressive, but there's obviously something the street is not happy about for them to to get that 50% hit. Okay, word of the day. Word of the day. We have it. It is liinal. Relating to a threshold or transition. The space between one state and another. Something in between. Neither here nor there. There's a strange calm in that liinal hour between midnight and dawn. Okay. Relating to a threshold or transition. I think the actual word of the day is capex if that is a full word because that is the reason why meta still getting hit 12%. I'm going to do some more research on meta today try to figure out what exactly is going on. I want to look at the updated multiples which I think are close to 20 or below 20 for 2027 and ask myself how much of that multiple contraction is enough to get excited at these levels. But that's what we got. S&P 500 right here, 685 down about.31% on the day. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll be back on the market close. Big big day for earnings again. Thank you for everyone who stayed yesterday for the full nine hours. Was super fun. I'm sure we'll do that again in the future. And uh we will keep going from there. Apple and Amazon after the bell. It will be an important one. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.