All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of Tech Bros. We are live. It is Monday, November 3rd and in about two days on Wednesday, we are going to be getting Robin Hood earnings for Q3 2025. So, this episode is going to be pretty much dedicated to those earnings. I think we'll if we have some time, we'll talk about a couple other topics, but uh Robin Hood is going to be a very important topic for today. Roy Tanner, how you doing? Uh well, it's always an exciting time.
>> Yeah, I'm doing well as uh as well. Um yeah, really excited for Wednesday and Thursday. These earnings are just packed, man. This is going to be the busiest week, probably busier than next or or busier than last week. And uh Robin Hood, of course, is on Wednesday, so that's going to be an exciting one. And I don't know is that a chime for me. I was gonna stream one or the other, but I thought, hey, you know what? Might as well do Robin Hood. I'm I'm on the earnings call. So, no, I'm kidding. But dude, I hate the fact that Chime has to be on the exact same day. I hate the fact that I want to stream both and I can't do it the same hour. Even if it was five and then the other one was six to seven. Are you are you actually complaining that you don't have the privilege of streaming Chime on the day of Robin Hood? Is that what I'm hearing right now?
>> Bro, I'm telling you, I think there's going to be a pop. No, no. Even if there is, are you more excited for time earnings than Robin freaking hood? Like, I don't I don't even get that.
>> I think there's going to be a pop.
>> Okay, Vlad, if you're listening, this man doesn't deserve an invite anymore. He's not an American anyway. He doesn't have the the Robin Hood app.
>> Just kidding.
>> Exactly.
>> I'm excited for Hood. I'm excited for Hood. But um you know, I think the fact that they show all the monthly numbers takes away a little bit of the uh anxiousness of seeing earnings
>> there though. This one, and we'll get into it. It there's a lot less that we know this time just because the nature of the new legs of their business, including the predictions market. So, um, yeah, and the expectations are really high, too. So, by the way, before we get into the Robin Hood stuff, can we just pause a moment and reflect on how amazing Palunteer is as a business?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I'll let I'll let Tanner give his thoughts because he was listening to the call as well, but Tanner, what' you think of the quarter?
>> Um, I mean, just nothing shy of like perfection. They they are an insane business. Like I don't know if I've ever seen execution like this from any company. 63 plus percent or something like this for revenue. Net dollar retention is not only growing. I think it got to 134%. But the rate at which it's growing has increased every quarter for like the last six quarters. Like it's crazy. That is not uh normal. So, I obviously um still don't think the fair value of Palunteer is in the $200 ranges, but every time I see their their quarterly numbers, it increases. And and I'm like, wow, you know what? I I would buy this company at a much higher price than I would have last quarter. And that that seemed to have happened the last, you know, six quarters in a row. So, so maybe they are worth 200, but you have to kind of discount that out into the future. Yeah, they're they're super expensive. But if you were if you were forced to go short on two companies, would you pick Palunteer and Nvidia to be short on?
>> Uh, no. I think that's insanity. Um, and whoever did that was probably brave enough to short the entire housing market. Um, so
>> he uh,
>> yeah, I mean, he likes to take these bets. They're talking about Bur because he disclosed a well, it's a put position. Uh, it could have been closed by now, but it was in Q3. But then even more interesting than the disclosure of the put position, look at what Bur's tweeting
>> an hour ago. All these pictures of uh, basically capex growth rates matching tech bubble of 99, Nvidia OpenAI are essentially giving money to each other. I mean, the the sort of conventional bear arguments that a lot of us have been hearing over the past couple weeks, Bur is on board with all those arguments based on his latest post. And uh well, I guess we can a little have a little bit of this conversation right now before we get into hood earnings. Roy, in general, what what are your thoughts on the most infamous short coming out and basically saying AI is a bubble?
>> Yeah. So, there's there's two reasons for that argument. One is a little bit of that cir cyclical revenue which there's a little bit of a merit to that where if if there if like Sam Alman is really scam alman and is ripping everybody off and it's not real what he's building which I doubt um because there's a lot of scrutiny on that company uh but if it is then that's a domino effect now it's not going to cause a massive crash but it will have a pretty big impact um but uh a lot of people are trying to compare this to 1999 too partly because of the price action And but we have a really different setup here. Like in essence, if you look at the companies that are spending the capex, are these companies that are just burning money and have no real revenue and or just a little bit of one and don't have actually any real earnings? No. These are some of the actually the most wildly profitable companies in entire world history. and they're so ridiculously profitable, they can infinitely burn money on capex and be perfectly fine. So, this is not the.com bubble by any measure. Um, also the way that tech has ramped, uh, it's going to take a lot less time for AI to really deliver ROI. We've seen it with Palanteer certainly and with Nvidia products and those that are using those products um, than was the case with the internet when it was relatively novel. So, I I think he's just wrong by every measure. What he's right about is there are some expensive names out there. Palanteer is one of them. I I think Nvidia, like calling it expensive, is overlooking probably another hundred companies that you could say that over Nvidia. I think it's I think that's even dumber than Palanteer, honestly. And I I don't know a lot more Palanteer than Nvidia. Um, and if you were going to be negative and say that there's a bubble in some of these areas, private equity, there's probably some something to be said on that, but also like why not pick Quantum? you why not pick, you know, some pre-revenue companies that are very similar to what we had in the dotcom bubble uh and that are mostly just names. I mean, they're more than names. They're doing they're trying to do some real things. I don't know whether or not to believe in quantum and I wouldn't short it personally, but I don't know. It's it seems weird to pick two of the most impressive companies and yes, Palanteer is richly valued, but I I am guessing he's picking Palunteer only because it's richly valued, which is the dumbest reason to go short on something. So, I think this is reckless. You know, maybe he's already out. If not, he's in for a lot of pain or he has been so far. You know, he could also time it for maybe it's just a macro event where he's like, "Hey, we're going to have a pullback. These names will pull up more." But we saw at least how Palunteer performed in April, it did a lot. It didn't do great, but it did a lot better than almost any even Bull was expecting it would perform in April. So, I I think he's shortsighted. I think he's wrong, and I think he's off sides.
>> Yeah. I mean, the whole thing seemed a little weird. He published early. Uh he tweeted about He never tweets. He deletes all his tweets. So, he tweeted about it, disclosed it 11 days early. Um he calls everything a bubble. He's been calling multiple bubbles. Uh so if people think that, you know, every decision that Michael Bur has made is a success is actually quite the opposite. I actually think like for the most part his success rate is actually quite low on these short calls. Um and so the only thing that he's been going long on is like Chinese stocks and water. And to, you know, just to think about it, the only thing that he hasn't called a bubble is water is pretty freaking funny to me. So, um, I don't know. I don't really care what Michael Bur does anymore. Um, like you said, I I don't even mind the palunteer part. Maybe he was trying to do this for earnings. Maybe he expected the worst. But, uh, you know, Nvidia, that's a that's an interesting one. Doesn't even look that expensive based on their growth.
>> Yeah. And and one more thing uh init I'd love to hear your thoughts too, but um like the Palunteer one if it's on valuation, you know, I get that. Um I I don't think that that's a great reason to to go short, but like we've seen like those earnings were absolutely ridiculous. Like last quarter I said they were the best earnings of any company I've ever followed closely in my entire life and then they just outdid themselves. Um and the stock fell after hours. Why? Well, we'll have to see, you know, how it shakes out over the next few weeks, but it's pro it's likely priced beyond perfection at this point because, uh, if you fall in those earnings, it's not too shocking. You know, we've we've seen it run up into earnings, too. That's a factor. But, um, so, you know, maybe he's right there, but that doesn't mean I don't know. The Nvidia one's like even crazier. So, Emit, what do you think? No,
>> I agree. I agree with everything you guys said. You we've talked at Nauseium about why I think AI is not a bubble. Pounder had one of the craziest quarters in history. I mean like I don't even think there's an adjective to describe that those numbers that we saw especially on the margin profile along with the topline revenue growth. It's just the stock had a lot priced into it. So I think people are freaking out because it's down below 200. I'm like dude it was at 170 last week and 170 is a pretty aggressive valuation too. So it's like I just think people are very short-term in in nature when it comes to these moves. And you know same thing we saw with SoFi. People freaked out when it didn't move as much even though it was a great quarter. But if you've been investing in these names, SoFi, Poundinger, Hood, Rocket Lab for years, it doesn't matter. You care about the execution. I mean, Robin Hood might deliver an amazing quarter and that stock might go back down to 130 because there's a lot priced into Robin Hood right now and Bitcoin and crypto has not been cooperating. So, you know, you have some natural headwinds that we'll talk about, but it doesn't mean those companies are are bad or not executing at a phenomenal level. All right, so let's get into it. Robin Hood. Um, we'll do some earnings predictions. Tanner usually keeps track of all the numbers in an Excel sheet. So, Tanner, I think you can bring that up and we'll kind of go through all the numbers. Um,
>> sure.
>> Streets expecting 1.2 billion of uh topline revenue, which would be uh I think well over 50% year-over-year growth for or just about 50% year-over-year growth. And they're expecting about 54 cents of EPS. So, we'll get into these numbers and then we'll kind of compare what we're thinking.
>> I also have it at 1.2 billion. Um, I'm seeing 89 uh% year-over-year growth.
>> You're probably You're probably right. I was probably looking at the wrong Q. Oh, 637. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's
>> it's going to be much harder Q4.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Q4 is
>> that's whenever it's going to get pretty freaking hard. But uh yeah, still 20 nearly 22% quarterover-arter growth, $1.2 billion. Um and then so transactionbased revenue I have growing at 63%. Because I also think that this is uh this includes prediction markets. Uh net interest revenue I'm always higher than where it looks like I need to be. Um but 372 million. And then for other revenue I have 70 million. It's usually uh a drop quarter over quarter from Q2 to Q3. Okay. And we can go back to the last Q2 to Q3. Also quite a significant drop. Nearly half. Um so I I don't have much changing there. Um sorry, sorry. Okay, there we go. What do you guys want me to change? What do you guys want to look at? I'm seeing 1.2 2 million and I don't know if I have um 55 cents of EPS, which I don't even know what the street is at right now.
>> 54. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, I'm I'm I'm right in line.
>> I go ahead.
>> Um so, I have 1215 for total revenue. Um, and yet I have 57 cents for EPS just because of that the way that they um their most of their costs are actually fixed. Um, I don't know where I'm a little under yours, but um I guess we could go through like the nitty-gritty, but uh yeah, I mean trying there's a there's this quarter like there's a lot of things that we don't know like margin is one of those things where I think it's going to do very well. Uh and uh I don't know. I have I I really didn't know what to put there. What did you have for trade PMR in Bitstamp specifically, Tanner? Because that might be where I'm off because I
>> I'm not including trade PMR. Um might be a, you know, I I don't really know how to look at it too much. I'm just looking at the total assets under custody.
>> And so that's inclusive of trade PMR now because it's
>> um total assets under administration or whatever it changed to. Uh, and then I lowered the the take rate just slightly because the the rate cut just at the end. Um, and Bitstamp I have at I'll show you what I did.
>> We got the September monthto-day volumes. So, I'm sure you extrapolated a bit of that as well
>> for uh Bitstamp.
>> Well, for everything.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so what I did um was monthto date I took the the total days that we saw so far, how many total trading days, the average daily volumes and then just extrapolated out how much there would be for the remaining days. So this is actually my se my September estimate for equity trading volume 240 billion uh options contracts 21817 million uh Robin Hood app crypto 9.6 billion and Bitstamp at 14.4 billion.
>> What's your overall crypto take rate? Uh my my cryptonotional volume is 0.54 or sorry 0.58 and then uh for Bitstamp I did 0.15.
>> Yeah.
>> Because there's some
>> there's some consumer uh volume in there but a lot of it like 80% is um institutional which is usually you know 120th practically one one10enth of of the take rate. So much much lower. Okay. And then for others, you have 70. Um, are are you including 20 million of prediction markets in that or
>> prediction markets? I put in uh transactionbased revenue.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Okay. Um, so that is just slightly higher. So if we go down to
>> Sorry. Sorry, I'm all over the place. So, so if you take a look at my total um volume and the take rate that I assume, that's how I get to 305 million in options, 294 million in cryptocurrency, which is inclusive of Bitstamp, uh 84 million in equities, and then in other is where I have prediction markets, which went from 48 million to 80 million, which Wait. So, so that Oh, that's in your others transaction revenues. Okay.
>> Others transaction revenue. Yeah,
>> exactly.
>> Yeah,
>> they disclose it in others in general, not in others transaction right now. Right.
>> I'm not sure. I haven't I haven't seen that. If if that's in the the thing, then I need to read it. But
>> I I would like some clarity on that because we don't know where they index uh that revenue. But that but that's why I was asking. So
>> it's in it's in others transaction. I just read it. Um other transaction based revenue primarily comprises revenue related to instant withdrawals uh interchange revenue which is offset by rewards and expenses and event contracts.
>> Okay, perfect. Okay, so that makes sense in transaction revenues then. Yeah, look, I agree with all your numbers. I I don't think this quarter is that hard to figure out. Uh the real question is going to be Q4, but Roy, do you think there's any big disagreement with those numbers or
>> Um I Well, I had a couple of questions. So, one um Lenny in in my audience asked, "Is he counting staking crypto? Hood takes a percent of staking. Did you increase?"
>> No.
>> Okay. So, yeah, these are usually the way Tanner does these and and I'm assuming it's the same way is that these are like pretty conservative. Um
>> decently. Yeah.
>> And and then what's unknown is you either extrapolate or you're just like, well, that'll just be gravy on top. So, Right. Right.
>> Um
>> and predictions overall, you said you had how much? TW
>> uh I added roughly around 20 million, something like that.
>> Yeah, I was at 25, but yeah, that's that's close. And then uh the other that was a real standout from last quarter um was the securities lending which increased dramatically. Did you break that out or did you accommodate for that? Okay.
>> No, I I only look at uh net interest revenue just just here in terms of taking a percentage and trying to follow that as like a trend.
>> Yeah. So, um I don't want to go too far out because it's actually going to show us bad data. But
>> if I go like out to here, for example, um and then where did that put me? Sorry, it made a chart somewhere.
>> Okay, over here
>> was a good bit higher on net interest income. Um which I I you know accounted for the rate cuts, but I don't know if securities lender was the reason why. Yes,
>> margin also a standout for me.
>> This is the sort of the trend line that we've been seeing. And then if I just take this and move this over one, all I'm assuming is that that trend sort of continues,
>> right?
>> Um not making any drastic changes and then letting the amount of assets under management just continue to flow onto platform and uh making no additional assumptions about it. Just a continued trend of a lower percentage. that's you know maybe uh a worsening of the diversification of the types of revenue that net interest makes also uh trade PMR um yeah the overall like rates that we can end up charging and and with the rate cuts and everything it is going to fall over time.
>> Yeah. No, I mean those are those are really close. it's a done a different way and I think you're probably way closer and way more accurate on the transaction revenue if that's the case and then I'm right on some of those net interest things. This might actually be a beat. I I actually have it as a a miss relative to where expectations are slightly. Um a beat on EPS though. Uh but again, they don't issue guidance. So
>> EPS is a weird one because I have um the tax rate climbing quite a lot. So, my tax rate went from essentially 12.7% to nearly 20%. Which is
>> why why
>> I saw a bunch of honestly I've this is not something I cover very often. So, I'm I'm no tax expert. Um, but I saw it across I think it was like four different analyst reports just based on the amount that they've run off from their losses previously. They've been quite profitable for some time. So, it's going to have to return to, you know, a regular tax rate that they have to pay. So, unless there's some benefits from the big beautiful bill, which what I've heard might be coming in for Q4 and these sort of things um that I'm missing, I don't know. But this is going to be a return to a tax rate that's more normal for a company that's just profitable and making hundreds of millions of dollars.
>> By by the way, um slightly related to that and also to Robin Hood, um and then we'll get back to earnings is uh once it is next year. So there was a lot of tax ramifications that were positive for many individuals in the big beautiful bill and the IRS did not adjust withholding rates at all um as a result of the bill. So what this means is it's going to be a higher amount than normal. I think that a lot of I I read an article and it broke it down a lot of different people's estimates was around $600 or $700 I would go per the average American individual. Now I don't know if that's mean, median, mode. I I need to do some more digging, but their argument was like that this will function as a mini stimulus check uh next year for Americans, which we know tends to do good things for equities. So, uh something to keep an eye on.
>> That's cool. That's a good idea. Uh I also kept the share count essentially flat. Um
>> so that's what I was going to ask. You didn't think buybacks would happen this quarter?
>> No, I do. I do think buybacks are going to happen. Um, but I think it they they said in their earnings that they're going to um buy back enough to
>> like flatten stockbased compensation.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> So, I don't think that their share count's going to go down in 2025. I just think they're looking to offset
>> SBC.
>> Okay. So, then here's the question. Earnings are going to be I look 1.89% year-over-year growth is phenomenal. Operating leverage is still going to be amazing. Um, all the core metrics are likely going up and to the right. The question is about the stock. What do you guys think? Because Bitcoin and Ethereum are not cooperating in Q4. October was horrendous. November so far is a disaster. Uh, I know it's only three days in, but it's not good. So, if the street's looking forward to Q4, which they're going to have to beat a billion in revenue, and I think there's ways they can, even if they have a massive Q3, is it enough in your opinion to get the stock, you know, above alltime highs at 150?
>> So, they they several things would have to happen. Um, one is probably a pretty nice beat, which is possible. There's there's some numbers that we don't know out there. Um,
>> they would I think they would also probably need to release the October numbers and they would have to look a lot better than we expect because we know c- crypto is going to be horrendous. Um, and coupled with that, you know, they'll have to really break out and share more, which I think that they absolutely will and I think it will show the ramp that's happening in the predictions market more than, you know, what Vlad shut off when they hit the four billion uh mark. Uh, I think that that could excite things and get us back to all-time highs, but yeah, my guess is we probably have a pullback. Um, I think that Robin Hood is getting really good at, you know, almost like what SoFi did where whenever certain activities in their business are not working, they're focusing on other things.
>> Yeah. And so sports markets are really really strong right now. And so event contracts, they've been pushing out hundreds of new contracts, making sure that they have all the big games before they happen. Uh we just saw huge volume on these pro baseball championships, uh NBA, all of like look at that. $25 million in revenue in October.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that Hold on. Is that one I know you do a good job uh tracking this, but is that legit? like how confident are you that you're right on those numbers? 25 million. Well, technically it's not that hard to figure it out, right? 2.5
>> and he'll he'll reply, but what I've seen is he's very conservative because he takes basically only what he can actually see and extrapolate. He doesn't accommodate for numbers where people actually exit the contracts early or things that he doesn't observe either and usually just tracks his main event. So, this is a um I don't know, it sounds aggressive, but I don't think that he is. Uh which that could hedge against crypto in Q4 to be honest.
>> And and this is insane because you know I I'm predicting and and maybe you're you're higher than me admit but I'm predicting about 25 million from the entire quarter for predictions market previously.
>> Yes.
>> And this is a fast ramp. Really fast. If you have that photo that he showed of the Pro Baseball Championship, I think it showed like 20 or 25 million shares of um or or like contracts traded on Robin Hood. And I was like, man, that's so high. Like, I bet that's Khi's volume, you know, like like I'm I started to to question myself. And then I went on Khi and Khi was at like, you know, 60 million or something. And I'm like, holy, you know, Robin Hood is still putting up onethird of the total, you know, amount of um contracts. They at the end of the championship for this one contract alone on Khi, they did 80 nearly 88 million contracts. If Hood did a third of that and then this is one contract they're doing this, you know, there's a pro baseball or there's a pro basketball, pro football, college football, uh other sports that I'm potentially not even thinking about. It's like it could really ramp up very fast that we're not even thinking about right now. Like look at this. What what an amazing slide this is. I don't know who to credit here, Amid or let's call you. That's a myth.
>> The You're telling me that a third of this is not being seen by by Hood? I mean, I bet their chart looks just like this, if not more, if not a growing percentage of market share, you know? Yeah. I I want some more clarity around this from Hood because we need to confirm that the volume we're seeing is Robin Hood volume. Like, are we sure about that? that when you trade on Rob Nood those
>> I'm pretty sure I asked Vlad in an elevator and he said yes
>> but I'm not even 100% sure if he is paying all that close of attention to this product. I'm sure a team is fully taking care of this product
>> because dude, they might have we we might have entered into the greatest business model ever
>> because because when you really think about it and I want to play this clip from uh the Khi uh founder Trek, he's getting
>> he's getting wrecked for this clip online because people just love to hate. But like when you really understand what he's saying, it has to be the greatest business.
>> Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Before you start that, I think Juan is in chat right here. I see another Juan Rodriguez in the chat that said, "No, they are now saying it's also Kalis."
>> I see that that
>> Who is who is saying that though?
>> But I call said, "Yeah, I take 50% of it for sports, which is conservative." Well, I don't know how conservative that is, but uh whenever I saw your slide, your your picture, it said, you know, 20 or or 25 whatever that was the seven, it was like nearly 20 million contracts. I was watching the baseball uh game at the same time and we were at like, you know, nearly 60 million contracts. So, that's not the same as call sheets. Lenny says it's not Robin volume. I contacted customer service. Lenny, can you tag me in this uh post? about customer service responding to you because
>> that that honestly just might be my question on Wednesday. Maybe I'll try to do a two-parter, but uh
>> yeah. Or or is there not a contract going right now that we could check on both the things? Like they're from every time I've checked, they're not the same.
>> It's always different and usually by a good bit. So I I don't know if like Yeah. And there's been other um you know there's been Morgan Stanley and I think Piper Sandler that said that they're going to make 200 million on this. They talked about the market share growth. How are they assuming the market share growth and the take rate and all this stuff if they don't if it's not separated?
>> It's a good point.
>> Sending it to a now on X. I I I definitely think this is an important question because again, if if if Robin's able to scale this the way they've been able to scale some of these other business lines and they have the natural tailwind of a prediction market for anything, I think it's up there in terms of one of the best business models ever.
>> Prediction markets are extremely cool and very useful society in terms of like engage with the news more meaningfully and see the future better. But it's not just that like the core unlock that could happen in prediction markets is like if you forecast the future better you are pricing risk like you price any risk and and what I mean by that is like now we have a better way to measure all these risks that could happen to companies to government to humanity to anything whether it's you know climate covid health um the economy all you know politics all these different things and if you can price risk then you can do make better decisions about risk like if understand the risk better, you can make better decisions about how to manage it and also you can like transfer it like you can hedge and I think that's where the institutions will the market really really becomes very very large because institutions are very exposed to all types of bad things happening in the future they don't have control over
>> predation marks are extreme
>> okay so the reason he got clowned on X is because he was seen as like the typical tech bro who's talking about democratizing yada yada and like like you know yes it's it's a very easy clip to make fun of and make a meme out of but at its core he's saying you can make a prediction market out of anything. If Robin Hood does this over the next five years and just makes prediction markets out of anything and this is the way that institutions, hedge funds, investors, etc. use to to either a bet or b price risk, which means hedge and sort of navigate their own positions. Like the more and more events that become important, the more and more people that enter into this ecosystem of prediction markets, even if they're not actively trading, even if they're just consuming, this is going to be a billion dollar business for them. at some point over the next five years and and and the the scalability of that likely is a hedge against a lot of the other cyclical parts of the business.
>> Yeah. And this I think we talked about it last week or maybe two weeks ago strategy article that talked about the merits of the prediction market in the world of AI when you don't know what's real and what's not. Um there there is and there can be manipulation I think especially as this becomes more wellknown and popular. And I thought this was really well done by Khi. again they're partners with Robin Hood on like breaking down and actually showing the use case and demonstrating it which I mean people already using the predictions market all the time in sports and also for politics especially because we see that it was very successful and so like if you look at the overall bet on poly market or on koshi it looks like overwhelmingly mom Donnie will win but the reality is they can actually break down the data on a very granular level and see what the prediction actually looks like in New York the city the rest of New York and outside as well. Um there were some
>> wow wow
>> insinuations that um that this was being deliberately skewed by outsiders who wanted to influence election. I don't know if that's true or not. Um but it's interesting and yeah this I mean they just this reads almost like a a poll. Uh but I I would actually trust this more especially with this granular level of data than I would any other polling agent. So it's I don't know. Insane.
>> I I I didn't see this post. This is crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> How How crazy is that that that the the betting markets are almost all betting on Mumani outside of New York?
>> Yeah. I I know one New Yorker that's going the other direction. He's betting Cuomo.
>> Yeah. Because he probably, you know, everyone around him is saying they're they're worried about what's happening. The polls are actually closing or the polls are actually closing in on Cuomo having not a lead but narrowing the gap. So, tomorrow night's going to be interesting. I I thought a week ago Mumani had it in the bag. Now I'm like I don't know, bro. And if Silva, if the Republican guy wasn't, it would be way closer because he's taken away like 15% of Cuomo's business.
>> So, by the way, uh somebody said the game tonight, yeah, it's at 20 million in terms of volume on Robin.
>> So, so hold on. Lenny just sent me this. Uh he asked the support and they said no. Robin Hood is showing open contracts for each side while Koshi is showing the total volume and dollar amount traded.
>> Okay, that that could be Oh
>> wait a minute. Total volume. Okay. Yeah, maybe.
>> So open contracts means not Robin Hood open contracts but just open contracts. So the reason there's difference between call sheets is because they're not showing contracts, they're showing money. So, so even if someone's closed out a trade, it would it would count on KSHI, but it would close on Robin Hood.
>> Theoretically, I think yes.
>> Yeah, because that contract would close, but they would count the total volume that's traded. Okay. I am starting to get worried though. it hasn't affected me much in terms of um the the earnings predictions and uh because I'm a person that gives credit all the time. Um I want to give perfect credit to Roy for finding this cuz this was uh just a crazy find. I didn't know that this was a thing. Anyway, um but whenever I see, you know, oh, what's Trump going to say next? I I don't think about it much. But what about what Amit's going to say next? If you could share this really quick.
>> There's no freaking way.
>> What will Robin Hood say during the next earnings call?
>> It's like there better not be a prediction market about
>> this is about you.
>> No, it's not.
>> A 74% chance if they say social, if they say international. How crazy is it that you could say, "Hey, Vlad, uh, you know, real quick question about Robin Hood show social and, uh, if you can just wrap it up like what what's your favorite football team,
>> dude? We should go bet on Robin social and then ask him." That's crazy. But that that's kind of like illegal, right? Like what?
>> Well, so I'm not going to do that at all.
>> I'm just surprised.
>> Us three would never do this. But theoretically, if an influencer told their audience, hey guys, like I'm going to ask about the word social and really frame my question in a way that forces them to say the word social. So bet on social. Again, none of us would do this. I think we have a lot more morals than that. But like that is definitely a form of manipulation, right? And and and and then it comes down to what Brian Armstrong did. Do we want to talk about that? Because that to me was ridiculous.
>> Let me get the clip right here.
>> Uh he basically completely manipulated the uh the crypto market. This is what he said at the very end of their call as well. on that. Um,
>> I was a little distracted because I was tracking the prediction market about what Coinbase will say on their next earnings call. And I just want to,
>> you know, add here the words Bitcoin, Ethereum, blockchain, staking, and web 3 to make sure we get those in before the end of the call.
>> I know it's funny, but as soon as I heard that, I thought it was the most cringe thing ever. I don't think Brian Armstrong has like some buddies that you know bet a b on these words and like yeah I think someone literally sent it in the slack as he said and he thought it was a fun joke but immediately my mind goes to oh my goodness this is completely like insider trading at its core think about the tens and I I don't know how popular that contract is for the you know Robin Hood or or for the Coinbase call for example the Robin Hood call has less than $20,000 on it um But you you only gave money to the people that said yes. You you you pulled all the you pulled the rug on all the people that said no.
>> That was the worst part. That was the worst part.
>> So, and maybe it's cuz Brian liked the words. Like he likes the word Bitcoin, Ethereum, Stablecoin, which is why he wanted to give it to the people who voted yes. But like it's weird, dude. And I I could imagine, forget just on Robin Hood's earnings calls, but any earnings calls if this is what you're betting on, what people say. At what point do the regulators get involved?
>> Or do they just
>> a lot of stuff like this? Like there was the women's basketball thing that was being thrown that I'm not going to rehash and and people were like forcing that to occur. Uh and then also um like you see I I don't nothing happened with this but you'll see like different company or or types of events where people are involved and like they'll even like repost on X and they'll be like you know this would be really funny if I did this or something along those lines and it's like man uh yeah we need we need some real regulation here. Um and I think it's very welcome and needed to know what what is okay and what's not. And the nice thing about this administration is they've they've seen a they've shown a willingness to instead of act regulate by enforcement and just slap fines on anybody who even dares to think about doing a prediction market. It used to be crypto. Instead, they're like, let's actually do some real guidelines. And that's a much healthier way to do that. But right now, we're in a bit of a wild west. Um, which means we could see some massive changes in what is okay and what's not as related to predictions market. So, and I think that we do need to see some
>> I I I don't like it, dude. I I really do think it's an issue. Like, if you had someone who didn't have any morals or ethics and was in a position of influence and then they were able to use that influence like the freaking CEO of Coinbase, which again, it just really rubbed me the wrong way. Like, I I didn't even think it was a joke. It just felt like icky the way he did it. Um, and I would never expect Vlad to do anything like that, but like what if he did?
>> And what if it was just like a fun joke? Like I wouldn't like that, but what if he makes a bunch of people rich because he looked at the college prediction market because he's making like it just theoretically you wouldn't want that to happen and then you wouldn't want other external people outside of the company to be able to make it happen in any way. But I I don't have a lot of faith that the Trump administration is actually going to regulate that.
>> Samuel says this is definitely already happening all the time. 1,000%.
>> 1,000%. It happens in politics all the time before I mean Nancy Pelosi is doing it like let's get real like let's go buy up all these stocks and then change the laws. Like
>> No, no, no, no. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. The the the It's you comparing oranges to apples here. This is a brand new product that is letting you Hold on. You're It's letting you price the probability of someone saying a word that has never existed before.
>> Yes. But it's the same idea. You're setting up You're setting up bets before you change the outcome. Right? Like
>> the bets have never been on someone saying a word. They've been an earnings reporter.
>> But here's the thing. No one needs to bet again. Like if if the politician or whatever is the one that's making that bet. These are straight up degenerate gamblers on the other side of the saying no, he's not going to say social like like you need a market in order to make any money. You know, so who are the people that go to these WNBA contracts and say, "No, there's not going to be green items thrown onto the field. No, there's not going to be uh someone that says social." Like, are you guys nuts? This is like at some point it's a donation to the people who are controlling the market.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't see your point, though. My point is that if you can price influence,
>> you can't you can't price it if there's no market.
>> No, but but the fact that there's a market is irrelevant. The point is it's not a good thing to have that market not have any level of regulation because then you can have Brian Armstrong say whatever he wants and completely rug one side. That's not an efficient market is my point. That's not a fair market either. Unless we just don't care and then it's like whatever.
>> Yeah, I would prefer
>> real quick. It's like Brian Armstrong can't give you the Q2 earnings results 3 days before they report. There's a reason there's a quiet period for insiders.
>> No, I I agree.
>> So why should he be allowed to manipulate a unregulated prediction market? Uh just like he could potentially tell you the results before and then you could buy the stock or sell the stock before. Like it's the same concept. There's regulations on what you're allowed to say or not say. I I don't have as much problem with that as I would if he knew he if he knew that there was somebody that would material benefit like some he's like hey I'm going to say these things bet on this that should be completely illegal and also if you're in the know like you know the outcome of something like you are Taylor Swift and you're going to say whatever cry or what you know um then you cannot participate which they already have some of that um at least you know if you guys haven't tried the predictions market, at least the first time that I logged in uh and used like the sports side of it a month ago, they had a whole list of disclaimers which they hadn't had before. So, but I I I honestly the more I think about it, I just think like how how dumb can you be, you know, if if you realize that the market is so obviously manipulable like, "Hey, say a word." and you see things like Brian Armstrong just coming out and saying all of the words for fun, don't bet against them. There doesn't need to be a market.
>> No, Tanner, that that that that line of logic does not withhold the regulatory framework that should be necessary to make sure that Brian Armstrong or any CEO doesn't manipulate the market by, as Roy said, having some buddies bet on a word and then saying, and you can't prove that Brian Armstrong knows that he has a bunch of buddies betting on this word. He might just say it for the hell of saying it, but if that is, you know, if that intention is there, that's obvious manipulation, right? That's like that's like him texting his friend. It's it's manipulation of a non-existing market.
>> Like it people will just stop putting their money in these like like I said with the Robin thing, there's less than $20,000 trading on this thing. This is not like, you know, uh buying up hundreds of millions of dollars of Nvidia stock before you pump it. I mean the the amount of money that's going to trade hands is going to be in the thousands of dollars.
>> Yeah. But that argument doesn't make sense. If we're expecting this whole market to kager massively, eventually there will be a lot more than $20,000.
>> Yeah. Of the important of the important like who is going to win the baseball game, who is like who's going to win the next election because it's going to be much harder to manipulate those types of things. Who's going to say something in an earnings call? I mean, yeah, they can remove those. What if there was what if there was 20 million that was betting?
>> No, but there would see that's you're making up things. That is never going to happen.
>> Who would have thought two years ago you would even have 20,000 beded on?
>> We can't say it'll never happen. It
>> But it's not 20,000 betting on each side. If there's 89% chance of something happen, the vault like the amount of money that's only going to exchange hands is only that 11%.
>> But at the end of the day, it is still manipulating No, I get it. But like you it's not a good thing to go chop your wiener off at home, but there's no laws to say, "Hey, don't start a business to chop wieners off." Like at some point there's common sense. Like like this is an obviously manipulative market. Like at at what point do you regulate shitcoins and Sheba Inu and all that stuff? Like that would all go along with this that there's obvious pump and dumps there. People stop buying them. You lost me on.
>> That's just capitalism. You let people do what they want to do with their money.
>> Look, I'm a capitalist. I agree with you. I just think if it's so bl I think, you know, one could argue Brian Armstrong did that as a point to make the argument that this is stupid in terms of not having any regulatory framework and that he wants there to be more regulation.
>> People in chat are saying, "I don't get it." What's What is your You have to have a solution then. You can't just say there's a problem without a solution. What's the solution? You remove the market.
>> No, no. I I'm saying I'm saying you remove the market. I'm I'm saying like the regulation is Vlad cannot say to anybody what the revenue is before the revenue publicly is released. That's the point of being a public company. That's a regulation by the SEC. I think they could easily say, "Hey Vlad, on the earnings call, you cannot explicitly say words that you have knowledge of that are relevant in the event contracts. That'sough. That's gonna be really tough to prove.
>> What Brian Armstrong did what Brian Armstrong did in those last 30 seconds.
>> That is an explicit admitting of he knows that this is going to rug a bunch of that. I think at the bare minimum you say, "Hey, you're not allowed to do that."
>> Okay.
>> Sure. But that's not going to change anything. The next time he does it, he's just going to put it into his speech. That like it doesn't,
>> dude. If Vlad if Vlad ends up saying football because he somehow says football, that's different. But if he says I am saying football so that people can make money that shouldn't happen.
>> You sometimes you make me want to pull my hair out. If I have a bunch of
>> have any hair. What are you talking about?
>> If if I have a bunch of buddies and I want a football thing to go through. You think I'm going to say I'm saying football because of the event contract after I know it's illegal? No. I'm just going to say, "Hey Vlad, what do you think about the uh the the football game? Is this a prediction market that like you roll it into regular vocabulary? They can't fault Brian Armstrong if he talked about web 3. How do you control that?
>> I agree. I'm not saying you should. I'm saying the explicit admitting that you are doing something for the sake of a prediction market. At its bare minimum, I don't think you would disagree that probably shouldn't be allowed to happen. Like that's how Powell should not be able to go on the FOMC meeting and saying I'm going to cough to make sure that people make money off me betting to cough. Like we would all not think that's okay, right?
>> Okay. But it's happened one time.
>> This whole market is growing like crazy. There could be a lot more things that happen over the next 10 years of prediction markets.
>> So that's that's my concern is is not so much like CEOs doing that or whatever. I I think you know clear framework is needed. One of those is if if you or somebody that that you know is going to material benefit from you doing a decision uh that influences a predictions market that's a no. You can't do that. Now that'll be hard to prove and it should be hard to prove. The burden of proof should be on the SEC or I guess it might not be them uh but whatever organization. But my concern is like where it goes from here. So we right now have seen predictions markets have done a pretty good job of understanding the outcome of certain things especially elections. And so I'm really curious if we'll see things flip to the point where the outcomes occur because the predictions market said that it would and there's actually money on that. And so there's people that are like, "Well, I I would vote, you know, this way, but I'm actually going to vote this way because I got a bunch of money there and I think that they can win and I'll have a massive hand." People's right to do that's fine, but that sets kind of a dangerous precedent. But even worse, like we can extrapolate and I don't think that this would ever happen and I hope it wouldn't happen, but you guys did mention, you know, self mutilation was one of those things. Um I think that I've seen some predictions market stuff on poly market like predicting people's death presumably of like old age. Um but like let's say that there's a predictions market out there like three or four years from now predicting somebody's death and somebody says you know what I'm going to take matters in my own hands and get a massive pay like that's already illegal but I I'm just saying if we start seeing that sort of thing regulators will come down very very hard in predictions market. I think it should be a light touch of don't, you know, don't do things um to
>> how much money do you think?
>> I need to do something illegal. I need to do something illegal. So, invisible says, "Aid, what color are your socks? I'm running a betting tournament. I think it's black and you might have flippers." It is black and I do have flippers. So, uh I So, if you're betting on black and flippers, the answer is yes. And I hope you make a lot of money because yes, you are correct on both those bets. So there you go.
>> Manipulate these markets, baby.
>> It It's It's weird though. Like So
>> But we're talking about like the weirdest like like what famous person that people are betting on their death is going to kill themselves for uh prediction market. What are we talking about?
>> No, no, no. That that wouldn't happen. Here are some things that could happen. One is that we're let's say that they're predicting um former President Joe Biden that he'll pass away presumably of natural causes. People are betting on that that's kind of morbid uh to do that. But let's just say that's a market. Um and then what if somebody's like, you know what, I can make a bunch of money. I can be set for life because the odds are really low. I take matters in my own hands. I don't like the guy anyway. I mean, it's horrible. It's already murder. They don't need to have much thought. But but the other thing is too and uh like let's say it's it's a person that's maybe less famous or maybe they're famous and wellknown. They don't have money already illegal.
>> They this person let's say it's it's Biden. Okay. Let's say he's not in his right mind and and for whatever reason he has no money left or somebody like that that's that's a celebrity that and and so he's like you know what I can do is I can take matter on my own hands. I'm gonna kill myself, but I'm gonna make sure my my family has a massive payout. Like, there are some horrendous things that can happen.
>> Yeah. Get a life insurance policy. You don't need to bet on a predictions market.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. Yes, it is. Yes, it is.
>> Not in the States.
>> Well, I I I I would like to check on that, but it it is after uh after years of signing on the contract. Usually, after two years, suicide is allowed in a life insurance policy. Look, I I don't think a prediction market will eventually lead to someone killing another person maybe in the next 10 years. I I don't think I'm just saying I find it weird that people in power can use these markets to manipulate. And the closest example we have are CEOs. And I think maybe there should be some regulatory frameworks. And by the way, if we want prediction markets to grow as an industry, we're going to need some regulations. Can't just be the wild wild west, right? It's a brand new industry that's creating new uh economic forms of mobility. So, I think there has to be some type of regulation. But if people in power like a Powell can explicitly admit they are doing something or the way they're doing it is so explicit it's almost like obvious that probably shouldn't happen.
>> Yeah. All I'm saying is I don't know what the the the solution would be and it's kind of hard.
>> Do you agree there's a problem at all or No,
>> I agree there's a problem. I think the market's going to solve it themselves by not by not betting on those because they realize that there's only like like they're going to be so heavily manipulated. It's like it's like playing a game of a threecard monty or something under the parasite tower. Like we all know it's a scam. You stop playing it. It's not a fair game. You you realize that there's a trick. You might not even know what the trick is. You move on. Like
>> it's not a horrible point. It's not a horrible.
>> You don't bet no on those markets. It's a scam.
>> I Yeah, I think that there's a there's an element of that, but there also there I think and I think we're all probably there. We're just in the same ballpark of there needs to be more regulatory clarity, but also a lot of these things will take care of themselves.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, for these $20,000 volume bets, like it probably will take care of it. I just when I saw that from Brian Brian Armstrong, I just like I didn't think it was funny. I thought it was like this guy's just straight up man and if this had anything to do with the actual earnings results you know then the SEC would get involved so but this is the wild wild west so it doesn't matter and there's barely any money being bet you know it's not a stock it's just what he's going to say so I agree with you Tanner the markets probably will solve themselves like I think you have a really good point there that it's so minuscule and stupid in the grand scheme of things that it shouldn't be an issue enough to regulate so I guess the the best of both worlds is if we see a highprofile situation of manipulation maybe then you know we should think about regulatory frameworks, but until then, you know, maybe the markets solve it themselves.
>> Do do you guys think that the um political party, the administration currently might be making billions of dollars in in cryptocurrency right now based on regulation that's going through?
>> Yes. Do you think that past administrations have have profited greatly on speeches, on events, and everything like this after passing a bunch of uh regulatory frameworks that empowered certain businesses to strengthen their their market share? I mean, like there's so many larger corruption issues than throwing things onto WNBAs.
>> It's a fair point.
>> Yeah. and and it's like we're also in an environment too at least with the administration that they they have a lighter touch which I think a lighter touch is fine and we'll see if that works but um yeah we're we're very far away from the dark stuff that I mentioned but I mean human nature has pushed not predictions markets but other things to that extreme and it can again we we are not so different than people that lived 200 years ago
>> also with Trump uh Tanner when you mentioned Trump media is coming out with prediction markets on uh Truth Social that you you guys didn't see that was last week they announced.
>> No, I saw it with with Crypto.com.
>> Oh, so then we're definitely not getting any regulations on this.
>> You know, if you have to choose between completely wild west and very light or no regulation or stifling regulation and you can't get anything done, I choose this. I think there's a happy medium, but you know, this is better. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, Tanner's probably right. There there shouldn't be some massive form of regulation. I just when I saw that from Brian Armstrong, it was such explicit that I was just like, this just rubs the wrong way and I, you know, I just I don't know. It felt like it was too aggressive on uh
>> it definitely looked like it sped up the regulatory process for sure.
>> Yeah. Even though you're probably right, there might not be an easy regulatory solution to this, which means which is actually kind of good for Robin Hood because there's no regulations over the next few years and they just keep expanding this product. I mean, I don't think it's crazy to say it can get to a billion in like four or five years. I think Piper Sandler has 200 million for next year. So, if that can just keep cagering at the level it's at right now, if even, you know, potentially even more as more people get excited about prediction markets in general, yeah, it should do well. Now, if Jerome Powell pulls a Brian Armstrong at the end of one of his uh Fed pressers, that that's when we have concerns.
>> Yeah. Um what did you guys think about Sage and Hood officially teaming up to uh roll out discounted mortgage rates? Right.
>> Yeah. It was it was interesting like one one of the things like at least Vlad's comments was that this is now uh for Robin Hood Gold annual members and of course you can do monthly subscription or you could do annual as well. I'm kind of curious. I I'm guessing that maybe that's a like hey all the annual guys get it first and then everybody else is on Robin Hood Gold just like two-step roll out. I'm wondering if that kind of sets a precedent for the future and if perhaps there will be perks that are geared towards more towards annual. But yeah, this is nice. Um, it's I don't the way that Vlad talked about it, it sounded like massive and like huge interest in demand and I'm sure there was some uh but right now the housing market is very cool. So, what'll be very interesting is if we see that really heat up over the next couple of years. Uh, plus there's a lot of other offers that could be out there, not even just for Sage, but other partners, even potentially SoFi towards a very um well understood and affluent Robin Hood Gold cohort. So, I think that we'll see additional products that are offered in that way, which are creative to Robin Hood, also make the gold experience better. So, but yeah, it's this is really cool. Lastly, um we may move closer to my place of work, which would be really nice. And so getting something like this, like I'm really interested. Like this is when they first floated this as far as like a survey thing for Robin Hood users, I was like that's kind of weird now. I'm like, "Oh man, give me that." Yes.
>> Do you think they will partner with uh Open Door?
>> I was I was literally just about to ask. Even the wording of this democratize home, dude. Cass has literally been saying we need to democratize home ownership for the past couple weeks.
>> It's it's pretty clear. I mean like so they're using say technologies obviously uh Cass and Vlad had a conversation and it's probably those two and others I'm certain as well. Um but it seems like that they may see the opportunity for some mutual beneficial stuff. So yeah, I didn't catch that. Uh but that's a possibility. What do you think it would look like partnering with Open Door?
>> Uh, I don't know, a discount if you purchase or potentially better rates if you put your house up on Open Door or something.
>> Yes. Save
>> your house with them.
>> Save 500 bucks in closing costs if you're a Robined Gold member.
>> Well, people are saying it's going to be token tokenized homes. That part, I don't know if it's as easy.
>> I'm not sure what that means. The Open Doors homes are going to be tokenized on Robin Hood's new trading platform to trade tokenized parts of of real estate.
>> You you could buy a bunch of homes almost like a trunch of homes.
>> Okay, I see what you're saying. Yeah, the partial ownership fractional ownership of homes.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah, I I feel like they partner with Black Rockck to really do that, not Open Door. I also don't know what Open Door gets out of that. And also they're not well I I don't know the open door business model but I don't think they're helping people with rent and stuff like this. I don't think there's any income,
>> right? So
>> yeah,
>> like Black Rockck at least would be the, you know, landlord that's collecting some sort of return if you're just holding on to vacant homes. Like what
>> why would anyone buy that too?
>> Yeah. Like if it's like commercial real estate or like a beachfront property in Laguna Beach, that that's different than a random home in Alabama that's on Open Door.
>> Yeah,
>> imagine meme homes pumping.
>> Bro, it's still better than NFTTS at least. So,
>> uh Airbnb has a little bit of that. They're building all their own homes. uh the Airbnb experiences which are
>> Can Airbnb do something to make the stock go higher?
>> I honestly I don't think so anymore.
>> This is the worst tech company. This is the worst best tech company ever. It's one of the best like ideas in history and it's created a lot of value but all that value has gone to the VCs never to shareholders that took a chance on this.
>> Yeah, it Yeah. I mean, like I feel like Airbnb is synonymous with like uh it's it's a it's a noun, right? Like everyone but like no one cares.
>> So when did they become a stable coin?
>> What do you mean?
>> Oh, sorry. I just got it. That's funny because it's it's flat.
>> Oh, okay. That's a good one. That took that took me a minute.
>> Not that good. But dude, they do like four billion in free cash flow and they don't get a multiple. And I've always wondered why. And I think it's because some some people just hate Airbnb. And there are plenty of reasons to hate them to be honest. Uh yeah, the cleaning fees and everything got all out out of whack. They're trying to fix that. Um you know, they're they're hyperfixated on making the customer experience super good. Um, and they do to, you know, to their credit, update the app like at a Robin Hood speed. It's just they need to get enter new verticals. And the times that they've done that, they've been massive mistake after massive mistake thinking that uh experiences or adventures or something like this that people would want to do. And the the honestly people don't care. They're just looking for a click a quick place that's really close to the convention that, you know, they can go to for a few days, something like this.
>> Yeah,
>> Airbnb Rooms was kind of cool because they expanded in a market that they knew very well and opened that up to a new TAM. But it's not um I don't know. I think the hotels have such good benefits because like who wants to do their own dishes and take out the trash and do the bed before they leave? Like I mean, you just leave it all out and the the hotel's like, "Yep, that's what you're paying for. All right, see you later." Like,
>> it really has made more sense as I've gotten older to be like, "Why am I paying for an Airbnb?" Like, why not just go to a hotel,
>> but
>> yeah, it used to be a compelling reason. Now, I think it's a lot less compelling of a reason. So,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, the earnings we think are going to be good. Prediction markets, massive tailwind, not going anywhere. uh likely no regulatory frameworks that stop the growth of it. Uh this Sage home loans thing is definitely bullish long term and I think overall it uh it it it further increases their push into banking. Now look, we haven't gotten banking by the end of the year. Uh some people have gotten access to it but most people have not. I think Robin Hood's really trying to make sure they nail the user experience and you know they have 27 million users. Maybe they invited a couple hundred thousand to be in the pilot test just like they did for home loans for banking. But that seems to be the big tailwind for 26 is just officially offering real financial services via banking. Um and then Singapore I I guess that expansion to Southeast Asia maybe that's happening in 2025 as well. So you have banking and international expansion towards the beginning of next year along with all the AI core tech stuff we saw at the summit. And then you have another AI event happening in December along with a monster quarter. Is that going to be enough to get this bad boy above 150? I guess that is the question that we have to see.
>> Yeah, I I don't know. I'm actually kind of expecting it'll go down uh just because it's been running up, but uh we're we year to date is looking pretty good either way. So,
>> it's the best performing stock of the S&P 500.
>> It's nice to own those,
>> dude. Well, here it's nice though. Well, here's the other thing, dude. I think and and this and I think it's it's important we say this right now because maybe I didn't say it enough before Palanteer earnings given you know the stocks below 200 and people are freaking out. If this thing drops to 130 and it's only up 2 uh 54% instead of 272%. I just hope people don't freak out and people are going to freak out but I hope a sane investor doesn't freak out at a stock being up 230% even if it was 170% year-to date which yes portfolios would take a massive hit if you see Robin had lose 30 40 bucks and I get the human nature of freaking out about it but you this is one of those situations where you got to zoom back and say they've crushed it this year Vlad has absolutely executed at a phenomenal level for shareholders and If you're buying at these levels, you have to be ready to DCA if if the market just doesn't want to give it a bigger premium, which could happen.
>> Yeah. I I think if you're to look at this business, like the things that you loved on the way up haven't changed if it starts to go down after earnings. Like Vlad continues to iterate on the product faster than anyone else. they enter new verticals with high success rates very very quickly and and just like we found banking or the credit card or uh prediction markets there's going to be new ones. You know there's there's going to be ones we haven't even thought of that they will enter that's going to bring us past $200.
>> And and you have to believe that because of the success the the historical success that we've seen over the past many years. And if you don't if you don't trust in that execution, you should sell the stock.
>> Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Then you just don't like Robin Hood.
>> Just take the gains. There's nothing wrong with doing that.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> But yeah, we've seen them continuously expand their TAM and there's a lot of known vectors where they are expanding and they will expand and a lot of those are international which still very much United States play but it's in the early innings in international and it's over the next few years really going to ramp up. um what you know and we'll have bare markets and uh crypto winters where it doesn't perform that well but that's okay.
>> Um well we should have talked a little bit of Grab and Chime as well. Chime earnings coming up.
>> I'm gonna for everyone asked about Grab. I'm going to talk about it tomorrow because there's a lot to discuss on Grab. That's why I don't even want to bring it. It's not a fiveminute discussion. So I'm going to I'm going to write a post. I'm going to talk a lot about it tomorrow morning. TLDDR the earnings were good. Uh, and I think, you know, we're gonna see how the street reacts to it. If people looked at the option flow, there were hundreds of thousands of call options traded for the 650 strike by the end of the month. Um, there's not a lot of volume after hours. So, I think tomorrow will give us a full picture of just like what the volume is looking like, but no, the earnings were great and so the stock's flat, but tomorrow,
>> if you were to give it a letter grade, what would you give the earnings?
>> A minus. There's a couple of metrics that uh could have been a bit better in my opinion, but everything I wanted to see from them I saw. And so Tanner just hates Grab, which is why he he rolled his eyes right now. But
>> no, I just Anything with an A in front of it is crazy. That was the most mid- earnings I've ever seen. But uh
>> why why was it? First of all, Tanner, you I was listening to you on the stream. You were like, "What's a group MTU?" You can't say it's a mid- earnings and you don't even know what MTU stands for. You don't understand the business, which is okay. But
>> it it's not that hard of a business. It's a fintech and Uber put together. They didn't crack a new thing. They're they're
>> That's the craziest statement you've ever made. They found a new geography.
>> Understand? You can't tell me you fully understand the company when you couldn't name when you
>> I don't I don't fully understand the business, but I understand what 17% topline growth is whenever you're paying a decent premium. Like there's there's companies you can go pay for for New Bank or DLO and find 40 50 plus% topline growth and better margins. You how exciting what why don't you just go and buy Uber? Look there there's definitely responses to that and retorts that. But my point is calling it mid given the numbers they put up I think is weird.
>> It is that looked given given you know what an MTU is. How many users do they grow year-over-year?
>> I don't remember what it was.
>> 6 million.
>> So
>> that's not that doesn't matter at all.
>> No, but
>> so I think Tanner I think Tanner is saying that that the earnings are based on an absolute like he doesn't he's not taking in previous earnings or expectations. He's just saying glance at it. It's mid. Emit you might be grading on a curve as far as like relative to expectations or previous earnings. Well, I'm saying one of the one of the reasons Tanner didn't like Hood in the beginning is he was like UI is an emote. It's like, well, that's not in the numbers, but you have to understand that. Saying that growing six million users year-over-year is mid really doesn't understand the competitive dynamics of Southeast Asia and the network effect they're establishing, which is not in the numbers. But if you say it's mid because the top the numbers just look mid to you, it's like that's really not analyzing the business. It's just an
>> I'm not doing a deep dive on the company. I'm just saying I watched the earnings uh or or sorry, I I I looked at the numbers. You could say they grew six million users. That doesn't matter. If if if a company goes from 1 million users to 2 million users, they doubled their base. If Tanner, they're going from 45 million to 48 million.
>> Exactly. Why it's not that% of the entire re like these are things that again
>> I I I think it delegitimizes the argument for mid. You you don't love the company. So I understand why you're saying it, but
>> no, I'm just saying everything is a percentb base. That's why it's easy to sort of look at a company and go, okay, is this a fast growing business? Is this a slow growing business? You can quickly tell if a company is a growth company or or a value business. The the the intricacies of what makes the company good in your eyes. I'm not I'm not suggesting. I'm just saying this was an a the stock was flat to down. That's an A minus.
>> Like okay, I really
>> this was this was an exceptional earnings for you. Tanner Tanner,
>> this is a report card you're happy to take home to your parents.
>> Do not make me say it because I don't know how you're going to respond to this. Well, I know you're going to respond to this. And I have no response to this. SoFi was down on earnings. Are you telling me that wasn't a
>> No, it wasn't. No, it wasn't. It ended up 6%.
>> Red. What are you talking Oh,
>> it ended up 6%.
>> And then it came down to 29 or 2880 the day after.
>> Yeah. And it and it grew earnings grew at 38%, not 17%.
>> Hold on. You just said the stock on Grab was uh flat to red after hours. Therefore,
>> that was the second comment after I made about the topline growth growing 17%.
>> You say something can't be an A minus based on the stock price. If that was the case, SoFi's last five quarters would
>> because because the whole reason why you got excited in this stock in the first place is how cheaply it's traded and it moves nothing on a minus uh earnings.
>> No, no, but but but okay, if you're if you're if you're going to first of all, it's up 30% for the year. Let me just put that out there. Beating the S&P 500s. Number number two, if you're using the earnings reaction for the two hour for the hour and a half before the market close where there's no
>> I'm not I'm bas I'm basing it on the fact that I I think that there's other international businesses that are just easier to understand.
>> I don't have a problem with any of that and you you you might be right about that, but you said it was a mid and that's where I'm like, wait a second.
>> It is you you know where you know how where their growth is going is from their loan portfolio. any company in the world can grow their loan portfolio.
>> Look how much skill it takes. It takes that much skill.
>> No, no, no. You are so Here's why you're wrong with this.
>> If you go out and give money, anyone will take it. Loan portfolios only matter if the performance of the underwriting is good. Anyone can take a loan.
>> Well, okay. So, let let's talk about
>> getting your money back is the hard part.
>> Well, hold on. How does Grab underwrite what is their competitive advantage?
>> I didn't make that. I'm not making that assumption.
>> No, no, but Okay, so this is my problem. You cannot say the majority of the revenue growth or the majority of the growth in the business came from the loan dispersals and then say anyone can just give out loans because it's super easy to just give out money without actually analyzing the business and listening to the earnings call and talk about the hundred different variables that grab as a fintech has that every other bank in Southeast Asia doesn't have in order to underwrite which is why they are well within their credit loss provisions and are able to scale to a billion uh dollars on their loan run rate right 3.5 billion on a TTM basis. because they know their uh merchants's revenue, they know their drivers income, they know their monthly transactions, they have variables in their network effect that are actually allowing them to underwrite and give people onethird of the population that don't that they go to a bank in Southeast Asia, they would laugh at them to give a driver who's making $500 a month a loan. It's like no, a grab can give that person a loan because they actually know they're going to get paid back. So when you say anyone can give out loans and then don't look at the intricacies or the nuances of Southeast Asia as a business and grabs network effect in being able to underwrite and then say the earnings are mid.
>> No, I'm just I'm just a lack of understanding the business.
>> If you do well in one segment of their business and you do mid in the other segment, I wouldn't call that an A minus. I like I don't know if you like
>> But why is it
>> I think that's a high target. I like I'm surprised you weren't honest and you said like a B or a C. But but why would I say first of all why would I say a B or a C? Like what are we comparing? Like did you want 57% revenue growth to get to a B+? Like
>> no I I you oh you wanted the stock to go to seven.
>> Look at the beats. Look what Wall Street was expecting. Weren't they flat? Wasn't it like up 1% beat on revenue? Like what are we that's an A minus to you? Was a 1% beat.
>> Well Tanner, you know
>> No, not Well, Tanner, bro, you're like let's be honest. You're putting it as a minus. This is your stock. Like be honest with yourself. You know this better than everybody. Wall Street expectations are a bunch of people that come up with a number and
>> EPS EPS in line 1 cent revenue beat by 1.04%.
>> Hold on. So all the Hold on. So all the SoFi Wall Street analysts that you on every day. Now you're saying that the Wall Street analyst because Grab came in a million dollars above it is so horrendous because Wall Street somehow understands every business correctly. Because Wall Street understood Pounder and Hood phenomenally when it was at $7. Is that your
>> Well, they they understand this business like to a tea.
>> But how do you know that
>> they got this business pegged down? They they Wall Street guessed the numbers for Q uh uh sorry Q3 and they pinned it on the on the head.
>> Yeah, I think you guys are maybe coming at it from a little bit different angles. Uh Tanner is more looking at relative to where expectations. I'm not saying the company like
>> and and then emit knows the company at a very deep level and so you know both can be true. I I I signed a little bit more with Tanner here but I will say one thing that PayPal is pretty undervalued. So
>> dude it honestly the fair value of this company could be $12. I'm not even suggesting it's not. I'm just saying you think that this quarter was exceptional.
>> I look let me just make this very clear.
>> I don't care if you like Grab or not. I don't care if you think new I really don't care. like we're we're we're best friends. I don't love SoFi. I know you love SoFi. Like like that that's not the issue. The issue is you said it's mid and I know you don't understand the company as well as like the average person because you don't care about it, right? It's not your forte. So to say it's mid and then to say that A minus is too high and then the best reason I'm getting from you realistically is they beat EPS by 1% and that the stock didn't go up to me is an abhorrent way to justify the argument that it's not an A minus. I mean, you have no justification to say it's mid if you don't understand.
>> I'm saying that like 85% of companies in the S&P 500 beat their estimate.
>> So
>> again, what does that have to do? Grab is not in the S&P 500 and it's a growth.
>> No, no. I'm saying 85% of companies, okay, beat their earnings. So it's a good way to gauge how Wall Street looks at respective companies and then how Grab did compared to the rest of those companies and their expectations. That's not a
>> Okay. I'm not fishing here. I mean, that's just that's how
>> if Palanteer came in at 1.13 billion and grew 59% instead of 63% and had a decent beat but not a crazy beat like they put up today, would you say that's a midquarter just because Wall Street had them a little bit higher than like no of course not. That's not even a way to determine the quarters comparison. Like I don't even understand how this argument.
>> But but but you price in the company determinant of the surprise of earnings. So like if
>> Yeah, but that doesn't mean the quarter was mid horrible or exceptional. That's Wall Street's reaction and then the stock price reaction. The business is completely different from if the stock goes up or down based on the earnings expectations like like Okay, hold on. So this is this is this is my point. Meta missed EPS by 86%. Was that a mid quarter?
>> No, but No.
>> Well, why Tanner? because Wall Street didn't figure out they had a $15.9 billion tax charge. So, does the quarter become mid because they like like
>> correct. I don't see how you can use that as your argument.
>> But would you call I would maybe call Meta's quarter an A minus quarter?
>> You know,
>> I would say it's an A+. It was what do you a 30% EPS to you? It's like why do they get the minus? Give me one reason they get a minus.
>> Yep.
>> Wait, who who beat EPS by 30%? Who?
>> EPS.
>> Oh, Meta beat Meta G, sorry, grew topline revenue 26%. EPS would have been a beat by 9% if not for the billion dollar tax charge, $15 billion tax charge. Ad impressions are up 14%. Average price per ad is up 10%. DAUs are up 8%. What are you talking Why was this an A minus quarter? Because the stock went down 10%. Well, I I just think the the range of scale between zero and like I could go from an F d like it the the range of of ranking a company doesn't go from A minus to A+ like I'm looking at the whole grand scheme of hey where in the all the letters could I put them you know if I'm looking at Meta's quarter
>> so you're guessing basically
>> no I'm not guessing I'm saying I I would pick Meta's quarter over Grab's quarter but how can you put them in the same letter grade how can you put those two companies I'm saying I'm saying Grab's an A minus and Meta is an A+. And if you're
>> That's the same letter grade.
>> Okay, so hold on. So now Grab has to become a $2 trillion company to even have a chance.
>> No, no, they have to grow as fast as a$ two trillion dollar company in a in a emerging market as a tech company in two of the fastest growing markets that you could be in.
>> No, that is crazy.
>> No, but I I I would agree with that. My point is not growing at that top line of So they grew at 22% instead of 26%. So that 4% difference justifies a fundamental downgrade on a C. Like I don't understand why that's like that's not the right criteria to make the argument.
>> I'm I'm curious on this. Like is part of the uh I know you didn't want to talk too much about grabb but we got into
>> So is is people people have popcorn tonight so at least we're putting on a show.
>> So like looking at the revenue um I I just have pulled up here. I'll just throw this up. Why not? Uh okay. So this doesn't have the the newest quarters revenue with uh but uh we can see that there was a reaceleration. This is against a higher comp. So maybe that's part of the reason why you're grading it as it is because they they did a significant step up last year. And we can see that there it seems to be a acceleration of revenue. Uh and so I I don't know as far as seeds and everything. I don't know the business. Um but are you seeing this as more kind of an inflection point? uh and that they'll just continue growing re topline revenue at a faster rate or you just like I'm just kind of curious.
>> Yes, I'm seeing them as a company that's worth 15 billion enterprise value doing $3.5 billion of revenue likely going to be doing four and a half next year probably going to be doing closer to 950 million in Q4 and there's a lot of nuance to analyzing their that has 7.5 billion in cash and that hit all their metrics up and to the right on every single level. So when I see something like that and then Tanner says it's mid. Again, it's not even being emotional that he said it's mid. I'm just like, well, how do you even say it's mid if you don't understand all that? That's like me saying New Bank's quarter is mid because I thought one metric was bad or because the stock was flat or like no new bank absolutely
>> but but you could look at other companies in the fintech or self-driving space and then say, "Hey, you know what? Like I don't know PayPal very well, but they're growing a heck of a lot slower than these other businesses." Or something like like like you could put up an argument.
>> Yeah. Right. But then if I said if I said it's mid and then Royy's like, "Well, am a mid, did you look at X, Y, and Z?" And I'd be like, "No, Roy, because I don't know PayPal, though." He's like, "Well, mid then it's probably not as mid as you think just because you're looking at the topline numbers."
>> No, I know. I'm just saying,
>> yeah,
>> there I just don't know why if you're going to go out of your way to buy and and I'm not even saying Grab is a bad company or anything like this like like it might do awesome, but um you look at a name like New Bank, which you're also taking those international risks. How do they even compare?
>> Tanner, I don't know because I haven't gone through New Bank and and I'm sure New Bank is a is a great company and trying to save you. I'm trying to I'm trying to get you over to the good side here.
>> Okay, now we got Now we got to clip this for a year from now. Tanner says he's trying to Look, you might be right about this. I don't know. Maybe I'll be publicly wrong about this. I'm just saying there's a lot of nuance to understanding this business. Maybe you don't think that's the case, but uh
>> No, no, I'm not. You're right. I don't know the business as well as I should.
>> But that's my point. That's so when you say it's mid, I'm just like, okay, you're making a very generic statement based on looking at a few numbers. when you don't even know what the core metrics stand for like MTU which is not your fault it's just you don't care about it but so giving a opinion on it that is negative without looking at the internal dynamics of the business I mean someone will argue and say well no I think based on the expectations based on the growth trajectory I think a A minus is very well warranted and they deserve that I mean like what it's a C plus quarter it's a D quarter really for a company that
>> I just I thought you were going to say like I I thought you were going to say like a B or something
>> and all all and like like all this would have had.
>> All I said was I was surprised that you put the highest letter grade
>> in front of,
>> you know,
>> look, if the stock was 725 right now, you might not be even arguing with this, but it's not right. So, like, I get it. It's it's it's it's based on the price reaction, but yo, Chris and Steve, I got to end this because I have to go to sleep. So, so we're not extending this any longer because I really need to go to bed. But yeah, this is a fun conversation.
>> Maybe next time. Well, no, it'll be after Robin Hood earnings. Maybe a couple times from now we can
>> bring him on and do a big tech bro thing. So,
>> no, we should. It's a fun debate. It's it's a good debate to have, too. Like, everyone should be questioning their thesis. And, you know, the amount of times I had to go through this with Paler at six, Tanner had to go through this with Sofi at seven, like this is the this is the dog days of being long on a name. And it's the fun of like, can you defend it and then can you be proven right over the long term? You know, we see what happens.
>> And more likely than not, I'm gonna have to end up buying at 12. I mean, we've done this before. So, like
>> I I'm just I'm stubb I'm stubborn. I need a little time to be convinced,
>> which or it's a horrible opportunity cost for the next year. I mean, like it's one of the But that's the fun of just like publicly putting out old.
>> You could just say it's PayPal. Dude, I think that's going to make a move. I don't know when. I don't know what the hell they need to do to make a move, but I think eventually it'll make a move.
>> Yeah, I think quarter four. We'll see. But yeah. Yeah, earnings is fun, guys.
>> Earnings are fun. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Love you all. Uh we'll be back. We'll cover uh Robin Hood live on Wednesday. So 3:30 I think we'll be live and hopefully get we get a good quarter and break their alltime highs on hoodie
>> Shopify tomorrow ladies and gentlemen.
>> That's a big one.
>> Huge name for me. Second biggest position. So gonna be watching that.
>> Great coming.
>> All right. Good stuff. Thank everybody. We'll see you guys on Wednesday. Bye everybody. Bye guys.