有事企业家 无事资本家上期我讲了中国9月1日即将开始的全民强制社保这事虽然所引起了民愤但是在一片骂声当中还是有不少人在为这个政策辩解的 其中有一种声音我在墙内评论区里看到特别多的就是我都不明白你们为什么要反对虽然打工人到手工资会少一点但是大头还是企业来承担而这些最后都是你自己的钱所以全民强制社保针对的主要是资本家我们作为打工人去帮老板说话不是很可笑吗 有這種聲音的出現其實我一點都不驚訝這非常契合這些年來中國年輕人被國家培養出來的那種仇恨資本的邏輯你現在到B站上去看看一大堆那種用二次元頭像的小年輕張口閉口就是資本家什麼買辦啦資本原罪資本作局巴拉巴拉 So when the news of the forced social security comes out, you will see that when everyone is complaining, they are mainly considering their own problems. They are not interested in the difficulties that companies face, because in their mind, reducing the burden for the company cannot make the workers benefit, but only make the capitalists fat. 那么今天我想深入来探讨一下这个课题打工人究竟有没有必要为资本家说话也就是说打工人和企业家的命运究竟是二元博弈还是互惠互利呢 在開始以前我們先來討論一下為什麼中國的年輕人普遍上仇視資本這點倒是很好理解因為他們從小就被灌輸了社會主義那一套思想也就是馬克思的資本論所謂的剩餘價值那一套 我的观众当中也有很多不是在中国受教育的朋友所以这里我先快速的讲解一下马克思资本论理的核心观点以及为什么这些观点已经在全球经济历史当中被证明是不正确的 First, the value of labor Marx believes that the value of a product is determined by the social necessary labor time required in the process of making this product In other words, labor is the only real source of value 第二點,剩餘價值與剝削論馬克思認為工人在生產過程中所創造的價值是大於勞動力價值的而這些多出來的部分即為剩餘價值這些剩餘價值被資本家無償佔有也就是說資本利潤等於剩餘價值因此資本主義的本質就是在剝削工人 第三點,資本積累與貧富分化由於資本不斷積累,利潤在投資導致資本集中和壟斷結果就是工人越來越貧困,資本家越來越富有第四點,資本主義的必然危機資本主義的生產具有無政府性因此自由競爭就會導致過度生產資本家對剩餘價值的壓榨必然導致消費不足從而週期性爆發經濟危機 Since we believe these 4 points, Marx's final conclusion is that because of the economic crisis and class conflict, capitalism cannot be self-converting. Ultimately, the working class or the non-profit class will overthrow the capitalist system and move towards communism. From then on, the world is no longer painful and poor. Next, let me talk about the central thinking of Marxism During the process of refuting these ideas It naturally answered the central question of this video Is the fate of workers and bosses two-way or mutual benefit? After solving this problem, let's see Can it inspire us to the current economic situation in China? First, value comes from labor So you see, in the slogans of Mao Zedong's era There is "Labor is the most glorious" From the perspective of modern economics Of course, this is completely unsteady If a B-card is used, the amount of labor required is very small But the market price is very high Because of the lack of character and demand, it is valuable But the fame is too far from everyone's life Let's take a more authentic example The boss of a bun shop hired a bun chef Let's call him Xiao Xi Xiao Xi can steam 100 buns a day It can earn 500 yuan The boss gives Xiao Xi 200 yuan salary every day According to Marx's theory The remaining 300 yuan is the remaining value of Xiao Xi The Japanese capitalist took it away 那可不是嘛資本家啥事不幹卻硬要從勞動者創造的價值當中分走一部分這不是白嫖嘛問題來了東西的價值真的是勞動決定的嗎你今天雇了100個人花了三天三夜費力巴機的把山裡的一塊大石頭挖了出來送給我但我寧可要一個木匠花了兩小時給我做出來的一張椅子 Because there are only two aspects of the value of something One person's subjective evaluation of something Or his current needs For example, a super chip combines the comprehensive wisdom of mankind It consumes a lot of power and industrial productivity But you throw it to a person who is trapped in the desert for three days and three nights It's not worth it at all If you can give him a bottle of water and a bread at this time, he is willing to exchange all his wealth with you. In society, it is the same between the country and the country. The value of things comes from demand and subjective evaluation has nothing to do with labor. Labor can produce or produce things But labor can't create value If labor automatically equals value Then all the migrant workers are drinking champagne on the yacht So, all those 500 yuan are all created by the small business Just talk nonsense Before the small business closed Steamed oven, flour, pork and yeast have been placed there Without these production elements Small business steam the air? Of course, there must be a more detailed theory to confuse so many people in Marxism According to Lao Ma's logic, these tools and raw materials are also created by labor Their value can be transferred to the buns So those 500 yuan are not created by Xiao Xi alone There are also farmers who grow wheat, workers who grind flour, and the labor force of the master Zhao Zhenlu For example, 300 is the labor value of the small business 200 is the transfer of labor value of the first large number of people As for the boss of the black heart bun shop That is a completely useless parasite Blood-sucking ghost Then I would like to ask Mr. Ma 没有黑心资本家注册公司寻找店面搞装修雇人寄上打发工商城管等等等这包子铺是怎么来的呢就是你所谓的不以人的意志为转移的生产力吗这是幽灵还是魔法就像万磁王一样手一挥东西就聚合在一起了 Besides, the price of buns is never changing. It can grow and it can decline. It changes according to the market's overall demand for the buns and the related raw materials. According to the statement of the surplus value of capital theory, the boss of the bun shop didn't do anything, but the price of the buns was higher, the boss made more money. That is, he made more money. The price of the buns is low, the boss makes less money, which means he makes less money for the workers. Why the boss doesn't transfer his will to the amount of money he wants to pay? Since he is a poor capitalist, how can he be more gentle when the price is low and the profit is less? Shouldn't he be paying at any time? 那麼我們就來到了資本論的第二點資本主義的本質就是在剝削工人這世界有沒有剝削當然有剝削的本質是什麼是強迫是沒的選擇 The slave of the cotton plant worked for three hours in a row under the sun Stopped to drink some water, the slave took the skin and pulled it He was not allowed to drink The slave said I quit The slave shook his hand and called for a fight Then said OK, leave your legs This is forced, this is no choice, this is a school of thought If the shop owner is unhappy and feel that the boss has less left over value he can leave freely and find more shops he wants to share The young people of B-Zone will say This is useless Other shop owners are also capitalists Capitalists are all working together Okay, if capitalists are equal to the 工資低是資本家造成的嗎?恰恰相反,中國人工資低恰恰是資本家不夠了當然還有被特權階級分走了太多的蛋糕這個我後面再講在一個市場當中,如果資本的體量是恆定的話那麼打工人的數量越多,他們的工資就越低 Or the example of a bun shop If there are only 100 bun shops in the market Then the more the master of making buns in the market, the lower their wages On the contrary, if the number of bun masters is parallel When there is enough demand for buns in the market Then the more capitalists in the bun shop The higher the salary of the bun master Some people talk about surplus value every day But if all the companies of capitalists are closed Then the surplus value of workers is zero 大家眼中看到的只是极少数成功了的老板但在资本市场里失败的企业那是失衡变业绝大部分的老板最终都是输家根据财富杂志的报道中国中小企业的平均存活时间只有两年半每分钟都有两家企业倒闭98%的中国企业活不过十年 Marx said that capitalists do nothing, do nothing But the boss has to take the risk The company is closed, employees can find another job Capitalists may be in the dark for a night The accumulation of more than 20 years has become useless And become old-fashioned But last month, there were several entrepreneurs in China who jumped off buildings Three former business leaders of the home-build industry Two jumped off buildings and one was taken away for investigation On July 17, the founder of Guangzhou's whole school of lighting furniture, Zeng Yuzhou, left a sentence Sorry, everyone, then jumped off the building and died 7月27日,居然自家董事長汪林鵬被警方解除留置措施後沒幾天,跳樓身亡7月24日,現家居業首富,富三美老闆劉斌被帶走調查所以,那些天天罵老闆的年輕人如果覺得老闆容易當的話其實可以自己去試試看的別天天就會口嗨更別找藉口說什麼自己沒有原始積累,沒法創業 Does every capitalist have a family background? Chinese businessmen born in poor families are also caught by the government Li Jiacheng, Huang Guangyu, Shi Yuzhu, Yu Minhong, Liu Qiangdong, etc. Let's not talk about the people But they also sell ice cream, work as a worker, work as a waitress, sell at the market, etc. After saving a little money, they started a business and made a living People are also working as capitalists instead of being like Bilibili who is complaining about their capitalists' but not have the courage to change their situation Now let's look back at China's economic situation People are getting sadder and sadder these two years Is it because the bosses are more bad to their employees than before? If so, then you should see the business owners of China The days in the past two years are getting better and better But in fact, so many companies are closed So many bosses run away and jump off the building So your life is getting harder and harder Not because the boss gave away more cakes But because the whole cake is getting smaller So everyone got fewer cakes So as a worker You should hope that the environment will get better You should hope that the company will reduce its burden Only when the cake in this society is big Can we get more cakes Then discuss how to divide the cake To make a reasonable question At this time, you may feel strange The country said GDP is still increasing by 5% every year The cake is still getting bigger How can it be smaller? Good question If the cake is not getting smaller But the number of cake divided by workers and capitalists is getting smaller What does that mean? 那代表在中國分蛋糕的其實不只是打工人和資本家還有一個隱藏的第三方這個第三方才是真正的蛋糕精吞者分走了經濟蛋糕當中的絕大部分份額那就是紅色特權階級 中國經濟走到今天的地步很大程度上也是因為中共特權階級分走了太多的經濟蛋糕並且不願意做出絲毫的讓步導致蛋糕的生產變得越來越困難市場上的蛋糕越來越少 Let's take real estate as an example Young people are complaining about the high price But they are complaining about the poor developers The capitalists suck blood and sell the house so expensive But they don't know at all In fact, more than half of your house price Was taken away by the state I gave an example in my previous program. Today we will review it. In 2018, Bi Gui Yuan bought a land in Dongguan. This land was later built into Bi Gui Yuan Park No. 1 community. This community built 204 housing units in total. The total sales area is 250,000 square meters. According to the information registered by the East What does this mean? In this house you bought, almost 60% of the land cost is directly given to the country The materials used when building the shelter steel, cement, design fee, labor fee, etc. The developer's profit is not high It's good to have 10% profit Moreover, the money collected by the state is not only 60% land cost All the raw materials used by the shelter must be paid by the tax The final tax is paid to the state by 25% of the tax Finally, when you buy a house, you have to pay 1.5% of the tax Pay tax when selling a house If you calculate all of these, out of the 1 million houses you bought, the so-called "poor capitalists" only took about 100,000, while the Chinese Communist Party who served the people took about 650,000 to 700,000. So when you complain about the high housing prices, the "cursing developers" instead of the "loving people like children" in your mind, is extremely ridiculous. The people of the party want to say that the money collected by the state is not going to the treasure chest You know, the more you know, the more you know Is it? Every time the CCP officials fall, they find out that they have been greedy for tens of billions Even the whole district, the whole building is a corrupt and corrupt couple We are all numb And you should know that the ones who can be exposed are basically the little Calamities The real behind-the-scenes big boss will not be caught The little Calamities can be scammed for billions How much will the big boss be scammed? According to a report from New York Times in 2012, a final Pulitzer Prize 温家宝在担任总理期间他的母亲、妻子、子女、弟弟通过平安保险北京的国家珠宝检测中心和上海的钻石交易所积累了巨额财富合计至少27亿美元 In the past 40 years, China has been in the midst of economic feast The special power class sits in the middle of the gorgeous hall, eating and drinking The so-called capitalists and workers are actually just sitting in the kitchen eating leftovers So complaining about capital slander in China is actually very funny As a worker, you should know that you and capital are not in a joint venture, but mutual benefit. But even if it's a joint venture, you are here for the leftover vegetables thrown by the special authority, and the capitalists, fighting against the class. It's better to go and fight with the special authority. You should rather spray the capitalists here, shouldn't you give you a piece of steamed bun? It's better to let the special authority give you a little bit of their emperor crab and buddha jump wall 特權階級明明分走了70%你卻去批鬥所謂的有產階級為了那30%鬥個你死我活頭破血流那你只不過是淪為特權階級用來批鬥資本家的工具人罷了 你要知道什麼是剝削嗎?就是我工資只有3000塊都快連飯都吃不起了你強制讓我繳那700塊錢的社保這才叫剝削我辛辛苦苦打工一輩子買套房你先拿走了70%然後指著拿10%的開發商說他們才是你生活不如意的罪魁禍首 This is called "Boss" No matter how rich you are, you can't force yourself to be called "Sherbao" And the funniest thing is Some people are still looking forward to the "King of the Sky" who is in the top tier of the privilege to help everyone to uphold justice Let them make the rules of dividing the cake I believe they will give more points to the workers instead of capitalists 這到底是有多天真啊只要是由特權階級來分蛋糕不管是達工人還是資本家就都不可能有好日子過最終你心目中的青天大老爺只會把蛋糕分給他們的孫子孫女取名瓜瓜藍藍名澤等等 我好像有點扯遠了那我們倒回來繼續講馬克思主義資本論第三點資本積累會導致資本集中結果就是工人越來越窮第四點自由競爭導致過度生產無產階級被剝削導致消費不足因此爆發週期性經濟危機最終階級鬥爭導致資本主義滅亡走向共產主義這三個點我來一起進行反駁 First, in the practice, the accumulation of capital brings an increase in labor productivity, and thus improves the wage level of workers. In the past 200 years, the living standards of Western workers have been greatly improved, instead of the poor, as Marx said. 2. Is there a capital concentration? Of course there is. Some companies have become very large and even form a monopoly. But these problems can be solved through institutional tools. For example, tax, anti-monopoly law, labor law, public society, social security, etc. The most ridiculous thing is Look at the current situation in China Is capitalism or socialism that leads to capital concentration? The most concentrated capital and resources in China is the state-owned enterprises If we talk about capital concentration and monopoly Who can compare with the four major industries of Chinese oil and Chinese stone, China Mobile, Liantong and工農建商? Third, capitalism will indeed have a But capitalism did not die because of the crisis Instead, through the crisis, it continued to reform and evolve Capitalism countries through democratic systems, welfare mechanisms, social security, public meeting forces, etc. Reform methods to ease class conflict Extended their own vitality The richest and most stable countries in the world are almost all market economies Instead of planned economies Instead, it is a socialist country that is in the middle of Marxism It was disintegrated or transformed in the late 20th century The most typical example is of course the Soviet Union It has achieved rapid industrialization through planned economy But due to the wrong match of resources, the efficiency was low and the system was speaking It finally disintegrated in 1991 Eastern European countries such as East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, etc. also gave up the planned economy after the Cold War and turned to market reform Basically became a developed country Other countries that are still sticking to the Marxist route Cuba and North Korea are the poorest countries in the world Since the practice is the only standard to examine the truth, then we have to ask, is there any successful case of Marxism, socialism and communism? Not only unsuccessful, and as long as the leader of the country who is addicted to Marxism, almost all are crazy and murderous demons in human history. 我给大家制作了一张表格从苏联的列宁和斯大林中国的毛泽东柬埔寨的波尔布特朝鲜的金日成他们来自截然不同的语言体系不同人种不同文化甚至是不同的时代而他们唯一的共同点就是他们都信奉马克思主义神奇的是就这么几个人偏偏他们都是杀人狂魔这不可能是一种巧合吧 These people in total killed nearly 100 million people. You want to say the truth of the practice test, isn't that enough? How many more people do you want to kill to admit that Marxism is a complete failure? 這時肯定有人要跳出來說了以前的都不重要新中國就是馬克思主義成功的最佳案例中國現在是世界第二大經濟體誰都不能說現在的中國不成功吧那麼我就想請大家門心自問了 China's economic achievements today, China's people's fate has changed completely in the past 40 years. Is it because of socialism or capitalism? Is the Chinese people's poverty because of the planned economy or the market economy? Deng Xiaoping's so-called "specialist socialism" Isn't it just capitalism that is outside of socialism? The so-called reform and opening up is not just opening the door to trade with the world Your stock market, your financial market, your real estate, your export trade These are the foundation of driving the Chinese economy Which is not a market economy? 那些你没有彻底放开的部分比如外汇管制比如言论和媒体的管控是为了巩固红色政权跟你的经济发展有关系吗如果没有这些也许中国今天的经济成就还不仅如此 What's more, after 40 years of reform and opening up, the biggest difficulties faced by China's economy today over-producing and insufficient consumption are all caused by the Marxist part that is kept in China's economic policy 這個看過我前幾期節目的觀眾應該都已經了解了產能過剩源自於計劃經濟將國家資源過度的集中到政府指定的領域從以前的鋼材煤炭到現在習近平的光伏和新能源汽車計劃經濟導致資源分配不均導致內捲進而導致產能過剩導致通縮 China's reform and opening up to today's 40 years of history is exactly the best example of capitalism's victory over communism Because when we put two different systems into two different countries to implement You can also say that the success and failure of these two countries There are other factors, right? People, culture, natural resources, etc. Even if it's North Korea and South Korea Someone has to find an angle to raise a bar 但是新中国成立70多年以来同一个人种同一个文化同样的地理环境但只要是全心全意搞共产主义时结果就是大跃进三年大饥荒文化大革命民不聊生30年而后来开始拥抱市场经济就是蓬勃发展的40年从一穷二白跃居世界第二 And then there comes another Xi Jinping, a socialist, a 所以说到制度优劣的比较大家总是拿中国跟日韩比跟台湾比跟新加坡比我说不需要你只需要看看中国自己过去这76年比什么都清楚一目了然 最后对于那些依然对什么剩余价值、资本价剥削工人这套理论执迷不悟的年轻人我想再给你们说一些肺腑之言其实在中国根本就没有什么有产阶级和无产阶级其实在这片土地上只有两种阶级红色特权阶级和建民 强大如马云在红色特权阶级面前他的苗小其实跟你我比起来并没有太大的区别也就是大家对自己命运的掌控力只取决于红色阶级要不要弄你所以年轻人认清楚真正剥削你的人是谁吧是那些一开局就拿走了70%蛋糕的人而不是那些给你发工资的资本家你们其实是同一个战线上的 You should know that it is not shameful to not be able to defeat the enemy The most shameful thing is to be fooled by the enemy into being a tool man To fight with your teammates Recognize your real enemy Even if you still can't resist the power At least don't be sold by others Still counting money for others At least don't be stripped of your clothes Still singing for them 這個要求真的並不高好 那我今天就分享到這裡我是老周 橫沒冷對 誓言不諱我們下期再見