(音樂)中國未來如果攻打台灣我就捐款五千萬講這句話的人最近被封殺了中國大網紅張雪峰就是那位專門收費教別人高考如何選擇志願的所謂考研輔導講師繼護塵封之後帳號也被封了 上個月九三閱兵之後張雪峰剛剛才對黨和國家表過忠心說中國如果攻打臺灣他個人至少捐款5000萬他的公司捐款一個億雙城打搶那天我他媽至少捐500萬整起對習法捐款一個億這我媽婆怎麼意思拍胸脯瞪眼睛了但沒想到馬屁拍到了馬腿上豪言壯語剛講了還不到一個月的時間全網賬號就都被禁止關注了 After his account was banned from being followed, he posted a long article in his friend circle. Obviously, he was angry. He said, "Why can't I say it out loud that I love my country? Why can't we express the determination of the people to unify their motherland?" 最后一段干脆来了个小孩子的赌气文我太蠢了我明明已经上岸了干嘛不享受每年大几百万的捐款呢我干嘛要公开表达自己的爱国情怀呢我懂了以后我就老老实实挣钱老老实实生活我受教了其实写了这么多内心就是一句话我都舔成这样了你们为什么还要惩罚我呢 I have known this person for a long time But I have never watched any of his shows and live broadcasts But this time I read this friend circle article I was really surprised What I am surprised about is A person entrusted by millions of Chinese parents To decide their children's future life direction It's actually at this level If you don't say it I really thought this was something written by a person who didn't graduate from middle school I often say that the more culture, the more I don't know if you found in life the more culture the less they use the word "sign language" Look at Zhang Xuefng it's not one sentence one sign language it's three sign language not only three sign language but also three and four sign language talk. This kind of pen can be a good tool to read to children in primary school. This pen is a good tool to read to children in primary school. This pen is a good tool to read to children in primary school. I'm a little bit of a sour. I can always make a mistake. Okay, so here's the question. Why Zhang Xuefeng, such a person who is obviously low-level, full-mouthed and rough, is not only the big net red hot topic of 410 million fans on the whole Internet? What's more amazing is that so many Chinese parents can give their children the future to such a person. Why so many Chinese parents are suspicious of the most important choice in their children's life? What major should the university choose? Will they choose to believe such an educational style? After I seriously thought about it, I got a conclusion. 張雪峰之所以能夠這麼火,完全是因為中國特殊的教育環境造成的這裡我指的教育環境不只是學校的教育,還包括家庭的教育中國學校訓練考試機器壓抑思考,把教育變成一場毫無靈魂的競爭而中國家長則習慣全盤控制孩子,把孩子當成自己的延伸 兩者共同營造出來的中國教育泥潭成就了張雪峰鱷魚裡有句話叫做"超憨超愁"就是臭糞坑裡長出了臭草只有在中國教育這個大糞坑裡才能滋養出張雪峰這樣的臭草 Today I want to talk about what are the specific factors in the Chinese education environment Let a education rogue who relies on talking and scolding become a master of the whole nation But before we start Maybe some friends outside the wall don't know Zhang Xuefeng very well So I will quickly introduce this person's family history 張雪峰其實不是他的真名張雪峰原名張子彪張雪峰出生於黑龍江奇奇哈爾斯畢業於河南鄭州大學排水專業鄭州大學本科寫出來的東西就是這個樣子的我也不知道是中國所謂的211院校其實也挺水的還是張雪峰丟了鄭州大學的臉並不能代表政大的平均水平歡迎政大的校友來為母校平反 張子彪畢業後加入了一家教育培訓機構在這個行業摸爬滾打了將近十年後據說是在業內小有名氣於是決定單肥陸續在蘇州和北京成立公司張雪峰開始走紅是因為他在2016年6月的一段講座視頻叫做七分鐘全面解讀34所985考驗名校五大和華科都自稱是湖北省排名第一的學校 五大说我湖北第一,华科说屁,我才是第一,知道吧?那你好,这两个校就有特点了,怎么样?你复学的时候一定要说一句话,比如说你要考五大,你一定要说什么话?老师,我最讨厌哪个学校?华科了是吧?那破学校跟我们学校争第一,我呸,英雄所见列同,知道吧?马上留学你啊,但是在咱们全国每年都有很多很牛逼的傻逼。 把哈尔滨理工大学当航空大学吧成名之后 张雪丰经常以博眼球的言论引起争议他的特点是经常把一些学科贬得一文不值比如他曾经在一场直播当中说孩子我告诉你 所有的文科专业都叫服务业服务业总结成一个字 就是甜 假方都是對的爺爺我給你笑一個吧嘿嘿嘿本次封建他帳號後官媒批評他的文章是這麼說的一直以來張雪峰的教育指導充滿極端功利化色彩其不斷強化天坑專業的概念將數學、物理、化學、土木等基礎學科和重要工程學科視為就業陷阱將動搖國家長遠發展的人才根基 張雪峰也曾經說考驗並不是比誰的底子好比誰更努力而是看硬是技巧引來了教育界的不滿其實呢張雪峰走的是一種教育實用主義在中國目前的社會現實當中實話說我個人也覺得並非全錯 比如说他另一件引起争议的事件是告诉一个家长如果他的孩子要报考新闻系的话就把他打晕如果我是家长的话这孩子非要报新闻学我一定会干一个事就是把他打晕对于一个新闻完全被国家管控所有的媒体言论都是经过严格审查才能发出去的国家确实没有必要读新闻系这点我觉得他说的也没错只是他不敢明说不建议读新闻系的理由罢了 In a society that is education-political, Zhang Xuefeng does have his value The problem is that after he was successful in engineering, he was too arrogant The service he provided seems to be built on a mode of making anxiety in the collection The high-level exam fill-in volunteer service price he provided is quite high Dream card 12999 yuan, original dream card 18999 yuan 终于他的狂妄踢到了铁板就是当他开始鼓吹台海战争前兩天我們看閱兵看完以後我就很激動我說他媽的統一戰爭槍聲大響的那一天老子他媽先捐5000萬過去老伯你們在網上沒有看那個視頻第一批先捐5000萬整體捐他一個億  愛咋咋的愛咋咋的老子不移民你愛怎樣怎樣我不在乎我怕 我怕我就不會說其實啊 官媒說的這一堆關於封禁他的理由我全都不買賬在我看來 他被封就是因為說了中國打台灣他要捐款五千萬的言論5千萬的言論 You may say that this is in line with the thinking of Xi Jinping and Little Pink Why is the CCP unhappy? But the problem is What he said is like putting Xi Jinping in an awkward situation It's Shanghai's saying that he's put someone on the pole If Xi Jinping is not ready to fight Taiwan You are at this time to stir up the people's emotions Let the people's voices continue to shout Fight, fight, fight Is it to make the people and the CCP do the opposite? And if Xi Jinping has been wanting to fight Taiwan recently Is it a credit for Zhang Xuefeng? Will the people say It has to be Zhang Xuefeng If he didn't shout to fight The country doesn't know when to start The fundamental problem is that in the eyes of the government, whether the country wants to fight Taiwan or not, it's not your turn to be a 挫一挫他的銳氣提醒一下他誰才是主子看他聽話了過陣子應該就會打開籠子放出來了好了好像有點扯遠了現在我就來聊一聊本期的主題中國特殊的教育環境是如何成就了張雪峰的 主要我認為有三點我們先講學校再講家長第一點中國大學挑選專業的方式其實非常的不人性化因為它就跟高考一樣一選定終身選了以後幾乎就很難再換專業所以父母和孩子們普遍把報考志願當作一錘定音的人生投票生怕孩子選錯專業耽誤了一生 So this anxiety has created a desire for the answer to power Zhang Xuefeng is the power in their hearts I personally received Chinese education and Asian education in secondary school But my major and master's degree are all in the United States So here I will use the method of choosing a major in the United States to make a comparison In the US, before entering university, you are not forced to choose a major If you can't decide, you can go in first When do you decide the last? Do you think it will give you one semester or two? Wrong Four years of undergraduate, you can decide your major before the second year ends That is, it gives you two years to consider In my opinion, this is reasonable Let's think about it carefully A 17 or 18-year-old young man Do you really know yourself? Do you really know what kind of career you will be in in the next decades? Don't say 17 or 18 Many people don't know what they really want when they reach 30 But we are forcing high school students to make a choice This decision will affect your future for decades What kind of pressure is this? Is it fair to do this? You may feel strange when you hear this If you don't choose a major, what books will you read in the first two years? Isn't that a waste of time? 完全不会这里要分两方面来说第一美国的大学非常重视通识教育也就是除了自身的专业有一些知识是所有人都应该懂的不管你是什么专业你还是必须有一部分的学分来自于自然科学、社会科学、文学等等 比方说你的专业是电子工程但你不能说我就全部都只学数学和电子工程美国大学会规定你也必须从社会科学这个大类里比如地理、历史、心理学、人类学等等你自己挑选三到四门你比较感兴趣的来学习他们的目的就是让你成为一个有健全人格和知识的人而不只是懂得你的专业 For example, I was a master's student in computer science When I was in college, I also studied Balloon and flower arrangement You heard it right, flower arrangements I will teach you some flowering techniques and how to make it look good My friend also studied grape wine and sword art The school encouraged me to study the non-mainstream subjects It's also a record student 有點扯遠了啊但意思就是說雖然你還沒有決定專業但你可以先把通識教育這部分的學分給修完並不影響你的畢業進程與此同時美國大學不僅僅是選專業給你時間考慮每一門課也給你時間考慮一般上來講你選修了一門課一到兩個月內你都可以隨時放棄我們叫Drop a class成績單上是不顯示的 So every new semester, many students who are not yet professional will choose a lot of classes first The first month is a little bit hard Every class goes to a few weeks See if you really like it If you don't like it, give up So you see Big selection of major Small class The US universities give you enough time to really experience and practice Then come to say whether you like it or not 每堂課給你兩個月時間專業給你兩年時間我認為這才是符合人性的反映真實世界的這也才是真正的教育的本質好啦 這麼一對比下來我們就能看到大學專業一選定終身是不合乎人性的 但是,一選定終身雖然給了中國家長和學生們極大的選擇壓力但這並不能完全解釋為什麼張雪峰能讓中國家長們如此追捧為什麼呢?我相信評論區裡很多留學生早就已經在摩拳擦掌了 Yes, because most of the universities in UK and Europe are going to be certified before they enter the university But European parents are not that anxious They don't have a European 首先啊, 歐洲高中跟中國高中也不一樣歐洲的高中生比美國和中國學生都更早進入專業領域比如A-level的考試只有三到四門科目所以歐洲的學生在進入大學以前已經提前接受了更深入學習的訓練但這並不是重點重點是在於中西方家長對待孩子的不同態度上 This is the second factor that Chinese education soil raise out Zhang Xuefeng Chinese parents are poor and love to take care of children In the eyes of Chinese parents, children will never grow up Western youths have already been independent at this age Know what they want Most of the western parents would not be able to intervene in the child's education at this time Many western children go to college Even pay their own school fees and living expenses Perhaps western parents will discuss with their children Give some of their opinions But that's all But Chinese parents are not Chinese parents will think Children have to listen to me So parents can do the research Parents can decide How an 18-year-old youth Should choose his future life So you can see the live broadcast of Zhang Xuefeng Most of them are asked by parents Chinese parents will never let go Chinese children will never grow up in this state For those who have not lived in China for a long time It's hard to understand I think I can use 2017 A short film that touched countless people in China Let everyone feel This is a credit card long film advertisement launched by the Bank of China The title is No matter how big the world is, it's just a plate of tomato scrambled eggs The advertisement was a young man at the beginning Cut tomatoes in the kitchen in panic This is the eighth day I came to the United States to study It seems to have opened a new world It turns out that he is going to attend a potluck party In the United States, the potluck party is that every party member brings a dish to participate Then the organizer of the venue is not so tired Mom, I ask you, is this tomato fried egg first with tomatoes or eggs? Hi baby 我跟你说啊然后就是妈妈发来了语音教程但是她搞不定那个鸡蛋呢打匀里面放点盐啊妈你这个发的什么东西啊我听不清楚你这哎你这不行正急得像热锅上的蚂蚁时她妈妈发来了视频教程亲自演示该怎么做 (this is egg) (you can eat it) then the fried egg was a big hit in the party then he was reminded by his friends that China and the US have 12 hours difference at this time, the short film was back to the scene that happened in China a few hours ago  Thank you for your support! 這個廣告當時一出來哇 朋友圈裡一堆人在瘋狂轉發2017年那個時候抖音才剛剛起步基本都是通過微博 公眾號和朋友圈在傳播個個說是熱淚盈眶 百感交集中國的父母多偉大啊 但當時我看到這個短片的時候只有噁心兩個字可以形容我當年就跟現在是一樣的個性不吐不快發了朋友圈跟大家唱反調懟這個廣告和被這個廣告所感動的人我說如果短片裡這個男主是我的孩子那我就是一個徹底失敗的父親 1. Be self-centered You don't even consider the time difference You wake up your parents to sleep in the middle of the night Just for a tomato fried egg 2. No life management ability What kind of recipes can't be found on the Internet? You are already 18 years old You have to find your mother for an egg Third, he has no planning ability at all He only realized that he can't do it after the pot was boiled How stupid is this person? Even if you are a mother-servant man Even if you ask your mother in advance for half a day You won't be like this In short, if I raise a child like this I won't live It's too failed, I'm ashamed to see people 當然劇情是虛構的但最可悲的是這麼一個劇情居然在中國大獲好評一堆人感動得一塌糊塗這短片最後還贏了一個什麼金獅獎我去由此可見在中國一個人到了18歲還能如此無能窩囊如此依賴父母是天經地義的是被廣泛接受的 Everyone, it is the parents of thousands of children who always want to control their children's life who raise thousands of young people who are weak and not independent So they all have a teacher like Zhang Xuefeng The above children talked about the Chinese parents' "cooking and loving" "Living" without "cooking" Zhang Xue Feng started to be popular in 2016 We can calculate it In the past 10 years, most of them are post-200s Their parents are post-70s Some are early post-80s There are still many parents from rural towns Their culture is not very high They don't know anything They like to take care of their children So they are eager to have a power to answer their questions, ease their anxiety. And like Zhang Xuefeng, his kind of talkative and hot-tempered style can especially move and attract the bottom-ups. The more bottom-ups, the more they admire the so-called power. Otherwise, how can you see health products sold so well in the countryside? I don't mean to discriminate the country people I am also a small town in Malaysia My parents have never been to university But they are more open-minded They have always respected my choice When I was in primary school, I said I wanted to be a lawyer When I was in primary school, I changed to computer science They have always supported me Later, I applied for the entire process of the university in the United States. From the ranking and expenses of various universities, understanding the application process, preparing materials for the application, fill out the form, etc. I did all of these independently after I went online to investigate. My parents have not participated in any of these. It's not that they don't care, they don't care It's that they don't understand, so they don't go back blindly The most important thing is that I have always been independent So they also trust that I know what I want Know how to fight for what I want So I should say My parents' work is done in front of me That is to train a child who can think independently Dare to question and know how to choose Instead of an 18-year-old還要為了炒個雞蛋半夜吵醒父母的廢物 说到我自主完成申请美国大学的调研和申请工作这就来到了中国教育环境成就张雪峰的第三个因素中国高校的教育信息非常不透明在我申请美国大学的那大约半年时间里我通过自己的调研成为了美国大学的专家基本上美国排名前50名的大学信息我都了如指掌你随便说一所大学我都能立刻告诉你 他在哪个城市学生人数学费多少师生比例托福要求多少分计算机和工程学院的全美排名等等但重点是我要去调研首先事实上得存在这些信息吧你要知道我申请大学的时候是在上世纪90年代末啊 At that time, the Internet I used was still the kind of communication through the phone People who are about the same age as me should be familiar with this voice At that time, the Internet was much less than it is now But at that time, the information of the US University was already very perfect From professional information, class settings to employment data, etc. There are also open and transparent data and guidance systems In addition to the individual websites of the US universities There are also many other institutions To do some statistics and sorting of this information For example, US News, Princeton Review, etc. In addition to education information, we can also find relevant employment data For example, what is the average salary of these university graduates for their first job? Divided into different professions But in China, even if the Internet is extremely developed today Internet information has been distributed to hundreds of levels than in my time In fact, Chinese education information is still very confusing and opaque China lacks complete university and academic ranking There are also real graduation direction distribution Various professional employment data Job orientation, difficulty in class, transfer of professional policies, etc. Hard to obtain in a verifiable way Even if some universities have released their own employment data Everyone doesn't believe it An official data released by the government Where everyone doesn't dare to believe How can people believe the data released by universities? 而在數據缺席的地方,話語權就自動讓位給了所謂"知道內幕"的人於是張雪峰這類所謂"提供內幕""揭秘門道"的人就有了市場最後一點,除了學校和家長,其實整個中國社會那種公利主義的氛圍正是張雪峰成長的最佳土壤 In China, the definition of success is very unique. The so-called "all class" is only educated. "The one who is good at learning is the one who is good at learning." This is the concept of "the root of Chinese traditional culture". From the science and technology system of more than 1000 years ago, this concept has been deepened in Chinese social culture. In the mind of Chinese people, "Studying can be a official, being an official can cross the stage, and become a person above all." This is the only standard for the success of the whole Chinese society. "Being an official or making money, it is better to be two-timing." Since success is only one standard, reading a book is the only choice in life. In Chinese society, everyone seems to have a feeling that if you can't walk the path of reading, it seems to be a waste of life. So there is a great stress of exams, internal studies and job anxiety. Since only reading is high, then what books to read naturally becomes a very important link. Since the only purpose of reading is to find a job with a high salary, then the so-called "king card" or "Tian Keng" this kind of two-part narrative method naturally has a flow. 所以 中上所述中國大學專業一選定終身教育信息不透明家長又菜又愛觀以及整個社會的教育功利主義張雪峰的出現可以說是一種必然就算沒有張雪峰也會有王雪峰 李雪峰 Although Zhang Xuefeng is now banned, this is not a reflection of Chinese society on this kind of radical education environment. This is just a short-term punishment brought by a political performance mistake. As long as the Chinese education environment does not change, as long as Chinese parents are still used to using control to replace understanding, use anxiety to replace thinking, use authority to judge, then Zhang Xuefeng will not disappear. 中國的問題從來就不在張學峰而在於公立的教育土壤以及無數造就張學峰的家長只有當家長們學會放手當孩子們學會獨立當教育回歸理性當社會學會尊重多元化的成功標準中國的張學峰們才會真正的消失好啦 那我今天就分享到這裡我是老周 橫眉冷對 直言不諱我們下期再見