When a shooting happens, we hear about the immediate aftermath. Who was hurt? Where it happened, whether anyone was arrested. But what happens after the headlines move on? No one knows better than Nikkai Foster. In 2023, the 16-year-old was heading home from playing basketball in Toronto's Jane and Finch neighborhood when he was shot in the head, an innocent bystander caught in someone else's feud. Now, his injuries were lifealtering, but Nikai survived. And now a new TV original documentary, Nikai Walks, tells the story of his recovery and advocacy.
>> And I was so fearful. And that fear returned to me in the hospital when he could not stand up on his own.
>> We hear from him, dig into the far-reaching effects of violence and how communities are coming together to stop it. I'm Jan Jagenothan. Welcome to the rundown. What is it like to rebuild your life after gun violence? And how do you go about telling that story and the larger story of a community dealing with trauma? Nikkai Foster, Rico King, Devon Jones, great to have you in our studios. Thank you so much for joining me. Um, before we get into things, Nikai, it's great to have you here with us. Three years ago, uh, you were told that potentially potentially you may not be here, that you may not walk, but here you are. I I I want to know how are you doing today?
>> I'm doing good, man. You know, just started school. I'm here with Mr. Jones and Rico. So, yeah, I can't complain.
>> Uh, throughout the dock, there's sort of this journey um, you know, of rehab and the emotion, the pain, the strength. You seem to always have this smile on your face as well. Um how how how difficult uh would you describe sort of that journey from from then to where you are today?
>> You know, it's very difficult to go through what I went through, but when you put a smile on your face, it's easier it's very easy to fight through your battles. You know, when you're running a race with your head down, it's going to be hard to win the race. But when you're running a race with your head up, it's going to be easier to win the race. So, I kind of compare that to me having a smile on my face.
>> Rico, uh, watching the documentary, there is there's a story of perseverance, it's a story of pain. Uh, but it's pretty obvious shortly into the doc when you meet Nikai, uh, how quickly we fall in love with you and and sort of the journey. But why was it important for you to focus on Nikkai's journey?
>> It was important because it was very unique, you know what I mean? Um and um Nikkai, you know, gave me access to his story, which um it was a miracle, right? Like he survived something that most we talk about all the time, like I can't believe you made it through and we're so happy that he did make it through. Um and showing the Kai story we we get to see uh a kid from Jane and Finch and you know it reflects on the whole community and it's a you know one story amongst hundreds of stories as Devon will talk about I'm sure in a bit and um yeah it's pretty much the best way to make a film is by focusing on the character because like you see in the documentary we all fall in love with him.
>> When did you um hear about sort of the the origins of the story about Nikai?
>> About Nikai? Uh we heard it u me and Devon were visiting him at the hospital like um people always ask me how do I get access to these stories and stuff like that but we're like people in the community. We love the community. We love to help young brothers um get out of this the get back culture and we understand it cuz uh we've lived in it you know for years and decades you know. So um that's how I heard about Nikai and we were there in the hospital just visiting him and uh one day he told me can I shoot uh can you shoot my recovery in 4K for sure
>> in 4K for sure not 1080 is
>> we don't do 1080
>> what what did it reveal about sort of the role of community uh and and what it plays in helping you know overcome challenges uh that Nikai went through
>> I mean like we're all we got that's how I always say it you know um we understand the problem more and it's our community so it's our responsibility.
>> Devon uh you've dedicated uh essentially your life to helping racialized youth um steering them away from gun violence. Help me understand how you guys came together. Did you know Rico? Did you know Nikai uh before all of this?
>> Well, Nikai I knew uh Rico I met Rico um maybe a few months before actually. Um, we had an idea of of doing a documentary to create some awareness around just the the pathology of gun violence and its nuances. And I mean we have written enough reports um where we got to the point that a a a significant media piece um you know a documentary of some sort would would shed light on this on this issue that is um that is plaguing you know disproportionately black communities. And uh uh when I met Rico and I saw the work that he had done in Houston
>> and in Baltimore,
>> um the immediate assumption was that he's the guy to help us tell the story.
>> Uh Nikki says sort of that Mr. Jones. Yes, sir.
>> Level of respect for this man here. Uh how would you describe uh Nikai to people who who don't know him? Um just the word that stands out is hope. It's it's it's resilience and the words resilience and hope.
>> Um because I mean we were there in Sunny Brook. You know I've been sadly enough I've been at Sunnybrook time over time over time with young people who didn't make it and you know young people who make it through but you know they have real health complications after being shot multiple times. And initially when I saw uh when I saw Nikai I was like well this is not good.
>> This is and you hear the prognosis from the doctor. We might not walk again and you know and he had to learn to do everything to talk walk um make a fist you know and to watch his process and his progression was absolutely incredible. So just resilience and hope are the words that that that comes that comes to mind
>> when you talk about uh the people in your life. Uh your mom is is featured heavily in in the doc and she's always hugging you, giving you a kiss and you always going mom stop. Uh what how much of of this strength uh is for is for your mom in this fight?
>> A lot of it you know my mom was always there for me along with my sister and my father too. my grandma, my uncle, you know, like at home I have a big support base, so they help me fight through a lot. Yeah, I feel like I have to do it for them. So, I find my strength.
>> How important uh was having someone like Devon uh in this you we talk about access uh you know this connection was already made well before that, but how important u it's not just Nikai's story that you were sharing. We're talking about other uh people who have been impacted by gun violence as well. Uh but what does Devon add to that?
>> I mean, if it wasn't for Devon, I wouldn't have a documentary, right? You know, he was my community ambassador and he does such amazing work and you know, I I really strongly wanted the whole world to see Devon's story also besides Nikai because he's helping all these kids like hundreds and hundreds of kids. I get to see it in person and you know capturing it was everything to me because people have to see the the amount of ground work that's put in right
>> um you know it might be a politician getting credit for crime rate reducing or or there's fewer shootings or you know much credit to them I'm not discrediting them but the work like men like Devon put in the community that's real work real ground work that that impacts kids for a lifetime. Devon, what do you tell young people first and foremost when they come to you for support? When they see Yace and they say, "Okay, you know what? I need to come here." What do they what's that conversation like?
>> It all depends where they are on the social continuum.
>> You have young people who are there around employment. You have others who are there around, you know, early academic intervention. You have others who are there because there's a level of involvement in the culture culture of retaliatory reprisal violence. You know, they're just coming out of custody or they're in custody, you know. So, we have we have young people at various varying stages of of the continuum and you know, beat family, family support, you know, employment, training, learning, education, case management, public safety, athletics, sports and wellness. um you know the five pillars that drives how we how we engage um young people and community at YACE wherever they are in the continuum we accommodate them.
>> Um for us the culture of gun vi of gun violence is is is one that we're very attentive to. Um recently in the community we have a a young man that was that that was murdered and um then that's why the urgency because if we're not proactive in dealing with this culture of retaliatory violence then almost always um you know it becomes extremely volatile and tragic. You mentioned uh the shooting that was 17-year-old Cashi August. Um Jayen Finch, broad daylight, just getting off of the Finch LRT. Uh
>> just recently they arrested 16-year-old.
>> Another 16-year-old. Yeah.
>> Uh and I understand you you knew Cashy.
>> I knew Cashy.
>> Where in in the system is this failing? Like for a lot of people when they hear Jane and Vincent, unfortunately, they think okay well this is something that is continued to happen. You know the people we talk about this community just being divided by really one road. We talk about this where in the system is this failing and and not only the people
>> that are being impacted in the communities here but in prevention as well.
>> Yeah. I mean there's a there's a concept at at Yace that our clinical social worker Dr. Nikili is leading around urban violence, trauma uh stress disorder and uh we have an event at Sunnybrook um in partnership with Sunny Brook uh next Wednesday and we're exploring this phenomenon as it relates to young people with prolonged exposure to violence. Does it imbue that culture or that pathology in them? um young people who on a daily basis they're navigating their mortality uh in these very violent environments um with disproportionate um uh issues of gun violence. Uh you know, are they compromised in any capacity? Are they compromised morally? So, we're trying to make sense of why these young people uh why they engage in the culture of retaliatory violence and every step of the way we're putting mechanisms in place um that will lead to smart choices um that will mitigate the get back. Um social media is a big accelerant. There's another concept we're working with called uh digital vi violence accelerant. You can almost see the chronology with all these incidents. You can see Nikai's um story. You can see play out on social media that led to a shooting even after the fact they kept going on about a shooting. Um
>> talking about like just exchanges on on whatever just videos about talking about the shooting.
>> Yeah. Or instigating each other where you know someone decides, well, you've been selling me, so I'm going to come pay uh pay back. Nikai's situation was just that. It was people on social media going back and forth. They show up to the neighborhood and we shoot anyone that they see.
>> Right. you know, that's the level of indiscriminate violence that we're dealing with and navigating, you know, and uh social media is a is a is a is is a big factor in that. Um, and we're working we're working vehemently uh you know, with public safety, DOJ and other entities um and the TPS around how can we filter what exists on these platforms where young people think it's their right because they've been disrespected to act. But there's there's social there's social underpinnings around education, around employment,
>> um around safety. Some of these young people think they got to take their safety into their own hands. That that has really compromised
>> the the the landscape in those communities.
>> Nikai, um you've had to adjust. Yes. To the physical limitations because of the injuries, whether it's running, dancing, uh contact sports, although I think I see a clip of you dunking. So, it it's phenomenal to see all of that. Also, I notice uh you working with a uh a therapist uh Dennis. I understand now you're you're in school studying comms, studying broadcast journalism. Don't know if that was necessarily something that you were thinking about if that was a relationships that you formed uh with Rico uh and some of the work that with Devon, but what have you what has that path created for you
>> that path? Okay. When I asked Rico to shoot my documentary in the hospital in 4K, I never really knew I would fall in love with the media avenue as I did, right? But once I started to see him filming, I got I started to get interested. So, I started asking him stuff about like camera equipment, right? And then I just ended up getting interested in it, right? Cuz I'm like, "Oh, that's cool." And you know, he started to show me there's another way how to do things, right? Also, Mr. Jones showed me there's another way how to do things, too. So, it's like, you know, picking up the camera and like filming, seeing that you could actually turn that into a career was huge for me. I'm like, wow. So, I'm like, that's why I'll take it on school.
>> I understand you're also doing an internship with Rico as well. Uh, what do what is what is Rico sharing with you? a lot, man. You know, how to build a business, scale a business, the stock market, you know, things, even things behind the scenes, how to film, how to edit, um, how to do the audio management with the microphones. Yeah, there's a lot
>> a lot goes into I'm curious for someone who does doc, you know, who who's in this do in the dock world. Uh it's very rare sometimes to you get close because you're spending, you know, years, months with uh with the subjects of your of of the dock, but uh did you expect it to be this close?
>> No, no, no, not at all. Like uh yeah, it was interesting how that happened,
>> right? Um I guess we spent a lot of time together, you know, and um yeah, like um I have a hard time explaining it. It just organically happened. We our characters match, you know, um going traveling to Ottawa together and um a lot of other behind thes scenes stuff like not every time I pulled up to Nai, I had a camera and he has a lovely family. I love like hanging with his mom. His mom is really funny and
>> um me and her have a lot of conversations. his sister is great, grandma's great. So, and like my family uh is is back in Texas or, you know, internationally. So, I didn't have a family over here. So, I used to always go to their house, you know what I mean? So, we we got really close like through that. And um the internship was fun,
>> you know, very fun. Uh showing him behind the scene work that got, you know, it's amazing to be part of a documentary now uh starting a new documentary. you know, we're starting development on a new documentary and he was part of every step.
>> Yeah.
>> You set out to tell the story of one young man's journey, but I am curious, what do you hope people uh take away from Nikai's story? Uh, but is there anything that you learned about yourself uh throughout it as well?
>> I learned a lot. You know, I learned I could persevere myself, you know, right? Uh, it was really hard to tell a story, especially being new to Toronto. Um, I consider myself a Toronantonian now. Um, but, um, persevering through step by step in the documentary, I I learned a lot about gun violence also. You know, I'm aware of the topic, but like and I've I've lived it, but like um, you know, just seeing it in 4K. Uh, just opened up just new dynamics to it. Learned a lot from Mr. Jones like how to intervene in gun violence, how to prevent gun violence, and, you know, how to become a better filmmaker. You know, it was a great opportunity from TVO. I learned a lot through development, through production, through you know post-production and the team Shane was always involved and it was it was a great experience.
>> Well, I know this story does not end here. Uh wish you all the best, Nikai. Uh Rico Devon, appreciate you taking the time to chat with me.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Acts of gun violence aren't isolated. They create ripple effects, but the impact on survivors, families, and communities is often overlooked.
>> Jungle Lee, great to have you in our studios. How you doing?
>> I'm great. Thanks for having me.
>> Now, I want to talk about uh your latest book uh The Walking Wounded. It's a result of two years of of intense research here dedicated to following the aftermath of those caught in the crossfires of gun violence in Philadelphia. Uh help me understand why now. Um, well, so this project kind of came out of another project. So before I wrote this book, I wrote another book about aspiring rap artists in South Central Los Angeles. One of the people who I got really close to got shot and I learned firsthand by watching what he went through in the aftermath um the struggles that he had with his health. And that gave me this question which is what happens to other people? Is his experience typical? Is it kind of unique? And so that led me to doing a focus study on gunshot victims and Philadelphia was where I landed after graduate school.
>> And what did we find?
>> Um the main thing I found was that one getting shot is kind of a slow drip.
>> People live with chronic pain, PTSD, various kinds of dabilities that diminish their quality of life. Um and secondly, that the effects are not just born by the individual. they're shared with caretakers, children, friends, and family, right? So, there are ricocheting effects linked to that trauma.
>> You have a unique advantage uh point uh when it comes to gun violence uh not only with the research in Philadelphia uh in California as well. Um but you're also a professor of sociology at the University of Toronto. I help me understand how much of what we see in the US uh the dynamics there are we seeing play out here in the Ontario communities and in Canadian cities. So the interesting thing is that when I first moved to Canada, I had this idea that Canada was very different than the US.
>> You're not the only one
>> and in many ways it is. Um especially with universal healthcare, but as I investigated more in in Canada and Ontario specifically, I realized that there are many more similarities. Um the universal health care idea is great on paper when you're sick, you have a small cold or a small injury, you need to go to a walk-in clinic. But when it comes to long-term rehabilitative care, Canada's health care system, Ontario's health care system is quite similar to that in the US where the most vulnerable people don't have access to long-term health care. Um, specifically counseling and psychotherapy.
>> So, what does what does that look like for someone who's who's shot who is a victim of of of gun violence in the US? What does that look like versus what they would receive here in Ontario?
>> Well, the the short answer is that they don't receive anything. So in Philadelphia, many of the victims that I met would get shot, they would get patched up in the emergency care, they would get sent out, and they had to fend for themselves. And you know, the aftermath can be very grueling because uh you're living with trauma and injuries that affect every aspect of your life.
>> Ontario, it's quite similar. um people unless you have an employer that has really good health care coverage that gives you some access to counseling and psychotherapy, you are largely on your own as well. Like you have to pay out of pocket. So that's one of the big gaps in Canadian health care is that mental health care is not guaranteed for trauma victims.
>> Um I'm going to actually push back a little bit. There was a a program I run out of Sunnybrook. Um it's uh fairly recent looking at you know a lot of the victims that come through uh sometimes were not it wasn't their first time uh usually someone who has been shot once they had seen people come back and they started a program where they said it's same things that that you're pointing out if someone comes into a hospital with a heart attack you know they don't just patch them up and send them on their way they've got you know they've got perhaps a social worker they've got some rehabilitation and so they've started to do that and they they look at it as to me it seems a bit of a uh intervention maybe late stage at that point. I am curious what does early stage prevention look like for something like this?
>> Uh I mean early stage prevention really looks like
>> identifying the most at risk neighborhoods, right? If we look at a map of any major city where there are shootings happening, they tend to be concentrated in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods, places that have the highest proportion of racialized people, black, indigenous in Canada, um the highest rate of incarceration, the highest rate of interactions with police, the you know, these are communities that have trouble accessing affordable housing, right? So there are all these kind of like unmet needs and shootings are really like this downstream symptom. So if we really want to get serious about um changing gun violence patterns in Canada and elsewhere, we have to address these um upstream causes and try to make more resilient communities in the first place.
>> One of the things uh that you talk about in your book is language. Uh you use the word victim uh rather than survivor. Help me understand sort of the thought process there. Yeah. So, there's been this shift kind of in recent years to use survivor as a a term to refer to people who have survived something violent and horrific. And I totally empathize with that move because it's it seeks to empower people who have been through trauma. Um, but the the the other part of it is that when you spend time with people in day-to-day life, you realize how difficult their lives are, right? the injuries both to body and mental health can grind away at your quality of life. Um your interactions with the justice system and the health care system which often turn their back on victims in the aftermath leave people feeling as if they're victims. So I don't feel I use the term survivor or I don't use the term survivor because the people I spend time with refer to themselves as victims firstly but secondly when you look at this constellation of factors um you know and their their long-term health next to their interaction with with the justice system right that often requires them to go through this kind of traumatic process of appearing in court testifying right and facing the person who injured them. um and the health care system that is non-existent for people who are seeking u support for their trauma, then you see why victim is is often a more appropriate term.
>> I'm curious about when I when I think of a shooting that we recently had seen uh it wasn't that long ago. Um a lot of people view that perhaps as a isolated incident or well that happened in that community that doesn't surprise me. Whereas when we talk about the US, we talk about mass shootings if we call them that. But they have they get different uh type of attention. Why is that?
>> Well, it's because of the victims, right? It's the identity of the victims. So when shootings happen in racialized neighborhoods, specifically to young black men, there's this kind of stereotypical assumption that the person must have been involved in something that got themselves shot. Um, and when massacres happen in schools and other communities that are are less diverse, that have a higher proportion of white victims, there's this immediate outpouring of grief and sympathy because there's a presumption of innocence of the people who are are sustaining their injuries. But the reality is when you spend time in trauma units in hospitals and talking to young people who are coming in and out with injuries, you realize that a lot of times they're in the wrong place at the wrong time. Their injuries are sometimes connected to forces that are totally outside of their hands. They're connected to neighborhood rivalries and things that are happening in uh the places that they live that are not necessarily connected to who they are or what they're doing. And the other side to that is that when somebody is involved in street activities and they get shot, um, a lot of them that's a very important moment for intervention because many of the young people who get shot and survive have this kind of reckoning. They realize how precious life is and they want to make a change. The problem is again if the health care system doesn't support them, if social safety nets are not there to support that transition, then it becomes very difficult for them to leave that life behind. I am curious. Have you had any uh personal conversations uh with with victims? Uh what have they shared with you?
>> Yeah, I mean I I have through um different people that I've kind of known over the years in communities and you know this the experiences are strikingly similar. It's uh a life-changing event that knocks people out of the labor market. It changes their relationships to loved ones, right? It makes them more withdrawn. it makes them scared to kind of engage in public life, right? So, it it's a it's a horrific experience and I think a lot of people forget that because of improvements in emergency care, most people who get shot in 2026 and thereafter are going to survive. So, the the onus is really on us to think about better ways to support them and also to prevent these shootings from happening.
>> Uh you write and you talk about uh the ricocheting through families and neighborhoods. Uh talk to me a little bit more. We we talked about the the direct impact there, but what impact does that have on those who are living in in those communities in proximity of of violence?
>> It has a huge effect. And I think we actually underestimate the impact of gun violence on various communities and people around the victim. So, we tend to think about victimization as if it's only the person who suffers the physical scars from the shooting. But in my work, I I show how caretakers who overwhelmingly are black mothers uh bear the brunt of stress, depression, trauma that comes from caring for a child that's uh critically wounded. It's also experienced by children who now are living in a household with a a parent or a loved one who's um living with long-term PTSD and scars. Um, and it's also shared by friends, people who care about the person who's been shot. So, there's there's really a much broader ricocheting impact outside of just the person who gets shot.
>> Talked about health care. Uh, we talked about uh a little bit about education and prevention and and getting into the communities, but what do those supports actually look like? Not just for survivors, but for those families, friends, communities uh carrying the aftermath of gun violence. Is there a policy gap that you're looking at right now, particularly here in Ontario, that you're saying this is an easy fix here?
>> I think the the biggest one is the lack of long-term mental health care. So, there are reports in Canada that say that there are upwards around 5 million Canadians who are seeking mental health care or who need it but can't access it. Um, and so that's a really big problem. So, this is bigger than gun violence. There are many people who are suffering other kinds of injuries or just stressful life events who need mental health care and there are a number of different a constellation of things that um flow from not being able to access um mental health care, right? So I think that would be the first and most impactful lever to kind of go after is to make sure that the most vulnerable people who need mental health care can access it.
>> Jung, we're going to leave it there. I appreciate your insights. Thank you so much for this.
>> Thanks for having me. So, what do you think communities need to prevent violence and better support the people affected by it? Let us know in the comments or send us an email at rundowntvo.org. And make sure to check out naiwalks the documentary on tvo.org or the TV docs YouTube page. Until then, I will see you tomorrow.