Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Tuesday, November 25th. We are live. I'm not late. I feel like you guys just love Dude, it'll be 8:45 and the late comments will start. Like, at least let me get a minute to be late before you start spamming that I'm late, but I'm here. We're live and we got a lot. Okay, maybe I was one minute late, but dude, something always happens at that last minute. I don't know. Something happens and it causes it to go late. I can't even blame Streamyard, but we're here. Uh, we got a lot to talk about, folks. The last 24 hours have been kind of crazy in regards to what has happened with two major companies on the planet. I'm sure you people know those two companies, Google and Nvidia. Google is going to open up at a $4 trillion valuation. It's quite incredible to see this happening given the stock was stuck at 140 not long ago around about April May. Stocks at 331 in the pre-market. It was, you know, kind of breaking 300 two weeks ago, getting above 310 one week ago. Yesterday breaking 318. Overnight it was at 320 and then there was a little deal announced that caused this bad boy to run up. And we're going to see when the market opens if people take advantage of that and they sell or if they buy into the hype. And the hype is very real which is why I think Google is getting the validation that it's getting right here in the premarket. 33115 on Google. That's up 3.95%. At the same time, Nvidia is down 5%. I think this is a dramatic overreaction to the deal that was announced yesterday. And for those that haven't heard about it, we will talk and discuss what's going on. And I think uh it's a knee-jerk reaction based on the headline for why Nvidia is getting sold off. But nonetheless, there are some potential implications of the deal from yesterday. And as a result of those uh implications, the market's obviously saying we're going to take one down and the other up. It would be kind of crazy if they flipped market caps. I mean, Nvidia right now is trading at 4.4. Google's going to open at four. It's not that. I mean, Nvidia went 400 $400 billion down last week in a couple hours. So, it would not be that crazy to see Nvidia kind of come back to 4 trillion and Google maybe not get to 4.4, but stay at 4 trillion. I mean, that would be not hard to see. But, nonetheless, today when the market opens, we're going to find out how much the market actually cares about Nvidia's chip dominance being threatened. Maybe they do, maybe they don't. Uh, but we'll find out and we'll get into all of what happened last night causing this type of reaction. Before we get into all that, obviously Google Nvidia is the big story. Let's get into data because we got a ton of market data this morning. I didn't even know we were getting all these pieces of data, but we did indeed get some data. So, first let's start off with the ADP private payrolls and then we'll get into everything else we got going on. Again, thank you everybody for being here. And good morning to everybody. We got Tuesday and Wednesday left of this week. Thursday, then we have Thanksgiving. So, we're also going to see how much volume comes in on a day like today as we are gearing up for the last couple days of the trading week. Um, private payrolls fell by an average of 13,500 per week in the four weeks ending November 8th. The last time we got this data from ADP, it was negative 2500. So that's about a 500% increase in the amount of jobs that were being laid off per week. This is for private payrolls. And obviously that is only boosting the probabilities of a rate cut even though that's not good for the actual economy because people losing their job is not a good thing. The rate cut probabilities now are 84.7%. Remember, this number was 30% last week. In fact, that number being 30% last week kind of made it uh very likely for us to start assuming that we're not going to get the rate cut. And that's kind of where the markets turned. Yesterday, you had a couple Fed presidents who were just as influential as Fed President John Williams of New York, come out and advocate for the rate cut. And then boom, the number immediately switched to about 75% yesterday. And then you get this job data. Again, we don't have the October jobs report and we're not going to get the October jobs report, but I can't imagine the Fed is looking at this thinking, yeah, it's fine to keep rates the way they are. They don't have to cut rates by 100 bips, but a 25 basis point cut would not be the worst thing. And so, that's why I think we're getting that probability to go higher. Then you also had PPI data, which complicates the story, but I still think the Fed ends up leaning towards a rate cut. Uh, producer prices increased.3% month- overmonth. The expectation was.3%. So, that came in line. um 2.7% year-over-year came in line with 2.7%. Core PPI rose.1% month- over-month the estimate was.3%. And then core PPI rose in September's 2.6% estimate 2.7%. So we are still seeing inflation obviously in core PPI and the overall producer price index. It's just it's not necessarily as bad as maybe some of the street thought it was going to be. And as a result, you are uh you're seeing those rate cut probabilities go higher. But nonetheless, you know, PPI is continuing to increase. And in a world in which inflation goes up, I think that's why the Fed has been kind of scared about the idea that we're not going to be able to effectively cut rates because we might have an increase in inflation. It's just not as aggressive. Like it's up there, but a lot of these were misses. I mean, again, core PPI month over month was 0.1% versus 2%. So, it's a miss. It is an increase, but it's a miss. I don't think this data is that horrible enough to be able to say we can't cut rates because inflation's just going crazy because it's not going crazy. I mean, it's up there, but it's rather tame. So, it complicates the story on the rate cut. I don't think it completely destroys the narrative, which is why that 84 84.7% probability is still real and that one is not going down. I mean, if the PPI was that bad, this thing would probably not be at 85%. So, it seems like the Fed future probabilities are starting to think it's okay for us to have a little bit of inflation because the labor market is uh is still weaker. So, that's what we got on the jobs data. Again, it's not a crazy jobs data report. All we got is that private payroll from the ADP and then we got the PPI today. We do have a couple of other piece of data that are coming out later today. We also have some updates on the Ukraine peace deal. We'll talk about that later as well, but those were kind of the main updates from a labor and inflation perspective. S&P 500 is red in the pre-market. Well, slightly green up 0.01%. We did have a massive day. Would not surprise me if we give back some of the gains that we had yesterday. We were up 1.5% across the entire market. Many stocks were up 5 to 10%. So, if we give back some of those gains, it would not be crazy. But at 9:30, we're going to see how this market opens up. All right, Googles and Nvidia, let's get into it. What is going on? Google is up 4%. Nvidia is down 4.7%. This headline came out last night. So, remember what did Google have going for it yesterday? It had the NATO cloud contract. Um, it had Gemini 3 getting universal praise. And you know, those two deals were pretty damn good. The market was excited. You had Bergkshire buy $5 billion worth. You know, when Birkshire when when Buffett praised Google with a f when he co-signed it with a $5 billion investment. I think that was the sign to FOMO in now. I don't know if this is the sign to FOMO in, but you had a lot of things going for Google over the past couple weeks. Last night, and I mean this was a big one. Meta is considering Google TPUs for their data centers in a deal that could be worth billions as per the information. That was the headline last night. Meta is in talks to spend billions on Google's AI chips known as tensor tensor processing units aka their TPUs. An agreement would help establish TPUs as an alternative to Nvidia chips. We know that Anthropic is already using TPUs, a million TPUs, and Gemini 3 was internally trained on those TPUs, which are the gold standard for big tech firms and startups that need computing power. A deal with Meta would mark a win for Google, but much depends on whether the tensor chips can demonstrate the power efficiency and computing muscle necessary to become a viable option in the long run. If this were to happen, it would happen in 2027. So there is a lot of implications of this. There's a lot to talk about. The first thing I want to see in the chat and I want to get the sort of sentiment from everyone else here is very simple question based on this TPU news. Not going to complicate the question at all. AMD I know is down. A Nvidia is down. I mean all the chip names are down because of this. Uh based on the Google news, are you now bearish Nvidia? And when I mean bearish Nvidia, I mean are you ready to start trimming your position? Are you ready to get the hell out of the stock? Are you ready to say Google's the big daddy in this game and there's no reason now to be afraid or there there is a reason to be afraid of what's going on with Nvidia. Jose will be Jose will be on like bring on Jose will be I I he'll be on at around 10:30 and we'll get his thoughts on what's going on as well. Um look I think people selling off Nvidia here are I I think it's kind of dumb. I I really do I do not the there's a lot of reasons I think this reaction is kind of ridiculous. Uh and a lot of it has to do with Nvidia's numbers. But nonetheless, let's just talk about the bare case of this for Nvidia before we get into kind of the defense of Nvidia right here. Um, perceptually this is basically making the argument that the chips that were needed that that that Nvidia has a 70% gross margin on and that essentially formed it as a monopoly might not be needed as much. And I think that's all you need. You don't really need much more other than that to get the stock to fall off. Same thing with AMD. The reason why AMD is down, wow, 6.7 versus AMD giving back everything yesterday that I got uh is because of this idea that the MI450, the GB200, these things might not be in as much demand if Google's CPUs become a core part of the stack when it comes to these custom async chips. And that's it. That's all you need for the stock to go down today. I mean, we've seen worse with Deepseek, right? Deepseek was an absolute nothing burger and Nvidia got cut by like 50% in in a week. So, and then it stayed there for a while. So, I mean, there's plenty of reasons for why the world's most largest company with the um the the weight of the world resting on it shoulders having a negative headline, a negative headline that directly threatens its ship monopoly can have a a 5% draw down, which is exactly what we're seeing right here. The reasons why I don't think this is that logical in the moment, and maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm maybe this is where Google completely overtakes Nvidia and Nvidia, this is the death of Nvidia, and this is, you know, this is time where we have to start freaking out. I I don't think that's the I I've had 24 hours to think about it. Obviously, I'll spend a lot more time thinking about it over the coming days. We'll get Jose's thoughts, but here's my logic. I wrote I wrote a couple things down. I'm just going to read from those couple things. Number one is Google still buys tens of billions of dollars of Nvidia GPUs and TPUs handle specific workloads, not everything, which means Google's AI models still run and train heavily on Nvidia hardware. Number two, the TPU news is not new. This was known since 2016. So, it's not like the market completely has this brand new piece of information. It's like no, they knew that Google was using their own in-house chips. Amazon has tranium. Meta and Microsoft have their own ideas as well. They've never the hyperscaleros have never been able to get off of the Nvidia bandwagon and pay the NVIDIA tax and maybe that happens eventually, but it hasn't been able to happen for a while because they haven't been able to match the architecture of those chips in a meaningful way. Now again, Meta's considering this in 2027. That means in 2026 all their chip demand is going to go to AMD and Nvidia um and a variety of other partners like Broadcom, etc. But it it doesn't mean it's just going to if they're going to spend 30 billion on Nvidia chips, I don't think they're going to say, "Hey, Google, take our 30 billion." Like, I don't think that's happening. And so, that's also not something that seems the like the most uh it doesn't seem like it's the most logical thing to take place overnight, which wouldn't affect Nvidia's revenues overnight. Now, obviously, the market is forward-looking, but nonetheless, I don't think that's something that happens immediately. Number three, uh even if Google reduced orders, let's just make an argument that that Google's reducing orders, the GPUs would be instantly bought. Unless you believe the argument about rising inventories and fixed goods in Nvidia's um 8K that was disclosed, which shows that like their inventories are going up, which means they might have a demand problem, which again Nvidia refuted yesterday in a mo in a memo they sent out to the sell side. But if you think that's the case, Nvidia has plenty of demand. And whether it's Amazon, Oracle, Tesla, plenty of other startups, like if Google reduced their orders, I would imagine that Nvidia is still able to sell that. If you believe Jensen and what he says that Blackwell is sold out and we are making them as fast as we can sell them, then uh that would not necessarily be the number one thing that would cause an issue. Then let's say that you know Google buys less than uh Google buys 10 billion fewer GPUs. That's maybe 5 to 7% of Nvidia's projected data center revenue and zero of it is demand that they can't redirect somewhere else. So, the stock's down 4% right here. In the worst case scenario, Google stops buying some Nvidia chips, just Google. Uh, that demand can be sent into a different area, which would recoup a lot of the losses that they have. I would imagine the same thing for AMD. I think the market is more broadly worried that if Google is taking away uh their chip spend on Nvidia, then Google is going to get other people to take away their chip spend on Nvidia. And that's where you sort of have this uh this compounding effect that Nvidia now is losing multiple customers. if Google somehow gets Microsoft and Meta and all these other big hyperscalers to start buying their TPUs for whatever reason over Nvidia GPUs, which is a big question. I don't think you can easily just assume like, yeah, that's definitely going to happen just because there's a deal with Meta. So, I I think that's a that's reaching for a conclusion and that might not be easily accessible, but the market's obviously pricing it like it could happen. Um, the other argument right here is that again, ALOS are trading these headlines back and forth. I do not think most people are waking up this morning if they've been a long-term Nvidia shareholder and saying, "I'm selling my Nvidia." Especially because, first of all, there's a couple things to remember. The information has hated Nvidia for a long time. I don't know why this publication just hates Nvidia, but almost every blog post they do has is a negative hit piece on Nvidia. Number two, there have been plenty of rumors of the information being in bed with the hedge funds. And so, I mean, I would not put it past someone having a short Nvidia position right here that gave the information a little bit of cash to publish this story because again, there's no details on it. Google didn't say anything. Meta didn't say anything. What if Meta is buying a billion worth of TPUs just as a trial run? That's like absolutely negligible when it comes to Nvidia or maybe they're buying a hundred billion, but like there's not enough data to even say that Nvidia deserves to lose $340 billion in market cap because of um the analysis coming out from this article. So, I think that in and of itself makes this a knee-jerk reaction, but it gets people thinking about the process of what the next future years will be like for Nvidia. That's a healthy question, but I don't know if that question is, you know, something where today the stock deserves to be 4%. So, I think it's ALGO selling this off and bidding up Google. Google, by the way, RSI above 75. I mean, this thing is starting to get a bit overextended in my opinion. Do I think Google deserves the premium? Yes. But guys, for those that don't know, Google added $800 billion in market cap in 30 days. I mean, I'm just like I I I I love Sundar and I think he did not deserve all the hate that he got, but almost a trillion dollars in 30 days. I mean, that that's like when I heard that stat yesterday, I was like, "Okay, this is getting up there." So, does it continue to, you know, does it 1.5 trillion in 30 days? Maybe. But that that that you know, and the when Nvidia does something like that, it's because Nvidia's growth is so massive that they're Google's not growing like Nvidia. Google's growing, but they're not growing 60% topline. Like that's just the difference, you know, that that the PEG ratio on Nvidia fundamentally changes when you're growing at those levels. But Google's had a really good four months. Birkshshire took a five billion stake. The DOJ case was dropped. Gemini 3 NATO cloud contract 650 million monthly users on Gemini search accelerating cloud TPUs. It deserves a move. The question is, does Nvidia now deserve to get below a 20p for 2027 earnings while Google adds a trillion dollars in market cap? Like I don't know. So, I mean, I'm not a buyer of Google here. Like, I think it's now getting a bit extended. I also don't think you have to sell. Obviously, if you're holding this for a long time, there's there's like not a reason to sell other than just like securing some profits. But I think Nvidia going down on this news given all the demand that we saw, the fact that China is probably going to be coming back. That's what Lutnik said yesterday. Middle Eastern revenue hasn't even started. You've got way too many tailwinds to be concerned that Google selling some TPUs to Meta, if that's even happening, is the the bare case for Nvidia. So, I don't know. I I don't think that should be the case. Now, I I get the broader argument and and Chris made this argument yesterday on Steve stream, which is it's it's a very fair argument. Chris's point, meta, by the way, up 1.75%. Chris's argument is that at the end of the day, semiconductors are cyclical, and Nvidia is a cyclical business, and eventually that cycle is going to lead to the uh people that are paying the Nvidia tax not wanting to pay that Nvidia tax anymore. And as a result, it will lead to the inevitable decline not only of Nvidia in the future, but of their their sales cycle. And and maybe they'll be able to hold their valuation for a variety of other reasons, but they won't be able to grow at the top line. They're going at selling all the chips that they're selling. I think that's a fair point, and inevitably that's going to happen. Like, we all can't deny. Inevitably, Nvidia is not going to be selling $300 billion worth of chips every quarter. But given everything that I've digested from Nvidia's earnings, given everything that we've heard from Jensen, given the capex demand that we've seen going into the next at least four years going into 2030, that does not seem like it's happening in 2026 or 2027. like it it just doesn't it seems like the architecture for building I mean the fact that Amazon announced $65 billion worth of data center spend yesterday 50 billion in Virginia and 15 billion in uh northern Indiana a lot of those going to be filled not with tranium chips or TPUs but Nvidia GPUs and this is only increasing more and more as we see the other hyperscalers engage in this stuff if we're going to get FSD if we're going to get robotics if we're going to get these models to become even better I mean you're going to still need see that need And Jensen is not just, you know, prophesizing that you're going to or like pontificating about it. He's showing you in the demand as it continues to go higher. Unless you think Nvidia is cooking the books, that demand is there. So same thing for AMD. Like for all those asking about AMD, the same thing. I I don't think AMD is cooked right here. Like why would AMD be cooked? Lisa Sue just said we're going to ker revenues at 35% for the next five years. AMD is down again for the same reason that Nvidia is down, which is that now the market thinks, "Oh, Google's the winner in the chip race and everything that Nvidia and AMD have built and all the guidance they've given, we're going to throw it out the like really that's what the market says. We're going to throw it all out the window and just buy up Google because they might be selling some TPUs to meta." Like, it's stupid. It's incredibly stupid. I think it makes no sense today. Could those stocks continue to go down today? Of course, because that narrative might end up becoming something that's very concerning for a lot of people, especially where towards the end of the year, people might have some gains in Nvidia. They might want to secure them. They might say, you know what, Nvidia is too um too volatile to the whims of whatever the market wants to say every single day. And you know, I'm just tired of holding Nvidia or AMD. And that could be a reason for them to sell. But fundamentally, if there is a cycle to this entire chip buildout, it's years from now. It's not tomorrow. And if it's not, then I think Nvidia trading at less than 20 times 2027 earnings becomes a great buy. Whereas some of these other names, just getting the FOMO and momentum coming in makes them maybe not the best buy. So those are my thoughts right here. We're going to see how this ends up playing out. It still doesn't take away anything from Google. I mean, they deserve to get the momentum they're getting. They're going to open up at a $4 trillion market cap. The fact that we're alive where four companies, Google, Apple, Microsoft, and uh Apple or sorry, Nvidia have hit a$4 trillion dollar market cap is just incredible. It's absolutely incredible to see. And the fact that we're living through this moment and for all of us in the chat, some of us may own more Nvidia, some of us may more own Google, some of us may more more own Apple from from the early days, OGs, like it is incredible to see this all playing out in front of us. I just think the knee-jerk reaction to sell the epicenter of AI simply because Google might be selling some TPUs to Meta is really dumb and if we get some stupid prices today, I'm buying more Nvidia. I just I I don't think that is the right way for the street to price it. The one there is a bullc case to what's going on right here for Google and Nvidia and we'll talk about that in a second. But here's Jensen a month ago on a podcast speaking about Google's TPUs. Yeah,
>> given this seeming success of Google's TPUs,
>> you know, how are you thinking about this evolving landscape today?
>> Yeah.
>> First of all,
>> the the advantage that that Google had is foresight.
>> Remember, they started TPU1 before everything started.
>> You know, this is no different than a startup. You're supposed to build a startup. You're supposed to create a startup before the market grows.
>> Mhm. You're not supposed to come up as a startup when the market's a trillion dollars large.
>> You know the this fallacy and and all VCs know this this fallacy that a large market if you could just take a few percent market share you could be a giant company.
>> That's actually fundamentally wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> You're supposed to take 100% of a tiny company, a tiny industry, which is what Nvidia did did, right? Which is what TPUs did. There were only the two of us. But you better hope that that industry gets really big. You're creating an industry.
>> That's
>> the part of that clip that's really important is that Jensen is saying the overall kagger for where this industry is going in terms of data center buildout and chip buildout is massive. And again, Google's business is not selling chips. Google's business could potentially become selling these TPUs. That could become a part of their business. And maybe that does take away some market share from Nvidia. Does that mean Nvidia needs to go back to $100? I mean, maybe Nvidia doesn't need to go to 250 anytime soon, which I would think is very healthy for Nvidia to actually kind of consolidate here. But I I don't see this as bearish Nvidia. I really don't. I see this as bullish Google, not bearish Nvidia. And the market right now is going long Google, short Nvidia, which I don't think is going to be the trade. And maybe in the next 90 days, Jensen is going to have to once again prove why it's not the trade, but uh it seems like a little bit of a reaction right there. Now, uh, the the the reason this could be bullish, I think, is um very simple. If Google now steps up to the throne and starts to take a little bit of pressure off Nvidia, I think you've got a simple argument. And that simple argument is that maybe the entire world is not reliant on Nvidia. Maybe the entire world is not continued to be reliant on Nvidia. I mean, I mean, LA, last quarter, we saw what happened with Nvidia as they, you know, they either have to report an amazing quarter or a really amazing quarter or else the market was going to fall apart. Well, if Google starts to take away a little bit of that load in terms of the pressure simply because they're the most valuable company or they're like the second most valuable company, they're engaging in the chip wars, they're selling TPUs, we're starting to get more diversified, you know, maybe Nvidia does not have the monopoly that it has anymore. And again, that's like really assuming Google takes a lot of their lunch. But, um, maybe it also means Nvidia isn't able to pressure. So, I think for the markets, if you if Nvidia loses some market cap and that goes into Google, but it kind of spreads the blame around and we're not that topheavy and focus on one company, maybe that could be net bullish. But again, it really, really, really feels like a knee-jerk reaction here, and I don't think it uh I don't think it makes the most sense. For those that are saying that the big point here is that the TPU doesn't have the Nvidia tax. Yeah, I agree. The TPU doesn't have the Nvidia tax. The problem is is the TPU going to be as sufficient in terms of training, inference, etc. for all the other customers that Nvidia does sell to. Like does just are we saying that Nvidia is doing what almost 250 billion of revenue per year? Are we saying Google's just going to take that entire market? Like is with their TPUs, Google has the supply chain, the infrastructure, the ecosystem do that? Are we saying Google's going to even take 10% of that market? Are they gonna take 25 billion off that 200? it it maybe they take four to five billion here and there but I do not see that becoming oh Google has now become the chip king and they're the ones selling their TPUs to all the companies in the world that has that have uh booked Nvidia's orders for the past for the for the next like two years out I don't know maybe it happens maybe it doesn't it just seems rather unlikely which again I think is bullish I don't think it's bearish in video and that's what I think the nuance is here for the broader market let's get a little bit more coverage on this Google Nvidia news this was the kind of first main thing that happened today and uh then we'll get into descent and some of the other macro stuff that we have that happened this morning.
>> Google so uh this could be transformative in so many ways. We're watching both the large language model that they've built appear to be now the best one in market if you will plus now the idea that they could be selling their chips or at least access to those chips uh you know layers a whole new whole new story on top of this Becky. Yeah, some of the some of Nvidia's biggest customers have been working on their own homegrown grown chips. If you look at a Microsoft, if you look at an Amazon, but nobody has had quite the success that um that Alphabet has to this point, that Google has to this point. Sergey Bren has gone back into founder mo mode by all reports that he's really kind of digging into this and they have had some success with this. if they can get a big customer like a meta to spend billions of dollars on chips to go in and I think the information is reporting that could happen as early as 2027 for those chips to go into their data centers. If that's the case, it would represent u some new competition. Obviously, Nvidia is the only game in town at this point. They have more demand than they can possibly meet at these moments. But with the stock that has done so well, we spoke with an analyst yesterday who just pointed out, hey, um they are looking for any any reason to not continue to see this growth going for forever. That analyst said that he doesn't think it's going to be this year. It's not going to be next year, but we'll see. And and market does trade ahead year to date. Nvidia shares still up by about 30%. Um, but again, people are looking everywhere with AI to try and poke any holes on on what might make a problem for some of the big gainers or what could make another entrance look like they are taking off in another way. And and again, it's not just the chips. It was also Gemini 3. Um, and and the really great reports that people have been giving on on on what an improvement it is at this point.
>> And and that's why Google is getting the momentum that it's getting outside of the TPU TPU news was just cherry on top. Gemini 3, I think, was a real thing that got the market excited. And look again I agree with her. There will be a day where Nvidia loses their monopoly and that day is going to happen in our lifetimes. Obviously the question is is it next year? Is it 2027? Is it 2028? And obviously all the hyperscalers and all the other Nvidia customers would like that day to be sooner than later because they wouldn't have to pay the Nvidia tax which is fair and that's why I think you're seeing the divergence and reaction between Google and Nvidia stock price today. I just don't know if that's happening over the next couple years. And look, if you start to see signs of it, and this is a sign, regardless of, you know, if this is a knee-jerk reaction or not, this absolutely is a sign that it's going to get more competitive. Is it the sign? Is it the legit deepseek moment that people have been waiting for? I don't think so. But it is a sign, and it's something that every Nvidia shareholder, including myself, cannot deny because, you know, at the end of the day, the days are numbered. Nvidia is not going to have this type of monopoly forever. And you have to be very cognizant of that. I just don't think it's happening next year. And maybe I'm wrong on that, but if not, then I don't think this is going to be the kind of core ecosystem for how this ends up playing out. But nonetheless, you're getting a lot of negative reaction this morning on Ola chip names. Broadcom is the one that's winning here. The reason why Broadcom's winning, they are one of the key suppliers for those TPUs. Broadcom right there basically hit 395 in the pre-markets right now at 390. That's up 3.3% after being up 11% yesterday. Um trying to get to 400. That's now a $1.78 trillion market cap. And as a result, if you are heavy in Broadcom, you are probably loving it because they are one of the core parts of getting those TPUs to become real. TSM, how are they doing in the pre-market? TSM slightly down as well. Nvidia down. Google right here up 3.4% 32958 as well. Okay, Ukraine deal. So, we got an update this morning from NBC that said, "Remember Trump sent a 28-point peace plan to Ukraine and Russia last week. Um, apparently Ukraine has agreed to the full terms of President Trump's peace plan to end the war with Russia as per ABC and Bloomberg. We're probably going to get more details on that over the coming uh over the coming hours. But if that's the case, that is also a massive market catalyst if we have some stability in that part of the world. A US official told ABC News that Ukraine has agreed to terms of the potential peace deal. A US Army spokesman said the talks with Russia are progressing and coordinated with the White House. Neither Ukraine nor Russia has confirmed their delegation's presence in Abu Dhabi. So this is in a this is a report that they've agreed to the peace deal, not an official confirmation of it. If they have uh bullish at the end of the day, like at least we're getting some progress on being able to end that war. Don't know if we're going to get a massive market reaction. I think the market is more concerned about rate cuts and now this whole Google versus Nvidia debate. But at least it is good to see that that could be playing out. Uh Bent he was live this morning had a lot of things to say. Let's take a listen to some of the comments he gave on what's going on with China tariffs and inflation and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Scott Bessant and uh Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for being with us this morning.
>> Good morning Becky. Good morning Andrew. Why don't we start uh with this latest what we're seeing right now um and what we've heard from this conversation with President Trump and President Xi. The readouts from from the two uh countries were a little different. Obviously, the United States has a very important push on making sure that China does step up its purchases of soybeans. How is that going?
>> Uh well, first of all, Becky, to set the record straight, President Trump initiated the call 30 days. the a after the historic meeting in Busousan, South Korea between the two leaders, they have a great relationship. And as far as the soybeans, the Chinese are right on schedule in terms of the cadence of their purchases over the next three and a half years. We're going to see the 87 and a half million metric tons purchased by by the Chinese minimum minimum and they are right on schedule. There have been some reports coming from China where their take on this talk is a little different. At least what they emphasized in the talks was a little different. They bring up both Ukraine and the US position and the China the Chinese position on Taiwan. What is the US position on Taiwan at this point?
>> Uh US position on Taiwan is unchanged and on Ukraine. President and party chair she agreed that the peace in this Ukraine conflict they must move forward and they agreed to work together on it.
>> Am I right to think that this is a truce but maybe a little bit of an uneasy truce at this point? How how secure and settled are you feeling with where we stand with China right now? Well, uh, we we have we have a one one year what I would say pause and Becky, what I feel very good about is the relationship between the leaders because, you know, when the leaders can have calls like this at at the highest level, then, you know, bad bad things don't happen. It it was the strong relationship pres President Trump showing leadership that uh sort of calmed things down uh between the two countries. Look, we're we're always going to be rivals. We're we're always going to be rivals. Uh that's natural. But are there things we can do together? Yes. Uh we have the relationship in a good place. President Trump is going to do a state visit to Beijing. Uh she is going to come uh to the US for state visit. He'll also be in the US for the G20 at Dural. and President Trump may attend the APEC summit the in Shenzhen in November. So if there are four meetings during the year, I think that that gives the relationship great stability and stability is good for the American people and good for the world economy
>> and that is part of the reason the market pumped yesterday as well. Trump and she confirmed that they had really good talks and negotiations and I mean the markets liked it when they saw that news yesterday. Speaking of China, we do have some earnings updates. Alibaba they missed EPS by 25% 61 cents versus 81 cents expected beat revenue by 2% 34.8 versus 34.2 EPS is down 70% year-over-year revenue is up 3% year-over-year. Baba's been in the news a lot for their new chat rival uh Quen which got 10 million downloads in the past week. Uh Baba's up 2.4% 4% in the pre-markets, but you are seeing a lot of those AI cloud workloads uh at least for Chinese enterprise customers being run on Alibaba as their cloud division continues to grow at a pretty incredible race. Uh then you have analog devices, they beat by 1% on EPS, 226 versus 223. EPS is up 35% year-over-year revenue, 3.07 versus 3.02 billion. They beat by 2%. So analog devices, another company that is showing a beat on the top and the bottom. They were up 3% yesterday, basically flat in the pre-markets, but they had a decent earnings as well. You had Burlington. It's some consumer brands. Burlington Coat Factory 168 versus 164. EPS beat by 2%, 2.7 versus 2.75 billion, missed by 1% on revenue. Uh then you also had Kohl's, which is more of an American store. They beat by 159% on EPS, 10 cents versus negative 17 expected. This actually became a meme stock back in February if I'm not wrong. Cole's right there is a wow. It's up 24% in the pre-market. Uh but this was one of those names along with Crispy Cream that became a bit of a meme stock. Uh EPS is down 50% year-over-year. Revenue is down 3% year-over-year. The fact that they produce some profitability is what I think got the street excited and that's going green. Uh you also then had Abbercrombie and Fitch which had an amazing 2023. They beat by 10% on EPS. 236 versus 215 1.29 versus 1.28 billion. EPS down 6% year-over-year. Revenue is up 7% year-over-year. ANF is up 15% in the pre-market. I remember when the stock was at $130, so it did take a hit over the past two years, but also not a horrible earnings. Uh, and then you had Best Buy beat by 7%, 140 versus 131, 9.62 versus 9.5 billion. Revenues up 2% year-over-year. EPS is up 11% year-over-year. All these consumer names pretty much beating on the top and the bottom. And if they're missing, it's a very slight miss. So, it is good to see as we head into the holiday season, some of these consumer brands coming up with some decent earnings. Best Buy, right? They're up 1.55% in the pre-markets. So, earnings are decent. The inflation data, again, for those that missed it, that came out this morning, not horrible. I mean, it shows that inflation is increasing, but it's not increasing at some massive aggressive pace, which I think is putting the Fed at ease. You had a bunch of Fed presidents yesterday come out and say that we think a rate cut should happen. And then you got the labor market data that was not like the best with 13,500 payrolls going to the downside per week in the month of or in the week of November 18th from ADP. So you have weak labor market, increased inflation, but not massively increasing inflation. And then you have Fed presidents that are supportive of a rate cut. That in and of itself, I think, should be enough to like get these rates to come down. And hopefully the market cares. The biggest issue today is this Nvidia versus Google debate. It really is the Nvidia versus Google debate. Let me check the poll. What did you guys vote on the question? So, my question was based on Google's potential TPU sale to Meta. Are you now bearish Nvidia? Okay. 74% said no. All right. So, decent chunk of people holding on to their Nvidia bandwagon, which I would be the same, but it definitely brings up more questions and those questions are inevitably going to get uh more people interested in what's going on with the story. And right there down 4.4% the Googs. Well, here's another question. Google at 328. Who's selling Google? Who's selling or at least taking some profits on the Googs? I think that's another question that's really important right here. Or better a better better question, who's buying? Who is buying Google here? Who's selling? I I don't think Bergkshire is selling. It would be kind of funny if they sold after like after like a 20% gain and just said it were out. I don't think they would do that though. I feel like every catalyst is to the upside for Google. Is it getting a bit overextended? Probably, but it's starting to normalize the 300s. Wow, a decent amount of people said they're selling. Oh, there's a decent chunk of you that said I sold or at least I trimmed. I mean, look, that's not crazy when a stock doubles in the span of less than three months from the base that Google's trading at. The only other company to do that was Nvidia from two to four trillion. Google and Nvidia, Google literally did the same thing. Basically two to four trillion. It's going to open up at four trillion or just close to that. sold and bought Meta. I mean, is that is that the trade? Sell Google at the highs, buy Meta at the lows. Is that the trade? I don't I mean, you can't hate that argument. You cannot hate that argument that maybe getting rid of the Googs right here and piling into meta. Then again, I just I I feel like the one thing people are are still discounting on uh on Meta or I should say not discounting enough is that the street has no freaking clue what they're going to do with their capex. Like I think everyone is thinking Meta's cheap, which it is and I and I bought the meta dip, but we're also forgetting why the stock took a hit from 750 to 600. The street has no idea what they're doing with their capex. And I don't know if on the next earnings call the Zuck is gonna have some magical answer for the street. Remember, the only reason this stock fell, it was not because of the one-time tax charge. It was not because of their DAUs somehow still going up 8% year-over-year or their ad impressions being up 10% or their average cost per ad being up 14%. All that is good. The only reason it was down is because Zucks on the call really did not give clarity on how they're going to get to the Gemini 3 moment that Google's been having. And I don't think on the next call he's going to have it either. The the the the bull case on that is that if he can't find a source of ROI anytime soon, he will cut back on the capex spend. And based on what we looked at yesterday with Blue Owl Capital, Zux is not even going to hold the bag. For those that missed that clip, we have the JP Morgan guy analyzed the Blue Owl Capital deal. And basically $30 billion of the financing for the data centers that uh Facebook signed with Blue Owl Capital. They don't have on the balance sheet. They don't have to have that risk because they're not liable for that risk. If they choose to say, "Peace out. We don't want to build these data centers. We don't see the ROI." Blue Owl Capital holds it back. That's why people are saying there's a bubble in private equity because people are like, "How the hell did Blue Owl underwrite that deal?" and like they're they're totally okay. But in their eyes, Meta is definitely going to be good for the money because there's definitely going to be an ROI on these data centers. So, we are we are going to see if that happens. But I do think let's say Z doesn't pull back the AI spend tomorrow, which would be really bearish for Nvidia and bearish for AMD and all those companies. And Zux continues to spend the 72 billion that he's guided to spend next year. Why are you spending that much money? That is the number one question I think for the next year everyone's going to be asking like why is it for better advertising because the street doesn't care about better ads. They care about like a legit source of revenue outside of advertising, which ads alone justify the stock to be closer to $800, $850, but like the narrative is that you need to have something better than advertising. And I'm not sure if they are going to be able to give an answer. And realistically, what could they say unless unless they're coming up with a cloud, which again, I don't think they're coming up with a cloud anytime soon. So like, how is that going to play out? Let me play that clip from uh the podcast around Blue Owl Capital cuz again this I I did not know this was the structure of the deal but this was the structure of the deal and it was quite incredible when I even heard that this was this was taking place. So this is the let's get this up right here. Um, okay. This is right around here. Okay, let's pull this up. Say, well, that's even scarier than if it was Meta. The meta partnership with Blue Owl that borrowed 27 billion in the investment grade bond markets was an SPV with a strange French name and the debts not consolidated onto Meta's balance sheet. Initially, I was concerned that that was some kind of slight of hand. It's not. It's worse. They basically have walkway rights every four years and a declining residual value guarantee. Blue Owl's holding the bag. So, Blue Owl is at risk. If at any point, Meta basically says, you know, this this we're not getting a return on this particular data center u complex, we're out. And Blue and the people that have put up the money for Blue Owl will be the ones holding the bag. So, I think S&P was right to kind of withhold consolidation of that obligation. But it says it says a lot about the underwriting discipline that's taking place in in you know in private credit and in other places that are financing these data centers because they're the ones that are taking the risk. It's essentially releasing risk the likes of which you've seen forever in the commercial real estate markets.
>> So super bullish Meta, super bearish private credit. But again, if Met and I think the reason Meta structured the deal like this is because if they don't see the ROI from data centers, that money immediately goes back to the free cash flows which is bullish. But Blue Owl gets left holding back. So I think the only question I would ask if for for people that are super bullish meta is what can Zuck say to change the narrative around the business not just being an advertising business that's benefiting from AI but something else. And you know I think over the next 90 days we're going to at least get some answers from Zucks as they get into the the earnings. Uh I see. Thank you for the $20 super chat. At the end of the day this is bullish. The AI ecosystem and both Jensen and Sue have maintained this is going not going to be a single player game. It's healthy to have more players because of the demand in the future. I agree. Uh we'll have Jose on in about 30 minutes and he'll give his perspective as well. I do think that the knee-jerk reaction to Nvidia being down 4% doesn't understand how big this market is and as a result we're going to see how the algos treat Google and Nvidia today. But that is going to be the broader story. Charles, thank you for the gifted 10 memberships. Appreciate it. 10 of you guys just got uh some gifted memberships. So, thank you Charles for being here. And then TripleB, thank you for the $200 super chat. Steve and I will be getting dinner with Mr. for TripleB uh tomorrow night. So, it'll be fun. We'll uh we'll get to pick his mind about everything in the world of business. He is a big Nvidia bull. He's been having a great year in the broader markets on a variety of different names and uh yeah, it'll be fun to uh to get some stake with Steve and Triple V. So, that'll be fun going into the Thanksgiving weekend. All right, folks. 30 seconds. All eyes on Mr. Nvidia and Google again. I think the Nvidia down 4% is really dumb. I would not be surprised if that rebounds. If it goes lower, I probably will be a buyer today. But uh if Google can maintain this momentum, you got a little bit of red candle right there already. It was at 331. Let's see if that can hold and we're going to see how the market decides to price these two companies. Tuesday, November 25th. Thank you everybody for being here. 9:30 a.m. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your asses up. Let's get into it. Google up 2% on the day at 325. 3.92 trillion. 3.92 trillion on Mr. Google. Broadcom is up 1.94%. AMD is down 6.2%. Nvidia down 4.5 basically where it was in the pre-market. So far not too many buyers or sellers in this range. You're kind of seeing it stay stabilized and we'll see if that can get a reversal. So that's down about 1.28%. Sandisk got included into the S&P 500 yesterday. SanDisk is now included in the S&P 500. They replaced Interpublic and as a result that stock uh was up yesterday 10%. It's down 3% right here uh after getting included. Bit mine goes down 5%. Is Ethereum getting hit? Bitcoin is getting hit. Ethereum, it's down a little bit, 2,900, not down that much, but BMR right there down about 5%. Fluence Energy, they had a great earnings. That's up 11.4%. Big Bear AI is down 2%. Tesla's down 1%. You had some comments by Elon as well on what's going on in the chip race, and we'll talk about that in a bit. Onos, which was up 30% yesterday, that's down 1.6%. Nebas down 3.6%. All the data center players probably getting hit with Nvidia, I would imagine. Iran is down 3%. Iran is down 3%. Iran and Nebus basically trading hand in hand at this point. Coreweave is down 6%. Coreweave is getting double the move off of Nebis and Iran almost daily. You're seeing this with the price action. So Street's not loving Core right here, especially because of that debt profile. Oracle, wow, down 5%. Lowest in four months. They're really taking Oracle down. They're taking her down. Nvidia looks like she wants to break 174. Let's see if she does. She does indeed. 173 she hits. We'll see if that further goes down. Where is Google? Google. Wow. Google giving up everything. My goodness. 332 to 321. Okay, so people are definitely taking their profits on Google. I mean, it's hard to deny. Maybe you get a reversal right here and people buy the dip at 321, but uh still green on the day. Lost a lot of its steam. Back down to a $3.87 trillion company. Again, no one can complain. Google's had an amazing year, but it is going to fight to get that four trillion. AMD down 7%. That is down. Lily is that one continuing to run. Lily continues doing its thing. Now a 1.02 trillion dollar company. Shout out to Lunar. They've been in the chat for about a year screaming about Eli Liy. Trillion dollar company. So that should definitely be helping uh the portfolio for people that loaded up on this one. I feel like this one went under the radar this year because people were so obsessed with tech. But I mean if you saw the alpha in this, this one has done very well. Eli Liy right there,83. I ren down 4%, Meta's up 1.5%. Nvidia 17350 lows of days. Let's see if they take her down to the low 170s. I mean, down 5% already is pretty aggressive. But let's see. S&P is still green even with Nvidia down, which is pretty bullish. The fact that the S&P is holding on to some green. Google right there continues to go down 320.85. SoFi down 1.3. Where is Palunteer? Are we still holding 160? We are not. 15934. that's down 1.6%. Pounder also tends to trade with Nvidia. Hoodie is down from 114 to 112. The VIX is up a little bit. Amazon 226. Amazon's actually kind of holding itself. VIX is down about, let me see, I think it's down about 2%. Let's pull this up. Um, Meta 621 still holding on. Price action on Nvidia and Google is quite incredible. Nvidia looks like it's about to lose 173 and Google somehow holding 320. It's almost like people are selling off both. Nvidia loses 173. It's like people are selling off both. It's kind of funny. They're like, you know what? We don't care about AI. We're just going to move on to something else. S&P 669 grabs at 530. Rocket Lab that's down and Micron's down 1.3%. I mean, if we end up closing the same uh the same at the same levels that we closed at yesterday, which would basically be a flat day, I don't think that's crazy given we had such a big move yesterday, but we would have to see if we actually get to those levels. Apple, are we moving alltime high on Apple? Okay, so they I guess they sold Google and Nvidia. They went to Apple. Look at that. 279 on Apple. Apple 4.12 trillion. Once again, a $4 trillion company. VIX is at 20. Yes, VIX is at 20 right now. Uh, so you're seeing a little bit of an elevation right there. AMD is down 8%. Symbotic had a great earnings as per yesterday. Uh, they beat on the Wow. 35%. Again, it's Symbotic's a 44 billion company, dude. Why did I think Symbolic's like a $2 billion company? My goodness. 35. We covered the earnings yesterday. I mean, they were good. I didn't think they were 35% good, but I guess they were. 44 billion in market cap for Symbotic. This is a robotics company. Up 37% on the day. Amazon at 226. Google trying to make its way back up to 325. Zoom's up 7%. Zoom also had a relatively decent earnings. Nothing crazy, but Zoom right there up 7%. That's catching a bit. Yeah, it looks like people are getting rid of some of their Nvidia going to Apple. uh which is not crazy even though the only thing you have going for Apple is iPhone 17 demand. Uh there were some notes yesterday on the iPhone uh 18 foldable pro. It's going to retail like $2,500 or something. I think that's going to be a flop like the Vision Pro. I'm I just don't think foldable phones have that much of a mass market appeal. I know that Samsung has them. I don't think they're that popular to the point where, you know, hundreds and hundreds of millions of people would easily latch on to it. But that is one of the things that I think is getting some people excited about Apple and Vidy right there 17335 still down about 5% down the day. Google 324. I don't know. I wonder what fund manager is saying it's time to buy Google here. Like I I really wonder what fund manager in in November is thinking we need to lock in to buy more Google. I I I don't know. I I think if anything they're making a decision on do they trim or do they hold. Obviously you're having some people buy which is why the stock is getting to 324. I mean it is it is a bit more risky at this point. You know you know you're not getting the type of deal that you were getting a couple months ago. Then again that's where all the FOMO tends to happen. Tesla right there 414 that goes red. PayPal actually green on the day. PayPal getting a little bit of love and that one getting some momentum. AMD right here 198 still down 7.84%. Again I don't think Google needs to collapse down to 250 260. I just Are we taking it to 350 400? Are we doing that that quickly? I think a year from now maybe. I mean, buying it at these levels right here going into the end of the year does feel like people are looking for that 350 level, which who knows? I mean, if you have if we get another Google TPU announcement outside of Meta for another hyperscaler, that's when I think people will really start to panic and you know, it'll bring a lot of questions up and maybe that is the trade that takes place. Nvidia not getting any level of recovery. Not getting any level of recovery and that's I think taking down Oracle as well. Wow. 187. The Oracle credit default swaps have spiked in value and volume, but does that mean the stock deserves to be lower than where it was before their earnings in in a sort of meaningful way at this point? 230 to 187? I'm not sure, but Street is really not buying their debt based financing. Pounder right there 15977. Uh Zeta increased their guidance. So that's why Zeta is up 4% right here. Massive increase on guidance. uh was was quite incredible from 21% to 34% growth. So I do think that is very strong for Zeta. Nvidia right there 17330. Meta 622 Meta getting a little bit of a boost as well. The reason I think Meta is getting a boost is because if the TPUs are cheaper than buying overall GPUs from Nvidia and AMD and Meta ends up clarifying on their earnings call that they are exploring different types of chips in their data centers from Google. They're just going to save a lot of money and that's instantly going to boost free cash flow for Meta. So I think that's why the street's giving Meta the benefit of the doubt on a day like this. I mean there's no narrative for Meta on this Google TV thing. Meta is just a customer. But if Meta is a customer that has to pay less and get the same level of productivity, that's a bullcase for Meta. Robin right there 111.90. That is down 2% as well. Um Cornwave down 7%. Again, we've talked about it over the past couple weeks. I really think the street is afraid of their debt profile. I think it's kind of stupid the street is that afraid of it. I mean, they have a $55 billion backlog. like yeah, they're going to need to take on some debt to be able to execute on all that demand. But in this environment where the street's already concerned about an AI bubble if you're loaded up with debt like like Cory even Oracle is, I mean it just like perception wise is not the easiest thing for the street to digest, which I get, but Cory obviously has taken a pretty big beating from 150 all the way down to 67. Whereas Oaklo, Oaklo is down 3.5% of the days. Some of these high beta names continue to get hit. Reddit is actually up. That's up 3.82%. Google trying to recover back to 330 at 326. And then Kohl's is Wow. 30% on Kohl's. 30% on Kohl's. Cory is just a leverage proxy for Nvidia. They will always move together. That That's a fair point. And given Wow, Corey 8% down. My goodness. Given Nvidia is down 5%. Yeah, it's going to be hard for Corey to catch a bid. 5.4% 172. I wonder if they give us the 160s. Is this news that ugly that they take her down to the 150s? I mean, it would be or sorry, 160s. It would be quite incredible. Google's now going green. All right. So, now you're seeing the real divergence in that trade. Before Google was selling off as well. Now, Google's going green and Nvidia is going red. Spotify is up because they're increasing their prices next quarter in the US. Um, I don't know what's the exact dollar amount, but even if they increase by a dollar or $2, I think they have like 350 million premium subs. I don't know what percentage of that is in the US. I think it's like around 23% something like that. So, still a big revenue boost for them. That's why that stock is up. Abberrombie is up 19%, Meta's up 1.5%. Then Best Buy is up 5% as well. Apple's very close to Nvidia. Yeah. So, if we look at the company market cap, wow, Nvidia lost 300 billy today. Apple giving them a run to get in first. Look how close that is. 4.196 for Nvidia, 4.149 for Apple, and then Google is just creeping up in the corner at 3.935. That's kind of wild, bro. like in in in in June when Nvidia was at like 4.7 and everyone else was well below that. Things can change so quickly. For those that missed the Nvidia news, the real news here today is that Google is in talks supposedly to sell their TPUs, their tensor processing units, which are an alternative to Nvidia's GPUs, uh essentially a custom ASIC to Meta. And the fear is from the street that this is a warning signal for Nvidia that their chip monopoly is over. That they're not going to be able to sustain the type of demand that they have that Google's going to encroach on their monopoly. Their gross margins are not going to be able to be sustained. Nvidia now 171. And uh if the hyperscalers start diversifying from Nvidia, because all of them, if we're going to be honest, want to diversify from Nvidia, then maybe they start propping up the TPUs. They start paying less than what they're paying for the GPUs. If anything, Nvidia has to give them better deals to get them to stay in their ecosystem, which means their margins have to compress. And the growth that Nvidia has been used to starts to fall off a cliff. That is the bare case in 30 seconds for why Nvidia is getting hit like this. Down 6% on the day. That is $245 billion in market cap. Why is Hood down 4%? Well, remember Nvidia is a proxy for the market to an extent, right? At least it has been for the past year. Maybe that's going to change in the future, but when the world's most important company goes down 6%. You people start to question the nature of the bull market and then Hood, which is a proxy for the bull market itself, uh is going to get hit. Same thing with when crypto goes down, right? Hood gets hit as well. That is the the volatility of Hood. Also, the S&P 500 going down now that Nvidia I mean the fact that the S&P is only down a dollar and Nvidia is down 10 bucks is quite surprising. It's is Google's really helping it hold up right here. Google and Apple, but everything else is getting hit pretty bad. Apple almost 280. No, it did touch 280. Wow. Apple and Google. Wow. Even Microsoft's Why is Microsoft going down on this? I mean, well, you know why Microsoft's going down? You know who's the biggest loser in all this? Put in the chat who you think is the biggest loser in all of the headlines that we've seen over the past couple days. Who is the biggest loser? It's one company and Yep, there you go. One Rico 817 got it. Open AAI. Open and Microsoft owns a nice 33% stake in OpenAI which is why Micros I mean like there's a lot of people questioning if the days for chatbt are now numbered if Gemini is just that good. I mean GPT6 would have to be a model that is so much better than Gemini. And again, GPT does not have the user data like Gemini does. And everything you search for, everything on YouTube, I finally used Gemini last night, by the way. Like, I finally started playing with it. It is remarkable. It is remarkable. And it like if and I'm I'm not even saying that to say that. I have no incentive to just be like, "Yeah, it's the best thing in the world." But it really was a great model. And even I was just like, "Dude, could I start using this over Grock?" Like it. And I I I only used it for like 20 minutes. I asked some questions. I went back and forth with it. The one thing I didn't like is some of the memory capabilities weren't as good as Grock, but maybe just Grock knows me better by now. But, uh, it was good. And so, if GPT doesn't come up with something that's better than that, you might have a lot of users that transition. And then you start wondering about the business model of Chachd. Can they actually afford this 1.4 trillion in spending that they've committed to, which is not good for AMD because the only reason AMD is up is because OpenAI said they're going to give them $80 billion. Not good for Nvidia obviously even though Nvidia is less susceptible to that customer concentration that AMD is with OpenAI. Again G is is said they will give up 10% of their company just to get OpenAI as a customer. So it's a bit more concentration there. But also Nvidia or AMD or sorry Broadcom and OpenAI also have a 80 billion 7 gawatt deal. So it's like it's not the best thing for any of these stocks that are intimately tied with OpenAI. It's just really good for Google, which maybe is the bullcase for how Google continues to expand at these levels. Um, AMD under 197. Yep. AMD continues to get hit. Then again, OpenAI is 800 million weekly activives. They're growing. Their enterprise business 9. I mean, there's plenty of bulk. We talked about the bulk case last week when we listened to that OpenAI CFO Wall Street Journal interview. But the perception right now is that people are wondering what's going to happen with opening eye. I mean, even Brad Gersonner, dude, Brad Gersonner started getting a little defensive today, which always whenever someone gets super defensive, we saw Sam Alman get defensive. You always start to wonder, are they getting uh a little scared? This guy right here tweeted that OpenAI is uh in trouble. And then Brad said, "Really? Is that your signal?" with a laughing emoji. And I'm like, he can say that, but it's also like he doesn't usually tend to say those types of things. So I'm like, what? Why today are you starting to respond to people on X that are proclaiming the death of Open AI? It's maybe because he's trying to change the narrative a little bit. He thinks Open Eye shouldn't be dead. Wow. Nvidia Louis is 171. Okay, they're taking her below 170. Maybe they're taking her below 170. Eli Lily continues to make a massive move. Look at that. 192. That one's not stopping. Maybe he should have sold those shares. Yeah. When Sam Alman said, "You can sell your shares." Maybe he should have been like, "You know what? Yes, I will. 500 billion is a great market cap for me to to me to exit." 170.9. All right, Nvidia. Let's see. Are you giving us the 160s? If it was going to bounce, it would bounce here. If it doesn't bounce here, it looks like we are headed lower. Iran, is that one getting hit? Iran down 7%. Nebia should be down the same. Nebius down 7%. Dude, these two trade with each other. There. I know there's so much beef between Iran and Nebius, but they just trade with each other. So, if you buy one, you're getting the price action of the other. Amazon hit 227 yesterday, loses that. Meta still holding on. Meta didn't see any red candles today, almost 2%. Even Google lost some of its gains. Meta is just continuing to go higher. Google right there 324. And then Nvidia right here at 170.82. All right, let's take a nibble. Let's take a nibble on Nvidia. We're going to do 10 shares. Very small nibble. Let's do a nibble at 170. If it breaks 170, we'll see what happens. 10 shares in. Okay, that's 170.88. Watch this [__] go to 169 in 5 seconds now. All right, look, I have a pretty full Nvidia position. I I really I have not bought Nvidia in a long time. The last time I bought it was actually 177 and that was like a month ago. And that was just based off the fact that it was holding 190 for like a month and then it randomly dips to 177. Um, let's see. I mean, it would have to get into the 160s to really get me excited to buy Nvidia again. Okay, my average on Nvidia is around 124. So, it's been a while since I bought it. No, I was not going to buy 100 shares, dude. I mean, right now it's in an obvious downtrend. Like, I'm not going to load the boat with a 100 shares right here. Let's see if this can actually hold some levels. It's only been 20 minutes since the market open. But as with any DCA, you nibble. You just don't fully kind of go balls deep until I think you see a little bit of confirmation of the price action. Ethereum right there 2860. Palinger getting hit as well down 3%. And then Amazon 224. Nabius I I mean look if Nabius they should just take Nebius to 65. They should just get rid of the Microsoft deal in terms of the price action and then I will reload the boat on Nebius. It feels like it wants to do that but it keeps kind of stalling out at 85. Nebius I would be a lot more excited to buy if it gets hit bad as because again Nebius is look if Google TPUs do replace Nvidia GPUs or something like you're still going to need the Neoclouds to implement all that stuff. So I think the Neoclouds are going to be sort of vendor agnostic. They're just going to be making sure the data centers run. But again, I don't think Google TPUs are killing Nvidia GPUs. Rockab 40.52, that's down another 5%. Sofi down 2%. Folks, we're getting a reversal of most of the gains we had yesterday. BMR I know was up 20%. It's giving back 7% of that 20% move. So, I think you are seeing uh a lot of that price action just go the opposite direction, which is annoying, but nonetheless, it's what we're used to, right? It's literally what we're used to over the past couple days. Tesla was at 430 yesterday, now at 408. The ADP numbers were bad, but they only confirm we're getting the rate cut. So, uh 13,000 negative jobs per week, but the rate cut probabilities went up when those numbers came out. So, that's the good part of the news. Now, look, if the numbers were like 40,000 jobs per week that we're losing, uh, then we have an issue because then it's just like, hold on, rate cuts are not going to solve this issue. But we're not there at that level. And maybe the October jobs report was that bad, but we're never going to see that data. So, we'll see what happens in November. But it's it's not like the labor market has completely deteriorated and rate cuts won't save it because then who cares if we get a rate cut? The market's not going to care. But if the labor market is weakening, the rate cuts have a chance to save it from deteriorating. That is the entire argument for why we should have rate cuts. And the market's going to have to figure out if that is the route we want to go. Uh let me pull up the heat map. We should be seeing a decent level of green even without Wow, look at this heat map, dude. Look at this thing. Look at all this green. Nvidia and Oracle are the two red and AMD. Everything else is doing okay. Amazon, Tesla down slightly, Pounder down 1%, Netflix down 1.6, but Nvidia and Oracle are the kind of ones that are getting really hit. Uh that is probably net bullish in my opinion that the entire market is up but Nvidia is down because it means that Nvidia is not dragging down the entire market, right? Which is like good and it hopefully means that some of the pressure is coming off Nvidia and then eventually Nvidia can rebound. But like Nvidia down 5% does not need to take down the whole market. That to me is bullish. Like in what world do we want Nvidia to be down 5% than everything else to be down five to 10%. So I don't think that's too crazy to see that happening. Um the Grinder uh the Grinder, what do you call it? Private equity deal didn't go through. So my people talked to their people and unfortunately we couldn't get a price that we wanted to agree on and so I told them take it or leave it and they said that we can't do the deal. I said all right whatever. So yeah deal didn't go through but nonetheless it is a uh it is a deal that we'll see in the future if that takes place. Spotify below 600 597 that's down. S&P still down.3% even with the green rotation. Best Buy is up as well. How about McDonald's and some of the consumer names? McDonald's right there, that's up 1.6%. And then Chipotle, that is also up 3%. So, some people running to safety in those names. Um, Jose will be on in a bit. We'll get Jose on in a bit. We'll get his perspective. I would imagine Jose is not super bearish Nvidia. I know he's biased here, but he also knows a lot more about TPUs than me. And I think he'll probably make a case for why both can win and eventually will affect Avidia. I just I just don't think that time is anytime soon. A little bit of a V bouncing off 170 and now at 172. Is anyone thinking of legit selling Nvidia? Put in the chat. I I I saw a decent amount of people say they were trimming their Google. Is anyone thinking of selling their Nvidia? not not selling it entirely, but like at least taking some off the top. Like if you bought during Deepseek and you got a decent average, are you thinking, hey, like to d-risk in 2026, I'm going to trim some Nvidia. Wow. I don't see a single yes. When I asked this question about Google, I saw like 10 yeses in a row. I Okay, I see like four yeses. Bro, we are diamondh handing the f out of Nvidia right now. That's crazy, bro. We are I mean I really thought about it last night like when the news came out I was like okay immediately it's bearish and then I thought about it and just sat around. I was like is it actually that bear? Yeah, it's definitely not perceptually bullish, but are we really like do you really deny discount everything Nvidia has worked to build in terms of the intellectual property, CUDA, all these things we can talk about because Google selling some TP? I was like, no, it just that feels a little silly. Then again, maybe maybe it's maybe we're too much in a herd mentality here and it actually is bearish and we're not noticing it. But I don't know. It feels a bit weird along with the fact that Nvidia is not trading at $250. Like Nvidia is not at some crazy crazy crazy valuation or multiple. Neither is Google, by the way. But it doesn't feel like that's enough to be like, "All right, I got to get the hell out of Nvidia. Do you really believe sovereign parties will find TPUs?" That's a great point as well. That is a great point. I mean the the level of diversification Nvidia's business, I know the hyperscalers are a majority of it, but the way their business has diversified over the past couple years into a variety of different sectors. I mean, the fact that the Saudis are buying 600,000 chips, that's not a hyperscaler. That's just a prince with a lot of oil money who wants to make sure that he continues to win. That's money that's coming to Nvidia. By the way, uh we didn't talk about this yesterday or we didn't talk about this today, but uh the Genesis mission, uh Lisa Sue tweeted that Trump officially signed an AI executive order. It is essentially at its core something that is going to incentivize companies to engage in scientific discovery and innovation in the fields of AI. You could think of it as a massive R&D project that the US is going to uh partially fund in a variety of different grants and loans, etc. for a lot of these AI companies. And so, this was not streamed yesterday, but Trump did side the Genesis mission. It's being um referred to as the Manhattan Project for AI and you got a lot of the AI CEOs that are very excited about it. So even that is net bullish AMD, Nvidia, etc. Google, but I don't think it's a reason to sell off invidia here. Cory getting a little bit of recovery, still down a decent chunk on the day. Oracle also bouncing off 185. Pounder bouncing off 156. Nvidia bouncing off 170. Let's see if this is a meaningful bounce or if this bounce continues into the red. Even the S&P bounced off 664. Pretty much everything bounced at 951 6 minutes ago. At 951, what's Tanner's take? I don't know Tanner Stake, but I would imagine I don't think he's super bearish Nvidia because Google is selling some TPUs. I think I think if you've been an Nvidia bull for a long time and you understand the thesis very well, you can argue perceptually it's bearish, but is it like technically bearish? I don't think so. Yeah, I think I think we also have to know if this deal is even true, dude. Like again, the information reported this there like Meta didn't come out confirm it. Google didn't come out and confirm it. How many billions is it? 2027, 2028, 2026. Like, are they buying 10,000 TPUs, 100,000 TP? Like, we have very little data on it, but the market reaction was immediately bearish. And that's where I think it's a little bit more of a knee-jerk movement by the market. UNH right there, that's up 2%. Coinbase is down four as Bitcoin gets hit. Um, ALAB is AAB a buy at 40. I have looking I've been looking more into Astera and Arista networks. I don't know if they're the easiest buys on these dips. Um I do think networking is going to be something that's very important for all these data centers. But I think you would have to kind of really analyze their growth projections against the overall data center Kar which should be relatively bullish because data centers are growing at an incredible pace. But I have not done enough diligence to see if these are big buys yet. I will ask Jose about that. I know Jose likes Arista. So when he gets on the show, we'll ask his opinion as well. Is Meta really moving? Meta is Wow. 6:30 on Meta. Almost 6:30. 2.5% on the day. Okay. Okay, so I guess the street thinks that Meta is going to pay a little bit less money for TPUs if it happens. Mark says, "Not bearish. Nvidia will continue to innovate on a yearly schedule. Reuben is coming out. They'll keep shrinking nodes and come up with better AI solutions." That's the other thing. Jensen on the earnings call said that every quarter or every year they're holding themselves to a cadence of upgrading the architecture for their chips, which means if it is that much better than the previous year's generation, that's what Nvidia spends all their R&D on to make sure that's the case. Uh competitors have no choice but to upgrade. Now again, if we see the lack of upgrades, if if it becomes iPhone 16 to iPhone 17, then that's uh definitely bearish because it means Nvidia is not going to be having that demand. But we are still in the early days of Nvidia's quote unquote iPhones. And right now the AI workloads need so much new innovation in design that you would imagine they are really going to be able to get those upgrade cycles every year. And again, Jensen says three to four trillion in capex by the end of the decade. If that's the case, it's just going to be very hard to see Nvidia not get a decent chunk of that market, even if Google strips in and takes some of that market. pounder right there 15934. That's now 1.8%. We got November consumer confidence. I didn't even know we were getting November consumer confidence. Okay, let me pull that up. Uh 88.7 versus 93.5. 88.7 versus 93.5. That is a miss on consumer confidence. I don't know if the street is going to care too much about that, but that is a miss. SNP, you got a little bit of red candle right there. Um, yeah, I don't think that's that big of a deal. Doesn't seem like it's that big a deal. It's got a little bit of coverage on that, but doesn't seem like the market cares too much about it.
>> 88.7, the weakest since April. liberation month and if we look in the rearview mirror there is something we do see an upgrade of last month from 946 to 95.5 on the present situation 126.9 another miss although a positive revision 129 to 131 126.9 the weakest since March of 21 and on the expectations what may lie ahead also light 63.2 2. That will be the lightest since April of this year. And once again in the rearview mirror, another positive revision, a subtle one, 71.5 to 71.8. All three are misses for November, but last month upgraded a bit. And we also have pending home sales coming out. And for that, we'll head to Diana Olic. Diana.
>> Well, Rick, pending home sales in October rose 1.9% from September. That's a nice beat. The street was actually looking for flat. Sales though were down 04% from October of last year. Now this count is based on signed contracts. So people out shopping in October and inking deals when mortgage rates were falling from their recent highs. So that drop may have helped push demand. Of course rates came back up.
>> I guess the street doesn't like a home sales beat and consumer confidence miss because there you go back to red for everything. Even Nvidia, it had a bounce off 170 to 172 right back down to 170. Goodness, bro. I don't think that was another headline. Does I don't see any other headline. I see the consumer confidence in the housing news. Um, Oracle got a downgrade to 200. That's fine. Uh, White House press secretary says there are a few delicate but not insurmountable details that must be sorted out. will require further talks between Ukraine, Russia, and the US. Okay, I don't think that's the reason either, but nonetheless, there's your little dump as we headed to 10:00 a.m. Absolute roller coaster. Yeah, the homebuilders aren't even reacting to that. Look at that. Lenar flat. That's hilarious, dude. That bounce, I guess, was not a real bounce. Nvidia now going lower than where it bounced from 170.3 on Nvidia. All right, folks. Let's get someone who knows a lot more about Nvidia TPUs and the semiconductor world than myself and get his thoughts on what has been a pretty wild 24 hours for Nvidia. Ladies and gentlemen, Jose, what's up?
>> Hey, what's going on, man? Good morning. Good morning.
>> Good morning to you, dude. Let's get right into it. Are you selling all your Nvidia as we as we're about to drop below 170? What's going on?
>> That definitely not. I mean, I think obviously the optics looks scary with this Google and Meta news. Um, but I feel like every quarter, right, we kind of get some different type of bearish thesis for the AI market. I kind of did a quick post, I think last night. It was like quarter four of last year, we had kind of what is the ROI in AI investment. Then quarter one was Deep Seek. Then quarter two was um the tariffs, then quarter three was the circle financing. Now quarter four is kind of the TPUs and eating the market. So I I would just say it's just the bearish thesis is there and the optics are definitely there. Um so it kind of creates this bearish sentiment. Uh now the long-term thing is we've heard a lot of data already. The first thing we hear is there's not enough compute. I mean meta platforms mentioned it directly on their earnings that they are still compute starved on their core products and their AI products and that's important to remember right Meta has two different businesses where they use form of compute they use it for their recommener system their AI solutions for their advertisement in their core business and that's where most of the money gets spent then they also have their own AI labs so the first question is where do these TPUs fall under is it going to go onto their core business or is it going to go into their AI labs and then within there there's also a lot of different workloads. Is it going to be uh high heavy workload or is meta just trying to say look I'm trying to Nvidia GPUs are very flexible maybe there's some task that I have that are very repetitive let me move those repetitive task to TPUs so like that I can use my GPUs for those heavy intensive task that can make me even more and more and more money because with AI right now you have so many different types of AI agentic solutions for example, they use it to help their businesses make ads. So, it helps with the visuals, the texts. U eventually, it's going to help with videos for for advertisement making. Um, they have AI genic to help for if you're kind of hosting or handling business on their platform. You have some form of agents that can do that. So, there's so much demand that's picking up and the more businesses that you need, the more compute you need. Uh, so first I think it's just massive compute needs go dramatically and we've seen that what do we hear from Jensen? Jensen pretty much says that they're sold out. They have massive visibility. Okay, so I'm meta. I can't get any more chips from Nvidia. Am I just supposed to sit down and just wait for for Nvidia to make more chips? If that's not physically possible for my business to do well, I have to look for other players. It doesn't mean I'm going to buy less Nvidia chips. I just need more compute. And unfortunately, Nvidia, unfortunately, maybe AMD can't give it to me. So, I need to find that compute elsewhere. Um, uh, I have so much other things, but but I don't know if maybe you want me to stop there. Maybe you have any other questions before I go on to some of the other points that I have here with with this not being as bad as the market tends to think.
>> Yeah, I think you did a good job explaining the overall kager of the industry and how much demand is out there. And I think that's kind of the the major case that a lot of people will point to, which is that, you know, there's just so much demand for compute that it doesn't really matter. I think the deeper question and I'm curious if you've developed any thoughts on this. If Meta is successful with Google's TPUs for whatever their use case is and it costs let's say onetenth of the Nvidia tax that they have to pay and then Google says oh if Meta is getting value from it maybe Microsoft is getting maybe Amazon like is there a world in which this is the beginning of Nvidia's chip monopoly beginning to fall even with all the demand that's out there which I agree with you but if Google's taking a bigger portion of that demand is that why the market's reaction could be legit
>> well I I mean, first the TPUs are mainly used for these AI workloads, right? So, it's not going to destroy any of the cloud capacity that is needed, right? Because that's the strength of GPUs. They're very flexible for a lot of things. Where do we see Google use their TPUs? It's used for their Gemini. It's used for their AI workloads overall. But if you're going to Google Cloud, what they sell to other players is what everybody wants to develop on Nvidia. So I would say I don't think it would end any of that depend because the overall developer ecosystem is on embedded on GPUs not TPUs. Now the other thing that I would say is if I was Microsoft if I was Meta if I was Amazon would I want to trust NVIDI uh Google's TPUs? They are my competitors. Nvidia has is a neutral arm player in this race. What happens if Gemini 4, Gemini 5, Gemini 6 does so well that Google says, "Look, I can't sell you any more TPUs. I want them all to myself." Do you want to have that risk as Meta who is literally the direct competitor of Google with their advertisement models and with their AI players? So, I I don't unless Google changes its overall business model to become a chip company, I don't see these players going into them because you don't want to have that threat player be your number one. That's one of the main reasons Nvidia is not a cloud player just yet, right? It doesn't want to compete in the cloud space because then everybody else can say, "Look, you even though everybody's competing with Nvidia, everybody's making their own AI chips." I guess the closest thing is you can say Nvidia is kind of helping boost up these neo clouds like your iron, your your your Nebulus, your Porewave, and that might be their indirect uncompetitive way to enter that market. Um, but that's because those other players are doing their own AI chips. But in the direct direct competition, we're not there yet. Um, so um I I I don't I think this is it's not impossible your your thesis, right? That that bearish thesis is not impossible. I just don't see it playing out because of that competition landscape that Nvidia that Google has. And again, if Gemini is the king in the next two, three years, why wouldn't they just want to hoard all those TPUs to themselves to meet the capacity? Because I don't know if you've been using Gemini these past few days. Some of them we've seen like errors because of capacity constraint. So they don't have enough TPUs themselves and then they're going to go try to give them out to another thing. The final thing I would say here is AI chips. There's only so many chips you can make. Not because of the demand, but there's only certain amount of HBM, certain amount of advanced packaging. Who holds the supply chain line right now? Nvidia,
>> Nvidia,
>> we've heard from Samsung, we've uh we've heard from Micron, they're sold out in HBM for 2025, for 2026. So, it's not like you can say, "Okay, Google's going to increase dramatically how many TPUs they can build because you physically can't if you have that constraint in the supply chain." And if for some reason Nvidia decides to stronghold, make all these long-term contracts, have all these free cash flow coming in to be able to stronghold that supply chain, Google will be very hard to kind of start to ramp up more manufacturing from um th those chips itself. So there's a lot of constraints right here. And I think at the end of the day, it's really the capacity and the compute needs.
>> One more example. I know I keep Oh, sorry. Sorry, go ahead. I I was just gonna say that that's also Google's not core competency.
>> Like core competency is not building a supply chain to build chips. Now maybe Sundar wants to go that route because he sees this massive opportunity. But if that's not necessarily the case, I mean I get your point for why Nvidia would still be screamed there.
>> Another example is uh for example uh Anthropic. Anthropic recently signed they they were originally using AWS's tranium chips. Then a few weeks ago, they signed a massive deal with Google's TPUs. A few weeks after that, they signed a massive deal with Nvidia GPUs. It continues to solidify that case where it's it's not this chip is better than this chip. It's more I just need more chips right now.
>> Okay. So, on a scale of 1 to 10, I'm putting you on the spot. How worried are you? Are you worried enough where Nvidia should be down 7% today? Is it a one? Is it a eight? Like how how are your fears with this Google TPU headline?
>> With the Google TPU is a one, right? I mean I I out of all the other issues that we've seen in the AI bearish thesis, I don't think this is it. I mean, we hear the the ASIC is is also a repetitive um bearish thesis. I don't think that's the case just because it's not just that your chip is better now. You have to continue to develop a better chip next year and the year after that and the year after that. And it's it's who has the better teams. Obviously, Google's doing a great job, but if one player slips up, maybe the chances increases, right? It it's also impo possible for Nvidia to slip up. Um so, but chip development, the annual cadence, the supply chain line, um the competitive landscape, all that is something to kind of keep a close eye. So right now maybe a one at two would be my highest.
>> Do you have any concern about the uh power inefficiencies that the TPUs can resolve versus the GPUs and like the general improvements for that custom training that is a potential bare case for Nvidia or do you think that again that's a good use case for a custom ASIC but that's not a general purpose use case for Nvidia GPUs.
>> Yeah, I mean it's great for AI labs, right? you kind of have if those AI labs continue to go in that selective type of workload. If there is any massive changes, those CPUs might not be the best use case for it. Um so that's why I believe a lot of these companies if they're going for TPUs, they're using it for old solutions for maybe for example um we we've I forget where what company we've heard about it. Um but let's say on I think it was Cororee Corore. No, was it Corore? Yes. uh corre mentions that for example open AI if you use model 4.1 you might be using one type of chip if you're using 5.1 you might be using another type of chip you might be using black hole with with their models so what you can end up being seeing is instead of using like I mentioned maybe the older AI models that you still run in certain solutions on a super expensive GPU you send those older models that are no longer getting any form of update that are no longer being fixed they're fixed at that selected workload and you're sending those to the TPUs because as that person mentioned they have the best power efficiency they might have the better total cost of ownership but for that new AI model which you might be constantly changing how that workflow works or maybe developing a new type of workflow uh for maybe Gemini 4 for maybe uh GPT7 or whatever you're going to want to keep that on your TPU until you finalized it and then you just keep moving on. So as long as AI keeps innovating, there's not going to be a still there's not going to be a stalemate, right? The next model needs to be developed a new way. But the older models, you can send them out to these AS6 which tend to have uh the better power efficiency uh solution.
>> Uh do you think Google is going to continue buying GPUs from Nvidia at the level they're buying it at or no?
>> Yeah, I mean uh they mentioned Google Cloud, they they still need it for their cloud providers, right? I mean for all the cloud demand. um it's only TPUs are really only used for them for their Gemini solutions and for their internal Gemini spaces wherever you put it in their AI labs but all that Google cloud all those customers that are coming to host on the cloud they develop on Nvidia GPU so they're still going to purchase um that right now yeah and and that's the other thing is right it's the because of that developer ecosystem and switching to TPUs you're going to have what you're going to have hundreds and hundreds of engineering hours trying to hoard everything directly, making sure everything's working the same way. A is a company going to really want to do that, especially when you have a company like Nvidia that's just focusing on the overall ecosystem. Google just really focuses more within its internal workloads and kind of some of the AI workloads that are progressing. But maybe Claude in the future might do might do AI workloads a little bit different than Gemini. Maybe OpenAI would do it. And for that, you need that flexibility of GPUs. Jose's Twitter right there in the chat. Everyone, please make sure to give him a follow, especially if you want to be updated on what's going on in the world of semiconductors. Um, Jose, let's talk meta real quick and then we'll talk about the Neoclouds. Meta up 2% right here. If this report is true, why do you think Zucks is uh buying these TPUs? Do you think he also wants to get off the Nvidia tax to an extent?
>> I think he's just computer constraint. Like he mentioned during the earlings his he it's crazy to say he even said it. It's crazy for me, not in this direct quotes, but he pretty much said, "It's crazy for me to say that we're still compute starvation on our core business because of all the money that we spent. If we had more compute, our core revenue, our advertisement revenue would be much higher." So, Suck is just trying to do that. And if he's able to do it with the TPUs, that it's that opens up more potential revenue uh for them. Uh so, um I think that the street likes that, right? you get the opportunity to have more revenue growth and you also probably get to get it at a better price uh compared to if you were uh using Nvidia. So I I think it's great for the market to be liking it for Meta.
>> Do do you personally like Meta here trading at these levels or you
>> the two mech 7s that I've been buying recently have been Amazon in like the 215 220s and uh Meta in like the low 600s and I think it even reached like 597 a few a few days ago. So, um I'm not buying right now the 620s, but it Meta and and Amazon are my two favorite Mac 7s outside of Nvidia.
>> Okay. Uh the Neoclouds, Corewave, Nebius,
>> I I know you're you're going through it with Corweave, but we all have one of those stocks every year that that gets us through. How are you feeling about the thesis on this one right now? I mean for core we've in general just super bullish on the demand for AI. I mean it it's just that overall neo cloud potential and I mean we hear it all over demand is through the roof. Uh we heard it from Jensen that A100s are sold out, H100s are sold out, H200. Um Coree is at max capacity already. They are the biggest active power user of the moment and many people try to complain about its debt. Uh, but it's that correlates to the amount of GPUs that they have. And for any other player to get to the amount of GPUs that they have, you're going to have to build that same amount of debt. Cuz maybe let me just run the numbers real quick. Corre has about $15 billion in debt at the moment. Out of that $15 billion, they have about 600 megawatts of active power. 600 megawatts. Iron recently announced that they had this Microsoft deal of 200 megawws. within 200 megawws. They mentioned that within 200 megawws, $6 billion dollars of that was going to be GPU capex. So, $6 billion. So, core reef has about three times more active power. So, if you just do that quick math, 6* 3, what does that equal? $18 billion in debt.
>> Pretty much similar to what that $15 billion. So if any other player wants to get to the capacity of GPU that Core Weef has, they're either going to build that debt, they're either going to dilute their shares, they're going to do some funny financing that we keep hearing from all these AI players. But regardless, it's still 18 billions of dollars that they're going to need to build. So um the only thing that Cory gets, I think, that hate for that debt, but everybody's going to be be spending that type of money.
>> So we covered the Invidia earnings together. Um, I mean, we were both blown away by the earnings at this price, 170. I would imagine you think I guess here's the question. Why do you think the market's discounting the earnings that we saw?
>> Because it happened already. So, it's it's the future, right? So, so now the future for here is TPU's ending the game. Uh, right. The market I I I feel like lately, thanks to AI and everything, the market forgets what happened a week or two ago. Um, and it's just like, all right, we got that cool quarter. Your AI bubble hasn't bursted, but this one, this one, this I know this one is it. This TPU moment, that's the TPU. Uh, that's the uh bearish bubble thesis breaking thesis thesis. Um, whatever. Uh, but um,
>> do you do you do you think the market is also kind of annoyed? Like, so Nvidia sent out this memo to the sell side answering Michael Bur's claims. I mean, I saw some reactions that said, "Why the hell is Nvidia wasting their time doing this?" Do do you think the depreciation and all the things that Bur's been bringing up, do you think that's having a psychological impact on the stock and Nvidia I mean, we heard Jensen's comments of like it's a catch22. If we win, we're fueling the AI bubble. If we fail, we're popping it. Do do you think that's what Nvidia is struggling with as well?
>> Yeah, I mean, right now you just had that one thesis and if you have it's the domino effect, right? you had one something trigger it and I don't know if it was the Michael Bur I don't know what else it was um but it's like now everything is coming out to light right you had that then you have um you have the TPU stuff you have the worries of open AI that's that massive circle financing so it's like everything is happening within the last month or two that the market is just scared and I I think it's okay for them to be scared I agree. I don't think Nvidia has to go back to 200 anytime soon. Uh, and I think this is like a healthy form of skepticism. It's just I think if anyone's holding on to Nvidia for the foreseeable future, like you're going to have to deal with these narratives popping up like the Google TPU thing popping up yesterday and now completely getting people to think differently. Like that's the nature of holding on to these volatile companies.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And like I mean all this is happening under a like a week like you mentioned this CPU then you had the um last week you had I think was pretty much the Michael stuff um or two weeks ago. So it's just been back to back to back. Uh so if you're new to the semi to the Nvidia holding position obviously it sucks. Uh but like I mentioned we had the we had blackwell delays uh being a rumor at one time that lasted a while. We had the oh capex just slowing down that died down. We had um we had everything. So, as a most long-term investors, even if you've been holding two to three times, you see a lot of these bearish thesises and as long as you can kind of under and I'm not blinded by it, right? I can see that the reason and the optics behind it. I just think right now it's too early to tell and the data that we hear is telling me otherwise. But if there is a chance that that actually becomes a bearish thesis, I would think that I would I would explain those thesis really well. Yeah, I think that is a fair point. Couple more questions. Uh Jose's YouTube right there in the chat as well. Please make sure to follow his YouTube to keep updated on the world of semiconductors and his newsletter, whatthechipappen.com. Please make sure to subscribe to that for updates in your email a couple times a week on the world of semiconductors. Um Jose, would you buy Nvidia here or do you think it's getting extended?
>> I I like Nvidia here. I
>> Sorry, sorry, not sorry. I say Google. Sorry, I meant to say Google.
>> Uh no. liked
>> um Google note and and I this is that I'm a big Google bull right I don't want the world thinking I hate it bull uh invid uh Google I have I actually even posted on next I was talking about Google um a few months ago when the stock was at 160 I I mentioned the four reasons why I thought it was growth opportunity at the 160s 150s so I owned Google right now I'm not purchasing I think just like you get that negative sentiment towards Nvidia or anything you get the opposite reaction as well in a stock that might get a little bit too favorable. I believe Google has the potential being number one or number two biggest company in the world in in the future. Uh uh but I think right now my risk-to-reward ratio is not in that favor. I would rather put my money elsewhere. Um but yeah, too much overextension. I mean yesterday or two days ago, I think we saw like a 6% deal on a few hundred million contract with NATO. Like that's that's when you know things every every day you get a little good news and it's like the market.
>> Okay. And then AMD uh do you think this is just an overreaction based on Nvidia?
>> If if if the TPUs are definitely being used, I would personally be worried more about Meta second player, which is AMD, right? You you got to take number two out before you go to number one.
>> So I can see why the market might be a little bit more scarier on AMD. I'm gonna say I actually just purchased AMD as well. I think um their MI450 has potential. Uh they they gave a great financial analyst day for TW uh for future revenue growth, future earnings per share. Uh so this is I'm I'm taking the opportunity to buy a little bit of fear of AMD. So I like it. But I understand why the market is a lot more fearful on this one because I do believe number two for Meta is AMD and they have a little bit more threat with this TPU news. Okay, so the last question then is Broadcom, does this thing deserve two trillion because of the TPUs? And how are you thinking of this one?
>> I mean, they're doing really well, right? They have all these massive deals with open AI. I think they they announced they have to deal with OpenAI. Um, they have to deal with um obviously Google, they have to deal with I forget what a lot of hyperscalers. The other thing the one thing I would say with Broadcom is a lot of people escaped are building their AS6 because they want to make their chips cheaper.
>> Yeah.
>> So they released they removed Nvidia from the middleman. Very similar how Apple re reused of of um
>> Intel
>> Intel a few years ago. Now who's the middleman between these margins? They still pay a margins to Broadcom. Obviously, you can you can continue to pay lower those margins. But what if Google decides, you know what, I'm actually really good at building these chips. I want to cut the middleman again. Why don't I do all my building inhouse?
>> Now, that's a threat for for Bracom as well. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but it's not an indestructible mode either for for Bracom. Google can pretty much follow Apple's footstep and say, "Look, I don't even need anybody. I just hire everybody myself, cut that middleman margin and and I make even more and more money. If they do that, I'll be even a little bit more bullish on Google, too. They do that, right? Because they save a lot more money on AI chips. Um, but as of now, Bracom does have that strength of all these major players are signing with them and TPUs is their biggest customers and they can say, "Look, we did this with Google. If you want your chips to look like this, just come to us and we'll help you build it." So, it's a great advertisement. Um, but it's a double-edged sword at the same time because they still have to pay margins to Broadcom.
>> It's kind of crazy, dude. The the the the puzzle pieces that we all have to put together as investors and we're super grateful for you helping us uh kind of understand this in the semiconductor world, but it's kind of crazy like the these are moving parts and narratives that are affecting literally trillions of dollars every second of every day.
>> And that's what I enjoy about the market is like I think the market always sees it binary. They always see it yes or no or zero or one, but it's not really a zero or one. There's so many things that can happen. You just have to be like, which map do you choose to follow and do you have the data points to follow that map? What is the probability with this map versus the probability with going this way? So, uh that's what I enjoy about the the market a lot. And it's all about trying to figure out um which route and where it's going based on the data.
>> Yeah. And that's what makes a market. Someone being bearish Nvidia here might be an amazing opportunity for someone who's bullish and that's really what makes a market. Last question for you Jose. Uh ALAB and AET. Any questions on the networking stocks right now?
>> Um to be honest with ALAB and AET I don't follow them too much. Um I do know that there has been a bearish sentiment where Nvidia has become the largest networking player in the world.
>> Right. They mentioned it. Uh so you think about Inia as just a chip company, but they are now the biggest uh networking player. I wonder if that's creating some negative sentiment. Um Asterabs is one on my heavy deep dive research list to do. Um especially now that it has taken a huge hit. Uh but but I I can't say anything um that might add to to your viewers. So I I'll I'll pose those two.
>> I love it. Jose, thank you. There's his YouTube in the chat. also his newsletter whatthechipappen.com. I'm sure he'll have a lot to say about TPUs versus GPUs in the upcoming edition and uh we'll talk to you next week.
>> Thank you, man. Appreciate it.
>> Thank you, Jose. Appreciate you. Talk later. All right, that's what we got from Mr. Jose. Markets bounced off 169 on Nvidia. So, we touched it for a second. 16955. We're back to 171. filled down $300 billion on the day. Google as well trying to get back to 330. Google right there at 327. So that bounced off 322. And then the S&P is flat. Just went green. 668.884 as we I guess are overcoming the fears of the November consumer competence. Seems like that's when we really started to take a little bit of a hit. Did anyone buy at 169? Did anyone snipe that as we got there? Yo, Chris, this is like your 17th Meta comment. Goodness gracious. How much money do you have in this? Chris, this guy's acting like he has freaking $5 million in meta. Look at Meta. Hey, Jose, what do you think about this on Meta? Hey, got Mid, did you buy some Meta? Are you thinking about Meta? Well, guys, Meta is the real winner. Meta. Meta. Meta. it, Chris. No, you don't. No, you don't, Chris. No, you don't. 750,000. Okay. Now, now, well, now I get it. That's all you have to say. Now I get why every other tweet, every other comment is freaking meta. Meta. This never seen Chris this excited about Facebook in my life. 700. Okay. So, Chris, is this options or stock? Because if it's options, then it's an even different question. Well, first of all, the riskreward is very to the upside on the reward. If it is options, but that's also a lot of risk, it's options. Wow. This guy, this guy, when he gets bullish, he gets bull. That's the one thing I learned from Chris outside of call debit spreads which uh you know quite frankly learning about call debit spreads changed my life with with hood but I I it's a very uh Stanley Duck Miller George Soros type of thing where when someone's bully that's how Stanley learned like if if you're bullish don't go 100% go 110%. And the one thing about Chris is whether it's the cruise lines or Meta or Verizon, when he gets bullish on something, he goes deeply in. All right, Chris, I'll send you a link. We'll get you on the show. Give us a little bit of your thoughts on Meta. Dude, 750 in meta options. That's I don't have the balls to do that. I'm sorry. I do not have the the uh stomach for that. I have the stomach for a lot of money in hood options at freaking $8. I just think, and we'll get Chris's opinion on this, but I I just think there is a world in which Zucks doesn't give us the best answer on where the capex is going, and the story just takes a little bit longer to play out. Meta should be an $850 stock right now given their numbers. But this, you know, this whole narrative thing is a real thing. Because also, like, why is Duolingo, I'm not trying to compare Dualingo and Meta, but Dualingo has been stuck for a while because their narrative has been bad. Google was stuck for a while because their narrative is bad. Meta's in a bad narrative right now, but eventually that narrative needs to shift. Google shifted the narrative. Dualingo did not shift the narrative for, you know, Meta to do really well. And that might just that might just take some time. Oh, my boy Adam just texted me. All right, Adam's on the Meta Train. He's got a million bucks in Meta. Our boy Adam Bergman just text me has 1,600 shares at 629 bucks. All right, so you're all right. I guess Meta, you are starting to see a lot more people jump on this train. I mean, I've got Meta. I don't have a million dollars in meta, but I've got some meta. And right there, bouncing, trying to get back to 172, 1718. Okay, let's do a poll in the chat right here. Let's get some sentiment on Meta. Let's get some sentiment on Meta. Um, okay. Simple question. By the way, 73% said no, they're not bearish in video based on the Google news. I know Tanner's in Meta. Well, Tanner's been in I mean, he's been talking about Meta for a while. Ever since I mean me, Tann me and Tanner bought the dip on Meta since the earnings decline. Uh we didn't get the absolute bottom at 580, but we have been buying in that 620 to 650 range. Steve has not bought the dip yet because Steve has had Meta for a very long time. Uh Adam, as for the screenshot I'm seeing, has bought the dip and then Chris bought the dip. So, a decent chunk of us agree it's a good opportunity. The level of bullishness I think is potentially the difference here. Are you long meta next year? That is the question. Are you long meta next year? Chris Patel 750 in meta. What is going on,
>> brother? I don't think people un people people really understand the value that Meta actually gets from AI and how gamechanging it is for Meta. Okay, I think a couple of things just really really just to get it out the way. One of the main reasons why Meta took a giant dip post earnings was because of a one-time non-cash charge because of the one big beautiful bill. Some of the depreci some of the the write-offs that they had were no longer going to be considered. Now what happened was there was this algorithmic tra uh trading system where people looked at that giant drop in earnings and automatically algorithmically a lot of people started selling as selling this off and because of that there's been like a cascade of panicking all the way down. But if you look at where Meta is on like a one-year RSI time frame it's literally traded at at like under 30.
>> Yeah.
>> Now it's starting to kind of come back. And the thing is whenever you see these MAG7s that are going higher, right, especially in terms of their fundamentals, what if you look at fundamentals, nothing has changed for Meta, they're one of the biggest beneficiaries of AI. So a lot of other companies right now that are in the AI space, they're still trying to figure out how to monetize AI. Meta is already monetizing AI. One of the biggest changes that happened um when Apple and all these other guys started to use uh privacy is that now they lost access to cookies and everything else. So how does Meta do its ad targeting? Well, guess what? Now they have the largest knowledge graph on the planet with 3 I think 3.7 3.8 million users on on all of its family of applications.
>> Let's let's get into the juice of it because I do disagree with you. I don't think Metaphel is the tax charge. I think that was an algorithmic knee-jerk reaction, but it stayed down because of the call, which you and I talked about before. Zucks basically said,
>> "Trust me, and if if I think we're spending too much, I'll dial it back, but trust me, I'm going to figure this out."
>> Well, what is what is your response to the street not effectively knowing how Zucks will have his Gemini 3 moment? And yes, they have an ROI on ads, but obviously the street doesn't care about that.
>> No, no. The the thing is we got hit by a perfect cascade of downward movement in all the AI names at the exact same time. So you had literally you had meta earnings things go down and then what happened for the last 3 weeks who's been up in the last two three weeks? Oh AI is a bubble. That entire narrative got pushed and because of that people were selling Meta off.
>> Yeah. But Google Google's at all time highs.
>> Yeah. But Google is on the other end of that, right? Google's got all the positive news coming and it's only recently that it's been coming. the positive news for Meta other than good earnings growth because that can't be enough at this size of their company, right?
>> Well, number one, you've got the you've got literally a lot of people that are, "Oh my god, I missed out on Google. What's the next thing? Let me pick up Meta, which is the cheapest of the Mag 7s. So, you got a lot of people fomoing from Google into Meta right now." If you see my post on uh X, it's there like everyone is saying right now. your your chat pretty much is like a microcosm of of the market. You you asked this morning, oh, what's everyone doing? Oh, I'm selling Google. Okay, so who are you buying? Because now Google went from a EV to IB of 16 to now 29. All the people now what they're doing is they're unloading on Google and saying, "Wait a second, Meta's trading at what valuation right now?" So, they're all jumping into Meta right now. And so, Meta is catching a bit higher. So, I agree with that and I agree Meta is cheap and that's why I bought Meta and I like zero disagreement on the valuation. My broader question is if the street took it down from 750 to 585 because they don't see the ROI on capex.
>> What is your response to that? Is it just advertising? Because I don't know if that's enough.
>> Here's my question to you. How is it not enough? If you look at the kagger of Meta on it advertising,
>> the numbers make sense, but we're talking about the narrative here. Like the stock's been down for almost a month and a half at this point. It's obviously not just
>> the the street had a knee-jerk reaction to the numbers and they have to like wake up in the morning and realize that the ROI is there. They are legitimately thinking outside of ads there's nothing there's no cloud there's no uh you know Gemini 3 llamas a failure like there's nothing that they're seeing. So my question
>> I think I think you're
>> one of those things. I guess
>> I think you're I think you're being um I think you are right in that they are primarily an ads business and I'm not disagreeing with that but dude it's still such a giant cash flow machine that's not going to slow down. Not to mention they don't have to go to war like Google does right now with Nvidia and everything else. If you think about it just like it's like saying oh the only business Palanteer is in is in software. like they don't have they don't sell ice cream. Why? How come they don't sell ice cream? You know, Meta does an amazing job with its ads targeting platform and it is just getting
>> Look, Chris, Chris, Chris, you're saying things the market already knows. The market knows everything you're saying. What the market doesn't know is why Zucks is spending 72 billion a year because theoretically Zux could spend maybe 30 billion, half of that, and still get the same results. Like, why is he spending close? No, no, that's that's I think that's a false uh false equivalency to say, okay, and not to mention there is a point where Meta is going to rationalize its cost, right? Just like it's very similar to how they had a giant capex wave in 2022 and then they ended up getting reals and then reals ended up doing a bunch of stuff in monetization and then starting to ride higher. The other thing that a lot of people missed, look at what happened in the last 60 days. Remember antitrust lawsuit against Meta? What happened to that?
>> It got resolved.
>> Yeah, but the street didn't care because that was a nothing burger. That was never
>> because we were in the middle of a panic. That's the point. If you look at it, the general market was all going down. Everyone was panic selling everything. Okay, even the great names were getting getting hit. Meta right now is fundamentally getting retraced probably back to its uh close to its all-time highs now into the 780s. And we've got a couple of giant catalysts coming on the horizon for just seasonality. Number one, Q4 seasonality is super strong. You've got a, you know, giant wave of Christmas coming in. These guys are going to kill it in January when they actually report these numbers and they're not going to have the overhang of the of the earnings issue last time. And they're going to be able to address it and Zuck is going to have the ability to address all the stuff that's happening with, you know, Google's TPU partnership and everything else. Not to mention, if you think about it, the biggest beneficiary with Google and Nvidia beefing is Meta. If you can figure out ways to basically get the end result that you need cheaper, right, you're going to do well. Your margins are going to be better. So, this deal with Google right now, instead of paying the Nvidia tax, let's say a hundred billion in capex, if they end up saving $30 billion by switching to Google instead, that's a big big up for them. So your your your thesis is on the next quarter, Meta is going to continue to produce the earnings results in the advertising business that they've done.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the street's going to wake up and be like, "This is trading at 19 times. This is stupid."
>> Not even 19. It's less than 19, dude.
>> Less than 19 times. The street's going to be past the AI bubble overhang that you've been saying has been kind of the reason why Meta has had a cascading downfall.
>> And that will what you think 700 by mid next year easily come back. Dude, it might even get there in the next uh 90 days. Dude, let me just show you just from a just from a comparison where we are with all the Mag Sevens. Okay. Uh okay, here we go. Give it a second. It's loading. S&P little bit of a bounce, guys. We're still red on the day. Okay, I'm going to take away Nvidia from here only because like it distorts the figures. All right, so this is the EV EV to EBIA multiple for all the Mag 7s, okay? Including uh with the exception of Tesla and um and um and Nvidia, right? And you can see the last let's do let's compress this down to the last three years right now. The most expensive one from just EIA IBIDA on a forward basis is Apple. So this is also taking into account the growth in IBIDA that's projected for next year. Apple is the most expensive. The second the the second most expensive now is Google at 18 times forward EV to EBIDA. Then you've got Microsoft at 17 and then you've got Amazon at 12. Meta is here at 11. All throughout last year, they've been trading at a much higher multiples about four four times extra IBIDA. So this right here, this trend is likely going to bounce up and it's probably going to get to somewhere around here for these guys. So just that retracement to to this figure, which is normal for Meta as it's expanding its um uh what is that thing called? Share buybacks and everything else, it's going to be around 17 18%. any sort of indication that they're rationalizing some of their costs. Dude, this thing goes right back into what happened in 2022. If you remember, remember we were all talking about this on Finance Junkies. It was like, oh, Zuck doesn't know what he's doing. He's spending all this money on capex and blah blah blah. And then the minute that they just said, you know what, we're going to do some cost rationalization, the market woke up and said, wait a second, this is a company that generates $107 billion in operating cash. Okay. So, if they don't cost rationalize, which Zuck was already guided, he's not going to, right? I mean, the fact that they're losing four billion on Reality Labs and they haven't crush, you know, stop that tells me at least for the foreseeable future he's not doing that. If they don't do that and they don't have any new form of business, any cloud, etc. that gets the market excited. You still think the stock will easily reverse back to 750 uh because of the the EVA Ebida just being too cheap?
>> Well, that's number one. But dude, Zuck gets to spend money on stuff that does not work because that is how you run a business where you're trying to disrupt something, you know? So, I know right now Reality Labs it hasn't worked for five years and they're still losing.
>> It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I mean, dude, it's such a it's such a small part of their operating income to lose money on Reality Labs when it could be existentially it could be something that becomes a major major part of their driver.
>> That's the heart of my question. The five billion on the operating income for Reality Labs. Agree. That's probably nothing burger. The 72 billion on capex that is likely increasing their advertising revenue but not to the point where the street can reasonly say, "Yeah, you should keep spending $100 billion."
>> Dude, have you seen their revenue growth? Have you seen the growth? It's
>> Yes. And Instagram reels 50 billion run. I get it. But my point is the street is obviously saying we want something more. My my my biggest question to you is you're in this trade thinking even without that additional magic AI product. Meta should be an $800 stock. Like that is your kind of
>> Yes, absolutely. Then that's what the market was saying all throughout last year, right? Literally, this was trading at between 700 and 800 the entire time last year. So in the short term, the market is weak right now. But of all of the weakness, this is the perfect time to buy the dip on on literally one of the strongest Mag 7s that's out there, you know, and it's not necess and the other thing is even from like a competitive moat u uh moat wise. Meta is spending all of this money getting this AI targeting information, right? It's able to sell a lot of this uh a lot of the ad space and everything else to a lot of um what are they called? Um a lot of advertisers. the other companies cannot do the same amount of spending to get that knowledge graph that Meta can. That is a moat. That is a huge moat that's being built up right now. So, think of it this way. It's it's a closed garden, but literally Meta's got the access Meta's got access to 3.5 billion people daily choices every day. And their models are just going to keep improving, dude. And their AI targeting is just going to get better and better.
>> I agree with all that. The only reason I'm not as convinced is because everyone knows that. Like that is not new. The market has known that for years that Meta has the best.
>> It was I'm telling you the market does not know that. That's the same reason why everyone was selling Google.
>> The market No, no. The The reason Google got sold off was because the DOJ and they might get broken up. The market knows Meta is elite at advertising. I think the market genuinely is confused why Zucks is spending so much without knowing what the AI moat is outside of advertising.
>> Dude, I'm trying to tell you that's the moat. Look at their growth. If it if look if if you if Zuck was spending all of this money and they were not growing their top line, if they were not growing their bottom line, I'd be the first one to say this is not investable. He's just throwing money in into thin air, right? But look at look at their revenue growth. It's not uh one sec, let me just
>> No, but see but see that's my point. like the revenue growth is I agree AI is having an impact but the market unless it's purely just AI bubble concerns is not looking at this as something that they should care about because I think they're looking for something different
>> look at their revenue growth this is where they were flatlining okay chat GPT came out right here they started doing their AI investments around this time ever since then look at the growth that they've had in their revenues all right literally just keeps growing growing and growing and it's getting better. The monetization's there, man. Zuck would not be spending the money if he didn't see the value in all of this stuff. And us as shareholders, we have to realize it's the same thing with Google. Why is Google spending so much money on building these data centers? Why is Microsoft spending money on these data centers? Why is OpenAI doing the same thing? So, I think compared to everyone else who still has to figure out how to monetize their uh monetize their products with AI, Zuck is already doing it. The value is actually you're actually getting to see the value right there. I mean literally they went from 117 million I mean 117 billion in revenue two years ago right to now doing 190 billion in revenue and they have a a margin 80 something what is it their gross margin is uh let me see what is it their gross profit is $155 billion in gross profit.
>> So let me ask you a better question. If you said emit, why is Nvidia down after that blockbuster quarter? I would say the street is worried that the AI bubble is popping and Nvidia is gonna be the biggest uh loser in that. If if I had to ask you as a meta bull, why is Meta down? What is your argument? Is it stupid or is there something
>> I think two things h I told you I think two things happened. Number one, you had this giant tax issue that came up that was a one-time thing that caused it to go down. And then all of a sudden, you had all this bearishness around the p the Fed not cutting in December and everything else. And that just kind of kept pushing things down. Now that the narrative is flipping and the narratives are flipping in the other direction, like, hey, wait a second, no, there's actually some value here. Everyone is trying to pick up lagards. And that's what you're seeing right now. Everyone is saying, wait a second, why is Metatrading at such a low valuation? Especially now because Google is already moving so much higher, you know, and not to mention if you like I said ju today's news is probably because on one hand yeah AI targeting is getting way better Instagram hey I'm buying more stuff. Yeah. Um what is it? What do you call it? And with the news of Google partnering with them now even that hundred billion dollar that Meta was supposed to spend not all of it is going to end up going to Nvidia. Some of it's probably going to end up going to Google and Google is probably giving them a sweetheart deal which saves them a lot of money from what they were originally planning on doing. So the market is saying wait a second maybe they don't have to spend a h 100red billion maybe they have to spend 70 billion and get the same outcome
>> which I think is very bullish meta. I agree with you there.
>> So I like I said I think right now people are going to look at the the actual people building and generating value from this giant move in AI. And so, you know, and not to mention, dude, if you think about a moat, 3.5 billion people on the planet uses these things. One of the things that I think a lot of people may or may not know is just how big something like WhatsApp is outside of the US. It is huge. And the knowledge graph that these guys are developing, dude, the data that Meta has is is the only other company that has the same level scaled up data is um is Google.
>> Yeah. you know, and look at the and look at the market cap on Google and look at the market cap on um Meta, you know, and both of them fundamentally do a lot of money doing advertising. They're the two largest advertising um companies on the planet.
>> Okay. So, last question for you, Chris, and Chris's Twitter. I'll put right here in the chat. Everyone can follow him here. Uh we will be having macro th No, we have Thanksgiving. Okay. So, we probably won't have macro Thursday this week, but we will still be I I think I am going live with Steve tonight, Chris. So, if you want to hop on with me and Steve tonight because we're gonna do our show. One of the things some someone's saying WhatsApp is not monetizable. Maybe not so much in the US. Okay. And I think that's one of the one of the things that that actually um that people don't necessarily realize, but if you go to other countries, dude, so much transacting happens on WhatsApp.
>> Okay.
>> No, WhatsApp is a winner. Again, like a lot a lot of these things that you mentioned, they're all winners. I'm just more hung up on like what else is the narrative that will get the street excited. How much Okay. Okay. So, how much are you planning to make off this 750K now that you've said you've got this much in options? Like, are you looking for a 34 million outcome? Like, what are you what are you looking for here?
>> I don't know, bro. We'll see what happens. I'm going to convert them to spreads once I think that they've
>> Oh, they're naked calls. I thought they were already
>> They're naked calls. No, they're naked calls.
>> Oh, so theoret the profit is infinite. Theor
>> theoretically. Yeah.
>> I had to I called my brother on Monday um morning and I was just like, "Listen, buy some Meta." And he's like, "What?" Like, "Huh?" I said, "Just buy Meta, bro. Don't Don't like I got him into UNH and then I had him sell at the top and now he he was just sitting on cash. I was like, bro, the narrative is flipping. Now is the time. Do it." You know? So,
>> no, it's good. I'm telling you, this thing is like, look at
>> I'm buying the stock. I just don't have the balls for the options. Not going into next year.
>> No, no, buy the stock. Even Even people right now, if you just buy the stock, dude, this is one of those companies you buy and hold. You know, you're not going to go wrong with Meta. the amount of money these guys generate it's insane and like like I said look at your comment section everyone uses WhatsApp like all over the place. Yeah. So
>> I think one of the things is in the US we are very tied to the Apple ecosystem. So like iMessage is really big for us but if you go outside the US dude meta is huge. You go to India there's 1.4 billion people there right? Most of them use WhatsApp, Instagram, you know, Tik Tok is not even alive in in um in uh India,
>> you know, and right now. Sorry. Go ahead.
>> Is this 2028 you're aiming for?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, you're giving yourself two and a half years round about.
>> Yeah. I I typically don't do a lot of uh like I'm not going to do like two weeks out, $750,000 in medical calls. Screw that nonsense.
>> No, but that's the way to get rich, bro. That's what we need to be.
>> I'm already RICH. I DON'T NEED to be I don't need to be that much richer. I'm okay. I've done well. You know,
>> you need to turn 750 to 10 million in two weeks. Can like can we figure that because
>> Google is the one that I I am going to put a little bit of a feather in my own cap because Google was I was screaming at the top of my lungs with Google. I was like there is so much value here that people are not recognizing. Oh, you were you were you were you were screaming about Google at like 1:40 and it worked out
>> and I think Meadow probably is the same. I just don't know the time frame.
>> Hey, listen to each his own. You guys, you have to you have to make moves based on what your understanding levels are. But as a friend should buy some meta.
>> I've got some meta. I don't have 750,000 of meta, but
>> Oh, come on, man. Come on. Hood. Hood. Hood help. No, I mean Hood is down, but you can't be that much down. No, but I'm just I'm I I don't know if I don't know if my conviction is that deep to put like that much money into me.
>> GOTCHA. ALL RIGHT. NO, NO, if that's the case, then don't worry about it. Like I like I said, I'm not here to shove any um stocks down your throat, man. So, you know. All right, brother. Man, have a good one.
>> Love it. Chris's Twitter in the chat. Chris, thank you. Talk to you later.
>> All right, there's your metabol case. Look, I think Chris is gonna be right. I just again I am still curious about what the narrative looks like in Q4 and if Zux has the same excuse that says hey just trust me we're going to figure out the AI capex thing is the street like okay cool the stock's cheap enough for us to trust you or is the street like nope back down to 600 we're going to wait till you actually give us something outside of advertising and Chris is right the numbers alone justified the stock being well over six 600 but obviously the narrative right here is is taking place getting a little bit of a bounce right 17240 still down 5% on the day. Google also holding on. Well, no, actually not holding on. Well, it's green, but losing that 325 level now back at 321. The fact that we're even looking at Google with a three handle is incredible. But Google is down. And then Broadcom, that's down 1.3 as well. Uh macro, what other macro data do we have? Let's see. Again, we had Jose Kaman kind of make the argument that Google is not necessarily killing Nvidia here, but I also think Chris is right that the customers are the biggest beneficiaries of uh competition in the infrastructure layer and obviously that's where that's where Meta comes in place. Let's get a little bit of more coverage on this Google news and then we'll keep going from there. as well. Christina,
>> thanks David. Well, in video shares, I actually want to start with them because they're down today after the information down almost to six and a half% after the information reported Meta is considering renting Google's Tensor Processing units TPU from Google Cloud next year and could actually spend billions of dollars more to start using those same chips in their own data center starting in 2027. That means breaking Nvidia's stronghold on the data center chip market. why you're seeing Nvidia's sell-off. And this also follows last week's Gemini 3 enthusiasm, which investors are calling the industry's latest quote deepseek moment since the large language model was trained solely on Google chips and not Nvidia. The fallout is hitting other NVIDIA customers, too. Oracle is down uh we can say sharply today, almost 5%, they've bought billions of dollars of Nvidia chips to rent out via the cloud. But if competitors build AI clouds with cheaper TPUs, those Google chips instead, Oracle can really just get undercut on price. So this is all about competition and offering the cheapest option. On the flip side, Google's hardware suppliers are climbing higher and have been climbing higher just over the last little few days. Broadcom, granted, it's it's relatively it's flat to the negative right now, but it's been what 10% higher on the week. It partners with Google on those said TPU chips, and it's been up and down. Jim Kramer points out earlier that Broadcom CEO Hawk 10 sits on Meta's board. So Hawk 10 could help influence Meta's board to pick Google chips designed by Broadcoms. It's all connected. Google hardware suppliers like Celesta. Celestica and Lumenum are also climbing as investors rotate into Google names and away from open AI.
>> I didn't know Celesteico was a Google supplier. It makes sense why that stock has done so well this year. And obviously that's getting another lift on a day like today. suppliers like Microsoft for example on your screen down about 5% on the week. The real concern though for OpenAI is it's getting harder to distinguish which models perform better, Gemini or ChachiPT. If they become commodities, which many argue is going to be the case, the one with cheaper cost wins. And that's exactly what Google's offering does with its own GPUs. All right, the chip wars intensify. The chip wars intensify. I don't know if Nvidia gets any meaningful level of recovery here today, but Nvidia right here down about 5.47%. It is purely based on this narrative that there is going to be a lot more competition than expected. Broadcom still down about 1% of the day. AMD as well collateral damage here down 7%. Corey recovering a bit. It was down 10%, now it's down five. Apple basically alltime highs. Nebus recovering a little bit. Iran still down seven. Nebas is only down four. and then Google holding 320. It's pretty incredible. Narratives can flip overnight. Narratives can flip overnight with how we're thinking of this. Um, yeah, Broadcom's still slightly down. That's the other thing Chris didn't mention, the glasses. I mean, maybe that is another level of Meta's business that's, you know, potentially very lucrative for them. Uh, again, they had a demo a couple months ago. demo didn't go the best, but those Ray-B band glasses are still another big part of the business. Nebas, Cororeweave, Iran, all of these are likely down based on the idea of Nvidia being down again, which is kind of weird because they shouldn't be down. Uh I they have bought a ton of Nvidia GPUs, but the market's acting like the TPUs are going to be replaced inside of every single data center on the planet overnight or that customers would even want to do that and have an entirely new software stack to manage those GPU those TPUs. Like it is a bit of an aggressive reaction. I think that's why Nvidia is down 5%. We also have some macro news on retail sales which was a bit of a miss. Let's pull that up right here as well.
>> Eight out of the 13 categories actually grew. Um you did see some strength in places like gas stations. Remember these aren't adjusted for inflation. So higher
>> small miss street one.3 we came in at 02 in September.
>> Prices feeds into it sometimes on a monthly basis. Autos actually did see a decline. That was the first time we've seen in in several months beneath the hood. Um besides gas stations, there was strength in grocery, furniture stores, also in uh in the only services part of this report, which is the food services and drinking places, restaurants. Um but look at where some of the declines were discretionary sporting goods, hobby stores, online actually saw a decline, um which was unusual lately. Clothing and clothing, accessories, electronics, and I mentioned autos. So again, bit of a weakness and a dip in September from August, which which pretty much jives I think with what we've heard from some of the retailers. Although I will note we got a lot of them today and there were some better outlooks to report. For instance, Dixs and Best Buy and Abbercrombi all posted better guidance. You see it in some of the stocks. Kohl's is is a self-improvement story. It's up 33% surging. But as far as what we're hearing, guys, from the consumer, let's just take Kohl's for instance, because here's what we heard about the consumer. While the results are encouraging, we continue to operate in an environment where our customers are becoming increasingly choiceful. There's that word. As their discretionary income remains pressured, this is a
>> Okay, so this is another comment from Kohl's, another consumer brand. I did publish that Substack yesterday about a bifurcated economy. I'll put the link right here in the chat if anyone wants to read it. uh it has been compiling a lot of the data that we've been talking about over the past couple of weeks around two types of economies in the United States. Um so I'll put that link in the chat. But Cole's once again kind of affirming that narrative that there are companies that are becoming a a lot more cost uh or consumers that are becoming more cost conscious. You have Chipotle, you have Target, you have Kohl's, and you have a variety of other companies that are starting to impact the consumer.
>> Especially notable in our low to middle inome consumer as well as our younger consumers. These customers are becoming increasingly savvy and are seeking more value. We expect this customer behavior to continue into Q4. And then, you know, Corey Barry, the CEO of Best Buy on the call, resilient, she used the word, but deal focused and attracted to more predictable sales moments. While customers continue to be thoughtful about big ticket purchases in the current environment, they're willing to spend on high price point products when they need to or when there is technology innovation. So retailers are just having to try harder because choiceful value deal oriented newness is another one we hear about. They're just having to work harder for those sales right now.
>> Inflation adjusted the September print would have been down a 10th. Uh RENMAC today kind of sums it up. Softer core inflation. Yep. Softer core retail sales ongoing weakness in employment. ADP down 13,000 on that weekly number
>> on the average week. Yeah. and uh chief economist was on with Leaseman this morning called it kind of a C plus B minus labor market.
>> Also you've been posting some of the credit metrics which you know under the hood have not looked good on consumer credit you know rising delinquencies in places like autos and and credit cards. Lzan Saunders has a a great chart from the New York Fed. The rejection rate of all types of credit, meaning you want a higher credit limit, you ought to want auto loan, that's a cycle high to in October.
>> So, it's it's
>> uh that is also why Robin Hood has been so um uh slow to give out their their credit card as well. I mean, you're getting a lot of these companies that are getting a lot more conscious around overall how much capital can they actually continue lending out if you have delinquencies that are rising. So, I mean, again, I I went a bit deep in that article to really explain this bifurcation stuff. It's real. My takeaway here is that you got to own assets at the end of the day. That seems like the solution here. Uh because if you look at some of the charts in the in the article, I mean, it is almost it is insane. I mean, there there's a couple of charts I looked at. 67% of Americans feel they're living paycheck to paycheck. Almost 70% of the country feels that they're living paycheck to paycheck. And he and you start to be like, "Wait a second. The NASDAQ's doubled in the past five years." Like like like if you bought Nvidia, forget at $10, at $100, you're doing pretty well for yourself in terms of that that stock price appreciation. But the majority of Americans aren't participating in that. And as a result, they are feeling a lot more pain living paycheck to paycheck. And they haven't been able to borrow against their assets either, which has been another big thing that's happened over the economy. By the way, this is Chris's Meta's position. He posted it right here. So, for those that were curious, $600 naked calls expiring 2028. Um, he has 15 at an average price of 158 and then another 30 at an average price of 152. So, those are currently up about 15%. So, he's got a legit 750 in this. But, um, I it's like if if you've been able to borrow against your your assets, if you bought Nvidia at 30, 40, 50 bucks, even at again 90, 100, 140 bucks, you are able to qualify for loans, stockbased lending, aka margin, a against your your assets. And you know, people do this with real estate all the time, but obviously as more people have entered into the equity markets, they've recognized the ability for them to buy things without having to sell their assets. Now, if the stock drops, you're screwed, right? Because you're not screwed, but you're tech you're not in the best pos because you have to pay back the margin and the asset does not support the level of uh margin you got before because now the value of the asset has your collateral has essentially gone down, which is why the past couple weeks have been really stressful for a lot of people that were on margin. But the point is, over the past five years, it's been a pretty healthy bull market outside of 2022, which means you've been able to meaningfully borrow against your assets and not have to be contingent on your paycheck as the basis for spending money. And based on the data I looked at yesterday, 70% of Americans feel that they're living paycheck to paycheck. So obviously, the majority of the country is not doing that, which goes back to the Bloomberg article we looked at a couple weeks ago. Uh 10% of the spending in this country. Let me pull up that chart right here. Uh or sorry, 50% of the spending in this country is being done by the top 10% of the income generators. And that is what I think Trump is really worried about because if the markets were to take a hit, the people that felt very uh comfortable in going out to dinner because their Nvidia stock is to the moon, they might not go out to dinner as much anymore, right? And that's when you start to see the the wealthier end of the consumer that has had not even wealthy. For forget, you don't even have to be wealthy. You could just be someone who ended up buying some stocks a couple years ago and you feel like you're wealthy. that feeling starts to go away if the market crashes, which is why I think there is a Trump put on this market. They're going to do whatever they need to do to make sure this market really does not get hit as badly as people think it could get hit. And maybe that's why we keep this going. RC says, "I make 170K per year and I don't feel comfortable." Feels crazy to say. Dude, the cost of living is I mean, I've heard that I've heard that from a variety of people that like 100k is not what 100k used to be years ago. 100 especially if you're in New York or LA. I mean, 100K is like it's just it is tough to survive on that. Not to mention if you've got a family. I mean, so it it really starts to beg the question around affordability, which is what Trump has been focusing on, but also the question of how do you survive if you don't have anything that's compounding outside of the the time that you're exchanging or the labor you're exchanging for for money, which is how most of us survive, right? We we exchange our labor for some type of uh compensation, which requires time. The beautiful thing about owning assets is that Jensen's doing all that for you and you're just sitting back and letting him do it and you get to compound your assets and your wealth outside of having to exchange your time. But that bifurcation is very real. It's very very real. Hundkane Frankfurt Germany is nothing. So, I'm not familiar with Germany's or Europe's overall tax rates, but the the the the benefit that I hear Wow, Google going red on the day 317. The benefits I hear from the Europeans is that a lot of things are free. Now, I know a lot of you will push back and say it's not free because you're paying for it. I get it. But, uh that somewhat lessens the load of uh of things to worry about, but nonetheless, you know, every part of the world is getting more expensive. All of you are saying BS. Dude, you you got the people in this chat are not the typical Europeans. You guys are investors. It's a little different. You have you have a bit more capitalismo inside your veins. But from other Europeans I've talked to, you know, they like that everything's technically free even though it's not actually free because someone has to pay for it. Yeah. Taxes are free. Exactly. Uh, why is Google going red right here? I guess people I guess people saying, "All right, it had a little fun." But is Nvidia making a move while Google's going red? I It's understandable that Google's taking a breather. Nvidia 172. All right, so Nvidia is still flat, but Google's up. Silinsky wants to meet Trump as soon as possible. Let's get some updates on the Ukraine stuff. Uh Washington Post reported that Russia is likely to reject the deal. You got a Axios right here saying that Zalinsky wants to meet Trump as soon as possible. I mean this is another thing by the end of the year if there is some resolution it would be exciting. But if not then obviously this continues into 2026. I'll see if I can get some other updates on this Ukraine stuff. But in the morning, a White House official did say that it feels like the deal will be signed. Yeah, New York Post reporting right now, UK Ukraine peace bill expected to be rejected by Russia likely extending war until Christmas at a minimum. Wow. That's probably why Zillinsky wants to talk to Trump. Video right there 172 84. But yeah, this bifurcation thing is very real and I would hope the markets can continue going into next year because that that is a really important. That's another question I didn't get to ask Chris, but it it's not really a question that matters although because it'll affect the whole market, but what happens if the consumer breaks in 2026? I think Meta is a consumer business at the end of the day. Like consumers need to buy stuff for advertisers to pay Meta to target consumers. Now granted, it's not a fair question because if the consumer breaks, everything breaks and so like everything's going to be down. But that is a risk that I think can't be ignored. I don't know if it's the defining investment thesis, but you definitely have to make sure the consumer is willing to buy products and services. Now, the AI should make it better to target them with the exact product and service they want to buy, but they have to have the disposable income to do that. You mean what happens if the 10% breaks? Yeah, I mean that that's another question, right? What happens if like that that is a legitimate concern. The more I've thought about it more and more I mean just just imagine this scenario. Imagine all of our portfolios get chopped by 30% because the S&P goes to 6,000. Something crazy, right? Like inevitably all of us here are just not going to spend as much money as as as we currently are spending. Like there's just no way if if you see your net worth drop down by 30%. like you're just not going to easily say oh yeah I can afford to go do that because you're mentally going to feel especially if you haven't taken any profits that like can I reasonably afford to do this and I think Trump knows I think basent basent has talked about this to an extent as well basent knows this better than anybody given you know he's managed money for a very long time and as a treasury secretary he's very shrewd about how this is playing out and I think he knows and so does lutnik that if we don't keep this market pumping the lower-end consumer is already showing signs of breaking. They're not completely dead in terms of their spending power, but it's definitely weakening and that's something we can't ignore. The higherend consumer could break if the market breaks and we really can't have the market easily break. I'm already pricing in that my spending after the recent pullback. Yeah, I mean last week was not fun for a lot of us and we haven't really recovered from last week. I if anything video is worse than like I guess if you've been long Google for the past couple of months you haven't felt too much of the pain but it's I mean if if AMD was at two for all like there's so many people that are probably loaded up on AMD it was at 260 and let's say you have I don't know 3,000 shares that you bought in the 70s to 80s AMD is down 60 bucks 60 times three that's 180,000 paper loss. And trust me, I'm feeling it with the hood. Okay, I have over 10,000 shares of hood. Hood was at 150. It's not at 150 anymore. So, I I feel those types of swings as well. But, um that just naturally makes you feel like, okay, I have less money to spend. Imagine AMD collapses to 150 or collapses to 70. Like, these are not things that I think are going to happen, but if they do, and I think Trump knows, people are pulling people are going to be pulling back their spend aggressively. That's not something you can easily ignore. I have a Hawaii trip price for 2026. The market can't drop. Oh my gosh. Aren't we long-term? Yes. You the long-term implication of this is irrelevant. My argument is just shortterm if you see that percentage decline in wealth. Uh same thing if you own like a crypto. I mean, dude, there's some influencers. I was watching some videos yesterday that are like kneedeep in crypto and they're probably kneede in crypto because like someone probably told them to buy crypto and stuff and their their portfolios have got cut in half. I mean, they're probably not going to be doing all the crazy stuff they were doing in their videos anymore because they might just not have the capital to do it. Now, long term, Bitcoin probably recovers, but in the short term, that effect on on capital spending might have an issue. Jose says he's also going to Hawaii. All right, video can't collapse. Jose needs to take the wife and kids to Hawaii. Yes, I tried Gemini 3. I was really impressed last night. I haven't played with it too much, but I spent like 20 minutes on it and I I thought it was incredible and so it's legit. Dude, why is everyone going to Hawaii? Yeah, BMR. I mean, dude, that in and of itself, right, takes away a lot of spending power from people if you load it up heavy. This is just stuff that I think is is important to be cognizant of, even if it's not a a massive bear case. CMG, that's and ironically, the consumer stocks are actually pumping today. Chipotle is up 5%. McDonald's up 2%. As Nvidia continues to go down 5%. By the way, uh, Bank of America came out and they said, uh, buy Nvidia. Bank of America says TPUs increased competition in AI chips with rising demand supports Nvidia, Broadcom, and AMD. Oh, so they're saying by Nvidia, AMD, and Broadcom. Nvidia trades at 25 times undervaluing its 40% potential growth. Broadcom could see 100% AI sales growth in 26, reflecting its 38 times premium, though Google licensing more TPUs could limit its market. AMD trades at 33 times, supported by broad growth across CPUs, GPUs, embedded in gaming. So, Bank of America says buy the dip on Nvidia and AMD and Broadcom has an appropriate premium even with TPUs intensifying competition. I think they have a 275 target on Nvidia Broad Bank America. So, they haven't necessarily flipped bearish. Again, the only bearish person is that Jay guy from Seagate Research that has $140 target. Every other analyst has continued see the story only getting better. Uh rate cut probabilities. Let's get an update on that. We are now closing in on 85% for these rate cuts.
>> Decisively towards that rate cut in December despite the possibility of a significant number of descents. Comments by leading Fed officials and reporting by CNBC suggests the Fed is on balance more concerned with a weakening jobs market than it is inflation running too hot. near President John Williams making clear he supports a near-term change in the policy rate and that he has more concerns with jobs than the upside risk to inflation. And as he has done repeatedly since taking office on our air and elsewhere, Fed Governor Steven Myin in a Fox Business interview this morning advocating for quick and deep rate cuts, saying the weak job market results from tight Fed policy. That followed comments last night by Minneapolis Fed President Neil Kuscari, not a voter this year, saying he supports the Fed helping the jobs market, but noting that cutting rates won't solve the bigger problem for most Americans, and that is inflation. Several voters on the committee have either opposed a cut outright or supported a cautious approach to rate cuts. That could mean several descents in December, but Governors Myron, Waller, and Bowman, and now President John Williams looked ready for that rate cut. And that's very much a leadership contingent there of the Fed. Uh so where are the probabilities? As Sarah mentioned, 76% for December. That same cut has an 82% probability of happening by January. Uh um uh and that is 33% before William spoke. Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Scott Besson criticizing the Fed this morning for talking too much, saying it's time for the Fed to move into the background. He said the economy has not improved and that he doesn't even understand why there's even a discussion about not cutting rates. agree on why there's a discussion about not cutting rates. But as far as the talking, I mean, how else are we going to figure out what the Fed is going to do? The whole reason that there's uncertainty about the rate cut is because several members don't want it. You know, Sarah, I think people forget the bad old days when we had no idea what the Fed was going to do, when we complained about how mercurial and opaque they were and we had no idea what was going on and we had to do remember the brief the Greenspan briefcase indicator, right? That was a joke, but there was a lot of seriousness about that joke, which was that we had to rely on things like that. So, you can have, you know, you can have it one way or the other. You can go back to the days when they were smoking cigars in the room and keeping quiet or when they got rid of the cigars and started talking. So,
>> I mean, the good thing is JPAL doesn't like to surprise the market. So, if the market's pricing in an 80% chance, we're probably going to get it. Now, there is a point that Ary brought up in the chat, which is that um what if we get a cut, but it's a hawkish cut, which I mean, is that out of the realm of of possibility that we get a hawkish cut? It's not crazy to imagine that. And maybe that is not what the market likes, aka JPAL saying we're going to cut today, but like seriously don't expect a cut in the beginning of the year. The problem is Bent said this this morning that um we're going to get we we basically got a hawkish cut back in October, right, when JP said don't expect a December cut. Uh Bent said that we will get the new Fed chair by Christmas in terms of the announcement on it. So, if we're going to get a new Fed chair relatively soon, I don't think it's going to be that crazy for the market to just ignore what uh what what Powell is doing and what the Fed is doing because at the end of the day, it might not be that big of a deal. So, I mean, we we're going to have to see how it plays out, but at the end of the day, S&P going green right here, we're going to need a lot more clarity on what Pal's going to do. But if we have a dove coming in, that clarity might not matter because the market's going to pull forward and know that we're going to get rate cuts very soon.
>> I'm still got one interview left. So I I don't think it would be prudent to give give any hints and you know I think that there's very very good chance that the the president will make an announcement before Christmas but you know it's it's his prerogative whether it's the before the Christmas holidays in in the New Year's but thing things are move moving along very well.
>> All right so there you go. We're going to see how the market reacts to it when we get the decision, but uh if it's Kevin Hassid, these rates are coming down. But the market will find out towards the end of the year. All right, guys. That is it for me. I'll be back. We'll have technical Tuesday on the market close. S&P 500 is going green right here. Nvidia, a little bounce to 174. Can't trust it yet, but a little bit of a bounce. At least it's not at those low 170 levels. S&P making a move. Google recovering a little bit. It just fell to 318. That's bouncing on to 320. Cororee was down 10. Now it's down two. So you're starting to see a bit more of a rebound. Even Robin Hood almost going green on the day. Cole's up 33%. This one was great. Reddit's up 7%. Spotify's up 1.2%. Zeta increased guidance. That was good. Even Oracle. Oracle went to 185, now up to 196. Palunteer went to 156, now back to 160. I think the one thing we've learned over the past couple weeks is the ALOS will take everything up or everything down at the same time, but we are seeing that Meta, are we passing 630, 627 on Meta, up 2.3%. Yeah, I'll be on with Steve tonight. We're not going to be doing uh our Thursday stream because uh it's Thanksgiving. So, I will be with the family starting Wednesday night. So, we will have market open, market close tomorrow. And then from Wednesday until Sunday, I'm probably not streaming at all. Maybe might have a like one or two interviews posted on the main channel, but outside of that, we'll be back on Monday, uh, starting next week. So, me and Steve are going to do our show tonight because Steve's also gonna have Thanksgiving. I mean, Steve might go live on Thanksgiving, but I definitely am not gonna be able to. Uh so yeah, we'll do our thing tonight and then we'll have Jason on for technical Tuesday and yeah, we'll see if some of these levels have been reclaimed in a healthy enough way. Uh word of the day, what do we got? Word of the day is antic. There's no way I could be saying that wrong, but on relating to a real concrete existence as opposed to abstract concepts used in higher level philosophy to talk about things that are actually that actually are rather than things we imagine or theorize about. His argument wasn't theoretical. It was grounded in the antic realities of how people behave. Feel like I've heard this word before. It's a it's a philosophical word, but essentially it's a word that says we should ground truth in the material reality of what's going on, not in the theoretical abstractions of society. And does dude, it's so funny. Every like we always relate something to a stock. All of us is have to find a way to relate something to stocks. Yes, AI demand is on tick. It's real, dude. Amazon just said they're going to do 65 billion in data centers yesterday. I mean like again it it like I get there's a lot of concerns and fears out there. But if the money continues to get spent and the data centers continue to get built and the cloud computing demand which shows the use case of the AI workloads in those data centers continues to grow should be more real than not and hopefully that that continues long term. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. We'll be back on the close. We'll see what we've got going on. Basically a month left of the year. It's kind of crazy. We are heading into 2026. I mean, it really feels like 2025 started yesterday, but we are officially done with this year, getting close to the end of this year, and we are heading into a brand new year, which will have a lot of different narratives and different things we have to deal with, but we're hopefully going to be able to manage all that together. And again, congrats to everyone in Google, I'm Benny, Austin, June. I mean, there's so many of you guys that were deep, deep in Google spreading the thesis for months on this channel. Many of you guys probably convinced other people in the chat to take a serious look at it. Zokold, I think Zokold's been in Google for like three, four years now. Um, yeah, it's it's incredible. I mean, and see, and this is this is the beauty of conviction. This is the beauty of conviction. And every everyone has had their own different uh manifestation of that beauty, right? Whether it was Hood or Palanteer or Rocklab or SoFi or AMD earlier this year, like whatever it was, buying it low, sticking with it, and then seeing it ramp up in the face of other names ramping up. So, you know, if you had Google when everything was going to the moon, it was tough to keep buying it. But if you did, this is where the reward comes in. And you know, you deserve to get that reward as Google breaks a $3.8 trillion market cap. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. I will see you guys on the close for Technical Tuesday. Bye everybody. Have a good one.