It's kind of funny. You know, we talk about Kubernetes being cloud native. The reality is a lot of customers actually use Kubernetes for running on premise. I was talking to another one of our customers actually just the other day. They've got Kubernetes clusters running on research vessels.
>> Research as in like
>> as in boats
>> on the ocean.
>> They've got Kubernetes clusters out in the open sea.
>> What is GitOps?
>> GitOps is potentially not necessary for all teams. Some of this absolutism that sometimes exists may not be necessary.
>> I don't hear too much chatter about roll backs.
>> Roll backs. This is always a spicy one. Customers can go, "Yeah, we roll back all the time." And then when you ask them what do you do if you've got a schema change they kind of stop and realize that it's just sheer luck that they've never run into that. You want to avoid ever talking about roll back. It's always roll forward.
>> When it comes to CI/CD systems, what are you seeing changing there because of AI?
>> This is the elephant in the room to be honest. It's [music] CI/CD remains one of the hardest things to get right [music] in software engineering. But why? Rob Eris is a CI/CD expert having worked in this field for more than a decade. In the early 2010s, we were teammates on the Skype for web team and then Rob joined Octopus Deploy as one of the first engineers 10 years [music] ago. In today's episode, we cover progressive delivery in practice, Canary deployments, blue green, and why feature toggles are often still better. [music] What is GitOps and why it's not about Git and where the everything in Git mindset breaks down, why you should prioritize roll backs less and focus on roll forwards and many more. If you want hard-earned lessons about CI/CD, progressive delivery, and what's coming as AI changes, how much code we ship to production, then this episode is for you. This episode is presented by Inticus. Verify your systems correctness without human review or traditional integration tests and avoid bugs or outages. Today's episode will be about CI/CD. CI/CD at scale is one of the hardest infrastructure problems to get right, and the teams who nail it know that the details very much matter. This is where I need to mention our season sponsor work OS. Work brings the same rigor as many of us use with CI/CD at scale to enterprise o SSO skim areback production ready battle tested and built to handle real load and real compliance requirements. To add enterprise o without the infrastructure project visit workwest.com it's awesome to have you here on the podcast.
>> Hello go. It's good to be here. Yeah, I'm loving loving Amsterdam. Yeah, it's it's been like what 11 12 years since we walked worked together.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think uh 2015 2014 2015 I think I left uh UK. Um yeah, a while
>> and Skype when there was still Skype. Our team somehow inherited the outlook.com plugin which had like 400 million users per month or something like that.
>> It was crazy the amount of
>> scale. So this was an interesting interesting job. deployments were very much a case of, you know, you ship once a week and you have to go to a um a CAB board, you know, a change advisory board and you have to get sign off and approval.
>> Yeah.
>> And I always found that really weird, right? Like we're building this piece of software. It runs on the web. We can ship it whenever we want. It it was running on Azure at the time. And so, you know, we've got full access to push whenever we want. And we make these changes through the week, but we'd kind of have to hold them back, I guess, to Abdullah, our manager, both of our managers at the time. Um we kind of I guess worked around the system. When the the code was ready, we'd build it and ship it through through the week. Um and I was really sort of impressed and proud at this process that the whole team had kind of put together, right? Where we'd, you know, commit the code. Uh the test would run several kind of layers of testing, it would go to staging, etc. And then it would get shipped to production. Um so we're kind of I guess executing a form of I guess you know continuous um delivery at a time. And [clears throat] we would then ship ourselves, you know, once a week. Um I kind of always like to tell this story that um at the time, you know, when when we'd have a build ready to go, you know, we we do a form of canary deployments. And so this is where you kind of roll out to a small percentage of your customer base. And we always found that the the customer base that would be our test subjects was New Zealand. So New Zealand was always our our canary.
>> Yep.
>> A bunch of reasons for that. you know, they're in the the you know, the the first country to kind of reach this, you know, new date. So, they're always the first ones to kind of roll out into a into a time
>> when the it comes like, you know, like midnight passes. It's like 1:00 a.m. First country is New Zealand.
>> Bang. Exactly. So, the first country that's of, you know, significant size. Um, they speak English, so if there's any bugs or issues or reports, it's kind of easy to understand. But, you know, to be honest, New Zealand is small enough that no one really cared if we shipped a bug and had to fix it quickly. So sorry to all the New Zealanders listening. Yeah, I I I think that's um kind of this this good example of using um a continuous delivery technique to um you know ship the code faster than what we otherwise could have if we had these kind of big bang releases. And this whole process I guess opened my eyes to you know what what progressive delivery what good CI/CD could be. And yeah, I guess from there I spent a few years there at Skype and eventually wife and I decided it was sort of time to come home to Australia.
>> And then back in Australia, you went to start to work at Octopus Aloy.
>> Uh yeah, eventually I I came back and actually um worked at a a place with a friend of mine just for a little while just to kind of get back on the feet. Um and I remember they were using Octopus Deploy there. And so Octopus Deploy for those who don't know was is um a deployment tool was built and and sort of developed originally in Brisbane. So there was a strong kind of Brisbane
>> attachment
>> attachment to it. Yeah, that's right. So when I found out that they were hiring, I thought okay, why not? I'll give it a go. I like CIC CD. I like this space. I think there's, you know, a lot of interesting problems in this space. Um so applied and joined and um at the time I was employee I think employee number eight or nine or something like that. So it was very much still a bit of a startup culture. Definitely not startup in the sense of, you know, Silicon Valley wild parties and, you know, ridiculous spending, but startup in the sense that everyone who I worked with was an engineer. Now, even Paul Stella, CEO, he's he's an engineer. This is kind of where it started from. And so, we'd all be working on on code together. Um, you have someone had an idea, you'd have a bit of a chat about it and ship it. So, we were the marketing, we were support, we were done a bit of everything. Um, and yeah, obviously the company has grown a lot since then. The company was focused Octopus deployed from the start they were focused on deployments right can we talk a little bit on whenever I think about deployment I always say CI/CD continuous integration continuous delivery why was there a focus on deployments and is that the same as continuous delivery
>> yeah interesting so um you're right like quite often people talk about CI and CD as this kind of interchangeable they're either interchangeable or the word is CI/CD is like the name
>> it's just attached to itself And it's hard for me to imagine a CD without a CI, continuous integration.
>> That's that's right. And I guess the way to look at it is um you know, you've got sort of multiple stages of maturity of of um software teams as they kind of move on their way from um you know, initially uh CI which continuous integration. This is the idea that
>> well initially it's YOLO.
>> Initially it's right initially. You just deploy to prod or SSA like machine. We've all we've all worked in places where we've done that and that that's the starting point. So you're right, yolo is the first stage. The second stage is you know continuous integration and so this is this idea where um you want to keep you know integrating merging your code changes into a single um a single branch and you want to be continually running tests against it. Now continuous delivery is kind of the next stage where you know we talk about testing our code and there's you know unit test and integration tests etc. But what you also really need to test is your your deployment process itself. Right? So continuous delivery is this idea. Okay, you want to make sure that at any point in time when I click the button to deploy I want it to go to production once we kind of get to this place. Um the next stage beyond that which you know not all companies necessarily reach is uh continuous deployment. Right? And so this is the idea that not only are your your changes being merged and merged together at the same time and ready to go, but they're also being shipped to to production essentially.
>> So the stages we have is first yolo, then continuous integration, then continuous
>> deliver
>> delivery and continuous deployment.
>> That's right.
>> What is the difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment?
>> The big difference I guess is um the question of do your changes go out to production automated? does it kind of flow through without any um intervention I guess
>> and then for continuous delivery they go out but not necessarily to production right
>> that's right and so that's why you'll have environments like you know dev environment or testing or staging or whatever um now it's possible that you know some parts of that process may also still be manual you know maybe you only update the test environment once a week so the testers can play around with it again um but the key principle is that you you could you can kind of push it through sort of automatically the whole way through if you want
>> and what teams would not want to do continuous deployment, right? Cuz it it seems to me continuous delivery you kind of want to get to because then you just get more and more feedback, right? But then it is a kind of a good question like should it go out immediately? This is this is the question you know everyone always sort of asks like it's almost ready to go out why can't we just push it to production put as engineers you want as soon as possible it's ready right the reality is it doesn't really suit every every every company right so um you know it may be the case that you know some some companies really do still have you know review boards where you need to validate is this good to go out um particularly if you're in an industry that has a lot of um regulation and and compliance problems problems, compliance requirements, and they need to make sure that when it does go out to production, it's it's sort of done at the right time with the right people available, etc., etc. It's not necessarily true to say that everyone should be going to continuous deployment. Um, because that's, you know, sometimes just not not viable for various reasons. But if you at least got to that point where you're sort of continually seeing your changes go through all the testing, uh, you know, you're promoting it through the different environments, which is, you know, you're therefore testing the process itself. If you can only click that button to go to production once a week or whatever, okay, that's fine. You know, you've done a lot of that hard work. You've mitigated risk, which is what a lot of this process is about, right? Is is fill the pain as soon as possible. Um, and and derisk anything that could go wrong right up until that that last point. So I know you're deep into CI/CD uh where continuous integration, continuous delivery, continuous deployment. You've been doing this for like what 10 plus years now, but I was pretty surprised to see that when I checked Octopus deploy, it said deployment. It says continuous deployment, continuous delivery, but it also says Kubernetes. How has Kubernetes kind of arrived in the topic of CI/CD and in general infrastructure? What happened there?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Kubernetes is is the the platform of of the moment. If we take a bit of a step back, uh, Kubernetes came out of, um, the, you know, Google, I guess they originally had Borg, you know, they were using it to to host and run their infrastructure. They ended up releasing Kubernetes, um, partly um, I'm not going to, you know, pretend I can read their minds and know exactly why, but, partly as a way of helping to level the playing field between them and some of the other cloud vendors.
>> Yeah. So, like before Kubernetes, AWS was a clear leader. And I I talked with Kat Co's growth who came to the podcast uh who's uh who works on the Kubernetes team. And again, she speculated that by releasing Kubernetes, it was a lot easier to to move workloads from between AWS and Google Cloud. So, it kind of leveled the playing field and now there was a reason to That's right.
>> like choosing Google Cloud was no longer as big of a risk or choosing Azure was not as big a risk and so on.
>> Yeah, that's right. But it kind of it made it simple to move between vendors. And so um as a as a customer of one of these um platforms, if you wanted to move to AWS and you're using containers, no problem. You're just sort of putting it in a new place. And so Kubernetes came along at the time when um there was a bunch of plays in the field for um container orchestration. Um so you know you had um you know Nomad even dock
>> from hashpform a bunch of other options are out there because
>> at core o Kelsey high tower was just on the on the podcast they they built fleet which was another container orchestration and this was all around like 20 2012 2013 2014 and then Kubernetes came out and somehow it started to win market share.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean they I think the the um some of the um mechanics that it provided um kind of really appealed to to engineers and and I guess DevOps teams out there and eventually I think particularly because it was so easy to um use crossplatform and because some of the cloud vendors then did end up picking it up it kind of has ended up now being essentially the winner in this space. I know even back then even non-container orchestration tools like um Azure service fabric was another kind of attempt to to handle the the fact that you know this world everyone's building microservices and they want to host them in a single platform and how do you orchestrate that and deal with dependencies etc. uh but Kubernetes has become the clear winner.
>> And when you say winner, I understand that for example, when you have a bunch of backend servers on a service like you know you have a website, there's a large back end. Okay, I'll use Kubernetes for that. But you're talking about you're talking about infrastructure, right? Or you're talking about even things like build servers.
>> That's right. So it's kind of funny, you know, we talk about Kubernetes being, you know, cloudnative. This is what this is the term you always hear. It's cloud native.
>> Yeah, that's that's what they say, right?
>> That's what they say. And you know you look at the vendors that picked it up it's it's Azure and AWS and kind of the made it available on their platforms. The reality is a lot of customers actually use Kubernetes for running on premise. Um so you know a non-insignificant number of our customers who are doing Kubernetes are running on potentially their own VMs on their own server farms or maybe they're running VMs in AWS or Azure but they're maintaining Kubernetes itself. Um the idea being that they have a lot more control then over exactly what's running. Uh it's particularly common you'll find in things like financial industry and things like that where again wanting to fully sort of control the process and and um uh manage the the whole sort of piece of infrastructure from end to end is kind of one of their goals but they want to leverage the capabilities that Kubernetes provides by you know allowing the the application team and the ops teams to just build and define kind of in that declarative fashion that Kubernetes provides um exactly what runs and and how does it run etc. So they they chose Kubernetes because this is the best tool they can manage their on-prem infrastructure and say like okay I have like these physical machines and I want this many virtual machines and I want to run a database on this many nodes and a internal web server or like whatever. So it it just won this area as well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean so there's around the same time that Kubernetes came out or actually before that there was a lot of these other kind of declarative type tools right. So you have uh you know terraform which is a really popular one you can define kind of exactly what infrastructure you want and and what you're doing is you're essentially defining the the desired state and then the tool kind of applies it and you know you've got puppet etc. And so Kubernetes has this similar concept right where you define what you want your sort of infrastructure to look like and the internal Kubernetes controllers and operators will basically ensure that whatever you've asked for always applies. So if you say you want, you know, three replicas of something, it will ensure that there's three like replicas of something. And so if one of those pods dies, for example, it will spin another one up. And so it simplifies this process of being able to find declarative declaratively kind of exactly what what you as a as a sort of application team uh need to run your your system.
>> It's fascinating because I I always assume that Kubernetes has won the the cloud native space and and Skyperscalers. Can you tell me a bit more about how it's being used on prem like some some interesting stories? You must have seen some because you said that you're working with companies who are managing like large on-rem Kubernetes or like interesting situations.
>> Yeah, this is one of the nice things about working at a company like Octopus, right? We we talk to and deal with so many different customers and you know, everyone's doing things a little bit different or they've got slightly different needs and requirements. Um, and you kind of get exposed to a lot of different uh, you know, problems and patterns. Um, and it's easy to sometimes to get lost in, you know, what people are talking about in conferences and everyone's saying it's all about cloud and this is the, you know, best practice and you should be doing this. And the reality is, you know, everyone's kind of got their own little problems and they just want to solve them the way they kind of need to solve them. And so some of our customers, in fact, a lot of our customers will run Kubernetes kind of, you know, quote unquote on premise. Um, so for example, I was actually talking with one
>> when you say on premise, can you just be a bit more clear? Is this a data center where they're like renting and collocating? Is this actually like I have my own data center or is this like I actually have my own machines in my closet?
>> Yeah. Yes. And yes, I guess. So,
>> what even in a closet? That mean I was trying to joke there. [laughter]
>> I'm I'm sure there are still uh teams out there that are running, you know, the the the core um accounting tools and etc. you under under Steve's desk. But even when we talk about, you know, um small computers, some of our customers have um Kubernetes clusters basically in their point of sale systems. So they have hundreds and hundreds of stores and they have little um Kubernetes clusters that essentially run in them and each one's independent and they you know run into their own problems with that because particularly at scale when you've got you know thousands and thousands of clusters um and you know these these um customers are you know following various GitOps practices etc where they're pulling the the actual state from from a git repository so the git repository itself becomes the bottleneck or they start getting throttled um and so they have to sort of resort to other mechanics to try to um sort of mitigate and work around that. I was talking to another one of our customers um actually just the other day at at KCOM there who they are deploying they they've got Kubernetes clusters running on research vessels and those research vessels
>> research as in
>> like boats as in
>> ships on the ocean.
>> That's right. Um I'm not going to pretend to know exactly what they're doing on those ships. We didn't quite get into that detail, but they've got Kubernetes clusters out out in the open sea, right? Which is apps given Kubernetes name. The problems they run into though are a little bit different, right? So for them, um, you know, those boats might be out at sea for, I don't know, weeks, months at a time or whatever that might be. So when you want to do a deployment that the ship's not available. So when that ship comes back into port, it needs to get the update, right? So they'd be talking to how you would how you'd achieve this, right? And how that process would work. This is super interesting and I love how you kind of get a peak into so many different types of teams through the fact that you know like you're talking with them about how they do the deployments but you're you probably see some other things that they're doing or things they're struggling with. What are some trends you're seeing across the industry in terms of the this wide range of companies you work from startups to like finance companies to like these research vessels?
>> Yeah, I guess one of the one of the big trends these days is a lot of focus on on GitOps. So GitOps is this what is GitOps?
>> What is GitOps? That's a that's a good question. Go G. Let's take a step back for a minute. So you know we mentioned we talked about Kubernetes earlier. We talked about the fact that it's kind of got this internal continuous reconciliation process where you say to the cluster uh please spin up you know five pods and um it takes that desired state and it ensures it always sort of is true in the in the world. And so there was a lot of products around there that were doing similar thing. You know Terraform does that for infrastructure etc. Um and a bunch of people started wondering why can't we sort of take that process and pull it back further so that um not only is Kubernetes just dealing with desired state but we can pull it sort of directly out of git um and so you know I can as as an engineer make changes to that uh that git definition that um desired state and I'd have some process that essentially pushes that to the cluster and and ensures that it it remains um in in line with what I'm asking what I'm expecting and so the term githops was coined by um by Weave Works in I think it was 2017 or so and as a as a general practice it sort of started picking up steam particularly in in tandem with Kubernetes because at its core Kubernetes is is very declarative right later on um sort of in the early you know 2020s um it was kind of formalized a bit more and there was sort of four key pillars of of GitOps the first being um uh essentially declar you want your state to be declarative so this is the idea that um you want to define what you want the state of your infrastructure to look like. This is to basically make things a lot I guess simpler to to understand what the state of the world is going to be when a deployment takes place. So if you think about um deployments that are a bit more imperative that has sort of a process, the end result is sort of the result of of multiple steps. Um but when you're wanting to just update some infrastructure, that desired state kind of works really well at um particularly in in the Kubernetes space. And then in GitOps the desired state will be just describing like how many nodes I want or like how many I don't know replicas do I want on a database or how many web servers or like load balancer how to be connected that kind of stuff.
>> That that's right. Yeah. So it's it's basically a way of being able to say I want my infrastructure to have whatever state it is um and then the the GitOps um agents the GitOps um products basically ensure that remains the case. So they'll keep applying it to Kubernetes. So you've kind of got this this um situation where Kubernetes keeps its internal status in sync with reality and now you've got these GitOps tools that take the declarative configuration in in sync with what Kubernetes is.
>> So so they will take the whatever I put in Git and whatever format I use and they kind of translate it into something that makes sense for Kubernetes and now Kubernetes can apply it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, ideally, you want it as close as possible to what um sort of um I guess Kubernetes is expecting cuz
>> allows you.
>> That's right. And so what you're describing there, I guess, is the continuous reconciliation. And so this is the idea that um these these githops apps will um essentially as we said sort of take that state and apply it and if there's any drift from kubernetes side. So for example someone um you know runs cube control you know delete pod or or a delete deployment or whatever the case might be
>> because your desired state is now stored in in git in this case that will kind of self-rep. Um the second uh pillar of githops is that that desired set you've sort of defined um should be um stored somewhere that's uh immutable and versioned. And so this is the idea that um once I say that I want to have this state, I want to have sort of something I can point to a pointer and that might be a tag or a commit show or whatever and I want to basically use that to define what what that actual state should be. And I don't want that to be able to change, right? Because otherwise that kind of defeats half the point. Um by having it versioned and immutable, it also um makes things like auditing a lot simpler, right? You can see the transition of that that that desired state over time. What's interesting though is a lot of people will point to that and go yes um version and immutable I know what that is that's git
>> I was about to say that because git gives you it definitely gives you versioning or it gives you commit history I'm not sure if it gives you versioning and immutable in the sense that I mean the past cannot be changed
>> that's that's right
>> or actually can it because you can rewrite
>> history you're right so you depending on how you sort of configure your githops agent um you know you certainly can rewrite history if If you have it pointing at a tag, for example, you can change tags. And so that's why there's, you know, best practices around that. Um, I guess kind of, you know, wiggle the finger a bit if you're using tags to to manage that sort of state. Uh, but what's interesting though is really nothing in the in these pillars. Um, and very quickly, the third one being uh pull versus push. And so this is the idea that your um your GitOps agent will pull the state from GitHub and put or git, I should say, and put it into the cluster. and the fourth being continuous reconciliation. Uh but nothing in any of these sort of pillars actually talks about git. And I think that the naming of githops is kind of um kind of gets people to to already have this expectation that everything has to be in git.
>> I mean why would you not have that expectation? That's what I assumed.
>> That's right. I think the the problem though is um not everything should be in in Git, right? So you've got this constant kind of conversation within that community about you know where do you put secrets for example? So no one not g no no no no we know that right is that do not put it in git
>> and so that's the thing so you know there's been all these solutions to try to put it in git so there's things like sealed secrets where you encrypt it and put it in git um
>> sounds like a terrible idea
>> but I guess what's really this is highlighting is um the reality that some things don't need to be in git right as long as you can um have this sort of control over the versioning or immutability of it um then that's that's completely fine
>> and then the trend around githops is is what you're seeing that a lot more infra teams are moving from okay a few years ago they might have just like made definitions for Kubernetes and now they're moving over to GitOps so saying okay we'd like to control infra in in in a tool in a way that's that's described that's in version control is that the trend or what is the trend around githops
>> um I I guess it's more just the trend of of the growth in general of GitOps in in um enterprises right so not every uh company out there is using Kubernetes today um and as they sort approached Kubernetes and they're looking at well how do I how do I um you know perform the deployments how do I manage that process gitops becomes the sort of deacto process and to some extent it is um giving rise to this idea of using it to manage um other things outside of kubernetes and there are a few examples of uh projects and experiments that will use things like terraform and there's a a continuous reconciliation service that keeps your your actual state um outside in in sync at the moment it's really about the focus is on I guess Kubernetes is the core core place where it lives. Um and I guess it's more the growth of Kubernetes itself means that GitOps is is coming along for the ride.
>> And you mentioned enterprises which means like these large companies with often times thousands of people or in regulated environments that's what I think of enterprises. Are you also seeing smaller teams pick up uh things like GitOps? Is it like everywhere or is it more there's certain types of teams that seem to be just more interested in that?
>> That's a good question. So um I guess sometimes what we see is a lot of people go go to conferences or they read blog posts and they hear that GitOps is what you should do. So I guess what I want to point out here is um GitHubs is potentially not necessary for all all locations, all environ all teams, right? Um there's certainly a bunch of benefits to it, but the reality is there's some things you need to do outside of just GitOps. You might use GitOps principles in parts of your process, but some of this absolutism I think that sometimes exists uh may not be necessary. So there's often a bunch of other processes you do around your actual sort of um you know, quote unquote deployment. So things like maybe you run smoke tests or maybe you want to send a notification when it's complete or maybe um you want to do a a database update or something like that. These kind of steps don't really lend themselves very well to kind of this declarative everything is is in git kind of process, right? And so that's why you get things like um Argo workflows and and and roll outs and things come out to try to kind of get opsify this this process. And that that works for for some people. But the reality I guess is that um um I think some people get really hung up on this idea that that everything is git so therefore they they found the tool and you know and so therefore everything is a nail.
>> Yeah. I think that's
>> and this is the thing like talking with with customers when we go through this process of you know you can use GitOps in Octopus um and you know we've got a bunch of support for various um mechanics that integrate well with Kubernetes and Argo but there's a bunch of other sort of operations you do around that process that that doesn't need and when you talk to them about it you know they realize that what they're trying to do is ultimately just ship software so again that difference between what you um hear when you talk at conferences and things where you know everything is everything is git and everything must be you know in in this particular format or whatever the case might be. The reality is for most customers they're just trying to ship software right and they don't care what name you give it. If it's GitOps and it works end to end and solves everything good. If they want to use GitOps as part of the process but then have other mechanics that are more sort of imperative um then then good. It's just sort of the reality of, you know, there's there's tens and tens of thousands of companies out there in the world that are doing software delivery. Um, and not all of them that are at conferences and not all them are at the the forefront. I guess
>> as Rob says, most teams don't care whether you call it GitOps or anything else. They just want to ship software and know that it works. Our presenting sponsor, Anticys, does exactly that. Is let you ship knowing that it works. Antithesis goes beyond code review. It runs your whole system inside a hostile simulation. By doing so, it finds every bug before your users do. And because the simulation is fully deterministic, antithesis doesn't only find bugs, it gives you a perfect reproduction of every issue. I know this sounds like science fiction, but it's actually hardcore engineering under the hood. Jane Streetfly.io and the CD community ship agent written code with full confidence because they know it's been verified by antithesis. To see more case studies and details, head to antithesis.com/pragmatic. That's antithesis.com/pragmatic. I also want to mention our season sponsor, Turbopuffer. Turbopuffer is exactly the thing that just works. A vector and full text search engine built on object storage. Fast, cheap, and extremely scalable. No exotic architecture required. Here's something I find interesting. The teams building the smartest AI products out there, cursor, notion, cognition, and tropic. They all run on turbo buffer. But why? Let's think about it. and LM without context, it can feel pretty dumb. I can still remember shortly after CantBT launched early 2023, how it felt both incredibly smart but also frustratingly stupid. If you asked it a question that was outside his training data, it just made things up. Fast forward to today and the models and their tools for retrieving context are much better, but hallucinations still happen frequently. Here's a typical way to integrate Turbuffer with an LM. Plug it behind your search tools, get fast responses and relevant context back. The neat thing is how it gives you the perfect blend of lowcost storage, fast retrieval, and a bunch of different search tools like vector, full text, and filtering. You can afford to index billions of documents, and then you can query it with different tools to get the most relevant handful of documents in milliseconds. This is how your LM feels smart. It gets the right context really fast without blowing through a bunch of tokens. Of course, you can use Turbopuffer to search anything, not just code. If you're building AI products, check out Turbopuffer at turbopuffer.com/pragmatic. With this, let's get back to Rob and talk about progressive delivery.
>> Yeah. Another trend that we talked about just before is the rise of platform teams. Can you talk about what you're seeing?
>> So, platform teams are kind of I I guess in the past several years, they've become this sort of new standard organizational structure to help teams manage their I guess deployment workflows, the a bunch of the infrastructure around it. And it's kind of come out of this evolution of of de DevOps, right? So, you know, we mentioned before in the old days, you'd write a bit of code um and you'd throw it over the wall to the ops team. So, it was dev teams and ops teams and you
>> this was like in the 2010s, 2000s
>> back in the back in the long long ago. Um and then DevOps became, you know, the the practice that everyone sort of realized that actually we want to have the the engineering teams be involved in and have ownership of part of that that operational um process. idea being, you know, you get faster feedback loops. You are able to kind of if you feel the pain, you you sort of fix, you know, it's that saying, you know, you fix it, you ship it. Um, you know, we've all kind of heard that. And so, um, a lot of teams, you know, took that to heart. That's that's good, great, uh, good practice. But as things start to scale up, what you'd find is that there would end up being like a DevOps team again, and sometimes sometimes they're separate to another ops team. And so there'd be this separation of of um development and DevOps. And it kind of goes against some of the principles of what DevOps was, you know, trying to destroy. But not only that, these teams then um end up um having lots of different ways of doing their um deployment. So you know, you've got every single, you know, a whole bunch of application teams and they've all got slightly different requirements and they're all building it from scratch. And so you'd end up with these these teams either whether you had the DevOps teams or it was still within the application teams where um there was just this this um large number of different ways of doing things, right? And that becomes difficult at scale. So um you know you can't really move between teams
>> and and by scale you mean typically when there's a lot of teams, right? That's the easiest.
>> Yeah, that's right. If you got if you got lots of lots of teams and each one is kind of owning that process end to end, you know, you sort of get this bifocation of processes and not only that the application teams themselves start kind of getting this this um context overload, right? They now need to think about what's be best practices of of the different cloud um tools.
>> Yeah. And there's of of devs rarely want to configure the deployment scripts and test them and testing is hard. It's you can't it's not really unit testable. So it's it's now a different job. I remember when I was on earlier teams where you know like typically on a mobile team like you have a you have a mobile team of five people and one of them one of us had to kind of specialize in Jenkins configurations because Jenkins is often times the or used to be the mobile CI/CD and it's kind of like half a person dedicated to that and it was more like draw you like we had to draw a stick on who's going to do it because we want to build
>> you want to write code right you just want to focus on writing code and so if you're spending a bunch of your time sort of managing infrastructure and pipelines and things um you know that that's no fun for anyone Um and so platform teams have come about as a new way of solving that problem where it's different to kind of you know this idea of a devops team or ops team that kind of own the whole process. they they more sort of define best practices and they provide a um ideally a self-service mechanism where application teams can um essentially use um often what it's called as an IDP an internal development portal and they'll be able to essentially self-service and you know maybe they want to spin up a new project and they're able to use a template that the platform team have generated and so the platform team are able to sort of create these standards throughout the throughout the company and they can be responsible for sort of I guess the definitions of those pro processes and the best practices and how to achieve that. Um, but the ownership of the the actual running operational sort of element is still within the teams, right? So, they still get those benefits of of of, you know, DevOps, being close to the close to the real code and and feeling the pain if there's a problem and etc., etc., etc., but they don't need to spend all that time becoming experts in um, you know, all the different ways that you can deploy the software they've got. And so this has become um really common now where particularly as you sort of get to a larger size platform teams are a great way of of solving that problem. Now um that's not to say that every company everywhere should have a platform team. You know if you're a smaller company sometimes it's you you've just got the apps team and and they sort of are doing you know quote unquote DevOps. Um but this is certainly something that as as you sort of start seeing larger organizations with multiple teams or multiple projects, these platform teams are a way of basically bringing some some sanity and control and focus I guess to to the whole space.
>> One trend across the industry of course is AI. Everyone's it's hard to see any teams where devs are not using AI agents specifically to code. you know product managers will will be using these things and of course we have a lot more code produced as a result when it comes to CI/CD systems what are you seeing changing there because of AI
>> this is the this is the uh the elephant in the room right the how is AI affecting sort of this the reality is I think to be honest it's it's still very early I think what will happen is the impacts of CI/CD um are really tightly coupled to how development teams end up using AI. So there's going to be some sort of like um I guess a lagging process there. But we're finding a lot of um people a lot of teams are starting to use AI in their development process. And so we're starting this process of going out and looking and talking to customers and and learning what's the way that they're handling AI in their um in their in their teams and their application teams and then how we can best leverage sort of the CI side to um to support that. but then um in addition to that use AI within the the pipeline itself get in the right place. So one of the things we've been um I think pretty pretty um keen on at Octopus is this idea that um you know at CubeCon we were probably one of the few companies that that didn't have you know AI plastered all over it. Like we we tried to be very you know that's that's what gets the sales right.
>> Yeah. That's you stand out now these days.
>> That's right. By not having AI. Um, I mean we we've got AI in Octopus, but what we've been trying to do is think about, well, how do we actually use it in a way that's actually useful for for for our customers, right, for for engineers, etc. Um, and so we've been slowly adding capabilities within Octopus to provide um, you know, AI support, whether it's a MCP server, uh, whether it's a a recovery agent that can review logs and tasks and all that sort of thing. But that's within the product itself. Some of the bigger changes will depend on like I said how how actual application teams um use use AI. What I think you know we're talking about we'll find is there's going to be a lot more velocity. I think that's one of the big big changes right is there's just going to be a lot more code coming through. I think one of the questions is okay what does that mean for your pipeline? Um one of the things you often talk about when you know human there's a human element to the pipeline is speeding up the cycle to get that feedback quicker. You know, if you got engineers sitting there waiting for their code to run tests, they can get back to it and fix it, the the shorter and shorter you can make that feedback loop, the the better it becomes because they don't need a context switch, etc. I think in a world where the majority of your code is being developed by AI, that becomes perhaps less important. you know, if you can um kick out your your build and test process um and it takes 30 minutes versus 20 minutes, does it really matter if the engineers are already long gone, moved on to the next problem and the the actual AI agent themselves itself can kind of babysit the process and review the problem that came up and issue a new fix. I guess there'll be a deemphasis, I think, on some of the speed of the pipeline itself and more on increasing sort of um or decreasing risk, right? the risk that comes from having AI items generate code. And so exactly what that process looks like, I guess, remains to be seen. I think what we'll see a lot more use of is things like progressive delivery. And I think particularly feature toggles um are going to be a really common tool in in the tool belt of application teams. Partly because it allows you to ship that code as as fast as you can or as fast as you want, but manage the roll out of the actual feature set or changes sort of independent of the deployment. sort of decouples your deployment from from your release. And so in a world where you know we've got a lot more AI agents generating code and being involved in perhaps part of the build process, those agents themselves being able to use toggles to react to it quickly, I think then become a lot more important um than perhaps what we see today.
>> Can we talk about progressive delivery? what it is and what are the most common ways to you know like to to derisk getting your code or your software out there.
>> So progressive delivery is the next evolution beyond continuous delivery. Um so you know with continuous delivery it's this idea that you know I've made a change to the system and I want to ship it to um dev or stage or typically you know if it gets to production sort of in one hit right with progressive delivery um you're what you're trying to do is basically release those changes in a little bit more of a controlled way typically through things like a canary deployment. So this is where you might deploy just some subset of of your instances that are out there.
>> So what is a canary? What is a canary? Um Canary deployment is this is New Zealand basically. New Zealand's our canary. So this is as we said before this idea where um you select some subset of your your customer base or or whatever that might be and you would typically route traffic to a new instance. So you'd ship you know you've got version one running and you want to release version two. You essentially ship version two side by side and you might use, you know, most common one would be some sort of network um traffic manager to route some percentage of your traffic to to that new instance and you gradually roll that up. Typically, you know, as you do sort of do this process properly, you you should have a fairly mature um observability um mechanisms in place to see that, you know, you can roll up or roll down.
>> And I guess this whole thing comes from a canary in a coal mine, right?
>> That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So the idea being that um you know in the old days when you'd be in a coal mine digging away and it would release um you know all sorts of toxic fumes and things like that canaries were um a lot more sensitive to it. So they have a little canary in a pa cage um and if that canary sort of died I guess got knocked down.
>> I I think the canaries as I understand they were like chirping
>> and then when it stopped chirping well it also died.
>> Oh okay. All right. Same same ending. Same ending, but just, you know, a nicer a nicer way to go out.
>> They need to get out.
>> Yeah. So, it's this idea that you get that advanced warning, I guess, that you know, rather than you getting knocked out by the the toxic gases, etc. Um, you know, you can get out of there sooner. So, it's that same principle, I guess, brought to the software. Um, there's various other mechanisms like blue green deployments. So you've got your first version there still receiving traffic and your second version is up and running and you can now do some tests against it, validate it. Maybe you've got sort of the the the um you know the IP details to access it directly. You can basically validate that it's working. Um sometimes there may be a way of avoiding cold starts and things because that process may need to you know initialize a bunch of stuff but then when you've sort of done that validation and you're ready you can essentially swap swap traffic around. So all the all the new traffic goes the other. In some ways, it's like doing a canary but straight to 100% but you're doing a bunch of validation um sort of on on the side before it actually reaches customers. In my in my view, probably the more um useful uh progressive delivery strategy is is feature toggles. So, this is the idea that you you've got some sort of
>> feature flags as well.
>> Feature flags toggles the same thing.
>> Yeah. Often used interchangeably. Um so, this is the idea that you've got, you know, some sort of uh variable in your system. um and it's linked to typically some sort of external service and through the state of that particular variable being sort of true or false on or off um you can essentially have different code paths essentially take effect and there's a bunch of benefits that feature toggles have over say canary um releases particularly for application um delivery where you know the the your unit of change with a feature toggle is is very granular. it can be, you know, single lines of code and so everything else remains the same and all you're doing is is tweaking that single line of code with a canary or any sort of versioned sort of delivery deployment mechanism. Um, your unit of change is the entire app. So if you've had, you know, 20 commits since uh the last sort of release went out, then you're essentially testing all 20 things in that one hit. Your ability to sort of target the actual customers, it's a lot more precise when you're using feature toggles. So you can you know use all sorts of complex rules um and say that I don't know everyone from Germany who has this particular product in their basket um has this kind of experience and that's you know really hard to do via network traffic rules right the other is your ability then to to actually roll back um so to roll back from a canary um hopefully you're still in the process where you're sort of going through that canary you know process and you can roll it back um that could take you know minutes Maybe you have to redeploy the whole old old version. That could be minutes or or more. With a feature toggle, you know, you can do that in seconds. That's pressing a button and it happens immediately. Not only that, but you've kind of you've got more control, I guess, on when you sort of do that. So, with the with a deployment that you're doing um via via a standard versioned release, you're sort of tied to when that deployment takes place because when it takes place, that's when essentially your new feature is available. And as an application team, that means you need to know about exactly when it's taking place and make sure you're watching the logs at that point. And maybe you and 10 other teams who are shipping things at the same time um are all doing the same thing. Whereas with feature flags, your control, you basically got control over when that takes place. So you might ship the actual, you know, the assemblies and and that sort of thing on the Monday, but you release your feature on on Tuesday when you come in and you you can you've got the logs ready and you you've kind of reviewed what the next steps are. So this really makes things a lot easier to decouple releasing a feature from from deploying software. You know version deployments uh through Canary etc. They're really useful uh particularly if you're doing like infrastructure type changes where there is no kind of application toggle that's that's relevant there but you want to violate some changes to your infrastructure or your your process or potentially you know things like um things that will involve um schema changes and schema changes are the big
>> list schema change that's this is the big problem in any like to be fair in any um progressive delivery um and this is why you know the question always is are you ready for progressive delivery? Um to do schema changes. I guess this is the point that um application teams kind of need to be really mature and I don't mean mature in terms of you know not telling silly jokes but mature in terms of understand all the problems are in place with this and know how to release these sort of changes in a gradual controlled fashion and do it over multiple stages that you know ironically is actually quite hard for us um at Oculus because our software is both SAS hosted so we have a a SAS offering that customers can use and we have an on-remise vision and there's kind of because we have both both sides um we kind of have the best and worst of both worlds you know in the cloud system if you've got um a SAS product you have complete control over what versions go where so if you want to do an expand and contract you can stage the whole process you know that it's all been updated before you kind of move to the next stage on the other hand for a self-hosted um application where they go in and they install it on their own infrastructure somewhere you don't know what version they're running and what they're coming from so they might upgrade from version one straight to version six. Um, and so you're not really forcing them to go through that expand and contract phase. On the other hand, um, you know, they've got a lot more control over when they upgrade. And so you can kind of be a little bit more deliberate about, you know, making sure that they do backups before they change and and, you know, maybe the down maybe they can manage that migration and accept a little bit more um downtime during migrations and updates and things like that than would actually be, you know, acceptable in in a SAS product. So one thing about you know we talked about progressive delivery and you're kind of doing this to avoid surprises you know if if a regression goes out a new bug or something doesn't work you kind of want to c catch it early hopefully only a few customers have experienced it or even if it's not 100% you kind of and and and you have a way to go back uh to all you do is you you if it's a feature flag you you hide it if it's if it's a canary deployment you go back to the other one
>> but There's also this thing where like when things do go wrong at some point you want to do a roll back. Can we talk about how have you seen roll backs done well and what does it take to actually have a real roll back strategy? Bunch of people talk about CI/CD. Some people talk about feature flags. I don't hear too much chatter about roll backs.
>> Yeah, roll backs. This is always a spicy one. We get a lot of customers who say, "Why don't you have a roll back button? I want to roll things back. Why can't we roll things back?" as as as in the deployment software like Octopus or anything else they like okay if it can deploy I want to like do checkoint and and like just just do a roll back
>> that's right how hard could it be just do what you
>> how could it be tell me
>> how could it be well this is the the problem right so um in a completely stateless system that's you know pretty straightforward if you've got a completely stateless system and you know this is something that githops is really good at where you'll have that definition sort somewhere in your repo if it's completely state stateless you can do a um a git revert and push it and it'll go back.
>> The reality is for most systems out there, you've probably got some state
>> state being
>> state being databases. It could be um you know any sort of any sort of information that you can't necessarily just kind of undo I guess because if you roll it back and now you've got your code talking with the schema of the database that's not in sync you can uh provide schema uh if you've got a schema migration let's say in a normal deployment you can provide alongside that a secondary sort of anti-migration that kind of undoes the change but again that's not always possible. you need to do is what are you going to do with that data set?
>> We we've gotten pretty far in basically trying to um advise customers that you never you want to avoid ever talking about roll back. It's always roll forward.
>> So if there's a bug,
>> okay,
>> roll forward. Get a change. Yeah. Get get your change in um as soon as possible. This is where fast feedback loops are important, right? You know, this is what the hot fix processes are for, right? So we all know that in a standard process you want to go devstaging prod and maybe it's maybe you've got you know um approval processes and slows down etc. But if you've got a sign significant bug that you need to kind of quote unquote roll back sometimes the the safest thing to do is actually make a hot fix to that that version and and push it out sort of as quick as possible and your bottleneck might be the the build pipeline or whatever but depending on sort of your appetite for risk there you can resolve that sort of a lot quicker. Now obviously if you if the failure itself is just from some um mechanism in the deployment process itself or somewhere further down that chain then your your time to recover is going to be a lot quicker. But it's this idea that you know if I've got a failure in version um version two my roll back isn't to go to version one. It's to go to version three and make sure I've got that fix in in version three. It's the sort of thing that um you know when we we talk to customers and some of them go yeah we roll back you know we roll back all the time if there's a problem and then when you ask them what do you do if you've got a schema change they kind of stop and and realize that they've never it's just sheer luck that they've never sort of run into that right
>> is it fair to say that you want to roll forward if it involves business logic or something that is not stateless because if if it is stateless or if it's application logic you know you have a code that says if this else then and you realize there's a bug where you can just revert it as long as it doesn't, you know, touch the the schema or or the the data.
>> Yeah. I mean, in an ideal world, you're reverting is through a feature flag, right, that you click and you're essentially reverting by changing the code path. And this is why I always say um feature flags. So, kind of a nice a nice tool to use for um doing this progressive delivery because, you know, it's just as easy just as easy it is to roll out that feature. You can typically roll it back. Now, you're still going to have some of those problems with schema issues, etc. If you know if you're making a change and you've got parts of your code path that expect one and not the other, you're going to need to account for that.
>> But you can even account for that inside the feature flag.
>> That's right. Yeah. So that that's the way you sort of ideally sort of manage that so that within regards to which path you go down the feature flag, it's kind of self-consistent with whatever version of the actual sort of database schema that's out there.
>> So I guess the more feature flags you use, the fewer surprises you might have, but it's a bit of extra work both to build and also to remove.
>> Yeah. you you get stuck with still feature flags all across your codebase once you start to use a lot. I saw this at Uber.
>> Yes. Yes. 100 times. Yes. So when you've adding a feature toggle to your um app itself. Um so we at Ocus we obviously use feature toggles in our code quite a lot and we use open feature as like the um the the framework the SDK to interact with it. But we essentially have built a wrapper around it where um the the toggle itself within the code is um sort of we provide some details about which team owns it um and that team sets an expiry on it. Now the expiry itself when that time passes nothing bad will happen but through parts of the CI process if that time has passed we can send a notification to that team and say hey it looks like this toggle is no longer used. So the specific mechanics don't matter as much, but it's more a matter of making sure that, you know, if you're adding feature toggles, it's really easy to forget about it because you start rolling it out and you kind of forget about it. And you know, you want to keep it in there just in case for a while in case you need to roll it back. And having the ability to understand how long a toggle has been there, um, is a is kind of a key part of helping to maintain that that hygiene. Now the reality is even at Octopus we've got a bunch in I know I've got a bunch in there that um I'm sure if I was to log in I'd probably get a bunch of notifications to remove you know when we use that gardening metaphor in code right this is this is one of those sort of operations this is weeding right you need to just kind of keep on top of it there are some mechanisms around even in in lie of the AI side which will um you know ideally if you're using feature toggles you you probably got a bunch of um observability and metrics and logging around it and there are some system some tools out there that will allow you to keep track of when the last time a toggle was kind of evaluated. Um, and that kind of gives you that that signal. Um, similarly, you know, you might remove it from the code because typically when you want to remove a feature toggle, you want to remove from the code first before you touch your actual sort of toggle system. And so having a mechanism so that once you remove for it from the code, um, you know, it might take two weeks before it makes all the way out into production. So you don't want to delete it before then, by that time you've kind of forgotten about the fact you removed it. Oh yeah. Um and so having mechanisms that will keep track of that change I guess going through the system um and when it reaches the environment where um you know production where it's actually being used can kind of show okay that code's gone out that's you know remove the toggle it's it's fine and safe to actually remove the configuration because you've got that feature toggle information in two places right you've got it in the code and you've got it in your your your your platform
>> can we talk about how development environments evolve we talked about CI/CD but I'm interested more in you know you you go from like you have one environment later you might have staging or something and what evolution have you seen across the all the teams that you work with all these hundreds or thousands of teams
>> yeah I'm not sure if there is one particular pattern there I mean I think you know most most common is you know dev test prod um
>> so these three different environments
>> yeah and I mean even that I think is probably a a a gross simplification of all the kind of
>> and dev meaning my local machine.
>> Dev in the case of CD is often like the the first point of integration. So it's kind of um test often customers will keep test kind of reasonably in sync with let's say production or some sort of sanitized data source. So that way that whether it's the QA testers or the um product team or whatever can go and review the code. dev is almost like the first po point of of of integration that is it actually is the deployment process just at its core actually working or is anything fundamentally broken at all. I think more and more now we're finding that dev is less useful um in that respect and what we're seeing is more the um growth of things like ephemeral environments and so this is the idea that you know I as an engineer I'm running some sort of feature on a feature branch um and I want to kind of evaluate that it's actually doing what it what we're expecting it to do but not only that I need I want the rest of my team to be able to see it working and um you know if I've got it running on my machine it's not exactly easy to sort of um yeah give other people access I guess and then I want to move I may want to you know completely context change move on to something something completely different. So ephemeral ephemeral environments is this idea that from my my branch premerge I want to spin up a whole environment um essentially from scratch ideally with with whatever dependencies are required to sort of run this particular component that I've been building. Um, and then I want to basically deploy my um, app into that as if it was a normal full-fledged environment. Um, as once that's available, I want to sort of have access to, you know, if it's a web app, maybe it gives me the URL and I can poke around it and hand it around and and other people can kind of evaluate. And then the moment I kind of merge that PR, tear it down again. You know, it's quite common to have multiple test environments because, you know, I've got a lot of stuff going through my pipeline and I've got three testers. So, let's have three environments. Uh so they can all sort of have one at once or often you'll see a single test environment and a bunch of tests and they all kind of need to to um collaborate to see who's got access to the system at the moment etc etc. Whereas with ephemeral ephemeral environments it doesn't roll off the tongue. With ephemeral environments you can um essentially have a a full-fledged deployment per per feature. And so again, that's about speeding up that that feedback process, right? Again, all these processes are all about speeding up that feedback process to get the the the catch those failures or issues or or bugs or whatever. So sooner. There was a time a few years ago where cloud development environments were really talked about a lot which was the idea is as a developer you have an environment spin up in the cloud you're let's say your your visual studio code connects to it or or maybe you just log in online and it spins up all the dependencies often times done with containers which reminds me of this as well and there's also like like preview environments but somehow it feels that both that discussion and this one kind of died down maybe it's AI maybe it's something else But I mean the technology is there, right? We have containers. It's you can you can package things together. It's it's I'm sure it depends, but it's all doable.
>> Yeah, it does get tricky. It's this is again one of those sort of things that's really easy to talk about. Um for simple cases, it it can get tricky when you know what if I've got more than just a single app in my kind of quote unquote environment and how do I make sure it's got all the data I need to validate. So it can get tricky. So
>> or if you have a bunch of services that have state.
>> That's right. Exactly. So um there are sort of complications that it does bring but the I guess the the benefits that you get as a as an application team um particularly you know application team where you've still got engineers writing code um is is sort of speeding up that that feedback process I guess. Well, now with with AI agents everywhere, that's even better cuz uh in a sense that if one of the best ways to validate, you know, we have code reviews and AI agent generates and you look at the code, but isn't it not better to just confirm that this thing works, especially when it has a UI?
>> That's right. I think even in that world where you've got AI AI agents kind of building the code and validating the code any sort of uh scenario where you want that AI agent to kind of validate what it's done um you're essentially talking about ephemeral environments even if it's not exposed to people because it's doing its own testing and poking around um in whatever shape or form um that it's doing that still is I guess one of these kind of environments right it it's ephemeral it spins up you've got some sort of provisioning process um and then ideally once the job's done you just kind of tear it down.
>> I'm interested in learning more about the reality of operating a large infrastructure platform and you know one big one you're working on is actually Octopus deploys SAS offering. How does that look like and what are the challenges of of you know like running something where you're running all of these deploy processes all all these CD you probably have a bunch of different things. What is it like? So um at the m at the moment I'm not on the team that sort of builds that but I can give some of the the context I guess from history and kind of um context there. Originally when we first sort of decided to sort of provide a Octopus SAS offering um I don't know I think it was 2020 or something like that. It was all VMs. So every customer would basically get a VM spun up and we would virtual machine virtual machine. Yep. and the um Octopus um you know self-installed app would basically get installed onto that VM and they'd get a whole VM for running workloads on etc. Um and that was very much not cost effective. It was costing us something like a hundred bucks per customer per month and they were paying I don't know $20 a month or whatever it was. But this whole process was more an experiment to see was there a demand. Um, and to his credit, Paul was happy to sort of hand, you know, pass out the credit card to kind of go through this process to see that is this actually the direction we we want to go. Is there a is is this something that going to turn into a viable sort of direction for the company? Because it's a big step, right? Going from building software that you can kind of hand out and people can download and manage themselves to
>> it was like pretty much self-hosted or like run on your own infrastructure.
>> Exactly. Yeah, that's right. And so the the demand was there. So um not long after that sort of first experiment we basically started from scratch again and I worked with a couple of the other engineers back then to start building it on um Kubernetes um and so octopus itself in in that space we have what we call kind of a reef. So what you'll find is everything in octopus we've always got of octopus or nautical kind of names around it. So a reef is basically a way of it's this cell-based architecture where contains all the resources that are needed for that particular customer's instance. Well, some of it's shared, but it's kind of broken down into individual cells. And so a reef will contain, you know, the cluster, an Azure database, etc. Um, and each customer instance is running now in a in a pod in that um cluster. And so as part of that project that was when um I think I was working on converting it so it could run on Linux and inside containers and someone else was building the dynamic worker infrastructure. So um there were a couple of us that kind of just um got in and yeah really just got it up and running so that way we could kind of start moving forward and and I guess stop stop losing money. Fast forward to today now there's an entire team that's kind of backs that and we've got you know several thousand customers on it and we run you know many many thousands of deployments um every every every month and so now what we're trying to do is there's a project at the moment to basically make the um Octopus deployment process itself more resilient so what that means is at the moment when a deployment kicks off a bunch of the the the process so as a it's kind of a um imperative set of steps a bunch of that is stored in memory which means that whenever we want to do an upgrade um we need to essentially um stop running tasks for some period of time so we can kill their instance and spit another one back up. Um Octopus itself at the moment um doesn't um sort of have zero downtime between upgrades. So there's a bit of downtime between that. We kind of want to reduce that and get that as close to as close to zero as possible with the realization that you know going from downtime of 5 minutes to 1 that's that's just work right that's you know you can move things around you can maybe change the architecture going from 10 seconds to zero is is a much bigger shift um I'm not sure if if and when we'll get there but um yeah there's definitely this this big effort at the moment to make the whole process a lot more resilient to basically improve and reduce the amount of downtime that takes place so can um kind of perform upgrades quicker etc.
>> One interesting thing you do is you have a SAS but you also have an on-prem offering. What are interesting engineering challenges that come from that? A lot of companies have decided to just like honestly just move to move to SAS because now they control everything centrally. I think Jer did this uh or may maybe they're they're doing it which is a well-known one but clearly it's just a lot more work and a lot more headache to have both.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And we touched on one of the big problems here a little earlier is that when we want to push out any updates, you know, to cloud because we control the whole process, we can push it out. And so we have a sort of a gradual roll out process there. Um because each customer is on their own instance, we can sort of deploy each one individually. Um and that may take I a few days to let's say roll out a change. On prem though is is kind of another matter. So um actually I was digging into some of the stats around this a little while ago and found it took about 200 days for on average% 50% of our customers on prem to to get let's say let's say I ship a new change today takes about 200 days for on average 50%.
>> It's half a year
>> but then there's kind of like almost an exponential decay there where it takes 400 and something days for 75% to get it. So just there's kind of this curve where I mean we've got customers that are still running you know versions of Octopus from 5 6 7 years ago. And so whenever we ship a new change we need to basically make sure Octopus will work from version you know 2023.1 to 2026.4 and so there's a bunch more baggage I guess that we have in terms of like um schema upgrades and making sure that that whole process actually is achievable.
>> But why do you do it? A lot of startups will be like screw it, let's let's not support all versions. This even happens on on mobile. What's the what's the benefit? And this it feels like you're kind of swinging against the crowd with this one.
>> The majority of our customers are still on prem. And so this is, you know, you're talking about banks, um, financial institutions, governments, things like that where they want full control over the system. They want to run it on their own hardware. Now they may use their own cloud or whatever to run it, but they want to manage the whole process and be in control of, let's say, upgrades or downtime or or things like that. So, it's certainly um not it's certainly not uncommon and I don't think that's going away um anytime soon. As for the upgrade support, um we're kind of going through this process actually in the past couple years where we've been getting a lot more I guess confident with deprecating features and things like that and just kind of cutting cutting loose old capabilities and part of that has come from you know fully embracing feature toggles as part of that process. I think we're getting a little bit braver in terms of, you know, um, removing capabilities that perhaps older customers may may miss, but I don't think that in the long term self-hosted will will kind of go away. This is one of the sort of things again where I think it's it's really common to hear, you know, everything's in the cloud, we're all in the cloud. Again, the reality is there's a lot of companies out there where for them it's just doesn't make sense or it's not viable or it's not, you know, it doesn't meet compliance requirements or whatever the case may be. Also, it's kind of a reminder, I think, that you actually might have a lot less competition if you build infrastructure software that also runs on prem because it sounds like there's a demand where companies are like, we want to give you money
>> in order for us to run on prem. And I'm sure some of them would do SAS if there's no other alternative. But for SAS, it's it's easier to to build anyway. So, there'll be more competition. So, if you're an entrepreneur or if you're a software engineer thinking to do a business or start a business,
>> it might give you an edge. Yeah, that's that's right.
>> It sounds like that a lot of your customers, you know, the ones who have not upgraded your software for, let's say, five years, on one end you say like, "Oh my gosh, what are they doing?" But they might just be happy with it. And if they keep paying you as as a business, those are some of the your most loyal customers. You see what I mean?
>> That that's right. And this is the thing. I mean, I remember when I worked in um like when I worked in the previous job that used Octopus or any of us who have any other sort of, you know, software that you've you've got running potentially you've got running locally, if it just works, why why why touch it, I guess? And so, it's kind of the bane of of our existence because it annoys us. We want to ship the features and give them all these great new things. Um, but on the flip side, you know, particularly for something as critical as, you know, their deployment system, a lot of customers once they've got it running, they kind of step away and and go, "Okay, let's let's just let it let it be."
>> And it keeps happening with AI as well in the sense that uh, for example, I just read that cursor, their latest coding model, it's it's upgraded like I think every 5 hours, which is amazing. It keeps getting better. However, you know, there are customers who once you have an LLM and it works for you, you've kind of tuned it, you have the instructions, great. But often times what happens, a new version comes out of a model or major version and it stops working. And I I assume that there will be more teams, companies, businesses who are like, look, it would be worth for me money to kind of pin this thing or to run it on my own infra and just have it stay as is and then I will decide when I want to change it as long as it, you know, if if if it's if it ain't broken, don't fix it. That That's right. And um I think to Octopus' credit, I think we have a um a really good history at sort of helping customers even when they're kind of on those older sometimes to the extent of wanting to say the support team just they're on old instant like tell them that to to get the fixed upgrade. Um but support team are you know I think second to none in terms of their their willingness to help and as you said if they're willing to pay us who am I to to say no?
>> Yeah. I mean, it's it's a business strategy, but I think it's just a nice reminder that there's not just one size and like even though I think SAS is eating the world and we're hearing it and we're seeing it, it's nice to see that it's it's not just that. As closing, uh, if I'm a software engineer and I would like to move beyond continuous delivery, continuous deployment and go into progressive delivery. What pointers can you give me?
>> Yeah, I guess just just start with something, right? for start with adding one feature toggle. It may be scary at first to kind of go, "Ah, it's in production. If I, you know, toggle this, I'm going to break something production." You know, it's nice and comfortable to know that you're kind of well to the left of of the running systems and if you ship code, everything will be caught by the test. But, you know, if I toggle it, what will happen? It's kind of like a drug, right? Once you start doing it, you don't want to stop. And that's that's why we've got this this hygiene problem for things like Vij toggles, right? It's really easy to add them and actually end up with the opposite problem of how do you how do you kind of control yourself? How do you stop? So, I'd say just just kind of start doing it. Add one and and keep an eye on kind of as you roll it out and you look at the results from it. And the reality is, you know, I've shipped features bind feature toggles where I've shipped a bug, right? And it's one thing to ship something and turn on a feature and go, "Okay, cool. Customers have it." It's a very different thing when you do the opposite. If you ship something and there's a problem and you can reach immediately for the toggle and switch it back off. you know, the amount of times you kind of in the past you had this kind of panic of, oh no, I've shipped something. It's I don't know what's going wrong. And particularly when you're in that state, you know, maybe you've got called up at 2 am because you've got an on call and you know, you don't know what the next step is to do and you kind of got a panic mind and should I, you know, build a new thing or do I somehow force a redeployment? So having the capability of being able to sort of flick that switch just allows you then calm right down and go, okay, I've stemmed the bleeding now come back and reanalyze it and understand what's wrong. So having that capability once you sort of experience that and realize the value that not just rolling things out but of I guess rolling that individual feature back off. Yeah. You'll you'll want to use it for everything.
>> What's one or two books you would recommend and why?
>> I'll give two kind of I guess technical ones and and more of a fun Phoenix project is still for me a good one. This is one
>> by Jean Kim. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And um I I can see uh you know you kind of remember that we got that in in in Skype. This was one that Abdella kind of gave to everyone.
>> Yeah. Our our manager gave it to everyone.
>> Yeah. And um you know it's it's you know parts of it are maybe a little bit outdated and you know some of the practices have changed a little bit but at its core this idea of as an engineer being involved in that whole um sort of operation side of your what you're shipping and and the value that gives to not just the company but to you is amazing. So I think that book has kind of a core when it's one of those core foundational ones that sets the sets the the the context for everything we talked about today. The other one um from a more um I guess organizational and communication side of things um radical cander by Kim Scott allows you to communicate more efficiently and with more compassion with um your peers and other people around you. It's, you know, really common. You know, I'm an engineer, so I I know sometimes it's really, you kind of look back on what you said and you feel like, okay, maybe I'm I can be a little bit blunt. Whereas radical candid teaches us to think about, you know, you want to have those communications that are both sharing that you're caring and empathetic, but also direct and, you know, the benefits of that and kind of the the inverse of that where, you know, you perhaps, like I said, you're very blunt. You're sort of being honest about it, but you're missing that that empathy. Um, so I found that book really useful and interesting as I guess not even just as as an engineer, but as a as a person working with other people. From the the more fun side, basically anything by Greg Egan. He's an Australian sci-fi author. He writes some pretty crazy mindbending hard um hard sci-fi. So if you're really into that, I'd say read um like Diaspora or um Charles's Letter. They're the sort of books that actually took a second read to get through. and he's he's a mathematician as well. So, you know, he's got a whole bunch of background and mathematics on why a certain certain part of his story goes the way it is. He wrote an entire story on the premise of um what if the speed of light wasn't absolute or something like this one premise and it kind of breaks out into and then this is what happens to to energy and therefore molecules work like this and D and um as a you know I'm a I'm a tech nerd um that sort of science stuff you know really appeals. Same same when when sci-fi there's some science involved that's actually way I find it way more fun
>> Rob thanks very much
>> thank you Got great
>> what an interesting conversation I hope you enjoyed having someone like Rob who has been building and thinking about CI/CD at scale for a decade it was such a fun blast from the past story as he talked about how at Skype our team basically did continuous delivery [music] years before most of the industry caught up and how we did it by quietly shipping new bills to New Zealand every week using this as our canary country [music] it's a reminder that a lot modern software practices were already being run in the wild by devs who just wanted to ship software faster than our change advisory board would allow us to do [music] so. One other thing I took a note is Rob's take on roll backs. Lots of engineering teams talk about rollbacks as [music] if they're safety net. But the moment you have a database schema change in the mix, what's safety net? Rob's advice is to [music] roll forward, not back, and use feature toggles as a way to turn features off or on. This is also a reminder that investing feature flags is usually really helpful. But if you have feature flags, be sure to clean up after them after you've rolled them out, otherwise they become a big mess. Finally, a part where I learned something new was on GitOps. I've always assumed that GitOps was about well, Git, but as Rob pointed out, none of the four actual pillars of GitOps require Git at all. The four pillars are number one declarative, [music] number two version and immutable, number three pulled not pushed, number four continuously [music] reconciled. The name githops has caused the whole industry to get a bit dogmatic about putting everything into git repo, even things like secrets which absolutely should not be there. Rob's take is that most teams just want [music] to ship software. If githops helps with that part, great. But if a more practical process works better, just use that. Do check out the show notes below for related the pragmatic engineer deep dives on backend technologies and other related topics. If you've enjoyed this podcast, please do subscribe on your favorite podcast platform and on YouTube. A special thank you if [music] you also leave a rating on the show. Thanks and see you in the next