[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Thursday, October 23rd. It has been a pretty quick week. I mean, we are one day away from Friday, but we're here. We're live. We got a lot to talk about. Thank you everybody for being here. Got a bunch of different headlines going on in the pre-market there. We're we are going to get into tomorrow. We will be getting CPI data. So, I think uh today's market activity is definitely going to be a bit contingent on the perception of that CPI data. And we're going to talk about some of the overall projections that some of the street has on what they think will happen with CPI. On top of that, you have a relatively green uh pre-market. You're not seeing too much red. We did have a pretty nasty day yesterday that ended up recovering towards the end of the day, which was good to see. Uh not a full recovery, but you did get somewhat of a bit of recovery. So, now we have to see if that recovery can continue. S&P 500 is green in the pre-market along with a lot of the other risk assets. So, we'll talk about that and we're going to see if that can continue to be green. Now, S&P, okay, just flipped red. It was green like 10 minutes ago. Uh but overall, it's not as bad as it was yesterday when yesterday was down about 1.2% 2% at the worst of it. S&P 500 right there down about4 AMD down half a percent. S&P or SoFi down point4 Google actually green grab green Amazon green hoodie down a little bit and then pounder down about 74. We also have a new pounder contract that we'll talk about $200 million deal with Lumen Technologies. So we'll get into that contract and discuss what's going on uh with Pounder as well. We have some updates on the China trade negotiations. We'll talk about that. Hopefully we are getting closer to somewhat of a uh I guess capitulation from both sides to give a little bit and take a little bit and hopefully we get something where it's like all right this is what's going to happen. Uh and maybe that ends up taking place before the meetings in South Korea with Xi. Trump will be going to Malaysia. He's going to do an announcement at 3 p.m. in the Oval Office today. Don't know what the announcement is going to be about. Last time it was about in vitro fertilization. So it might not even be about the economy, but we're going to see later at 3 p.m. what he talks about. And then I believe tomorrow he goes to Malaysia and then next week he goes to South Korea for those negotiations with President Xi. On top of that, you got Tessy down about 4% right here in the pre-markets. We will be discussing what happened with Tesla. Look, it was not the best earnings in the world. It was definitely not the worst earnings in the world. So, the streets giving it a bit of a sideways reaction. 3% down is similar price to where Tesla was last week. So, I think if you're a Tesla shareholder, it's not that big of a deal. Uh, but nonetheless, we'll discuss kind of what Elon said on the call and the core arguments that were made on the Tesla earnings. They did miss on EPS unfortunately by about 5 cents. They beat on revenue and then we'll keep going from there. We do have a bunch of other companies in the pre-markets that reported earnings. Pretty much all of them again beats on the top and the bottom line which is really good. So far 85% of companies that reporting the S&P 500 have beat their earnings. And if that can continue going into next week, which is going to be the biggest week for big tech earnings, then that should be good for the broader markets as well. All right, let's get into it. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you everybody for being here. Maddie, what's up? Dave, what's up? Jason, Scott, what's up? Thank you for being here. Hector, how are you doing? Danny, I'm Benny Irwin, good morning. Uh, thank you all again for being here. We have a lot a lot to discuss. Jay Selton, LM, June, what's up? What's up? Linda Dunce, how are you late every day with an office in your own apartment? Are you stuck in traffic to your office with all your binder dates? It's a good question. It's a very good question. You know, honestly, right when you're about to go live, that's when everything gets messed up. The camera starts being weird, the lights not working, you don't have your charger. Like, literally right when you're about to go live, and then it takes two minutes, and it's just every time. Every single time, that's what ends up happening. Dave T, Quarantine, Quartet, Kareem, Carson, Jen, Percy, thank you everybody for being here today. All right, so let's get started with the first story. And this first story actually is something I didn't mention for the past couple minutes. Uh, but I think it is the juiciest story. And so we might as well start off with this one. And uh that is the story of Quantum. So what happened over the past week? A lot of these quantum names ended up going down 30 to 40%. It's been pretty much a bloodbath in the quantum ecosystem. Last night actually when I was doing my deep dive, I was writing up some uh which I I hopefully will be out tomorrow. No promises, but working on the the Nebus deep dive for tomorrow. Um, I was I was doing some research writing on Substack and then I looked over on Twitter and this was the first headline that popped up and I knew this was going to be the story of the next 24 hours and it has become the story of the next 24 hours. The Trump administration is in talks to take equity stakes in quantum computing firms including NQ, D-Wave, and Regetti. I mean, I saw the headline and I was just like, you got to be kidding me. This is this can't be real life. But this was the headline. Now, to to to be fair to the Wall Street Journal, Reuters came out this morning and said uh there's a commerce representative that said they are not specifically in conversations with these companies, but the sources that the Wall Street Journal was using says no, they are in conversation with a lot of these quantum computing companies. And as a result, NQ up 8% in the pre-market, D-Wave up 16% in the pre-market, and then Regetti up 9% in the pre-market. All these stocks are down about 30 40%. For the past week, so there's two angles to this. First of all, I I I just I want to do the angle of what it would be like if this were to happen while acknowledging at the same time that there were government officials that said this is not happening. So, right now, it's kind of a story of he said, she said. We don't officially know if this is going to happen or not, but the stocks are up right now in the pre-market based on the rumor that it's going to happen. And you know, the rumor coming from the Wall Street Journal will definitely get a lot more people to think that there is a possibility for this. So, um, I went down the rabbit hole and I tried to understand what would be the incentive and motivation for this. And there was a couple people on Twitter that pointed me to this direction. And look, when you go down this rabbit hole, it does start to make a lot more sense. The deputy secretary of defense for the US government is a person named Steve Fineberg. Okay. Fineberg also co-founded a hedge fund called Cerebras Capital Management and he was the CEO for 30 years of this hedge fund before he left in March of 2024 or 2025 which was like seven months ago to become the deputy secretary of defense. That hedge fund has a position to the tune of hund00 million in NQ which is about 2.4 million shares. So look again we don't know exactly what's happening here but this is starting to make a lot more sense to me. My gut intuition on this is if this were to happen, if the United States government were to take equity stakes in these companies, I do not think it's because Trump believes in quantum computing. I do not think it's because the administration thinks quantum computing is the next evolution of technology that they need to have a uh major focus in by taking an equity stake in I personally think again gut reaction that there are some people in that administration that want to make sure they can pump their backs. That's kind of what it's looking like. And here's my reasoning for why. And I'm and and you know there's people that can disagree with it, but here's my just overall reason for why I'm open to change my opinion. Number one, why does the US taxpayer have to subsidize quantum? I can understand why the US taxpayer has to subsidize lithium. I can I can understand why the US taxpayer has to subsidize semiconductors from a national security perspective. I can understand why we have to subsidize rare earth minerals and metals because at the end of the day, all those products are necessary in every part of our daily life. I have no idea why we have to subsidize quantum and so and another reason I don't understand why we have to subsidize quantum Google just to the bullcase of quantum sundar just announced that they had a massive breakthrough in Willow yesterday that was not subsidized by the US taxpayer that was Google as a company with their free cash flow because they actually generate revenue unlike some of these companies are able to invest and put the R&D into building out quantum computing. So from that perspective, I don't necessarily understand why the United States government would have to subsidize some of these companies. Uh and it also doesn't make sense to me why the taxpayers to fit the bill for that because these are private companies working on like you know we we didn't subsidize Nvidia when they were working on GPUs 20 years ago. They they worked on it. They developed the intellectual property and then it ended up becoming a reality. So I don't know exactly why that's the case. On top of that, if you read through the article, it's a 10 million funding ward, aka a 10 million equity stake, that the United States is thinking of taking uh if this were to happen. Based on the reporting from the Wall Street Journal, these companies are worth 15 to 20 billion. 10 million is absolutely nothing. I mean, 10 million, it's like a 0.001% stake of of of these companies. This is not like a$8 billion stake like they took in Intel. So from that perspective, it's also pretty weird because at the end of the day, it's like, well, wait a second. $10 million is absolutely nothing. So the headline in and of itself is more important than the equity stake. 10 billion is not real, bro. These companies are worth almost $20 billion. What's the point of 10 million? Like 10, that's not even an equity. That's not like a real stake in the company where the United States could be focused on like, oh, we have this massive stake. We need to make sure we support that the company does well. So look, from my perspective, if this were to happen, and again, you have conflicting reports this morning saying it's not going to happen, but then again, the stocks are reacting as if it is going to happen based on their prices going higher at 9:30. We're going to see when the market opens how this plays out. If this does happen, then the US is basically classifying all these quantum computing names as something that's in the interest of national security to the tune of semiconductors and rare earth metals. I don't know if that's necessarily the case. Maybe that is the case. We're going to see what the Trump administration says. If they only take a $10 million equity stake, I don't think I think at that point it's just a headline because 10 million is nothing substantial to get the street excited or really to get like people excited that the government actually cares about these companies. And then finally, based on going down a little bit of a rabbit hole, you see some of the people that are part of the administrations, see some of the positions they have in terms of their um hedge funds and money management funds, and you start to realize, you know, maybe some people uh maybe some people told Donn to uh to take to put a little money into quantum to get the street excited. So, that's what we got going on right now. We're going to see how this ends up playing out. Ultimately, we're going to see what the future of quantum computing looks like. But, that is the headline. And look, here's the thing, and this is why as much as I'm not interested in buying these stocks at these valuations, definitely not interested at shorting, and I've, you know, not even taken a put position or bought any of the inverse short funds because at the end of the day, a lot of these names are driven by hype and narrative. And if the narrative becomes that the US government wants to make sure that quantum succeeds, for whatever reason, the US government is super interested in it. Uh, yeah, you're likely not going to see quantum stocks go to zero. I mean, you're likely not even going to see them take that 30 40% draw downs that they taken over the past week because once the government's on board, you have a backs stop. You have a backs stop by the government. So, I don't know. Now, Sprrowley's thoughts on this yesterday was that this is a perfect short opportunity because this is stupid and that uh it's going to lead to an even better entry to people, you know, going short for a lot of these names. Again, I just think shorting these names is tough because you've got to be so right about the narrative and you might just not be right about the narrative. But it is kind of wild to see that the Trump administration theoretically could take uh a stake in some of these quantum companies. It also it also makes you uh you know it also makes you wonder like again what what is the what what is the purpose of the government and and the sort of venture capital strategy because I can understand it when it's for Intel because like look if China invades Taiwan we need our new chips. I can understand when it's for rare earth metals because if China has massive export controls we have to have our own rare earth metals. At what point does it just become a grift? Like at what point is like, "Oh, I'm just going to take a stake in Facebook." Now it's like, "Well, there's no need for the government to take a stake." Yeah, but the government wants to take a stake. It's like, well, that doesn't make sense. I'm gonna take a stake in SoFi. We need to make sure we secure online banking in the United States. Like, at what point does it become just the government literally doing whatever they want to do to pump different sectors. And I am not a fan of that. I think a lot of people that believe in free market capitalism would not be fans of that. But, nonetheless, that could be something that's playing out. So, we're going to have to see over the coming years how this ends up happening. Very curious to see when the market opens. Does the market actually believe in this story? Does they do they believe in this narrative or do these stocks end up getting hit? Yeah, it's a ton of ton of little hanky panky going on. That's for sure. Ton of hanky panky that's going on right there. They need to stake in Beyond Meat. Speaking of beyond meat, my goodness. Again, if you bought at 750, it is what it is. 282 stock went up 300% yesterday, went up 16x over the past week, and now back down below $3. I mean, again, a lot of these things is it's just part of, I guess, the nature of how some of these bull markets operate. But there you go. You got Beyond Meat down 21% in the pre-markets and I guess the the juice has been squeezed out of this one as it continues to be flat. S&P 500 6673. That's up 0 or that's basically flat 0.01%. Not too bad on the S&P 500. 66772 and that is now up just a little bit right there. About to go up. When is the government buying Bitcoin? That's a good question. That is also why the government has not even bought Bitcoin yet. Didn't Trump promise the strategic Bitcoin reserve, but they're thinking of buying quantum. I mean, again, it it logically does not make sense. Someone tell me how that makes I don't I don't get it. And you can say quantum is important for defense. I'm like, dude, like the actual defense applications like Palenter software on the battlefield I think has a little bit more of an implication than some defense experiments in quantum. So, like the fact that Trump ran on buying Bitcoin and we have not bought a single Bitcoin, but we're thinking of putting $10 million into quantum stocks at egregious valuations. I mean, like what the government's going to buy in at a $20 billion valuation. It's on on on a quantum stock that has a couple million in revenue. It's it's weird. It's very very weird. But that is the story for the day and that's what we got right now. All right. So, cool. That's what we got with Quantum. Let's get into some of these other stories. Uh Tesla, so let's talk about it. Tesla, they missed on the top line. They beat on the or they missed on the bottom line. Came in line with expectations on the top line. Uh 42215. This is what you have right now. We listened to the call yesterday, me and Steve. I mean, it was an okay call. Elon was a bit more energetic than he was from 90 days ago, but it wasn't necessarily that different in terms of a lot of promises and not necessarily an explanation on how they're going to get there. My my thing with Tesla here is that energy next year, even if it if it doubles, it doesn't make a material change in the business in terms of the earnings growth. Uh robots are not coming next year. In fact, Elon did say that the production for Optimus is going to start in 2026, aka they're going to build production lines, which is super bullish, but that doesn't mean that Optimus is going to be shipped in any meaningful commercial application. So, you're not going to get Optimus growth in 2026. So, the only thing left then is vehicle deliveries and FSD. Let's say vehicle deliveries are slightly up because rates come down, but they're not up like crazy because the EV credit goes away. The only other vertical I see for Tesla is FSD. And Elon did talk about FSD yesterday and he mentioned that FSD is going to be the reason why Tesla continues to win. His exact quote on FSD was that uh here's the thing. The simple killer app is that if you can text in the car, if we can get unsupervised epic so FSD to be so good that you can text and drive, everyone will buy the car. I'm 100% confident we can make this happen. Look, I think it's very important to be long Tesla and have exposure to the age of physical AI. I just logically now that it's at this valuation don't see in 2026 what is the growth curve that can change earnings growth. Tesla is growing negative 30% year-over-year and it's trading at 200 times free cash flow and you know 200 I think it's 145 times PE like and the multiples are whatever right Tesla's never really traded on multiples but the point is this is not a stock that's at 250 it's not at 200 it's not at 150 it's not even at 300 it's now at 422 and it's not growing and so I don't know if 2026 is the year where they switch to growth it's just when you have an Nvidia that's growing and an Amazon that's growing a Google that's growing it's a little tough to bet on something that already has such a stretched valuation and stretch multiple that is not showing the growth. I mean, a lot of these growth stocks that are growing, you can disagree with the multiples, but if they're actually growing, you can at least say they can grow into the valuation. Tesla's going to really have to put up some numbers in 2026 and maybe that's not the year. Maybe it's 27 and you just have to be patient with it in order to get that growth rate, but as of now, that's just not there. And I think every Tesla investor has to be pretty honest with with, you know, that reality of what's happening. Nonetheless, the call ended by Elon saying, "Please vote for the the pay package." So, they did have a bit of a sales pitch right there. I think he will end up getting that vote. I think November 6th is the actual shareholder meeting. They also skipped over a bunch of questions that people cared about like future products, which also I think pissed off a lot of shareholders because, you know, they didn't really talk about the stuff that people wanted to to hear about. So, it was a it was eh quarter like it is what it is. It wasn't too good, wasn't too great. Stocks relatively flat and I think that's what a lot of people expected for us to get on Tesla as well. So, that's what we got with Tessy down about 3.4% right here. in the pre-markets. Did you see WMBBY last night? I did see Webby last night. I almost bet on the Spurs, but I ended up not betting, but that that man, I mean, he might be he might be going for might be going for MVP. He might be going for most valuable player. It's a good game. I didn't watch all of it, but I saw some of the highlights and I was like, damn, he is he might be the next big thing in San Antonio. All right, so that's what we have in the context of Tesla. Let's talk about some more stuff we have in the macro. Actually, first, let's do Palanteer. So, Palanteer, this was an important thing this morning. Palanteer inked a deal with 200 million or worth 200 million uh with Lumen. So, this was actually a really uh interesting deal because when I went to AIPCON, uh Palunteer had a similar deal that was like this or they had they talked about their Lumen partnership, but now we actually got some real stats on what this Lumen partnership look like. By the way, Karp's going to be on Fox News today. Karp is going to be on Fox News. So, we're going to get to see Karp live. Uh this is a week before earnings, so it's going to be really nice to see him. He's going to be on the claimment countdown at 3 pm. So I will get the clip of that for the market close and we'll get into what he had to say. But here are some details from the partnership. Luminer industry leaders building core infrastructure for the AI era today announced a multi-year multi-million dollar strategic partnership to help enterprises across every industry deploy AI faster and more securely in complex multi cloud environments. Uh CEO of Lumen said pounce or freeze data while Lumen moves it. Together, we're uniquely positioned to enable enterprises to unlock their ambitions with unprecedented scale and speed. And then you had Karp on the press release say, "Our partnership with Lumen has reached new heights. American companies need to unlock immediate value from AI. We are proud to work with Lumen to enable the infrastructure and intelligence layers for our customers to become AI winners. Uh 200 million. So look, uh if you're long Palunteer, I think more and more of these commercial deals are going to continue to operate. One of the things about Palanteer is that and this partnership with Lumen is that it's going to have downstream effects on a lot of the third-party distributors and vendors that Lumen works it works with which is what the press release was going into and so this should really help their kind of go to market approach in regards to dealing with more commercial growth and you know if we can get that 50% number going into Q3 I do think the stock has some good room to potentially run. I did buy a little bit yesterday at 172.38 and so I bought a little bit of the dip yesterday um on some of the downside weakness. SMCI. Are we moving red? SMCI. Whoa. 5% down. Okay. What's happening with SMCI? Let's see what we've got here. Um, don't see the news right now, but SMCI Oh, I don't see a single headline. Oh. Oh, boy. Hold on. SMCI provides. Is this earnings or is this uh No, this is not earnings. This is I guess they had earning this is it looks like a preliminary update for the first quarter. SMCI. Okay. So, let me let me just pull this up. Um I guess it is no no their earnings call is scheduled for November 4th, but they did give a preliminary update. Okay, so the numbers are uh new design wins exceeding 12 billion for 2026. Q1 revenue at 5 billion. Oh, that misguidance. Street thought 6 to 7 billion came in at 5 billion. Delayed Q1 revenue shifts to second quarter due to order upgrades. Strong demand seen for Blackwell ultra GPUs and liquid cooling solutions. Company reiterates fiscal year 2026 revenue target of at least 33 billion. Earnings call on November 4th. Okay, so they missed estimates. They missed estimates. I mean, it looks like they got it for six to seven a couple months ago and they came in at five billion. Potentially, they could have missed estimates for a good reason. Aka, they had uh supply chain bottlenecks on their demand because they are saying they do have strong demand. But nonetheless, if you miss estimates, that's not the best in the world. There you go, SMCI right there. 4946. Yeah. What's the point of earnings then? That is kind of weird. SMCI has done this multiple times in the past where they give these like preliminary results, but they don't actually hold the earnings. and then you kind of get that type of a hit. But uh there you go. Down 6 8% now down 7%. That one continuing to get a hit. Just guide for 2030 like Oracle and pump it. Yeah, it's a good idea. Dude, a lot of these companies if they can just guide for 2030 and say they're going to be okay, then maybe that's what they need to do. All right, so that's the update you got from SMCI. Uh, looks like a little bit of weakness right there. Speaking of, you know, just putting out press releases, this was a another insane stat from the Wall Street Journal yesterday. Oracle, Nvidia, AMD, and Broadcom added 630 billion to their market value in the first day of trading after their partnership announcements with OpenAI. So after all of these companies which really over the past three weeks we all witnessed these uh deals that were announced with Oracle Nvidia AMD was last week with the whole 10% of AMD they're going to take and then the Broadcom 10 gigawatt deal 630 billion of market cap that means investors were like all right if you guys are going to work with open eye we are willing to keep buying your stock that is what you saw in terms of market momentum on these names. So, I mean, making those partnerships, giving out that guidance for the long term, that really is the formula, at least so far in terms of these stocks to be able to win, and that's what we're seeing right now. SMCI right there down 8.6%. On the day, that's what you have on SMCI. Amit, did you see the Mike Alfred investment into open? Yes, I did. So, Mike Alfred, who is the board member of Irene, which I know a lot of pe a lot of you guys like right there, slightly up in the pre-markets. did buy Openoro. Uh 644, I believe, is what he bought. 210,000 shares. So, yeah. I mean, look, I'm not that interested in the company. I would really like to see some quarters of execution before even thinking of looking at the investment thesis, but he did buy. He did say he would buy if it did drop 25% back when it was at $8. So, you know, yesterday you had a lot of stocks take a dip and he ended up buying. So, he is in the name now. Open door right there 684. That is slightly up in the pre-market. Why is AMD dropping? Not sure. I mean, AMD works with SMCI, but I doubt that the SMCI miss on revenue is a reason AMD would miss. But you do have AMD right there down about 1.1%. Reddit's up 1%. Then Google right there.36%. That is at 252 as well. All right, so that is we got that is what we got with Google again. Pouncer did get that $200 million deal with Lumen. Just talked about that. Very good. See, Karp will be live on Fox News today and we're going to see uh what he has to say. All right, so let's go through some other stats that we've got going on. First of all, remember that big crypto like round table that uh the Fed had a couple of days ago. Here's uh what Brian Armstrong had to say about that round table and uh basically where crypto legislation is starting to get a lot more clarity in the United States.
>> Yeah. Well, we had great meetings with the Democrats on in the Senate and on the Republican side today. And the good news is that there's strong bipartisan support and will to get this market structure legislation done. It's important for America and the 50 million Americans who've used crypto want to see it get done. And so one date we heard floated was let's try to get this markup done uh before Thanksgiving. I think that there's 90% of the issues are already aligned on and agreed and there's draft text going back and forth. A lot of great crossunctional uh collaboration happening there. That last 10% are the remaining issues and everyone committed to get in the room together and work it out and hopefully we'll see some draft text or get it out of committee by Thanksgiving.
>> Yeah. So, you got Brian Armstrong, CEO of Coinbase, feeling pretty damn bullish about uh the legislative commitment that the United States will be able to take for crypto. Yes, the government is shut down still. This is the 22nd day of the shutdown. However, they did have that roundt which like I guess wasn't really part of the government. It was part of the Fed even though the Fed is part of the government but they still have that shutdown or they still have that roundt and Brian Armstrong does feel bullish that there can be some updates on crypto. Andre and Horowitz, one of the best venture capital firms in the country did put out their state of crypto report and uh there was some pretty interesting things that they said in the state of crypto. They've been pretty big crypto investors for a while. Couple of slides I wanted to highlight. Take a look at this. They said stable coins have officially found product market fit now rivaling the world's largest payment networks in transaction volume. And the reason for this is because the US is recognizing the strategic value of stable coins as they can become a top holder for um uh for treasuries. And as a result of being, you know, a massive holder of treasuries, obviously the government would be interested in stable coins continuing to to win because that would reduce the cost of borrowing. On top of that, Robin Hood listed Hype for spot trading today. Uh Hype is a pretty important cryptocurrency in the crypto ecosystem. It's up 10% right now based on that Robin Hood listing. So you're getting a lot more listings happening on Robin Hood as well. Real world assets are bringing traditional finance and crypto on chain. 30 billion including corporate bonds, actively managed strategies, government debt, stocks, alternative funds, commodities, private credit ex private credit, etc. have come on chain. This is what I think Vlad is very excited about in the context of Robnet because he thinks if we get a lot more real world assets on chain to the tune of you know Larry uh Larry Frink thinks $4.5 trillion could end up happening uh to come on chain that would be a massive market and if Robin takes just a small part of that four and a half trillion that comes on chain that would be a massive move for their ecosystem. Speaking of Robin, by the way, Kathy Wood bought the dip yesterday. 150,000 shares of Hoodie, probably at that 122 to 125 range. We did get all the way down to 120, backed up to about 128 in the pre-markets today, but Kathy Wood also did buy the dip on Hoodie. I I actually spoke to one of their head Robin Hood uh fintech analysts at the um at the Legend Summit and they are really bullish Hood. like really like I've talked to him multiple times and he's like one of the main people I think his name is Nick that like convinced Kathy to like really like seriously look at Hood and uh I think any dip that they get they are just so convinced that Hood is going to win when it comes to like the global financial ecosystem that is why you know they're more excited to probably continue buying this dip. And the last slide right here that I'll show from this crypto report is that the US has advanced key crypto legislation bringing regulatory clarity to the industry. So, you've got just a lot more clarity, especially with the Genius Act, on where crypto is going, where the application of crypto is going. You have an administration that's not really scared about crypto. I mean, Paul Atkins, the SEC chair, is nothing like Gary Gendzer. It's a literally a 180 in terms of how he thinks about the market. And as a result, I think that's the reason, at least while Trump is in office, to have some type of exposure to crypto. I know Bitcoin and Ethereum have been relatively flat in October, but when you've got real use cases, you got real world applications and you have the government that is supporting it, which might be the bull case for quantum if the government starts seriously supporting it, you're probably going to get the value of these assets to go up and as a result, you could also get some momentum in some of the crypto ecosystem. So that's what you have right there. Robin Hood 127.20 in the pre-markets, Palanteer right there 174. Tesla still down 3.3%, Nvidia down half%, then the S&P 0.07% 07% down on the day. SMCI still getting hit. H a little recovery. No, it was down nine. Now it's down three. That's not too bad for SMC. Wow, that actually it went from 46 to 50. So if you stepped in at 46, I mean, look, did it deserve a 10% drop after missing revenue? Probably not. If the reason they're missing is because of supply chain issues, not demand issues. Like if there's a demand problem, then a lot of the semi stocks are going to take a hit. We know based on TSM earnings and ASML earnings, there's not really a demand issue that's going on. So TSM right there below 300 as well, 289 slightly up in the pre-markets, but SMCI getting a little bit little bit of a boost there. So that is what you've got. Circle as well, another big stable coin company that's been making a little bit of a move over the past week. Still down from that 298 high that it got to a couple months ago, but up 3x since IPO 125 in the pre-markets. Okay, China. Let's talk a little bit about that. This is what Jameson Greer said on what's going on with China and essentially how they think this negotiation is going to play out.
>> So in Geneva, we had an agreement where they would limit their rare earth export controls. they'd keep their retaliatory tariffs down and we would suspend a good portion of our our tariffs uh on the reciprocal tariff. And so we we kept our part. We kept that tariff low and we had very cordial and constructive discussions over the summer and then again a couple of weeks ago the Chinese decided they were just going to go ahead and expand those controls on rare earths again not not on just us but on on the whole world. And now you hear a lot of narratives uh from the Chinese side of their surrogates saying well you know the the Americans have put a lot of controls on us over the past few years or they put out a new rule that would you know to to avoid evasion of US export controls that they didn't like or their fees on ships. So they're trying out a lot of different u narratives when the reality is they just want to exert economic control on the world. They started in April with the rare earth magnets. They're using every anything else that has happened as a pretext. The reality is we made a promise in May to keep our reciprocal tariff on them at 10%. We kept that promise and they have not kept theirs. Okay. So obviously tensions are a bit high in regards to the USChina relations on these rare export or rare earth export controls. Again, Trump has been deescalating to an extent over the past couple days, but that meeting in South Korea really is going to set the tone for if we can get to a reasonable deal. And you know, tensions with China are not the best, but also tensions with Russia. Russia just escalated yesterday as we have now sanctioned two of the biggest oil companies in Russia.
>> Today is a very big day in terms of uh what we're doing. Look, these are tremendous sanctions. These are very big. Those are against their two big oil companies. And we hope that they won't be on for long. We hope that uh the war will be settled. uh we just answered uh having to do with the various forms of missiles and everything else that we're looking at, but we don't think that's going to be necessary. Uh we would like to see them just take the line that has been formed over quite a long period of time and go and let's, you know, go home. Uh last week they had almost 8,000 soldiers killed. Many Russians were killed last week. Many Ukrainians were killed last week. We think it's ridiculous and would like to have it in. Today is a very big day in terms of
>> so as a result of sanctioning the oil companies in Russia, uh oil prices are up 6%. This is uh one of the biggest one-day moves or at least early morning moves that we've seen on oil and uh it's quite incredible because you know oil below 60 in and of itself was like you know generally really good for the economy, really good for gas prices, all that stuff. Uh but the fact that it's back up now again Trump said the sanctions might be temporary and the you know oil might or the oil the oil situation with Russia might be resolved if they get to a ceasefire or at least end the war. Same thing that you know he kind of said with Modi that Modi would stop buying oil until the war is officially done with Russia and Ukraine. But nonetheless it is spiking up oil prices. That's not necessarily the best thing going into Q4 earnings because at the end of the day, a lot of these oil prices directly affect the input costs for a variety of companies and you know that could affect their margins, but it's still pretty reasonable at 62 if even if it's not 58. Now, if we get a spike up to 70 where we were eight months ago, that would be a little bit different. But you do have oil that is green. SMCI with a pretty amazing recovery right here. I mean, again, barely down based on these projections. I I would chalk it up to the fact that they said it's a supply issue, not a demand issue, and that's why the street had a knee-jerk reaction, and now it's starting to recover. Um, but if you stepped in at that dip at 46, you got a little bit of momentum. Dick says it could also create inflation. Yeah, it could also cause a little bit more inflation. And given that inflation has been steadily coming down, oil prices going up wouldn't necessarily help. Now, here's the median forecast for the CPI report that we're going to get tomorrow. Again, we are getting CPI on a Friday. We usually never get it on a Friday, but the government's shut down, so we're kind of making an exception here. The median forecast is 3.1%. And core is also at 3.1%. So, we should be expecting a threehandle on inflation. Um, and you know, it is what it is. I think we were at just 2.8 last time, so it is a bit of an increase, but overall, if the street is expecting it, that shouldn't be the worst thing in the world. I do not think a high CPI or a hot CPI is going to stop anything in the context of the Fed. I think the Fed is going to continue to do what they have to do. If you look at the probabilities for a federal rate cut going into October, which it's coming up, folks, October 29th, it's going to happen in 6 days, you're at 98.9%. These rates are coming down. And I think, you know, quite frankly, that's the reason why the tenure has been doing what it's doing. Yesterday we closed below 3 point uh below 4.0 again. We are up a little bit in the pre-markets but it's been two days of a 10-year that's basically stayed below four which is pretty incredible to see. Now the price of gold is up right here 2.28%. So you're getting a little bit of a move back in gold. Now some of these gold targets have also been quite incredible. JP Morgan put out a new report this morning and they said, "We believe gold prices could exceed $8,000 an ounce by 2028 as investors increasingly use it as a hedge for equity risk, which would make gold a, you know, $60 trillion asset over the next three years." So, I mean, I don't know, you know, gold got rid of 2.5 trillion over the past couple days. Now, it's starting to recover. You know, maybe the silver commodity copper trade is just taking a little bit of a breather, just like the momentum stocks took a little bit of a breather. Where is Oaklo in the pre-markets? Oaklo, yeah, Oaklo is still down. I mean, these quantum names probably would continue to be taking a hit in the pre-market if it wasn't for that Wall Street Journal update that we got yesterday. Uh, for those that are just joining, the Trump administration is thinking of taking equity stakes in some of these quantum stocks. But a lot of the other momentum names are not really getting that much love. Big Bear is still stuck below seven bucks. Oaklo still down.3% uh down from you know was at 150 on Monday. So again we're gonna have to really see if those names can recover or are they going to continue to be stock? The rare earth names getting a little bit of love in the premarket. CRML is still down but MP's up a little bit. US is up a little and then TMQ is up about 2% as well. Is Oakllo a quantum stock? Oaklo is not a quantum stock. It is a nuclear energy stock but maybe if they add quantum to it that helps as well. Uh, Amazon. Let's talk about Amazon. So, Amazon right here trying to get back to 220. We do have some updates on Amazon. Uh, as we try to get into their earnings and see what will happen. Amazon introduced a new AI tool called Help Me Decide this morning. It will analyze your browser history and preferences to recommend the right product for you with just one tap. So, you've got Amazon creating even more, I guess, intuitive ways to kind of guess what you're doing. It's called Help Me Decide AI, as you can see right there. I mean, look, I Let's I don't think I've ever asked this question, but put in the chat, how many times do you buy from Amazon a month? Like, if you had to guess, I would say for me it's at least once a month. At least once a month, there's something I probably have to order. For my mom, it's probably like, you know, there's what, 30 days in a month. She probably does like what 600 times a month. So, it's like two per day or or uh 100 per day, something like that. 50 per day. Like she she she she finds a way to make sure it's Christmas every morning or every afternoon when we get a package. Wow, look at this. 12 to 15, 30, 20. My girlfriend every other day, of course. Six, seven. Why not? Why not? Four to five, two to three. My daughter usually five maybe. I mean, like this is another one of my bull cases for Amazon. It's like this company is not going anywhere. Any incremental increase in margin, you are going to see uh the stock have billions and billions of dollars of more net income because all of us just continue to buy and use Amazon. Like it's it's the nature of how we engage with the company. So Amazon right there at 218. Yeah. I mean so many so many of people saying that they use it three Wow. Doug says three or four times a day. Look, if that's the case, if and they can make it even more intuitive for people to use Amazon by like having AI actually assist in the product adoption. Yeah, that's not going anywhere. On top of that, Morgan Stanley came out yesterday and said, "Hey, we think, remember that headline two days ago that Amazon's trying to replace 600,000 workers over the next four or five years." Morgan Stanley says that's going to save them $4 billion in annual savings through 2027 or by 2027 because they're not going to have to be paying humans and they will have where a lot more warehouse robotics uh expansion and as a result even if they might hire more people the people that they're going to not have to use because of the robotics automation is going to save them $4 billion. I mean could you imagine a company that doesn't have the best margins at 12.4% 4% operating margins to say $4 billion a year. And imagine that's the worst it's going to be. Imagine by 2030 that's like 10 billion a year, right? As robotics gets better and better. Like this is a massive story in margin expansion and cost cutting led by innovation via AI and robotics. And there's just not that many companies that are positioned that have people buying stuff seven times a day from their website like an Amazon. You know, that's why it continues to be a bit more bullish for what we're seeing on Amazon. Benny says it's going to be way more. Yeah, I mean it probably will be a lot more. Rile says, "I work in science team for designing Amazon US supply chain network and I can tell you that a lot of people are buying every day." I wonder how many people are using Amazon's website like if we what's the average of every minute of every or every hour like every hour just in the United States how many people are on the website? Don't they have these stats? How many Hold on, let me let me How many orders does Amazon get per hour? I feel like they disclosed this stuff a year ago. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, it is Wow. On an average hour. Okay. Average hour for Amazon. 536,000 orders. During days like Prime Day, 5.1 million per hour was in 2024. That is wild, bro. That is 530,000. That means in the next hour 530 product 530,000 products on average are going to be bought on Amazon. Yeah, I mean it is pretty incredible and again the scope and scale of the size of that business that's not going anywhere. So look, I continue to believe it's undervalued, but they're going to have to put up some really good results to get the street to be a bit more excited. Uh American Airlines, they had earnings. United Airlines crushed it. Delta Southwest crushed it. Here's what we got on American Airlines, and it should give us a little bit more of a take in terms of the consumer and what's going on with travel. Airlines reporting a smaller than expected loss of 17 cents a share. That compares with the street expecting a loss of 28 cents a share, revenue of 13.69 billion, just a smidge higher than the street. But then when you look at the numbers within the numbers, there was nothing to write home about with this quarter due to operational issues and weather in July. They didn't swing to positive unit revenue until September. As a result, revenue per seat mile in the third quarter down 1.9%. Cost per seat mile up 3.9%. Pre-tax margin negative 1%. And all of the segments when it comes to revenue in the quarter, they were negative year-over-year. Domestic.
>> So American Airlines not the best earnings. Dude, how do we have two minutes until the market opens? This was the fastest fastest pre-market. Like I I did like did we just yap away 40 minutes? I didn't even notice. All right, we got the market open in two minutes, but American Airlines not the best earnings nonetheless. The stock is up uh because the street is okay with at least some of the headline numbers. As you can see right there, American Airlines up 5.2% on the day. IBM is down big. Their consulting revenue was down. That stock down 8%. IBM is one of the bigger players in quantum computing. So, the fact that they're down 8%, but there's all this quantum excitement in the broader investing ecosystem is kind of weird. But, nonetheless, it's kind of ironic when you actually have to put up real numbers and you miss against your numbers, the stock goes down. When you don't put up any numbers, the stock can go up, but you know, IBM taking a hit right there down about 8% and we're going to see if that can recover. Nvidia 0.01% at 180. And then Nvidia or Tesla at 420, that's down about 4.3%. We got about a minute until the market opens. Last quick stat before we get into it. Uh, buybacks, folks. They're coming back. Buyback authorization announcements have risen 16% year-over-year to a record 1.15 trillion. This is the second consecutive yearly increase since the 2020 low. Share or purchase authorizations have more than tripled. Goldman Sachs is warning that watch out for November because right now it's in a blackout period, but uh because companies have earnings coming up. But in November, they're expecting a record amount of buybacks, over a hundred billion in one month to end out Q4 and to end out 2025. That could be a really good setup. I mean, stocks going down, a lot of these companies being like, "Hey, we have to buy back our stock anyway before the end of the year. Our stock is way cheaper than it was back in August and September. Let's buy the dip." And that could be a massive tailwind for the markets as well that we're going to keep an eye on as we get into the end of the year. All right, here we go. Thank everybody for being here. It is Thursday, October 23rd, 9:30 a.m. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Unfortunately, Tessy getting hit right here. Down about 5%. 418. There's the red candle. It was at 447 yesterday. Uh missed on EPS. They came in line with expectations on revenue. Let's see if people step in and buy the dip or if this one continues to take a bit of a hit. Palinger goes green with that $200 million contract that they announced with Lumen Technologies today. Hoodie 12841. Let's see if Hood can get back up to 130. Kathy Wood did buy the dip of about 150,000 shares yesterday. S&P goes green 668. Not too bad on the S&P 500. Nvidia right there 18050. That's up 0.13%. SoFi that's up half a percent 27.40. I did buy my 500 shares of SoFi. Average is 26.88. So you guys can stop asking me to buy SoFi before earnings because I bought it. I'm in. We're either going to bag hold or we're either going to ride it higher. But SoFi right there 2730. That's green. Grabby Grab that's up 1% 567. Google 25375 that's green. Amazon 218 that's green. Salesforce is up. Meta's up. PayPal's up. ELF is up. Apple's up. SMCI still down based on those preliminary earnings that they gave on the missed expectations of revenue, but it was down a lot worse. It was at 46. So rebounded here back up to 51 uh50. BMR, are we going down? We hit 47 yesterday on this. So, got a little bit of a rebound at 48.22, but it was a pretty nasty day yesterday for BMR. Ethereum right there stuck at 3,800. Then Bitcoin at 109. Bitcoin was at 106 yesterday. So, that also get got a little bit of a uh rebound. Nebas, I do still have my 98 put that expires tomorrow. Maybe I don't get assigned. Nebas right there at 100. That's up 2%. So, tomorrow if it stays above 98, we're going to see if I get assigned or not. Apploving that's up half a percent. Circle goes red. Pinterest is up a little bit. PaloAlto is up a little bit, about half a percent. Where is Rocket Lab? That is green 1.1%. How about AS did lose that $100 level. It's at 72. Um B Riley did upgrade AS to 90 today. So, or I think it was 95. So, they did get an upgrade this morning. The essential thesis of the upgrade was increased revenue growth potential on their existing partnerships with telecommunication companies. Uh, but the stock right here slowed down from that $100 level that it hit a couple weeks ago. 7241 on AS. Uber right here up 1%. Nvidia goes red, basically flat. I did buy Nvidia yesterday for the first time in a long time. 17750 was the price I got yesterday. Um, haven't bought since 159 on Nvidia. So, it was small buy. And, you know, the idea is going into earnings. I think it'll be a strong earnings. I don't think we're going to get China revenue though. So, you know, the street's going to have to overlook the lack of China revenue. We were just at 195. I think any move back up to the 190s by the end of the year wouldn't be too bad. Google right there 252. Reddit that's up 2.4%. Then you got PayPal again that's up 1.4%. Serve Robotics that is green on the day up about 1%. What about Rivian? How is that one doing? Rivian down. Not really reacting too much to Tesla earnings. Tesla getting hit. 417 still down 4.7%. 4.7% on Tessie. Trump will be making an announcement at 3 PM today. Trump will be making announcement at 3 PM today. Not sure exactly what he's going to be talking about, but he will be making announcement. Maybe it's about the shutdown. I mean, we're 22 days in. Maybe that changes, but could be on the shutdown. Let's look at some of the high momentum names. Oaklo down 2.7. Again, Oaklo has been down every single day this week. It continues to get hit. How about the quantum stocks after that Wall Street Journal announcement? D-Wave up 14%, NQ up 5% and Regetti up 7%. So again, the Trump administration, Wall Street Journal reported yesterday thinking of taking equity stakes on these companies. You had some senior officials come out and say we are not negotiating with these companies for an equity stake, but the market doesn't care. The headline alone is enough to get these stocks to get higher. And so, you know, the shorts are really getting hit if you did go short over the past couple days based on this announcement. But those stocks continue to go green. Big Bear AI, that stock is at 665, basically flat. How about Nanuclear? That one is up about 1%. SMR, that one is down on the day. And then MP, some of the rare earth stocks continue to go down as well, relatively flat, but that one below $70. Where is Beyond Meat? Are we still above three? We are at 291. Down 18%. It was at 850 at one point in the pre-markets yesterday. stayed at six bucks, got a halted seven times, and now it's back down to 280. Oscar is getting hit, unfortunately, because of Molina Health. So, Oscar down 7% right there. Molina had a crappy quarter. There's there's no ifands or buts about it. Down 20% on the day. Why was it crappy? As you can see on that red candle right there, well, they decreased guidance. And it didn't even really have to do with Medicaid or ACA subsidies. It had to do with some other parts of their business that technically shouldn't really affect Oscar, but because it's in the same sector, you know, Oscar is going to get hit. Same thing with UNH. But if you're in Molina, CNC, all those healthcare companies and you know, you're getting a relatively red day across the board. And that's just part of it. These are some of the healthcare stocks. Yeah, look at them. I mean, you have two names that are red. HCA and Cardinal, Teldoc, Molina, Clover, Humanana, even Tempest, CVS, UNH, Oscar, UNH down almost 2%. Elements, all these guys, and HIMS 47.26, those are also red. Now, Lending Club had a great earnings. They beat on the top and the bottom. revenue is going up 30%. Uh that's up 14% on the day. I think this is your biggest bull flag for SoFi. I mean, if Lending Club is putting up numbers like this, we know that SoFi is going to put up some pretty good numbers and their underwriting is going to be pretty good as well. So, you know, that bull argument for can SoFi really get the $35 bump after good earnings. Maybe that would happen. Open Door, where is Open Door? What do we have going on? Open Door is up 3.3% 707. Open door going green again. A lot of these hardcore momentum names, they did get hit pretty hard over the past like two weeks at this point. So maybe they bottom and maybe you get some people stepping in. Maybe they don't go back to all-time highs, but they do at least not get hit as bad as they were uh over the past two weeks or they potentially just stabilize, make a little bit of a run higher and then continue to get hit with the momentum draw down. So we're going to have to keep an eye on them. It opened right there. Was up 2.7%. S&P goes green. 66880. 66880 on the S&P. Ethereum trying to push for it. Continuing 3864. This one has just been stuck below 4,000 ever since the Truth Social China post. That that's what really wrecked Ethereum and then it hasn't been able to really recover since. So, you know, getting back above 4,000 would be nice. SMCI right there at 4% still down. micro strategy is 282. Little green. Little green. The Bitcoin miners, let's take a look at them. Uh, a lot of these got really hit over the past couple weeks, but they're starting to recover. Bit farm's not really recovering. I mean, this thing was at 660. It's at 403 right here. So, this one's still wrecked, but at least green on the day. Marathon, that's up 1%. Riots's up 2%. Galaxy, I still don't understand why Galaxy took a 15% hit yesterday given like they had a break pretty good earnings, but that one's still down. Iran getting a small recovery rate. They're up 3%, 5373. And then Cipher up 1.3. Clean Spark up 1.5. Terolf down on the day. Celsius, how is that one doing? Celsius is green 6212. So you got some momentum there. Nabius 10164. Okay, bounced from uh 97 from yesterday. And then Cororeweave, which fell to 114. Coravee at 120. A lot of those data center plays starting to move in tandem. Doug says, "Amit all my late September, early October gains are wiped out as of last night. I'm back to September 22, 2025 balance." Yeah, I mean, look, this is similar for a lot of people. A lot of the gains that happened towards the end of September. I mean, it was it it was because of a massive bull run, not only in the S&P, but in a lot of these like momentum names. A lot of those names have come back to reality. Even Tesla, right? Tesla at 417 now 5% down on the day. You know, that's wiping out a lot of gains. the crypto stocks wiping out a lot of gains for people just because Bitcoin and Ethereum have been flat. So, it's like September the market gave us some love. October, it's taken it away and hopefully that sets up a really strong way for November to not only beat earnings, but for buybacks and a lot more liquidity to enter the markets. We're going to get money market fund updates later at the end of the day. I mean, we lost 17 billion last week. Let's see if the idea rate cuts going into next week is enough to get more money out of those funds. Right now, 7.37 trillion still on the sidelines. Who's buying the Tesla dip? Who's buying the Tesla dip? Let me do a poll right here in the chat on who's buying the dip for is what we've got. Are you buying the Tessy dip? Why are you guys saying hell no? Why are you guys so aggressive? So aggressive with Tessy, bro. Goodness. so aggressive. I do get it though, dude. Like I I I I I don't know what the growth story is for 2026. And I would love to understand what it is, but even based on what Elon said yesterday, I think it's more of a 2027 story. It's not really a 26 story, which again, it's what he said two quarters ago. He said by the end of 2026, you can expect some growth, but don't expect it for the next three, four quarters, which would imply that until 4Q26, you're probably not going to have massive massive growth. Uh Tesla 270 would be a dip. The dip is at 350. The Tesla diners, bro. A 2032 store. Okay. I don't know if it's 2032, but it doesn't feel like it's 2026. I'll buy it if it goes to 300. Wow. Okay. So, everyone's waiting for a lot lower than these levels. My average is 284. I wouldn't buy here. I'm debating on selling. Okay. Who's selling? Put in the chat if you're selling. Tell their 419. The only compelling case to sell if you're trading it and you know you don't have this like 10ear thesis on it is that I don't know how Q4 deliveries are going to beat last year's deliveries at around45,000 with no uh EV tax credit. The only argument you can say is rate cuts and maybe like some holiday promotion, but Tesla doesn't really do that that often. So, I don't know. We're gonna have to see, you know, what could get Q4 to get some more excitement on on Tessy, but that's what you have right there. Now, average daily miles driven using FSD, that has grown substantially. 14 million miles a day uh because of FSD are driven, which is quite incredible. So, you got some stats that are continuing to show more and more excitement and momentum. And uh 56 billion dollars of revenue Tesla has generated in its total lifetime. So half a trillion dollars the company has generated. It's just, you know, the earnings yesterday weren't exactly the earnings that everyone wanted to see. Test right there. 421. 421. BMNR. What do we got going on? 4860. Getting a little bit of a bounce right here. uh a myth the January 2027 call spreads for micro strategy or a nice forex if Bitcoin takes off. Yeah, I mean look, well that here the inevitable question for going leverage long via options on anything cryptorelated, Robin Hood included is do you believe Bitcoin is going to make a move that people, you know, have been saying it's going to make? And again, guys, we're barely above 100,000 on this. Like it just feels so fragile. And I think when it gets to the low hundreds every time people come and buy the dip because at the end of the day, it's Bitcoin and people want to buy. But it is not creating that euphoric 150 170 move that a lot of people thought would make. And I think it needs that for a micro strategy option or a Coinbase option, right? Maybe it just needs rate cuts. Maybe we really just need rate cuts. Maybe that's the missing piece here to get this moving. So up 1.3% 2750. But we're going to have to see if we actually get these rate cuts. JP Morgan expects the Fed to end quantitative tightening next week. That makes sense. We know the Fed is going to likely or I mean JPAL even said that he's likely going to you know tamper down on QT Vertive that is that moving getting a little bit of reaction. Okay, there you go. Up 5%. That one had a great earnings yesterday. That one got hit. Some of the other companies that had earnings today. So we talked about American Airlines. Let me pull up some of the other names. So we had AAL. Uh yeah T-Mobile they beat on revenue or sorry beat on EPS missed on revenue. T-Mobile, that stock is down 2.4, but you did have some decent results, which is good. Blackstone beat by 24% on EPS. Private equity firm beat by 6% on revenue. 3.3 versus 3.1, 152 versus 123. Blackstone, that stock is down 2.4. We did have a beat on the top and the bottom. Uh, and then you had Honeywell that beat by 10% on EPS, beat by 2% on revenue, which is not the worst thing in the world. Again, a lot of these companies either coming in line with expectations or really beating Honeywell. That's up 5.4% on the day. That's what you got. Amit, what's your target for BMR this year? You know, I I thought 70 to 75 target was reasonable. And I know a couple of weeks ago that sounded pretty bearish, but I I was not really in the camp that 100 to 150 or 500 like some of these people on Twitter were saying just because I I didn't I don't know if ETH gets to, you know, 8 9,000 like people some people are saying, but I think ETH could get to 5,500 to 6,000. And I guess now it seems more ambitious given that ETH's been flat. But you know, when ETH was at 42 4,300 when I made that prediction, I was like, well, if it can get to 55, even if it can get to five, you're going to see BMR get a bit more of a multiple. Oh, speaking of BMR and Ethereum, uh, this this came out to this morning, which I thought was pretty incredible to see. Take a look at this. You've now got international companies that are starting Ethereum treasuries. So, you've got this company. I don't know what they do. It's called Quantum Solutions. I don't know if they're a quantum firm, but I I've not looked into them. But, uh, the the CEO of the company said, "We just bought 2,365 Ethereum in the last seven days." Now, I really don't care about this company's digital asset treasury. Like, I can care less about that. I care about Tom Lee and BMR, but it is really nice to have more and more of these guys pop up and buy Ethereum because it helps Ethereum's price. I don't know if they're going to be able to accretively dilute and have a premium against their NAV. That's a different question. And Amazon, by the way, breaking above 220, but it does mean more demand on the actual asset itself, which is good to see. So, the question is, how many more of these pop up and how many more of these continue to buy Ethereum? And, you know, over the long term, we're going to see if that ends up playing up. Has Tom explained why he thinks Bitcoin will go to 200? I mean, from what I understand by listening to him, it's a combination of Fed policy easing and overall crypto tailwinds going into Q4. Uh, by the way, Hood and Palenter going green on the day along with SoFi S&P as well. Look at that green candle. Six almost 670. We're getting some green across the board, folks. The only thing that's red is Tesla getting some green across the board. But yeah, he thinks crypto tends to do well in Q4 and he thinks that the Fed easing probably will be a tailwind. So that is his argument for why 200,000 could happen. Dude, we're getting a bit of a pump. We're getting a bit of a pump, which means we're going to get a dump in like five minutes, right? We're gonna get a dump in like five minutes. Dude, it's a nice pump. Meta, look at Wes's. We haven't seen 740 on Meta in a minute. Applovin's up 1%. Circle's up a bit. Pinterest is up. Uh, how about Oaklo? If Oakland goes green, we're really pumping. Okay, Oaklo's not going green yet, but at least it's not down. Is when Oakl goes green, that's how you know we are pumping for the day. We are pumping for the day. 66970 GM all-time highs. I mean, look, General Motors deserves it. I know a lot of us probably are not investors in this company. I I don't own this stock, but dude, they had a fantastic quarter and they had a growth quarter and, you know, they're not a $ 1.5 trillion company. They're a $65 billion company. So, the pressure on them to perform is not as great as Tesla, but still, they had a great quarter. They executed and as a result, you're uh you're getting some excitement right here. Speaking of crypto, this is Fed Governor Waller talking about crypto yesterday at that crypto round table that the entire Fed had. And here is what one of the people who votes for rate cuts had to say about crypto.
>> This is an acknowledgement that distributed ledgers and crypto assets are no longer on the fringes, but are increasingly woven into the fabric of the payment and financial system. Now, before we hear from these innovators, I would like to touch on roles that the reserve plays to support the private sector. These include serving as a convenor to solve coordination problems and operating core payment and settlement infrastructure. We are also looking ahead conducting hands-on research on tokenization using smart contracts and the intersection of AI and payments for use in our own payment systems. We are looking at tokenization, AI, and the intersection of blockchains for our own payment infrastructure. I mean, dude, how much more bullish could you get? That is one of the Fed presidents, potentially one of the next Fed chairs, saying that we are ready as a Federal Reserve to start embracing the crypto ecosystem. Sounds like a lot of ETH related stuff. That is correct. By the way, I finally sat down yesterday and I read Devon Ryan's report, who is one of the only analysts on Wall Street that I actually trust in fintech on ESP. And um outside of him picking ESB over Bitmine, the the the simple reason is ESB trades at blow nav. So he thinks it's more attractive um because you know you're getting it way cheaper than paying 1.4 times for for BMR. If you go through his report, it's like seven pages on why Ethereum is going to win. And it's like you're getting more and more validation from Wall Street analysts that are starting to think, no, no, no, this Ethereum thing is not a joke. Like this is going to be one of the global financial blockchains that controls the payment solutions that get on rail to to to um distributed ledgers. And as a result of that, there's going to be value that's acrewing to that network. And the reason he initiated a $50 target on ASBET is because he thinks it's really cheap because they're trading at 083 times NAV. And so if you believe in Ethereum, then you believe in that sort of leverage against Ethereum. And then he just wants the, you know, the most juicy price as an analyst, which is SPE over B&R. But the point is he's very bullish Ethereum. And I he, you know, he called Robin Hood at $8. He's one of the analysts that I actually like listening to. It's nice to see different perspectives from people on the street that usually are skeptical of of digital asset treasuries, but his report was like, "No, we think it makes a lot of sense because Ethereum is going to win." And then you have the Fed being as supportive as they're supportive as as they talk about on that video. You might start to see a lot more of that momentum, even if it doesn't happen all at once. Robin Hood right there, 12930. That's up 1.63. Another update right here on Robin Hood. Uh banking is out for some people, not everybody. And it looks pretty incredible. It looks pretty freaking incredible. So, I got tagged in a couple posts yesterday on the UI of what banking looks like. They are giving you guys 3.75% in your checking account. I think that's going to get a lot of people to switch. I think that's going to get a lot of people to switch. Look at that. If you set up direct deposit, you get 3.75% in your checkings account. There's no other bank that does that. There's the UI right there. Savings APY, the same thing. 3.75%. And then there is all the different elements to the user experience. I mean, I think when banking rolls out, it is going to be a big big product. And when that does happen, it's going to be pretty pretty exciting as well. IBM is down because they missed on a couple estimates. I don't think there's a meaningful reason for why they should be down that much. They were down 9%, now they're down 4%. So, you got a little bit of a recovery right there on the green candle. Tesla's still down 4%. Everything else is pumping. S&P, wow, 670. We got it. 670. 670 on the S&P. There you go. There you go. Look at her. She's trying to go to 671. Nvidia up half a percent. Google back to 255. SoFi 28, baby. I'm with you guys on SoFi. Let's go to the moon. Let's go to the moon. Let's please go to the moon. Dude, this 67 thing is getting ridiculous, bro. 67 thing is getting ridiculous. Um, but there you go. You got SoFi making a move. Grab flat on the day 561. Google 254. Reddit that's up 4%. Reddit took a hit yesterday as well. Duolingo, that's up 1%. Let's look at the heat map. I would think we're getting some pretty big greener. Yeah, look at that. The only thing that's red is Tesla, T-Mobile, and IBM. And then healthcare. Tesla, T-Mobile, IBM, and healthcare are red. Almost everything else is green. Almost everything else is green. Oscar again dumping because of healthcare. I I don't think it's an Oscar thing. So, if you're an Oscar, I wouldn't be too upset about this. It seems like a Molina healthcare. It's something you need to be cautious of to you. If you're an Oscar shareholder and you have a heavy position, I think you need to go through Molina's earnings and be like, what trends in the earnings could be applicable to my stock, aka Oscar, in the healthcare space. And if there's not any trends that are like a proportional reason for why Oscar would also report something that's as bad as what Molina reported, then it's it becomes a buy the dip. But if there is, you know, some potential weakness in the overall sector, you know, Oscar could have a crappy earnings. And so that's the one thing I think that's important to look at if you're an Oscar. Hoodie trying to go back to 130 12950. Tesla down 4%. Still Tesla recovering a little bit and the S&P is still green. Where's uh fear and greed? We were at extreme fear yesterday, by the way. We were at extreme fear. Someone bought $10 million worth of at the money puts on Tesla. All right. So you're getting some put option flow come in for Tessie. That's more bearish. We are still at fear, folks. We're still at the year. Dude, I know people hate this index, but it's been pretty accurate. It's been pretty accurate. And I can't even imagine what extreme greed would look if we are 1% away from alltime highs on the S&P 500 and we were at extreme fear. I mean, are we going to like 15,000 on the S&P to get to extreme greed? Like, what's what's it going to take? Like, it's it's pretty incredible to see this index act the way it acts. But so far we are back in fear 29 on the S&P. Uh Nebius goes green as well. Nebus and Cororee continuing to go green. And then Oaklo still red dude. Oaklo still red. S&P trying to get back to alltime highs. And Oaklo cannot recover even a dollar of what it lost over the past two days. The quantum stocks are are massively green. I mean, if it wasn't for that Wall Street Journal article, the quantum stocks might have had the bottom fall out today along with Oakllo because you're seeing a rebound across the entire market except some of those momentum names like in Oaklo. And the thing about the Wall Street Journal article is we don't even know if it's fully true. And for those that don't know what I'm talking about, the Trump administration is thinking of taking equity stakes in the quantum names. So, you know, maybe when we get clarity on that, we're going to see how the market reacts. But as of now, that is what's holding up a lot of these names. to still be green. S&P 670. S&P still 670. What do you think about the forward PE for the market as we're in the 22 to 25 range? I think it's justified. I think it's very I I I I don't think we need to be at any historical PE of uh what's 16 to 18 times when you have the quality of companies that we have in the market right now that are putting up the earnings growth that they're putting up. I mean again the way to push back against the high earnings multiple on not only the broader index for the market but any stock is are they growing like the the people that hate Paler's valuation which I understand I get it I get that quantitatively it's hard to make sense of it but is pounder growing top and bottom line and are they growing not just like growth are they like growing growing and the answer is yes and when that stops the stock will get hit but until that stops which you know if you don't see the trajectory of that stopping anytime soon then the valuation could be justified ified. But on some of these names where there's like just no growth, there's nothing there. That's where it's hard to make sense of it. So for the S&P, there's growth. There's 10% earnings growth. You're lucky to get, you know, five to six% earnings growth on a good year. Fact that we're getting 10 to 11%. With companies that have massive margins because they're tech companies. That's why I think you can make an argument for the multiple. So right here, 3% growing through 28, which is nice to see. Stock got all the way to 26.40 40 yesterday. So 28 on the S&P or on SoFi. If you look up Oakllo's address, it gives you a place when you search. It's a normal house with no office building. Yeah, I've seen those pictures of Oaklo. I mean, that is also kind of weird. If you It's It's true for a lot of these companies. If you look at the head, if you like look up their office address, this is what the Oakllo headquarters looks like. I mean, maybe there's a bunch of people here designing the next generation of nuclear energy in the United States of America, or maybe it's just a random location because they just needed a spot to put on their on their uh SEC filings as a location. But it is definitely weird. It is definitely weird. Figure robotics company Brett Adcock posted, "Figure's new B200 cluster is now online. These are a bunch of Blackwell GPUs that you are looking at folks. Um, some analysis right here. 33 units in sight that look like super micro 10u systems each with eight GPUs. Total cost estimated by Grock is 14 million. We are not really looking towards the demand for humanoid robotics training and how much Nvidia is going to make off that including AMD. I mean all those companies that supply chips. These are only eight GPUs. I mean figures trying to sell billions of robots. So the fact that you know the total cost was this for 14 million you can imagine that these companies are going to be spending hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars on GPUs over the next 10 years if humanoid robotics as a thesis plays out and you know that is another growth vertical for Nvidia that might not be factored in 18150 is what you have on Nvidia Nebius right here that's up 5% look at that 104 10465 on Nebus yes SMCI had net sales of five billion versus uh the expected ones, which is why SMCI taking a bit of a hit right here, but it is recovering from where it was in the pre-markets and core is also green as well. Thoughts on the 7.4 trillion in money markets? Coiled spring waiting for the Fed? Yeah, that's pretty much what I think. I think it's a coiled spring. I think eventually that money is going to come out. Now, again, we got to have really good earnings growth for that money to have a reason to come out, but we're getting it so far. And I know Tesla and Netflix haven't been the best examples of it, but next week you're going to really see if people want to bet on Meta, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, etc. They're going to have to put up those numbers. Amazon right there 220.41 on the day as well. Did CPI leak? You know, to be honest, given this green, maybe CPI usually it leaks at 3:30 though, not in the morning. It's not even 10 a.m. yet. But we're going to see if we do get some more people caring about CPI. Um, admit I think you're right. Grab is being manipulated. Look, that's my thesis on it. Maybe I'm wrong. I just I'm open to listening to a different perspective on why the stock has been flat after trading a billion shares in September. Uh, a lot of that being institutional. I mean, again, like here's the most important thing to understand about Grab. It got to 660 in September. A billion shares were traded. And I am not Eric Jackson. I am not standing in front of a celebrity's house telling them to buy a share of Grab every single day. I can I personally cannot create a retail movement. I know I'm one of the bigger names that talks about the stock, but I'm not the guy that's created this massive movement. I mean, like just grabbs also not even an interesting enough company like an open door inside of the United States that has all these elements to it to get people excited. So, I think a lot of those billion shares that were traded in September that got the stock to move as high as it did was not people on Robin Hood. You don't see people with Robin Hood screenshots that have 400,000 shares like you do with Open Door. I mean, like I've seen so many of those screenshots over the past month. I really do think it was big money. So then the question becomes, why is the stock down from where it was in September? Well, I think it's also big money that's either setting up for a big earnings move. They wanted a cheaper price or you have the shorts that come in and it's a game between big money versus shorts. And the only way for one of the entities to win, just like it was with a lot of other companies when they were stuck in this phase, is earnings growth. And so realistically, I think if Grab can put up the numbers, then things can change. But until then, I think it is manipulated. But I really don't think this was a retail pump and dump when it got to $6 or 650 in September because retail just doesn't care enough about the name. They just don't like it's a Southeast Asian company. Like the retail has so there's so many AI data center [__] Like if this was a Bitcoin miner, yeah, if this was a quantum nuclear, but this is not. This is just like Uber for Southeast Asia. So to me, it's not the most exciting from a retail perspective. And that's why I think the stock kind of going up and then going down is is more manipulation than anything. But earnings is going to give us the good story or earnings is going to give us a story. And if that story is good, which I think it will be. Then we're going to see how the stock ultimately reacts. Uh yes, Triple V has millions of shares, but at the end of the day, you know, not everyone is TripleV that has millions of shares. He's, you know, one retail investor. I think the majority of the institutional flow which is now 85%. Is big money on this name. Where's Amcore on the day? Amcor 31. Okay. Amcore right there. Up 2.6%. Intel. Is that green? 37. Oaklo goes green. There you go, folks. Well, no, it's not green yet. It's 50 cents away from where it's close to being green. Once that goes green, we can go back to alltime highs on the S&P. That's what we need. That is what we need. Um, oh, we got home sales from the US. Hold on. Let me see if I can get those numbers. I didn't know we would get these existing home sales because the government shut down, but guess we have them. Let's pull it up right here.
>> Joe Leavia about those findings. and Tesla rose one and a half% from August to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of 4.06 million units. That's a little less than the street was expecting. Sales up 4.1% from September of last year and it is the highest pace in 7 months. Now discount is based on closings. So people inking deals in July and August when mortgage rates were coming down though not quite as low as they are now. Inventory is the headline though up 14% from a year ago to 1.55 million units for sale at the end of September. That matches a five-year high, but it's still much lower than historical averages. At the current sales pace, we're now at a 4.6 month supply. And that continues to pressure prices. The median price of a home sold in September, $415,200, up 2.1% year-over-year and the 27th consecutive month of annual gains. First-time buyers making a little comeback, likely due to falling mortgage rates. They made up 30% of September sales, up from 26% a year ago. 30% of sales were all cash. Homes are sitting on the market longer though, an average 33 days, up from 28 days a year ago. Back to you, Mike.
>> All right, Diana, thank you very much. Now to Washington and two big stories out of the White House moving markets this morning. New energy sanctions on Russia and reports the government is eyeing stakes in quantum computing companies. Let's get to Aean Javvers with the latest on both of these storylines. Aean.
>> Yeah, Mike. President Trump's decision to impose sanctions on Russian oil companies Rosnap and Luke Oil came after the breakdown of talks between the US and Russia for another face-to-face meeting between President Trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putin. A senior White House official told me yesterday that the president decided to put on these additional sanctions because he wants to see results in the peace process between Russia and Ukraine. President Trump explained his reasoning for this uh during his meeting yesterday with the Secretary General of NATO. certainly have an impact there. They're massive sanctions and sanctions on oil. Uh the two biggest oil companies among the biggest in the world, but they're Russian. They do a lot of oil and hopefully it'll push uh hopefully he'll become reasonable. And separately, guys, the Wall Street Journal, as you mentioned, is reporting that the Trump administration is ready to take equity stakes in several quantum computing firms. The Journal reports that the US government could invest a minimum of $10 million in each company, and that the firms under consideration include ion, Regetti Computing, and D-Wave Quantum. White House officials have not confirmed the accuracy of that report to CNBC, but officials have told me generally several times that there are quite a few companies that are under discussions with the administration right now to turn over a share of their ownership in exchange for government investment. Back over to you guys.
>> All right, so home sales slight miss. You got the Russia shank sanctions that we talked about in the morning and then the quantum names, folks. I mean, quite literally, Donnie T saved the day. These stocks probably would either be flat or continue, you know, the negative pressure that they've had over the past two weeks. Now, government comes in and backs stops it. And the fact that they haven't confirmed the rumors from the Wall Street Journal is interesting to me because like if they were not investing, they might have already just said, "No, we're not investing." But they haven't said that yet. And so, you might get an announcement later in the day and they say, "Yeah, we're thinking of putting 10 million into D-Wave and ONQ and all those companies and then boom, that only further legitimizes them. Now, these stocks are still down a decent chunk over the past couple weeks, but a day like this kind of gets them back in their mojo. Tesla right there at 3.3%. That's still down 424, although it is recovering S&P 669.79. Yeah, I mean 10 million investments is more than the revenue that some of those companies made last quarter, which is also kind of crazy. So, if you closed out the short yesterday, if you have like these inverse short funds or whatever, or if you're actually short or you have puts, like yesterday was the day to close them out. Now, granted, who could have known that uh there was this type of announcement coming after hours, but if you did know, then obviously you made some money and you're able to kind of navigate how the government was thinking about. Now, there was a little bit of option flow towards the end of the day on people buying uh options on the quantum stock. So, one could argue that, you know, some people knew this was happening, which of course, you know, that wouldn't surprise me for the people that did know. But regardless, it definitely caught a lot of people off guard, especially if you were short. And as a result, now you're seeing these names continue to get some love. I don't know if Crystal has a short fund. I but Chris went short like 30 bucks ago or not 30 20 bucks ago. So I think even even with this move today I think he's still profitable on it. He went short a couple weeks ago and it's still down a decent chunk from a couple weeks ago. I think I think we'll have Chris on for macro Thursday today. So I'll ask him if he's still in it or not. But uh yesterday was the best day to kind of sell out on those names. Uh Trump is speaking at 3 p.m. today. Trump is speaking at 3 PM. Robin Hood back to 130. Touched it for a bit. Had a little bit of move right there. Bro, 10 million is probably more revenue than all three quantum companies made all year combined. Look at Douggee. Douggee is now a bear. Douge sells his Quantum and now he's bearish. Now he's like, you know what? This it is stupid. No. Well, Doug, you made good money, dude. You made good six figures. And there's no way you could have known that there was going to be a strategic government investment, which we still don't even know if that's happening or not. But even the thought of that's getting them excited. QBTZ is down 40% today. My goodness. And that's cuz Dwave's up 20%. That's the opposite of the inverse fund. Well, I forgot this is double leveraged. I forgot this is not just inverse. This is double leveraged inverse. So yeah, actually if if you bought yesterday or you bought even a couple days ago, you're you're you're probably red to break even. This is not just the inverse. This is double leveraged inverse which could really wreck you. So there you go. That's definitely getting a bit hit right here. S&P 0.28 669 still kind of green on the day. Now, where was Hold on. QBTZ, where was this a week ago? If you look at this a week ago, it was at 24. Now, it's at 13. Okay. So, you've had you've had to basically buy it. Well, no, it went to 24 yesterday. Yeah. Well, I mean, look, if you bought it around this $11 range, you're still green. Chris bought it what, October 15th. Yeah, Chris should still be green. He bought it at 11. Round about I think he even tweeted about it. We can get the price that he tweeted about. So, he should still be green, but yesterday was the day he could have made some big money if he actually sold it. Yeah, dude. Wild. So quick. So quick. This stuff can change in an instant. Yeah, look, he bought it at 10 bucks. This was on what day? This was uh October 16th. So, he's the fact that he's still green on this even after a 20% move that D-Wave had today shows how much the actual underlying stock got wrecked. But yesterday was at 24. So, yesterday he was up more than double. Today he's up like 30%. Uh, but that's what you have on some of the quantum names. S&P that's still up about 0.25%. Google is that green? Google 253. Google signs corporate agreement to back a gas power plant featuring carbon capture and storage technology. All right, Google is going to freaking keep doing what they're doing. We're getting more and more data center announcements from Google across the entire board. Some of these domestic, some of these international. India was the big one, 15 billion that they announced last week. And now you're seeing more power announcements from Google as well. SoFi, that's getting a little bit of a hit. SoFi 2770 down from 2815. Um, Meta getting a bit of a move. Where is Meta? Yeah, we haven't seen 739 since September 30th. It's been a month since we've seen it in the 740s. Since then, it got all the way down up to the 691 level. So, look at that. There you go. 740 on Meta. It's been a minute since we've seen Meta even get close to these levels, but you are seeing that now. Oaklo, are we officially green on Oaklo? We are officially green on Oaklo 12. All right, some of these names getting some of their momentum back. Intel right here goes flat on the day. Disney still down. And then Square down 0.53. I was talking to someone who works at Square a couple days ago and he said he takes all of his restricted stock options that he gets in compensation and he sells them the day he gets it and he buys Robin Hood. So he's like I he has no belief in Square. He's just there for the healthcare to be honest and he takes that money and he just dumps it right into Hood. So it is crazy because like you know he's such a Hood fan but when they when when Square got into the S&P over Hood he was happy but because he works there but even he was like dude Hood needs to get in. So it's kind of wild but this stock right here 7628 on the day. Um, Google covers all your needs as an investor from AI, quantum robotics, FSD, search and products. Yeah, I mean, let me ask this question to the chat because there was this conversation on X yesterday that I thought was really interesting. So, here is the question. Um, by the way, 79% of you said no on green or red or on uh if you're buying the Tesla dip. Will Google be more valuable than Nvidia one day? The question is, is Google the dark horse candidate to actually be the world's most valuable company? Will they outpace Nvidia? They're at three trill. Nvidia is at 4.4. I know 1.4 Four trillion is some distance, but is it really that much distance if Google's able to put up some really good growth numbers? Who knows? Maybe maybe there's a world without changes, but I would be curious to see kind of what some people think on this. Um, Apple signing a satellite deal with SpaceX. As per the information, they are reporting that Apple has signed a satellite deal with SpaceX. The goal is direct iPhone connectivity via Starlink. Testing already underway in multiple US states. Apple's been ghosting satellite suitors for years. Elon Starlink now gets the Apple seal of approval. Dude, that'd be a big deal if Apple links up with SpaceX. You've had a lot of companies like United Airlines that have started to work with SpaceX just because it's way better coverage. I mean, that could actually be a really interesting announcement if Apple works with them and Elon and Cook are working together. That is the information right now reporting that Apple and SpaceX could be working together. SMCI still taking a dump. Are we getting hit? SMCI still taking a dump. Down 6%. Down 6%. Yeah, Google also owns 7% of SpaceX. That's the other thing. It also owns 7% 7% of SpaceX. Uh, gold is still pumping. Getting a little bit of a move right there on gold. Um, as that one still flat from yesterday, but green on the day up 2.1%. They can't even get Siri right. Yeah, I I look I think Apple's getting the multiple because they think, you know, the street thinks they will get Siri right going into next year. But I agree. I mean, it really has been a disaster over the past 14 years with them having the head start. Stock draft. Matt still at 41% in the lead. I'm at 33. Still down 34% on Duolingo. Steve's at six. Tanner's at 20. And Chris is at 9.3. So, Mr. Matt Money continues to be green at these levels. Um, do you think Google will dip? It's so expensive right here. I mean, look, when OpenAI announced that like browser thing, you had a little 5% hundred billion dollar market cap dip right there. I don't think Google is crazy expensive. It's It's just had a lot of run since that 150 level, but at 250, it's at 150 was just stupid. 250 is not stupid anymore, but is it like egregious expensive? I I don't think so given their earnings projections. Also, you got to remember Google's buying back Amazon's the Amazon and Tesla are the only Max 7s that aren't actually buying back their stock. And once you start buying back your stock, it becomes a little bit of a cheat code in terms of being able to create a base floor for the stock. You know, you might continue to see that for Google as well. Um, okay. Okay. What else do we see right here? Beyond Meat, that one's still getting dumped. Beyond Meat getting hit. Beyond short interest on Beyond Meat and nearly 109% of free float versus 82% on Wednesday. Wow. So, the hedge funds are loading up on borrowing shares that don't even exist for uh for for Beyond Meat. That stock still down 17% right here. We have 15 minutes until we get red candles. Yeah, maybe 10:30 slam. We're going to see if uh if we end up getting it, will you buy more soy at 27 2650? I bought yesterday at 2680. I'm in. So, I mean, it would have to really go down further than that, but I already bought. I'm in. We're going to run it till earnings and hopefully Tanner's right and we get a big move. Crowd Strike alltime high. Crowd Strike. Wow. 517 on Crowd. We don't have any updates on Crowd. No earnings yet, but Crowd continuing to get a move. Yeah. Imagine the government taking a stake in Beyond Meat. That would be hilarious. That would genuinely be hilarious. Again, it is also kind of just like this whole quantum thing is funny to me because again, I just I don't know, dude. May maybe there is some nationally competitive threat with China and quantum computing that the United States needs to be super super involved in. Maybe that's the case. But if that's the case, you would take a multi-billion dollar stake. You wouldn't take a 10 million is not a stake, bro. 10 million is nothing. So that's why it feels like it's nonsense. And then again, when you look at the deputy e secretary of defense, Steve Fineberg, who also has a hedge fund, and he left that hedge fund to become the deputy secretary of defense, and then that hedge fund, you look a little deeper, has a hund00 million position in one of these quantum names. You start putting the pieces together and say, what's going on right here? Why is the government pumping quantum when they've never really talked about all the defense applications of it, at least in a meaningful way? Or why aren't they taking a multi-billion dollar stake in these quantum funds? Or why aren't they buying freaking Google if they care so much about quantum and IBM? Because you would imagine Google and IBM are doing some pretty important things versus some of these other companies. So, I don't know. It feels like a grift, but we're going to need confirmation if this is even happening. It's just like Twitter lost their mind last night, dude. When that story came out, everyone lost their mind because there's a decent amount of people that agree with the argument that in order to have a bull market, you cannot have random names spike up. Like that is more bubbish than bullish. And people just lost their minds. People were like, "Oh, wow. So this is this is this is what we're doing now. This is what we're doing now. This is how we're subsidizing the ecosystem." But I guess that's that's how it's playing out. Um, what other positions are in his fund? I tried to find if there were other quantum names. He has a lot of stocks, but there's no other quantum names. IQ is the only one. They have like 2.4 million shares. They do have EOSE. They do. Cerebras Capital Management does has EOSE, which has taken a bit of a hit over the past couple weeks, but this stock also is still up a lot for the year. I know a lot of people like the stock in the in the battery space, up 178% this year. So, they do have a fund in that. Um, restaurant stocks all down on the day. Cheesecake Factory, that's down, huh? Yeah, people are selling off the restaurant stocks today. Texas Roadhouse, dude. Texas Roadhouse. I think Joseph Carlson's right about it. I went there last week. The line on that freaking restaurant is just cra like it is just packed every weekend. Texas Roadhouse 17543 right there. Is McDonald's down? McDonald's is down. Okay, so all the restaurant names are down here. S&P losing 670. That's correct. All right, 10:30 slam. We're 12 minutes away, but maybe it's coming up. I did not take Steve. I went myself. Stephen, I went to a place called Uncle Jackson. Let's just say it was better stake than Texas Roadhouse, that's for sure. But it's the most rare stake I've ever had. SMCI getting wrecked right here. Down 6% still. Ethereum almost losing 3,800. Almost losing 3,800. Dude, the thing about Texas Roadhouse is the bread. That butter on the bread. That's just like it's a different type of butter. I'm surprised other restaurants haven't copied it. That cinnamon butter is like, goodness gracious, bro. It's like the best butter that I've ever had with bread. We're now taking steak recommendations from you, mate. Oh my gosh. Um, Cracker Barrels at an April low. Wait, Cracker Barrels public? Oh yeah, they are down two. I forgot cuz they had that whole branding controversy. Year to date, the stock's down 34%, dude. Market cap of 85 million. H down another 2% today. Down another 2%. Okay, let's see some of the other headlines that we have. We looked at all the earnings. We talked about some of this Trump China stuff. He's making a meeting at 3M. Oh, Jensen's gonna have GTC next week, which is going to be really important. Uh, so we're going to see what Jensen says at GTC. The FBI is live right now talking about an NBA gambling bust. Hold on. Let's look at this real quick. What are they saying here? Of prop bets on individual player performance. The bets were placed through online sports books and also in person at casinos. The defendants relied on a network of straw bers to place the maximum amount of bets to increase their potential profits. Most of these bets succeeded, and the intended losses were in the millions of dollars. The defendants then laundered their illegal winnings in various ways. Peer-to-peer platforms, bank wires, and simple cash exchanges. The indictment. Okay, so you got Kosh Patel creating a investigation right here on NBA gambling. I guess with prediction markets, this stuff is only going to get crazier as more and more people enter into that ecosystem around betting. Robin Hood back to 130, but you've got more and more of a ecosystem of betting around the entire country. It's kind of wild, bro. I mean, there there have been so many controversies of people paying other people to, you know, have players do certain things. I mean, there's been so many controversies around referees back in the early 2000s in the NBA in particular, but it looks like that is one of the new updates here on the day. Um, yeah, Chanty Bops, dude, that's pretty wild. Are Cash and Chris related? They are not related. Maybe they're like a distant cousin. Who knows? Feel like every potato is related in some way, dude. Every in some way, but no, I don't I don't think they're related. Um, okay. Let's see the other stories we have right here. Again, Tesla's still trying to kind of break above the 420. Oh, this was a good update from AMD today. Uh this is like a real use case of AI. Uh Meg Cognetics is using AI on AMD technology to help radiologists deliver faster, more accurate breast cancer diagnosis from hospital workstations to rural screening bands. This is the stuff that I really care about when we get new updates on AI. Like stuff that has real tangible impacts and use cases for all of us. And there you go. AMD partnering with a company to make early cancer detection a lot more accessible. I mean this is the stuff that I think the street is looking for because if you can detect cancer in people before it happens. I mean that that's massive commercially that would be very very important for the overall healthcare industry and then you know that would save a lot of lives. So I do think that's something the street cares about in terms of seeing more of that less social media AI generated videos as like the basis of what AI is being used for. Grab getting some green. Google getting some green. SoFi up 2.6. S&P trying to get back to 670. Little bit of a reversal. Even Tesla 425. That's the high of day for Tesla. Maybe that's getting ready to break green potentially. Healthcare still getting hit. UNH is down but not No, UNH is was down 2%. Now it's barely down 1%. So still getting a move. BMR, how are we doing there? BMR 4838 4838 NT is the oncology play. It's D's biggest position. Really? NT is D's biggest position. Is it his biggest biotech or his legit biggest position? Huh? $26 billion market cap up 18% on the day or on not the day on year to date. Oh, that's incredible. That is pretty incredible. When do you expect Ethereum to move? I don't know. I mean, I really don't I don't know if there's a way you can expect it to move. I think you just have to keep tracking. Do the use cases continue to grow and does the overall sector continue to have more momentum. Um, and naturally, you know, the price should continue to grind higher. But that's the problem with options on a lot of these Ethereum plates. Like, you just don't know when it's going to play out. And so we were not in the most obvious crypto winter like in like when Bitcoin was at 15,000 and MSTR was at like 20 bucks. That was a crypto winter. So you could you could say all right once we get out of crypto winter, you know, we should have a move and people who bet hard on MSTR made a lot of money. The problem with this, we're not in a crypto winter, but these these assets are still flat. So the question is, you know, is it is it an obvious time to say they should make a move or is it actually we are approaching a crypto winter and these assets are going to take a move to the downside. I think the entire thesis of a crypto winter is weird because of all the institutionalization we have. But if the cycle continues the way it has for the past like 14 years, maybe that's the case. My best bet would be towards November, December, we get a move on Bitcoin, Ethereum because we get the rate cuts, but that would have to be the most important thing. The CEO of ETH needs to be fired after the Clarity Act. ETH might move Last bull cycle didn't really have a blowoff top. No, but it did, right? 2021 was the blowoff top. Bitcoin 69 thou. I mean, it was almost prophetic. Bitcoin 69,000. Are you kidding me? And that was the number that we had a blowoff top on. November 2021. The S&P had a blowoff top in January 22. We got to 478 on the S&P. Even after we knew we were raising rates, people still started buying the market in in January. And then we finally got flushed out and everything just, you know, went down. But I feel like that was the the blowoff top. Um, I think SMCI going down is knee-jerk. Q1 revised down caused some revenue push to Q2, but they reiterated the 33 bill. Yeah, the SMC I think is weird. They reiterated the core number for the year and they mentioned supply issues versus demand issues. So, it is weird that it's getting hit as bad. It's not taking all the semis down with it. If we look at the semis, yeah, relatively green. SMCI and on semiconductor, the only ones that are down. Marll, ARM, TSM, Intel, AMD, the rest of these guys still doing okay. Still doing okay. Are we at 10:30 a.m.? We're about to be. We're about to be at 10:30. S&P up 27. We're going to see in two minutes kind of how this plays out. Take a look at this chart right here. Shanghai gold warrants have now rose to an record 86,565 kilograms this week. What is a gold warrant? Essentially, it is a digital certificate that proves ownership of physical gold stored in an exchange approved warehouse. This is a 28x increase since 2024, signaling that a lot of investors in China, whether they're retail institutional or just the average Joe in China, wants exposure to gold. So, it's it's almost like a gold futures contract that shows that you have exposure even if it's not literally physical gold. Gold, right, they're up 2.3% on the day. Silver as well. JP Morgan also said this morning they think gold to 5,000 by end of year is not crazy. They have a 8,000 target by the end of next year and 5,000 by the end of this year. I mean, that would just be a lot of market cap that would add to gold if that plays out. By the way, we don't have jobs claims yet, but we do have a little bit of data from some independent parties uh showing that initial jobless claims by federal workers spiked 121% week overw week after the shutdown. 7,244 people filed for unemployment after they left or after they got fired from the federal government and this is the highest number since the 2019 government shutdown. So we don't have initial jobs claims yet across the entire private sector but in the public sector you are seeing more and more people that are getting laid off as per the government continue to lay off. Tucker Carlson came out yesterday and he said he thinks Bitcoin is totalitarian. Uh I thought that was relatively interested. He said he doesn't own Bitcoin because he's afraid that he will be controlled by the government.
>> I spoke at the Bitcoin conference actually last year. I've spoken at a couple Bitcoin conferences. I love the idea of Bitcoin because I love the idea of financial autonomy. I don't want what I buy or sell to be tracked. I don't want my money to be tracked. It's nobody's business. I pay my taxes. I've never cheated on my taxes. I've been very tempted, but I never have one time cheated on my taxes. And once the money's mine, like I can do what I want with it. And if you find me breaking a law, arrest me, but if you don't, it's none of your beeswax, as the kids say. So, um, I love the idea of the blockchain. I knew some of the people involved in that whole thing. And then, and I still believe in that promise. Okay. Roger Ver for example. I don't know if how closely do you follow this but like there are people who still believe in that but it turns out that it is not to this point been I hope it will be a way to conduct financial transactions privately at all and that really freaks me out. I'm really afraid of a digital currency because that is totalitarian control. If you can punish people, if you can zero out their bank account and keep them from eating, you will have total obedience. Like that's totalitarian. And I know that young people love crypto because they've been completely screwed in the job market and there are no financial opportunities for most of them. And they know they're staring down a life of if not poverty, certainly a step down from the way they grew up, most young people. And so Bitcoin for them, crypto in general for them is a promise of like, how can I make it in this world? Like I would like to have a normal life. How can I do that? And crypto is the a way they think that they can. And I'm praying for them. I hope I hope that's true. But I fear that it will become like so many other things in our country uh a scam of sorts.
>> Who agrees? Who agrees? Tucker says Bitcoin is totalitarian control and they will track what you do with your money if you give them control over it. By the way, Hoodie making a bit of a move right here. 131 potentially on deck. 130.80. 80 is what we have. I don't know. I don't feel like I'm as educated on Bitcoin. I do think that argument is a little off base and I don't know if it understands all the technical nuances of ledgers and things of that nature. Ironically, you could say the decentralized aspect of Bitcoin is a way to completely hedge against what he's talking about. I mean, if it's Bitcoin or bank account, you would imagine that Bitcoin is less easier to track than a bank account, even if it is possible to track it. But that is Mr. Tucker's perspective. Iran, are we getting a move right there? Iran. Wow. 7%. All right. Iran going green. 5546. That is up as well. Um, Crowdstrike. Why is Crowd Strike up, bro? I don't see any reason Crowd Strike should be moving the way they're moving. Crowd Strike right there. Ah, it feels technical. Feels like a pure technical move. No actual headline. I mean, maybe move going into earnings as well. That could be happening. [Music] Um, why isn't Rumble stock higher beta? You know, I've always asked myself about this because there is a bit of a cult on Rumble, but the company is just so like boring. It's a YouTube competitor for free speech. Like, it's just it's really has not gotten a lot of people excited about it. I think if there was anything more interesting about this company, you know, you would have some more high beta, but yeah, they're just not. and that's why the stock is basically flat. Uh, speaking of the government ownership based on this quantum news we talked about today, take a look at this. These are the current holdings of the Trump administration. Uh, they're up a lot. They got some pretty good deals. It totals about $18 billion that the government is up on in regards to or that the overall equity stake that they have. 93% of that 18 billion is Intel. Then you got NP, Lithium America's, then TMQ. Maybe the quantum names join this conversation, but Trump's hedge fund has been crushing it. Even though technically technically it's our dude, these are our investments stakes. These are the US taxpayer dollar holdings. So we all own a little bit, you know, all of us own a little bit of Intel, MP, LAC, and TMQ. all of us which is kind of crazy but it is the US taxpayer dollar going into this Robin Hoodie 131 Robin Hoodie 131 that is green that's up 3% then pounder making a move that's up 2% as well would you hold your soy if it pumps I want to see what the quarter looks like I mean if we get a really big pump and like the quarter justifies the pump I think I hold on to it but a move to 35 off of decent quarter but not an excellent quarter. I don't know, maybe it's a sell. The thing is the SoFi reports a day before rate cuts. So, I feel like you can't sell on earnings if you have a good earnings because then you get a rate cut the next day and maybe it's baked in. But like that should be bullish for SoFi. So, I feel like if they give us a good quarter, you you just hold on and then maybe you get a rate cut and then maybe after the rate cut you sell. But I really want to see what what happens on the earnings. and what they will say. Yeah. I mean, look, a lot of you guys that are not in America, you don't own the uh the these companies, but if you're in America here, we are officially shareholders of all these names. Um, yeah, not me because I'm Canadian. Uh, okay. Let's pull up this thing right here as well. So, we looked at a couple things in regards to some of these gold price targets. Um, well, you know, I think this thing is also pretty interesting to look at in the context of what we're talking about. We talked about subprime lending yesterday, that not necessarily being the best. The core report that got stocks to go down, by the way, yesterday is Trump administration considered a plan to restrict globally produced exports to China made with or containing US software. New export controls could curb exports on a wide range of goods to China. That is why stocks puked yesterday. It looks like that report has not necessarily been as legitimate as people thought it was. Uh, and there's not going to be massive tariffs on goods and services or export controls that are made with US software. But that was one of the reasons the street was freaking out a little bit. Here's some coverage on the Fed deficit, which is another reason markets got a little weirded out yesterday as some new stats came out and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Year uh second quarter rather, fiscal year uh 25, we had uh 34%. So basically in the two quarters that over overlapped with the Biden administration, 74% of the budget deficit occurred. Then from April forward, two things happened. One, as you mentioned, you had tariff revenues. We're going to probably collect something in a calendar year of about 300 billion. It's an annual rate of nearly 400 billion if you look at the last few months. But what's important, Michael, is that on the spending side, spending year on year in the third quarter of this year was basically flat up2 and it was down 2.5% in the in the fourth quarter or the last quarter of the fiscal year. So the spending trajectory looks very key and that's why the Republicans do not want to cave to Democrat demands to reverse these spending initiatives which are going to keep a much better deficit trajectory in place thanks to President Trump's policies.
>> Um Joe, I see a lot of the Wall Street research uh and economists writing about 2026, calendar 2026, and why we should expect some of the simulative effects of uh the OBB coming through. And one of those is expected very heavy individual tax refunds in the first quarter, $150 billion or so, incremental to last year, as well as a lot of the corporate tax incentives. I guess the the the what I'm wondering is whether you're getting the benefits on the deficit side this year because you're kind of overwithholding by design and you're giving it back next year. And also, you know, can we extrapolate the spending levels from this past quarter uh into next year? So Michael on the OOT tripleB uh the full expensing of capital those guidelines I believe are almost done the full expensing for factories which is very important and will drive domestic production and tax revenues that's still being worked on. We do need this shutdown to end because at some point we're not going to be able with the IRS and Treasury working on this. They're not going to be able to fully implement everything in time if the Democrats keep the government closed. So that that's important. In terms of the refunds next year, yes, they could they could be very meaningful for workers, but their incentive, Michael, is to work more. For tariffs, we're going to generate a lot more tariff revenue next year. And given where the economy has been, you know, we're looking at 4% type of growth for the third quarter, 3% plus type growth next year if we get this capex everything in place as we expect. That's a boom. That's going to drive the revenues. Now, on the spending side, Michael, we don't know. We're very optimistic the last six months have put us on a better trajectory. That's why the Republicans want to make sure we don't add back in all this frivolous inefficient spending that was that was uh removed from the the OOT triple B. So that will depend on how negotiations go. I'm hopeful that the trajectory of spending Michael is less and with the strong growth we can get this budget deficit to GDP ratio down to five maybe even the high fours next year if we get the boom that we're expecting. Do you expect uh tariffs to provide consistent revenue or be a one-time benefit uh to the deficit? Because I know the administration has basically said that tariffs are a one-time price adjustment. So, from an inflation standpoint, the view is that it will be kind of a one-time boost and then things will settle down from there. And I'm curious if you're expecting the same thing on a revenue collection side.
>> Sure, Leslie. I mean, right now, if you look at the CPI or the PC, we haven't even seen that price level effect impact tariffs uh in any meaningful in aggregate. But your point is well taken that if it shows up, it would be a one-off price level adjustment, but the tariff is still in effect. So, we're generally generating about $30 billion, 30 billion plus per month in tariff revenue. So, that will remain in place. Now over time, over a period of years, if there's more re-industrialization, there's more domestic growth through factory expansion, capex, all the things that are part of the bill, then domestic revenues are going to rise, production goes up relative to consumption. And then organically, you know, years from now, you may get less tariff revenue, but the point is you get more domestic revenue. So right now, these tariffs will continue to generate the revenue in the near term that we're looking for somewhere in the 3 to 400 billion peranom level. Joe, appreciate you uh getting into all the numbers with us. Thank you, Joe Levo.
>> Thanks, guys.
>> The CEO of IMAX is next, breaking down.
>> Okay, so a lot more analysis, I guess, right there on how the government is thinking of this tariff revenue in the context of their budget deficit spend. Robined right there, making a bit of a move 13190. You're getting everything pretty much going green. SoFi breaking past 28, Grab trying to get to 570. S&P back to 670. Nvidia back to 182 and then even Tessy 422 even Tessie at 422 SoFi as well right now at a high of day. Uh look in terms of the deficit spending stuff that he talked about the only way it really works out is if we continue to grow uh GDP at 4% or at least you know three and a half and you know they're pretty confident that we're going to be able to grow at those levels. I guess we're going to have to see if that ends up playing out. SMCI still down 6%, but if we could, that probably could get the street a lot more excited about where the state of deficit spending is going. Amazon right there at 220. By the way, speaking of debt, uh we have just crossed $ 38 trillion of debt yesterday officially. So there you go. At this point, I don't even know if these numbers are real anymore. I mean, this this is your bullcase right here for Bitcoin. Like I don't know in my lifetime or in my kids lifetime if we're going to be paying this off. But yeah, 38 trillion across the board for the US. So that's why you buy gold. Yeah, that's why you buy gold. That's why you buy digital gold as well. Uh I missed this announcement in the morning. I'm just seeing it right now, but uh May mobility is going to be expanding its AV technology into Southeast Asia with a Grab investment. So I'm just literally seeing this right now. This is a second investment Grab has made. They also invested in Wide, which was another company working on AVs. Uh it makes sense for Grab because they obviously need to start positioning themselves for an AV future in Southeast Asia, which is not as easy to build as a North American uh autonomous vehicle future just given the nature of the roads there. We don't know how much the investment is. I would imagine it's probably in the hundreds of millions. Same thing like we ride. But you do have that one green potentially on that investment as well. 220 right here on Amazon and then Reddit up 2.94% on the day. Yes, we were at 36 trillion to start the year. That's correct. Nice little two trill in 9 months is what we got. Where's Beyond Meat? Beyond Meat is 317. Okay, cool. Up 11% or down 11% up from 280. 38 trillion is crazy. 38 trillion is crazy. More calls are crossing puts on the S&P now. Okay, so you're getting some more bullish option flow on the S&P. 669.84. If we can end out the week at 670. We ended out last Friday at 665. I think that would be really good progress, especially going into the China negotiations that start next week. Um, and you know, the question is, can we get those negotiations to result in any meaningful progress? But if so, I think we're going to be in a much better situation. Here was Walter Isacson this morning speaking on uh Tesla earnings and some of his thoughts on the quarter. building Optimus the robot. That pay package he's talking about says you have to build a million of them uh for the uh pay package to click in. And secondly, uh totally autonomous driving robo taxis with no steering wheels. And ever since he was a kid, he really he used to read the Isaac Azimov novels, the robot novels when he was a young kid in South Africa with no friends sitting in the corner of the bookstore. And the whole point of those novels is you build the robots, they can turn on us. Now, it may not seem uh logical, but that's been ingrained in him and he wants control of Tesla because he sees it now as a robot and AI company
>> and do you expect that he will get it from the shareholders? Well, the shareholders are voting in a few weeks and uh you've watched some of the institutional investors and the uh things like Glass Lewis have said, "Hey, don't do this." The shareholders voted last time around, as you remember, for that 50 or so billion dollar pay package that's still being held up in fights in the Delaware courts. He's making a big campaign both on X and then last night when he said, "Hey, I'm going to walk. I'm not going to put all this AI power into this company and then have it be when I can get ousted. So, there's a lot of institutional investors and they may be pushing back on this, but a lot of people invest in uh Tesla stock emotionally. So, we'll see how the shareholders vote.
>> Yeah, Eli,
>> I mean, look, I think he will get his shareholder vote to be on his side. They spent a good chunk of the call yesterday talking about why they should get it done. I I I do agree though glass door and institutional investor services ISS the idea that they get to control so many shares but they don't actually own those shares aka they get to be a custody of hundreds of millions of shares therefore they get to vote on behalf of those shares is kind of ridiculous especially because they don't own the shares and so Elon was making the case that we're going to need individual retail investors to get the market to um recognize that the pay compensation package really does matter and you know that Elon deserves to get paid if they end up 10xing the value of the company. Tennis says, "What did you think of the robot army comments? I thought that was kind of funny. And I mean, look, Eli, I so I was saying this yesterday with Steve, like I really wanted Elon on the earnings call to talk about the future of Optimus in a more productive way, aka are they going to be able to meaningfully ship Optimus in 2027, 2022? You didn't really get too much of that, but this is exactly what Elon was saying in regards to the robot army instead. Let's pull this up right here. When you read about um other robots that just don't have those three things, um so no, I think we can achieve all those things, those those three things with an immense amount of work. Um and um and that that is that is the game plan. So um you know my like like my you know fundamental concern with regard to how much voting control I have in Tesla is if I go ahead and build this enormous robot army, can I just be ousted at some point in the future? Um that's my biggest concern. if I that's that that is the the that is really the only thing I'm trying to address with with this uh so what's called compensation but it's not like I'm going to go expend the money it's just if we build this robot army um do I have at least uh a strong influence over that robot army not not control but a strong influence that's that's what it comes down to in a nutshell um like I don't feel comfortable building that robot army if I don't have at least a strong influence Great.
>> So, look, that was Elon's point. Metabat, by the way, back at 740. I mean, his argument is like, hey, I if I build out this massive robot army and there's all this excitement and momentum around robots and I don't own a significant portion of the company to have the ability to have influence, then what's the point? Which is fair, right? And like it doesn't make sense for Elon to be that motivated if he can't actually get the job done. So I think that does make sense. Robin right there. 131. Oh, I'm getting a phone call right here. Yo
>> yo
>> yo, what's up? What's up? Okay, so real quick on the Elon comments, if you would have played that clip just a few more seconds, he talks about how there are some companies that have founder shares,
>> right? Yeah.
>> He met in a bunch of other businesses that have done it, but he said to his knowledge
>> that it cannot be done after the company has gone public.
>> That is a complete sham. That's not true at all. Okay? And and you know how I know this is because Toby Lucky, CEO of Shopify, did this company. This is completely completely verifiable. You can look up the company went public in 2015. Okay? Toby Lucky did not have founder shares. He didn't want to build something once it became absolutely huge. He didn't want to continue to build something without having voter share. Okay? So in 2022, they did an annual shareholder meet where they approved founder shares, giving him 40% of the voting power after the company had been public for seven years. It's complete sham. The dude wants a trillion dollars. And I'm honestly I'm fine with that. But just say it how it is. I mean like the whole world's watching. It's not even like Shopify is not a large company. I'm so surprised no one has corrected him on this. It's absolute BS. So you you think he you think he could have got founder class shares to the level that like a Zucks has it over the past 10 years and he's making up an excuse to get a higher compensation package by making this robot army like concern that he now somehow has
>> he wants a trillion dollars if the company's 8.5 trillion. I I don't know what the exact percentage is, but in my head that's a lot lower than 40%. you know, and and so the voting share that he's asking for doesn't even align with what Toby Lucky had approved. And I honestly think that shareholders would be much, much easier, easily convinced to give him 40% voter share than to give him a trillion dollars.
>> Right. Right. Because they trust his judgment more.
>> I trust his judgment. I trust his judgment. Well, why why do you think he hasn't campaigned for getting that voting share over the past like 10 years?
>> I don't know.
>> It's kind of weird, right? You would think he he wants if he wants to have massive control over his own company. I mean, Zucks has almost like 60% if I'm not wrong of the voting share. So, it is kind of weird, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um and some people are saying that uh um he's not actually the founder. That doesn't matter.
>> I don't think that.
>> Yeah. How? Wait, wait, hold on, hold on, hold on. People think because he's not the founder that he can't get founders [__] guys. He is Tesla. Elon is Tesla. Okay, so what? He's not the founder. And by the way, whenever Elon's asked about being the founder in interviews, he gets pretty upset because he's like, "Bro, there was two people there. They did absolutely nothing. They were there for a year and a half, and then he turned the business into the trillion dollar company that it is today." So just because he didn't literally uh incorporate it himself in Delaware does not mean that he's not the key part of this business.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It it's it it's what we call founder shares, but it I don't to my knowledge it doesn't actually mean that you were the director that signed the official document to create the corporation. You know, it's just a way of saying that this guy is the one running the business.
>> Yeah. You can call them true. You can call them anything you want. They just have to be they have to give him the voting rights. That's that's what really matters. That's a fair point. In general, if you still held Tesla, would you vote for the compensation package or no?
>> Um I don't know honestly. I'm I'm more hesitant on this round than the last one. And honestly, a lot of it because these these weird comments about like robot armies and stuff. It is such a dystopian future. Um, and yeah,
>> but but do you think it's a good deal that he gets a trillion if shareholders also get to 10x at the same time?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I I just I don't I don't even know if I'm convinced that it's going to happen. So So I guess I would I would uh allow it to happen. I guess I would sign up and um hope that he pushes towards it, but I'm not even sure that it's going to go through. I I I'm a big humanoid robot believer, but I also think this is like whenever he said FSD is coming in like early, you know, like 2017, 2018, like I think it's actually going to be a lot longer for these things to be developed. And all of these comments about how robots are a 2026 phenomenon and AGI is three months around the corner. Like all these I don't believe it. I'm seeing no signs of this. I think there's improvements, but the massive improvement that they're talking about, I just don't I'm not seeing it. Brett Adcock can talk about how his robots from 2050 and then it breaks a cup on the I don't know. They're going to be great, but they're not going to be replacing plumbers and electricians for a over a decade.
>> Yeah. And look, I I'm invested in Figure and Electronic and some of these robotics companies, and even I will admit they're not doing anything useful yet. So, like,
>> yeah, I I think I think they'll be doing useful tasks, but just nothing that is what Elon said is an infinite money glitch. They're going to be folding laundry, and that's fine. Like, that that's awesome, you know, but that these are just my beliefs. Just my beliefs.
>> Yeah. Well, Elon also said Optimus production will start in 2026. So, the fact that production is starting then becomes the question of can they actually sell it in 27? and the the AI has to be good enough for it to be commercially viable in in a year and a half, which maybe it is, maybe it's not. I mean, we got to see how fast they move, but if it's not, then it just might be a 2030 story versus 27, which is not the worst thing either.
>> Um,
>> I'm I'm a huge believer of Elon. Ju just last comment real quick.
>> The the other comments of this chip that they're developing with Samsung that's going to be 10x better than their competitors.
>> Come on, man.
>> I was confus What was your take on that? Cuz he was like, "We're not trying to replace Nvidia, but we need a custom ASIC that's better than Nvidia." And I was just like I wasn't really following why exactly he said that. I think every company at at at Tesla scale should try to create some version of a custom ASIC. I think they're all trying to do this. Okay. Reducing reliance on Nvidia is very important. Uh well well at least that's the the goal is very important. I don't think it's going to happen. But the idea that he goes, "Hey, we're not going to replace Nvidia, but we're also going to have a chip on a performance per watt basis that's 10x more powerful." Why would you ever call up Nvidia then? You know, it it's just I think the claims now I I'm just kind of over them. I I just find it's all a little exaggeratory. The stock is not lining up to the claims. It hasn't for years. Uh yeah, I don't know. And I don't think the stock cares either because we we end up seeing the stock down 4% while he's talking about this chip beating out Nvidia. No one's believing him. The stock crashed on those comments live in real time. like so he has a core core audience, but trying to get new investors in to buy in at this price is going to be hard. And um hey, if you can get to 8.5 trillion, it's still worth a pretty good bid here. But I think there's other investments that are much cheaper, very easy to buy at other things at at other companies with also very good products that they're creating. Uh Tanner, last question for you guys. This is Tanner's Twitter, so please make sure to subscribe and follow him there. Uh so I'm in Sofi now. 2685 I'm in.
>> Are we going to the moon next week?
>> Um
>> just be careful with how you say it because YouTube might ban the video. So you have to
>> choose your words without you.
>> Everything I'm seeing, I'm super excited. I think this is going to be SoFi's best quarter by far. Um, I think the growth rates and the margins that they're about to put up is going to scare the shorts. Like just Wall Street's not even remotely close on their estimates going into earnings of what I'm expecting. Not even remotely close.
>> And we're seeing it from, you know, app downloads, website traffic, lending club, every large bank, credit cards, uh, brokerages. So does it all. And none of it is looking weak in financials right now. None of it. Lending Club just put up huge growth. And to try to compare Lending Club to SoFi is like I I I can't even make a comparison. They're not even remotely comparable anymore. But it still does show you that the demand, especially from insurance companies, from banks, from all the loan purchasers that that Lending Club has, which is very similar to the same customers that buy Sofi's loans, that they are going to explode in loan originations. I cannot wait. It's going to be a fun Tuesday.
>> Yeah, I agree. I mean, Lending Club's earnings to me was also a signal that they're going to have a pretty damn good quarter. So, who knows, man. It's a high short. I mean, it's not a super high short flow, but still eight to 10% of the shorts piling in. It could be. And then you get the rate cut a day after.
>> So, you could definitely see some progress there for.
>> Yeah, it it's uh we'll see. We'll see. Anyway, man, thanks uh thanks for taking my call. I just thought this uh Shopify thing needs to be known.
>> Yeah, appreciate it, Tanner. Talk to you later.
>> Yeah, later. All right, Tanner's excited. He's excited for SoFi. Not the most excited for Tessy, but Tessy right here, 425. Still trying to go green on the day. You got pretty much everything going green except Tessy. Nvidia high of day as well, 182. And you got the S&P chilling out at that 670 level as well. All right, folks. I think that is pretty much it for the day. Um, we'll be back on the close. I think we'll have Chris on today for the macro Thursday. What is the earnings picture for today? Oh, wow. We actually have some big earnings. We have Intel. That's a big one. We have Ford. Uh, we have Deckers. We have a couple other companies. Fix, but Intel and Ford are the big ones. Intel and Ford are the big ones. Yes, we'll have a daily recap today. Yesterday we missed it because we went super long with the Tesla recap or the Tesla earnings, but we will have a normal daily recap today and um then we'll keep going from there. Joanie, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate it. Terren, thank you for becoming a channel member. And Axiom, thank you as well for becoming a channel member. Deeply appreciate it. Thank you for being part of the show. What do we have with word of the day? Let's see what we've got going on. Um, oh wow, they didn't update it today. Look at that. We don't have a Thursday word of the day. They have the same one from yesterday, Wednesday. Okay, we're have to use a different website then today. Dictionary.com is slacking, bro. Uh, carp's going to be on at 3 p.m. 3 p.m. So, I'll get the clip of that and I'll probably post it on Twitter as soon as it comes out, but 3M Eastern and we'll watch it on the market close when we get into the the end of the day. Um, we need a fun word of the day website, bro. We need a word of the day that's like weird. We need like a really fun website for this. All right, the only one I got is from Britannica. Word of the day is fluctuate. Yeah, I think pretty much all of us know this. To change the lever, strength or value frequently. Well, I mean, you had stocks fluctuate aggressively to the downside last week and they're starting to get a little bit more of their momentum back. S&P 500 right here just below 670. Ask chat GBT. You know that is a good idea. Why haven't we asked chat GBT? Hold on. That actually see this is why AI is going to replace everything bro like look all these websites now. Why do I need to go to these websites if we do chat? Okay. Okay. So, what if we say, "Can you give me a word of the day that is uh very what's the adjective? That is very Can you give me a word of the day that is cool to use in my daytoday life?" and give me the definition and sentence example. That's a boring word. Serendipity. Okay. No, make the words not common. They have to be like really different from regular words. Oh, uncommon, I should say. Perfect. You want rare, striking words that make people pause for a second but still fit naturally in conversation. Yes. Word of the day. How do you say this [__] bro? Paragonate. After quitting his job, he decided to paragrenate across Europe. Can you say the words for me so I know what they sound like? Like really different. You're going to make AI talk that way. Exactly. Yes. See, this is what I need. Look at that. Look at that phonetic breakdown. This is what I need in my life. Paragrinate. Paragrinate. Paragrinate. Paragrinate. Boom. What does this word say? To travel or wander from place to place. See, have people heard this word before? There you go.
>> Paragrenate.
>> I think we use Chat GBT every day, folks. I think we use Chat GBT. Like, we're going to get way cooler words than these random websites putting out words of the days. There you go. That's what we got. All right. This is what we're going to use. This was the word of the day. To travel or wander around. That's what we got. We just wasted so much energy on this. We definitely wasted so much energy on this. You can set up auto tasks and run this once per day. Okay. I didn't know ChatBT could do that. All right. We're gonna Yeah, I'm going to turn this into an auto test then. All right. So, every day this is just going to give us a word of the day. Every day. Boom. That's what we got. And then we can change the prompt some days and be like, give us certain words for different types of uh different types of things that are going on. All right, that's what you got. Cool. I'll be back on the market close. Uh Karp will be live at 3M. We'll get that clip. I think Chris will be on today. Uh we got Intel Ford earnings and then we'll see if we can kind of close out the end of the week to be as strong as we were closing out for last week as well. All right, there you go. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.