When you first heard about this story, was there a moment that you found yourself sort of leaning in a little bit, like a detail, or is that a moment that came later? It came right away. I actually knew, I mean, it was interesting. The pitch was as simple as, I know this family, they lost a child, mysterious circumstances. After he died, they found out he was posing as the son of a Russian oligarch. And he had said that much. And I knew if the family will agree to talk to me, this is the next year of my life. I'm Gilbert Cruz. This is the book review for the New York Times and today we've got Patrick Randen Keef on the show. Patrick is a writer for The New Yorker. He is also the author of several best-selling non-fiction books, including Say Nothing. That book was number 19 on the Times's 100 best books of the 21st century, and it was also adapted into a limited TV series. His new book, London Falling, is out now. It's about a young man named Zack Breler, just 19 years old, who died after falling from a luxury apartment building into the rivers in London. The book is an investigation into Zach's death, as well as the shady criminal underworld that he found himself dragged into, but it's also much more complicated than that. died.
>> When I talked to Patrick, he said he had first heard about the story back when he was working on the TV version of his book Say Nothing. It was a pitch from someone who was very close friends with Zach's parents, Matthew and Michelle Breler, and he said that they had made a startling discovery about their son.
>> They learned that he had been, unbeknownst to them, leading this secret double life in which he had an alter ego, which they had been totally unaware of. and he'd been moving around London pretending at 18, 19 years old that he was the son of a Russian oligarch, that his father was a Russian billionaire. And so they made this discovery and they learned about all of this actually from these two guys who had been friends of Zach and who were with him on the night that he died. And one of them was a businessman named Akbar Shamji who was kind of a very handsome glamorous guy who lived on a really posh street in Mayfair which is a really posh part of London. He'd gone to Cambridge University. He came from a very wealthy family
>> and uh he was in his 40s but he had been kind of a mentor and friend to Zach. And then there was another guy who was a friend of his who he had introduced as well to Zach named Verinder Sharma who it's a little unclear what he did. He was a little older. He was in his early 50s. Um he lived in this luxury apartment. It was his apartment from which Zach had fallen. And as the parents learned more about this Verinda Sharma guy, they learned that in fact he seemed to have a past in London's underworld as a gangster and that he was better known on the streets of London by a nickname which is Indian Dave. And so that was kind of the beginning of this whole thing for me was the idea of this kid dying mysteriously. He'd had this alter ego and he'd fallen in with these two older men. you are maybe approached by people, you know, frequently or not, who say, "Oh, there's a story here. I heard this thing. You might be interested in this." What was it about this one? And how do you know when something is right for you?
>> It's weird. I I still don't have a real system for these things.
>> And I'll tell you, anytime I go out and look for a story, I almost never find them. When I when I sort of decide today I'll find a new idea, usually they find me. In this case, I can sort of give you the intellectual answer, which is that I was really interested in uh the role of the oligarchs in kind of coming into London and changing the face of that city in recent decades. And then I hear this story about a family and I do tend to gravitate to stories about families. I think I've gotten better about learning to sort of listen to my own impulses where that goes. And if I'm really intrigued by this, I'll be able to kind of muster a level of excitement which hopefully I can I can transmit to the reader and the reader will share.
>> Sticking with the early days of the story, you did have to eventually reach out to these parents who were grieving and they were still early in their grief because they still did not understand what it was that had happened to their child. Maybe they had had suspicions. What was your first outreach to them and how did that go and how did your relationship with them develop?
>> So this guy Andrew who the friend of theirs who I met on the set um he had told me the story and I said listen I'd love to talk to them. I think there might be a story in this. I would love to be the person to tell it but I understand that they might have reservations and so why don't we just agree to have a coffee and we'll get together and we'll talk purely off the record. So, I didn't even have a notebook out in that uh first conversation. We sat down at a cafe in um Bloomsbury uh on a warm summer afternoon and they just talked for 2 hours um with very little proddding from me. And it was fascinating because I think I've seen this happen in other cases. You know, when people are experiencing a loss or, you know, sometimes I'm asking people about the worst thing that's ever happened to them. And that can be very isolating, I think, naturally. And then on top of that, the Brelers are quite um, you know, they're I think they're quite socially sophisticated people. They have a kind of a high degree of EQ, if you like. And they
>> Mhm. And so they both, I think, had reached a point, this is several years after Zach's death, where they felt like, you know, we don't want to subject the people in our life to like, we could just talk about this endlessly, but we we realize that that might be awkward for the people in our lives. And I come along and I just say, I'll take everything you got. You know, you want to talk about it for 5 hours, I'll I'm here. And um so it all just kind of came tumbling out, not even in any particular order. I have to admit that first conversation was very confusing for me just because there was sort of so much to wrap my mind around. It was complicated story. And then we met again maybe a week later and there were a couple things that it felt important for me to say to them at that point cuz I think they had done some diligence on me. they'd look me up. And you know, my book, Say Nothing, is about this murder in 1972. And at the end of the book, I say, "I figured out who did it." And
>> as a book, it has a kind of unusually satisfying sort of narrative because it's kind of a who done it. And in the end, I say, "I'm going to tell you who done it." But that was a really unusual situation of a sort that I think is unlikely to repeat in my career. And so one thing I wanted to tell them was don't get into this with me because you think in some unspoken way that this is like a quid proquo and I'm going to solve the mystery because
>> that feels like it would be unfair to you and
>> and that there's kind of a false promise and unfair to me and that it just puts way too much pressure on me to deliver something I might not be able to. And then the other thing I said to them was uh um I don't want to pressure you. I don't want to twist your arm. This is totally up to you. I don't need to write this story. But if you're going to get into it, if you want to do this, if we're all going to hold hands and jump, the one thing I need to insist on is that there's no takebacks. That you can't say yes today and then two months from now when I've been working get cold feet.
>> Can you talk a little bit more about the sort of rare access you had to them? you know, hundreds of hours of talking with them, texting with them on a very regular basis in a way maybe that you have never had access to primary sources before. What was that like? And and as importantly, how did that result in the type of book that you were able to write?
>> It was really something. I mean, I'm often writing about people who are dead or who don't want to talk to me or in some cases who are threatening to sue me even as I'm writing about them. And in situations where I've had access to people, I haven't had quite the same degree of access as I did here just in terms of the, you know, the number of hours logged. And there was another kind of extraordinary thing, which is that the Brelers, as soon as Zach went missing, so actually before they knew he was dead, when he was just missing, they were having conversations trying to figure out where he was and what was going on. and they were talking to a private investigator and talking to the police and talking to Akbar Shamji and Verinda Sharma and Matthew Breler because he's a particular kind of person uh I think because he knew that it was a high pressure moment and he was going to want to be he's very analytical he was going to want to be able to sort of study all this stuff afterwards he started recording everything on his iPhone
>> so they had this archive of all these conversations they had in the days and weeks after Zach went missing and was and was ultimately declared dead. And that was extraordinary because I initially had had conversations with them in which they told me their memories of these encounters, but then subsequently they gave me the iPhone recordings and in some cases the iPhone recordings were quite different from the way they remembered it because their their memory was kind of 2020 hindsight.
>> And that allowed me to write the book in this very very intimate kind of close third person fashion where you're really right there with them. You're kind of in their heads. And so there are things that they kind of in their naive in the first third of the book believe that turn out not to be true. And I thought rather than rather than tell you everything at the top, I actually want you to I want to sort of simulate for you the experience of being them and and some you know they meet somebody and they think, "Oh, here's a trustworthy person who's here to help me." Little knowing that the person is lying to them and is going to turn out to be a snake. After the break, Patrick talks about the two things that convinced him that this story should be a book. This was published as a very compelling New York articles as so many of your pieces are and it is now a book. This is something that you've done a couple times. Talk to me about the process of taking it from one form to another. you know, how are you making sure that this feels different enough that there's sort of extra value for the reader or for yourself even as the person who has put years into this? You know, I've been writing for the for 20 years and and this is the fourth time that I've done this and there's really only ever been four times where I because I mean as as people listening will know, you know, famously New Yorker articles are quite long and um there is uh you know the notion that you would get to the end of a New Yorker article and say but there's so much more um uh should probably be a rare occurrence. Yeah,
>> most of the time what I love about it is I get to the end and I'm done and I move on and I feel as though I've really said everything I have to say about a subject. There's been four times where that was not the case. In this case, part of what was happening was that I as I got into the story, you know, really the whole narrative turns on this night in this apartment in London where you have these three guys in the apartment, Akbar Shamji and Verinda Sharma and Zack Breler and Zach goes off the balcony and there are all these kind of layers of complication as you look at that night. So it turns out that you know Zach was pretending to be the son of a Russian oligarch but actually Akbar was kind of pretending to be something he wasn't and Verinda was sort of pretending to be something he wasn't.
>> So there's all this kind of um spiraling intrigue. The two things that inclined me to think it might be a book
>> were the backstories of those three guys in that apartment were all really rich and fascinating. So if you look at their family histories, so I didn't I didn't mention this at all in the piece, but Zach Breler had two grandfathers actually, Michelle and Matthew, both of their fathers who had survived the Holocaust, and they both um fled Europe and ended up in England as teenagers, having lost virtually their whole families, been murdered uh in the camps. And so you have this moment with these two young guys in the 1940s when they arrive in London and they have to reinvent themselves. You know, they've lost everything and they have to decide who am I going to be? And I started to think about, you know, Zach's transformation into Zakius, billionaire son of a Russian oligarch, and the notion of
>> self-reinvention in general. And then I started to think about how London had reinvented itself in recent decades. And I thought that there might be an opportunity to kind of trace the family's histories back of these three guys in the apartment, noticing some of these uh weird echoes that happen across the generations in these three different families and in the process tell a story about how London has changed. Hopefully not in a way that would feel like a big doorstep. There's a there's a colleague of mine at the New Yorker, Nick Troutwine, who has this he had this beautiful line that he used when I was talking about this with him that I thought about all the way through. He said, 'You have to be careful that you don't that the that the laundry doesn't break the line.
>> You know that idea of you have this kind of quite slender story about this family losing a son and then trying to figure out what happened to him.
>> Yeah. and you can kind of ornament that with all this other stuff, but there's there's a sort of quite precise amount of stuff you can or it too much and it'll overwhelm that central threat. So, that was the thing I was thinking about a lot. But, but as I sort of thought about as I kind of squinted and I could imagine the bigger version, I got really excited.
>> Could you talk about your relationship to London? I know you've spent a lot of time there over the years. I'm not going to say the cliche except I am actually saying the cliche of London being a main character in the book. But your book is called London falling. The history of London. Certainly the modern history of it is is a major factor in the events that occurred. What's your relationship to it?
>> I should say I mean it's funny the book is probably quite critical of London but to be clear I love London.
>> Yeah.
>> My mother's from Australia, my dad's from Boston. My parents met in England. Um I went to grad school there right out of college. I lived in London in 20201, made very dear friends there, and I've gone back, you know, virtually every year since. So, I've sort of watched this transition happen over time. I think there are elements of this story that are very, very distinctive to London.
>> Yeah. I don't want to overinscribe this stuff and it's done in the book with a pretty light touch, but if you're reading carefully, there are threads having to do with the British Empire and and Britain's role in the world. It's a story very much about social class, which is kind of a defining element of u British life in a way that I don't think it quite is uh in the US. So there are aspects of the story that are very very specific to London. But you know having said that um some of what the story is about is the kind of hustle culture, the aspirational culture that we all live in which is a very American kind of culture as well.
>> I was thinking the same thing. It it is I was thinking this last night which is that obviously it's a very British story. It's about English people. Takes place in London. But the dynamic that you describe in which a young man is surrounded by wealth, maybe is spending a little too much time on social media, is watching too many Hollywood movies and believes that he could enter a world and maybe even pass in that world for being someone who is richer and and more important than he actually is. There have always been strivvers in English society, fakes and whatever, but it it does strike me as very American as well in some way and and very capitalist I guess is it maybe that's the same thing
>> completely. Yeah. And it's funny because I mean part part of the story that I tell in the in the book is that you know so the Russians come right in the '9s uh and the Nazis but before the Russians it was the Americans like the first big invasion happened in 1987 when Margaret Thatcher deregulates the banking sector and there's this flood of American bankers who come in and they're the ones who you know are paying lots of money for apartments. They want to send their kids to good schools. They want to drive BMWs. They're into conspicuous consumption in a way that even wealthy people in the UK up to that point really weren't in quite the same fashion. And you know, Zach Breler grows up obsessed with American movies, American movies about hustlers.
>> Mhm.
>> This is a story in which almost everyone is in a kind of fake it till you make it mode. And it's funny, you know, one of Zach's favorite movies was was The Wolf of Wall Street. And I guess there's a way in which we could think of that movie as a cautionary tale. He did not see it as a cautionary tale. I think for him it was a sort of aspirational thing. When Zach turns 18, he incorporates his own business and he names it after the crooked brokerage firm in The Wolf of Wall Street. So the line between fantasy and reality was a little little fuzzy for him and I think he got kind of drunk on that aspirational culture.
>> I really would love to talk about parenthood a little bit. You're a parent. I'm a parent. One of the threads I was not expecting in this book was the way in which this story made me think about just the very idea of parenthood. What's our responsibility as parents? How much rope should you give your kids in order to
>> to chart their own life and make their own mistakes? As a lot of people like to say, they need to make their own mistakes. Um, how much can you even know your kid in the end? You know, I really was just struck by the journey that Michelle and uh Matthew had to take, learning not just about the death of their child, but that so much about what they believe they knew about Zach was just completely false and maybe they did not know their child at all. It really hit me at the end of of the the whole story.
>> Yeah, it's so hard. I mean, I don't, you know, I have I have two adolescent sons who are it's a similar age gap to Zach and his brother Joe, and they're very competitive with each other. I mean, there are there are all kinds of ways in which um I could relate to some of the dilemmas that the Brelers were dealing with. I also find that I mean set setting aside for a moment the weirdness of the of this kind of period in history that we're living through where you know you had you had smartphones that kind of come online when Zach is I don't know how old would he have been kind of 10 11 12 years old and there's a period of time where young kids have pretty unfettered access to phones I mean they still do but it's just the the phone and role in sort of shaping the psyche of a young person is its own issue. But leaving that aside for a moment,
>> I think even when you or I were growing up, the nature of adolescence, right, is that you need to kind of break away from your parents to some degree. There's some moment as as the parent of a child where you see some strange thing that didn't come from you and it didn't come from the other parent and it's manifesting in the child and it's unclear. Is this some weird external stim stimulus that's coming from somewhere else? Is it some sort of throwback recessive gene that's manifesting? They suddenly become someone you don't necessarily recognize. And I think the thing that's so hard is that's I think you could argue essential in in a person's transition into adulthood that they break away in that manner. The challenge for the Brelers was what do you do? You know, do you when Zach starts to change and become something that worries them, you know, do you lock him up? Do you try and sort of smother him with control and protect him from all the stuff that's out there or do you, you know, is there a danger if you do that that he'll he'll drive him away?
>> Yeah.
>> I think part of what has fueled their relentless investigation in the years since Zach died is a feeling of, oh god, you know, what could we have done? They're sort of playing back the tape and trying to find exit ramps that they missed. I was incredibly struck. Um, I've never read Andrew Solomon's Far From the Tree. It's quite a tome. It's worth it. It's an incredible book.
>> It's supposed to be it's supposed to be a great book. Classic piece of non-fiction.
>> But the the quote that you take away from that or that you put in here, the truth about parenthood is that it abruptly catapults us into a permanent relationship with a stranger, uh, really struck me like a lightning bolt. As I was listening to the audio book of this on a plane last week, I was like, "Oh my god, is this what is going to happen to me and my 11-year-old?"
>> Yeah. And it's and it's sort of figuring out what that should mean, you know, what does that mean dayto day, right? And it's also fascinating because the Brlers both grew up in a different era. They grew up in a time of like pretty less aair parenting.
>> Mhm. and they turned out all right. And then by the time they were parents, I have a little riff in the book about, you know, all the things that parents are expected to do now, but it's the opposite of less affair. Um, parents are unbelievably involved in the lives of their children as compared to, you know, practically any earlier generation. And yet there's that idea that you you it's a kind of fantasy to think that you actually have real that you can exert exert real control in terms of how your kid is going to turn out.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't like it. It scares me.
>> Me too.
>> We are going to take a break and when we come back, Patrick answers some very specific questions about books and he's also going to talk about the classic novel that he is only just reading for the first time. So, the New York Times Book Review for more than a decade has asked authors new and old a recurring set of questions about their reading as part of a series that we call By the Book. This is something we've run in print for a very long time. We are now doing it as part of this fantastic show. I have several extremely specific questions for you about your reading life, books that you're reading and the like. Um, and I would like you to answer them. Can you do that?
>> I can. I'm going to have to I'm going to have to give you different answers than I gave when I did this in print, but that this is a good challenge. Unfortunately, I read a lot.
>> Uh I looking at um the shelves behind you, I believe it. Okay. Patrick Renkeefe, what books are currently on your nightstand?
>> So, I have a huge stack of books on my nightstand. Um in part because I I I confess to you that I do not always finish all the books on my nightstand. I start more than I finish. I have a book called Season of Fury by It's not yet out. It's by Rosina Ali, a former colleague of mine and a friend of mine about Islamophobia in America. Um, which I'm about to start and I think should be amazing. It actually grows out of work that she's done some of it in the New York Times. Um, Rosina is incredible. And I have a novel that I reread periodically just as kind of comfort food. It makes me feel not even I mean comfort food is probably the wrong way to put it because it's it's more high-minded than that. But the Emperor's Children by Clare Massud, which is a novel I read when it came out and I revisit every few years. It's wonderful.
>> That that's sort of a 911 adjacent book, right? It came out around.
>> It's actually about It came out came out afterwards, but um but 911 in ways that I won't I won't divulge. U 911 comes up in it and um extraordinary book.
>> Why do you reread it? What does it make you feel?
>> I think it's beautifully written. Um the characters are wonderful. It has a kind of dramatic inevitability. The gears all sort of they sort of kick in in a way that you don't see coming. But also, it's set in a world, you know, I graduated from college in 1999 in New York
>> and was back in New York again not long after 9/11. It's just set in a world I recognize. I will say there's a kind of strange thing that's started to happen to me as I near 50, which is that when I revisit certain works of culture, I find that I relate to different characters than I did before. Um, it's really unsettling. Um,
>> what else has this happened with?
>> It happened in a in a big and this is going to this is going to sound darker than it is, so bear with me. But um I think probably the greatest podcast ever made was STON um at least to date.
>> And that's another one that I revisit every few years. And um it's hosted by, you know, like a young public radio guy who was probably in his, you know, 30s when he made it. And when it came out however many years ago, he was sort of my proxy. He was my Virgil. I related to him. And it's about this guy who's this kind of very depressed 49year-old guy in Alabama who keeps reading the newspaper and desparing about what's happening in the world. And um when I relisted to it about 6 months ago, it was really kind of unsettling, but I found my whole my point of view character had changed. Um
>> that's fantastic.
>> Which is weird cuz, you know, I mean I think of myself as essentially still in my 30s. What's going on here? But it was also just the idea that he's this guy is kind of constantly going on about environmental devastation and and it's this idea of kind of, you know, frankly, how do you wake up in the morning and and and and read the first 10 stories in the New York Times? Um,
>> and then proceed into your day with any spirit of optimism. That's the thing he's wrestling with. And and I I related to that um in a scarily profound way.
>> No, that's not I I agree that's not dark at all. Uh, okay. Uh, Patrick, what is your favorite book that you think no one else has heard of?
>> Okay. So, this is not necessarily a book that anyone Well, it's an outof print book, but it's one that I really love. I've always been very into film and I love the work of Steven Soderberg. He's somebody I've tried to profile for years for The New Yorker, but he never wants to never wants to play ball. And his first movie was Sex, Lies, and Videotape. and Faber in the UK
>> Mhm. published not long after that came out. So we're in the '9s now. Published the screenplay for Sex Lives and Videotape, but also included a diary that Soderberg kept from the moment he started writing the script until the moment that the movie was I think it's I think it goes either to Sundance or it may go all the way to can where he wins the big prize and famously his his speech he was all 24 years old or something and his and he gets up to the podium and says, "Well, it's all downhill from here." Um but the um it's his diary and it's an incredible record of um just a really really brilliant creative mind in in a in the matter of about a week over the winter holidays staying with his parents in Louisiana cranking out this script and then setting up the financing and the cast and all the rest of it and then making the movie and describing directing his first feature. Uh it's wonderful. I have a feeling it's actually so personal that that may be part of the reason that it went out of print. And he I don't know whether he um was involved in the kind of discontinuing, but it's you know, you
>> I'm going to have to
>> I'm going to have to do some insider trading here and go on eBay right after this conversation. Exactly. Before we
>> Exactly. before get a copy.
>> Um you you know he's like a crazy reader, right? He just
>> I do. He reads so many novels and books.
>> Watches. You've seen the list that he puts out every year.
>> I I wait for it every January.
>> It's insane.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And he's got this book. You know about this book.
>> He's writing a book right now. Um I cannot wait to get my hands on this. He's writing a book which is all about directing, but it's about the movie Jaws. He's obsessed with Jaws.
>> Yes.
>> What?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> I'm so excited for this book. I may eventually
>> I just came back from LA where I flew in part to go to the Jaws exhibition at the Oscars Museum.
>> Did you? How was it?
>> It's awesome.
>> Oh man,
>> so cool. Okay, we have a couple more questions here. What is the best book you have ever received as a gift?
>> My uh first book was a book called Chatter that I wrote when I was in my 20s. I was really young. Um I don't think it's a very good book. Um but I was, you know, kind of figuring out. But I was still sort of learning what I was doing. And it's about the National Security Agency, the NSA. It's kind of a very pro post 911 book. Um, and it turns out the NSA is a really difficult subject to write about.
>> Uh, especially if you don't really know what you're doing as an investigative journalist, which was me. And, um, my wonderful editor for that book is a woman named Eileen Smith. And when I was halfway through, Eileen gave me Out of Sheer Rage by Jeff Dyer, which is a great book that I'd recommend to anybody, but it's a very, very, very funny book, but it's DH Lawrence.
>> It's about Yeah, it's about DH Lawrence, but really what it's about is how how impossible it is for Jeff Dyer to write a book about DH Lawrence. And um it was just the most inspired, you know, it was just like what a moment of inspiration on Eileen's part to to Here's this guy writing a book about a spy agency
>> and she gives me this book by Jeff Dyer and uh it was it was probably the most thoughtful gift of a book I can I can remember.
>> That's a great gift. Uh, Patrick, are there any classic novels that you have only recently read for the first time?
>> Uh, yes. So, I'm embarrassed to say, and I'm still, this is still in progress. I um there's this thing that they do, listeners may not know this, but there's this thing they do now where when you get a signed copy of a book that's, you know, you buy it at the bookstore, but it's already it's got the sticker on it says it's signed. Sometimes it's cuz the author has gone and signed the books. But what they do now in advance of publication is they will before they bind the book send what they call tipins which are just these pages these blank pages that are going to be bound into the book. And um on this new book I was sent thousands and thousands of I don't know how many I mean our whole dining room table was covered in these tipins and I had to spend months just signing my name on all of these thousands of pages that would eventually get bound into these books. This is both in the US and also for the UK edition. And I decided, all right, I'm going to listen to an audio book while I do this. And I need to get something really substantial. And uh I actually thought that I would, it was kind of an interesting question. Would I finish the book first or the signing first? And I ended up signing finishing the signing first. It's Middle March, which I'd never read.
>> Um the version, hold on. I wrote down her name because she's so good. There are different versions. The version I got is Juliet Stevenson is the woman reading. She's phenomenal. It is such a funny book in a way that I don't think I had fully appreciated. And she has this kind of perfect dry delivery. It's fantastic. But weirdly because I it was like a thing I did was I I signed and I listened and then I finished the signing. So now I need to come up with some excuse to go back to it.
>> Patrick, are there books that you find yourself returning to time and again? There are a bunch. Yeah. I mean, um, In Cold Blood is a book I go back to quite a bit. I would tell you I go back to Robert Caro as if I've read everything cover to cover, but the truth is I it's like that's a kind of buffet table at which I graze periodically. It's very inspiring. And um,
>> I did read the Power Broker cover to cover when I was young, when I actually was in college and I have more stamina for that kind of thing. Um but but mostly I go back and kind of dip into those. There are novels. I mean it's it's they're very sort of specific novels. Um I really love Presumed Innocent. Um Scott T. Rose first novel. Incredible book. I read it in law school. It's just amazing. Um I love uh The Secret History by Donna Tart. And and funnily my
>> It's one of the best. It's
>> so great. And um and it holds up again and again and again. And funnily enough, my my older boy who has had periods where he's a great reader and periods where he's not as engaged, what's funny is he's read it about three times. And in his case, I keep saying it's too soon for you to reread, you know, you need to read other books, but he loves that book as well.
>> That's so great.
>> Yeah. I mean, there's any number of them um that I go back to. The Last Samurai by Helen Dit.
>> Really good reader.
>> I could go on. You could, but you shouldn't because we have to end this conversation. Uh, Patrick, thank you so much for joining the book review to talk about your new book, London Falling. It
>> was a pleasure. Thank you for having me.
>> The book review is produced by Sarah Diamond and Amy Pearl. It's edited by Lissa Anderson and mixed by Pedro Rosado. Original music by Dan Powell and Alicia Bichu. Special thanks to Dalia Hadad. We want to hear what you think about the show. So send us an email at the book review ny times.com. I'm Gilbert Cruz. Thanks for listening.