[Music] All right, welcome back to another episode of the market close. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Wednesday, November 12th. We are getting into the end of the close after the bell. We got three earnings. DLO, um, Cisco, and another one that I can't think of. Oh, Serve Robotics. So, DLO, Serve Robotics, and Cisco. Those are three companies we'll look at. Let me know if anyone has a position in any of those three companies, but we will get to those after the bell. We got some macro data, folks. We got a lot to talk about. Overall, what's going on today? It's a red day for sure, but it's a red day in specific names. The S&P 500 is green. 68336. We're green on the S&P. I don't know necessarily why we're green. I have some theories about it, but the individual stocks that may be upsetting people like a Nebus that's down 7% or a Corey that's down 3% or a pounder that's down 4%, a REN down 4%, Nvidia is kind of trying to break even to be honest. It was down 2%, now it's barely down 50 cents. None of that matters to the S&P 500. The S&P 500 is green. The reason for this might be because JP Morgan is catching a bid today in the financial sector. JP Morgan up 2% on the day and Eli Lily is trying to get to all-time highs. That's up 2.87%. I think the first thing to start off with on today is that this feels like a very very healthy move in a bull market. Even though pounder is not going to the moon right now to see some of that money go into a Lily or JP Morgan or just consumer defensive staples that is not a bad thing to see. And the fact that we are actually going green on the S&P 500 while Nvidia is red is really proving to me I mean we saw a little bit of this yesterday but I think today is kind of doubling down on this idea that we are getting a rotation. That rotation is very healthy and normal and it is good to see other parts of the market begin to participate. Having said that you do have some stocks that are getting hit today. Meta 609 obviously getting wrecked 2.82%. All the data center plays are getting hit. Correas etc. I did buy a little bit of Nebius at 9390. 9390. Did not buy a ton, but I bought a little. I also bought a little bit of Zeta at around 1980. It's not a big position. I'll put out the one pager tomorrow on how I'm thinking about it. Uh, but very little bit a little bit of Zeta and that's just kind of like a tracking position the portfolio and I'll do a lot more research on terms of what I'm seeing there. But Nebius was the dip by at 9390. I think we got all the way down to like 92 at one point. didn't really violate 92 and so if we close above 94 I think that would be very bullish again that's the technical spot where we need to hold but why is Neb's down why is core reef down why is Iren down the reason all these names are down is because of in my opinion Oracle which is getting hit right now down 4% on the day this is the worst of the data center plays even though it's not necessarily just the data center play it's more of a cloud computing play but because they issued $40 billion of debt and the street's not liking the debt financing that's probably why Meta's getting hit as well now I was looking at some of Meta's details on the debt and It's very attractive and it makes sense why it would be attractive in terms of debt financing terms because it's freaking meta and they have all the capital in the world along with Google to be able to get attractive terms but Oracle does not and so I think the draw down we're seeing today in these data center plays which yes is annoying and yes it sucks it also to me is probably part for the core when it comes to the rotation of this bull market people selling off a nebius a core and I ran a cipher and going into a JP Morgan or an Eli Liy so I don't think it's the craziest thing in the world but nonetheless that is happening broel says healthy deep breath. Yes, we are getting a lot more breath versus depth in this market. And quite frankly, for the past nine months, we've had a lot of depth when it comes to tech. It's time to get a little bit more breath. And I think that's what we're seeing here today. Now, one of the things that's not going to help the breath or depth of this market is a lack of data. Here is what the White House had to say today about what's going to happen with this October data. shutdown could end up decreasing fourth quarter economic growth by two whole percentage points. The Democrat shutdown made it extraordinarily difficult for economics uh economists, investors, and policy makers at the Federal Reserve to receive critical government data. The Democrats may have permanently damaged the Federal statistical system with October CPI and jobs reports likely never being released. And all of that economic data released will be permanently impaired, leaving our policy makers at the Fed flying blind at a critical period.
>> Now, that's not hurting Open Door. The reason Open Door is pumping, by the way, is because CAS just bought a million of stock at $8. That was officially disclosed and I think that's what's helping Open Door. Open door up 10% on the day. By the way, Oaklow also up 8%. So, you know, I'm talking about the uh breadth of the market and you got names like Meta and Pounder that are down on the day and then you have names like Oaklow and Open that are up on the day. Doesn't necessarily scream rational to me, but nonetheless, that is the state of what we have in this market. Uh what does it mean for the government data? By the way, Bitcoin right here below 102. Uh I I think the October data is pretty bad, guys. I I you would not have the White House come out and say that the October data will never be released if the data was amazing. if we were adding, you know, hundreds of thousands of jobs or something like that, uh, the market probably would want to see that data and the White House would not be afraid to show that data. By the way, I think I showed you guys this stat in the morning, but uh, private payrolls from the ADP came out and said that their new estimates are showing a decrease of 11,250 jobs per week in the month of October. That would be -45,000, the second largest drop since 2020. Goldman Sachs estimated that we would fall about 50,000 in the month of October. So obviously the labor market data is not looking the best. That is your bull case for the rate cut, but the White House not wanting to release it probably shows that it's not the best. It also questions or makes you question the trustworthiness of the data going into November. And granted, maybe we haven't been tracking CPI and the jobless claims as well. And so we need another month to get it done. But if we're not going to get the most accurate data in November, it's just another kind of hiccup for the market to have to navigate, especially when, you know, the market's already feeling a little bit uneasy on some of the corporate debt financing and they might want a little more data to understand. UNH, by the way, great day for UNH. We'll see after the bell if we get any of these super investor disclosures. We got a couple today. Nothing too crazy. I went through about four or five of them and I didn't see anything that really stood out. UNH, right, they're up 4% on the day again. Open Doors up on the day. Oaklo is up on the day. And then AMD having a great day. AMD was at 263, right now at 257, which is very nice to see. The Q's going green. Q's going green. 621, that's up. And the S&P 500 going green. I don't know how Robin Hood ended up green for the day, but Robin's up almost 2%. S&P 500 now breaking 684. And then you got Rocket Lab that was up 7% and it's down 1%. Again, very kind of wonky market uh reaction in a variety of different ways, but I think the overall trend at its core is that you're seeing a rotation. And I don't think that rotation is horrible. So, by by the way, 32. I don't think SoFi's ever closed above 32. Got to 3270 today. Would be very nice to see if SoFi can get that close above 32. Microsoft is well back to 511. So, we got about 7 minutes left. And if we can get that closed, that would be very nice. Okay, poll in the chat. So, there's only three stocks on earnings today. DLO, Serve, and um Cisco. I'll put which one do you think outperforms? Let me know which positions you guys have. DLO is more of a finit favorite or a retail favorite if I'm not wrong. Um, which one outperforms? DLO. ESB does have earnings, but I don't think we're going to get anything specific from ESB other than more disclosures of their ETH holdings. Um, Serve, I've actually seen so many times they make the robots for the the Uber Eatats and stuff, like the things that automatically or autonomously deliver you the food. uh don't know enough about their financials, but you have serve, you have Cisco, and then DLC. Cisco obviously a massive player in networking, especially with data centers. Wow, Cisco up 3% on the day. Look at that. Street's expecting a little bit of love off of Cisco, and we're going to see what that looks like. Open door right here up 9%. UNH up 4%, AMD up 8.6, Zeta up 3.28%. Beta at 1980 today. We did a really good deep dive in my opinion with Ronnie. So, if anyone wants to listen to that, it's on my Twitter spaces and I think he made a pretty compelling case. So, uh, for anyone to check that out, the main reason I bought a little bit today is just because valuation looks very compelling in a market that is a bit more expensive. And so, the growth estimates on top of the valuation to me made it at least worthy of a starter position. Nebas right there 9468. Again, I did buy the dip at 9390. Uh, closing above 94 would be super bullish to see if we can reverse a little bit of the downtrend. But you do have a red Nebus on the day. PayPal that's down half a percent. Xbang's down a little bit. Grabs down 1%. C Limited that's up a little bit. And then Ethereum right there at 3,400. I did not buy the dip on Meta today. Meta looks like it wants to go below 600. I don't know if we'll get there. The fact that Meta's Meta is back to levels that uh we saw on Friday, not fully, right? We on Friday we saw like 600. Right now we're at 608. But the fact that the market's up and Meta is actually trying to get back to that level is quite incredible. It means the street is just not messing with the Meta narrative right now. And again, I think part of the reason is because of what's going on with corporate debt. By the way, real quick before we talk about Bur because there's a big update on Michael Bur. Uh, take a look at this chart right here. This is Oracle stock versus Oracle credit default swaps. The credit default swap is the protection against their corporate debt defaulting the stock price, as you can obviously see, has been going down. So you have uh a level of alignment between investors thinking, hey, maybe we want to be a bit more cautioned around the debt that Oracle is taking out uh versus, you know, just saying that the stock's going to go to the moon because they're going to get this amazing ROIC on all the invested capital in regards to data centers. I think that the stock price action is clearly telling you not that it's bearish that Oracle is doing this, but that the market's not willing to give it a $350 price target, which again, Nebius is not at 130, Corre's not at 150, but they're at 80 95, Oracle at 226. I just don't think that's the craziest thing in the world, especially if the the the sort of trade-off is that Eli Liy gets to make all-time highs, which is a stock that needs to participate in this bull market, and it's nice to see that it is participating. Open door right there. 10.9% on the day. 940 again. The CEO bought a million worth of stock today. I think that's one of the reasons it's pumping. Microsoft at 511. Where is SoFi? Are we trying to go for that $32 close? SoFi 3228 up 4.5%. It is trying to get that close at 32. I do not have but uh they did have earnings today. I really didn't get to look at their numbers. Down about 4.8%. But that stock is down. Cleanspark down 5% after their convertible note offering. Intel's basically flat. Beyond Meat down 8% on the day. And then Amazon, wow. Broke 245, 243.95 right there. And that is red. Okay. Michael Bur, remember a couple days ago when he said, "Wait for November 25th because November 25th was supposed to be something really important." Well, I just looked at his Twitter bio 30 minutes ago, which is constantly changing. And here's what it says. Now Unchained blog launches November 25th. Stay tuned. So, I guess it's a blog. On says tomorrow. Okay, cool. So, I guess it's dumping a little bit before earnings tomorrow. So, we'll cover it tomorrow. I guess it's a blog, folks. I guess it's a blog. I mean, now, could he still be super bearish about AI and everything that's going on? Sure. But if this was for publicity, I mean, my goodness, bro, if this was for publicity. So, now Unchained blog launches November 25th. Stay tuned. Uh, I guess we'll see what the blog ends up looking like. Maybe the blog is like an anti- AI blog and he just keeps publishing research every week about how much he hates the blog. I mean, or how much he hates AI. But I guess he's trying to become a content creator and he's trying to build a personal brand and social media. I like, dude, when I saw that, first of all, did I not say it was a book? I was off. It was a blog apparently, not a book, but I felt like it was a freaking book. And apparently it's a blog. So that's what you got. and we're going to see what ends up happening with Bur Meta right here 608 down about 3% on the day. Oracle down 4% so trying to get that $32 close. We got about a minute 30 until the market closes. Then we have some earnings quick macro stat I want to show you guys in spite of the labor market in spite of inflation in spite of tariffs as per Bloomberg. We talked about in the morning that institutional buyers bought 4.3 billion worth of equities which is the highest since December 2022 in terms of equity ETFs last week. Bloomberg said EETF inflows are strong. Yesterday there were 13 billion in inflows. 40 billion for the past five days, 8 billion per day. And now total is 1.16 trillion year to date across the entire ETF market in the United States. I mean that is just absolutely incredible. And so yes, we are seeing some hiccups in the labor market. We we we are seeing a lack of data to be able to make some accurate decisions on what's going on. But investors continue to buy and in fact uh retail and hedge funds were net sellers last week as of Bank of America. Institutional investors were net buyers and they rotated from tech into staples and healthcare which is very indicative of the price action we're seeing today with some of the tech stocks being down and some of the healthcare stocks and consumer defensives being up. So again at the end of the day there is a lot of macro data to come through but you have investors that remain net bullish and they are allocating to those equity ETFs to get that exposure. Apple right there 273. That's down half a percent. Coreweave down 3.2. Palanteer was at 181 now at 184. That's down a little bit. Nvidia just went green. Wow. Into the close. Nvidia going green again. We got three earnings that we're going to be looking at today. Um, but it is nice to see Nvidia and the S&P go green as we get into the close. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Wednesday, November 12th, 400 PM and the stock market is now closed. All right, we are done for the day. We are closed on a Wednesday. I will keep an eye on if we get any 13Fs and 13Gs after the bell. We obviously have earnings, so we'll look into that. Nvidia went green at the close. 19380 S&P 500 683. It inched out green by 0.04% which showed you a lot of that broadening trade as some market participants in the tech sector were down but the S&P 500 was up. The Q's just went red at the close tried to go green down by about 50 cents on the day. Open door great day. That's up 10.5%. Nebas got the $94 close which 94 is a very key level. So we'll see tomorrow if that can hold but $94 close. Very nice to see 9436 for Nebios even though it was down 7% on the day. Robin Hood went green 13298. Oaklo up 6.5%. Bitcoin just below 102,000. Coreweave was down about 3.35%. Iran down 3%. Nvidia again 19380. You had grabbed 579 that's down 1.5%. Tesla was down 2% from 440 to 430. Hims down below 40 at $39. Delta at 60.48 that was actually up 4%. And then you had Palunteer at 1847 down 3.5. SoFi did get the $32 close, $32.21, I think. If I'm not wrong, this is the first time in history SoFi closed above 32. It touched 32 a couple times a week ago and then this morning, then it fell below and now it's holding 32. So, congratulations to everyone in SoFi. 3221. I did buy the dip last week at around 28. I know a lot of people bought the dip over the past couple weeks. SoFi right here, 3221, up 4% of the day. Yeah, Zeta closing above 20 is also really important. I mean, this thing touches 20 so many times, but then it falls back. So, the fact that it actually made a move above 20 is very nice. That's up 3.36% on the day. BMR, did we get red for the day? We actually got green. It was red an hour ago. 40.56 went to 3942. That was up 2.4% as well. Okay, we have Serve Robotics that is dumping. Serve that's down uh 7%. Then we have Cisco. I'll get their numbers in a second. That's up a little bit. And then DLO. Let me know which one of these stocks you guys are in. If people are in it, what did people say on the poll? 46% say Cisco will outperform. 22% say serve. And then 32% say DLOC. Okay. Well, what's going on with D or serve? Let's see what's down. Serve right here. Down 7%. I see a lot of DOS in the chat. Okay, so decent amount of people in DLO. Don't have their numbers yet. Let me see if we can get it. Circle did have earnings this morning. I don't know why they fell as hard as they did, but you know, they ended up falling. I don't know enough about this business. I know it's in stable coins, but Circle right there down about 12% on the day. Serve right there down 3%. Wow, they missed by 69% 54 cents versus 32 cents expected on the negative basis. So they lost more than expected. Revenue was 687,000 versus 691,000. They missed by 1% on EPS. EPS is down 170% year-over-year. Revenue is up 210% year-over-year. Is DLO pumping? DLO is dumping. Down 5%. Down 5% on DLO. That one go. Wow. Now it's down 8%. Goodness gracious. This one's getting hit. Cisco is the only one that's holding on a little bit. Serve now down 9%. DLO down 6%. Uh, don't have the earnings yet. I should be getting it very soon. Don't have it yet. It looks like it might have been a double miss, which could have been an issue. Wow. Fed President Collins, additional support risks stalling inflation progress. See relatively high bar for further easing near-term. Fed's Collins favors holding rates steady for some time. Dude, if the Fed really is not going to cut rates in December, it complicates a lot of issues in this market. I cannot believe they're actually saying that we think it's not time to cut. They think inflation is more of a concern than the labor market right now. We're going to have to see. There needs to be a majority decision for the Fed to go one way or the other. It's not like a Supreme Court decision where the majority wins. So, it's like we're really going to have to see what plays out. serve right there down 7% DLO now down 9% again the probabilities for a Fed rate cut are also the lowest it's been in the past couple weeks at 65% so that is still a question for December DLO still don't have the results down 12% why is it getting hit this bad um do I have the numbers I don't have the numbers the street wants 16 cents a share and then 262 million 16 cents a share 262 million. At least that's what the street is expecting on the top and bottom line. Oh, is it coming back? Is it coming back to life? Fell to 13. I mean, maybe that dump was a head fake because there are no numbers. Uh, serve also trying to come back a little bit. Now it's back down to 3%. This one's not easily making moves. Cisco is pumping. Cisco is pumping. Wow. Cisco doesn't move this often. Cisco is a stock from the 2000s. This one does not move like that. Wow. 5% on Cisco. It was already up 3% during the day. Let's see what these Cisco numbers are. And Cisco is a really important company in the context of um networking for data centers. So them putting up really good numbers matters for the overall AI trade, even if they're not like the biggest AI player. Beat by 2% on EPS, a dollar versus 98 cents. Beat by 1% on revenue, one 14.8 billion versus 14.7. EPS is up 10% year-over-year. revenue is up 8% year-over-year. Not massive massive beats, but they are indeed beats. Let me see if I can get some specific headlines from their investor page, but it's enough for the market to say, "Hey, we like it. We like it." Fiscal year adjusted EPS $4 to 14. The street thought it was going to be $4 to 406. Okay, so adjusted EPS is higher than expected likely because margins are better than expected. margins going up is likely due to either a lot of demand or a lot more efficiency in the world of AI. 7737. Wow. Cisco now year to date is up without the after hours move 25%. That's incredible. This is a name that doesn't move that often like that. DLO still getting hit down 11. I still don't have DLO numbers. Oh, I got them. DLO, it's a double beat. It's a double beat. 17 cents versus 16 expected, that's a beat by 6%. Revenue 282 versus 262, that's a beat by 8%. EPS is up 90% year-over-year. Revenue is up 52% year-over-year. What is the street upset about to take her down 7%. It's got to be something else in the data street's not happy with, but you got DLO that's down. Serve Robotics is still down and Cisco is green. No 13Fs yet after the bell. I'll keep an eye on them. We might get the majority of them tomorrow, but nothing yet after the bell. DLO down 7.4. Cisco still holding four. Serve down six. S&P moving a little bit after hours. So is pounder. So is SoFi. Look at that. 3233 on SoFi. Meta's up a little bit after hours. DLO. Oh, did it come back? Wasn't it just down 11%. Wasn't it just down 11% and now it's It almost just went green, dude. Now it's down 1%. Dude, can it can it actually go green? Can we actually Can we actually do a reversal right here? That is incredible, dude. Still down 2%. There is that green candle, dude. That is moving like crazy after hours. I think it went down before the double beat even came out and now the double beat is out. But the street kind of likes it, kind of doesn't like it. Let's get to Cisco. Here's some coverage on what we're seeing on Cisco and uh then we'll keep going from there.
>> Broadening out the market
>> of the influence of these really huge
>> stock market, right? We we all know he says,
>> it's a beat across the board. So, we'll start with a dollar flat adjusted EPS earnings per share that was stronger than anticipated on revenues of 14.88 88 billion dollars. Also stronger than anticipated. We're talking about the Q2 EPS guidance. Keep in mind that this is we're talking about the past Q1. So now this is the guidance for Q2. That range is higher than what the stream anticipated. The same thing for the Q2 revenue guidance. Same thing for the fullear guidance. And this guide is stronger, much stronger despite the government shutdown. Cisco does have a lot of exposure to the federal government in terms of sales. They did say in their earnings report, there's a quote from uh Chuck uh the CEO Chuck Robbins who said that the widespread demand for their technologies playing a huge role and they're seeing a lot of a multi-billion dollar campus refresh opportunity starting to ramp up because of all the aging networking gear that needs to be revamped. So all of this helping shares go up three and a half% guys.
>> Christina, thank you. Speaking of Chuck Robbins, don't miss the first on CNBC interview.
>> Okay, Cisco showing there's plenty of demand. I mean, I'll try to get some deeper numbers on what they're saying right here, but network equipment does eventually need to be replaced. And if you're upgrading a lot of these data centers, then maybe that is one of the bull cases for Cisco up 4% after hours. Serve still getting hit down 5%. DLOC basically down 5%. Not really making a move up or down, but that is getting hit. Let me see if there's dlocal uh financials we can look at. Dude, the numbers on this, I don't know that much about this company, but the numbers on it look pretty freaking cool. Record setting quarter. TPV record high of 10.4 billion, growing 60% year-over-year. Revenues up 52%. Gross profit 100 million. They are gap profitable. Net income up 93% yearover-year. Uh we delivered another record quarter, the first time with TPV above US 10 billion in gross profit that surpassed US 100 million and one more example of our strong growth and continue diversification. All of which underscore the potential and resilience of our business model, said the CEO of DLO. Does Tanner like this stock? I think Tanner and Couch like this stock, right? Is this a name that they like? Uh DLO right here down 5%. I mean that looks like a pretty good quarter. Not sure why the stock is down. It's got to be something deeper for why the stock's getting hit, but that one's down. Couch likes it. I mean, dude, again, these like same thing with Nebus, right? Phenomenal quarter. It got hit. If these stocks are going to go on a discount after a good quarter, definitely is worth looking at. Nebas right there. 9382 after hours. Zeta down about 1% after hours. Palter moving up a little bit. And then SoFi 3229. That's what we've got. because of margins. Yeah. I mean, like, well, I see. I don't know what the margin comparison is. I'll try to take a look at that. But if they're going to take it down because of margins and ignore the growth, it means the street's more focused on efficiency versus topline growth, which is fine because, you know, uh, margin has been the story for all the EPS that we've seen. But in these early days, you're going to have to sacrifice some margin for growth if you are growing at, you know, 52%. The cool thing about Palunteer is they're not sacrificing margin for growth, which is what the street really likes. Uh S&P 500 right here, 68359 after hours. Okay, so Cisco had a great quarter. That's up 5%. Uh Serve Robotics, let me try to pull up them and see what they put out. Again, they did 670,000 in revenue. Not really the strongest, but I guess the other metrics matter a little bit more. Delivery volumes is up 66% quarter- quarter, 300% year-over-year. Multi-year strategic partnership with Door Dash launched in Chicago. Third quarter revenue of 687,000. That's up 2x year-over-year. End of the quarter with strong liquidity of 210 million. And they raised 100 million through dilution. They have a thousand robots deployed. Daily supply hours increased by over 713% compared to third quarter of 2024. Wouldn't this be a company that Uber eventually buys out? Like this just feels like such an obvious buyou play for Uber. Market cap is less than a billion. I mean Uber probably doesn't need to buy because the partnership works so well with them, but eventually these guys actually can meaningfully grow. You would think that Uber would be a player to uh to buy them. For those that don't know what the serve robotics look like, it's it's basically this thing going down your street delivering you your food. So that's what that company basically does. Yeah. Uber or Lyft, right? At the end of the day, Open Door still moving after hours CEO bought a million of stock. Market likes it. Open door right there down a little bit, up 10% on the day. Again, the co-founder of Open Door said that he will bet $100,000 with some Twitter account that um it was just some some Twitter account. I don't know the name of the person, but they made a public bet of 100,000 bucks that Open Door will be more valuable than Shopify by 2032, which means Openoro would need a market valuation of around 200 billion. It's now at seven billion. So maybe that also created a lot of excitement in shareholders because the co-founders, you know, talking about a $200 billion market cap. Shopify right there 156. That's down 1.4%. Meta, are we still red? A little bit of green after hours. Still an ugly day. That's down 2.8%. And SoFi still up. Firefly pumping, is that an earnings name today? Firefly. What's there? Is that Is that OTC? Firefly stock. This is FL. Is that aerospace? Yeah, I think that's the aerospace one, right? Oh [ __ ] it's up a lot after it's up 13%. Year to date. They IPOed. They IPOed in 2007. Uh year to date, it's down 70% today. It's up 13% after hours. Let's see if we can get Do they have earnings today? Is that is that why? Oh, look at that. 10.7% move. They IPOed this year. Okay, Google lied to me. Or maybe it was a rebrand. I thought they IPOed this year, too. I remember hearing their name. Google saying they went public in 2007. They might have just recently IPOed again. Yes, earnings IPO 45. Okay, let's see if we can get some of the numbers on Firefly and what's going on here. Um, third quarter results. We have revenues up 98% quarter-over-arter, 38% year-over-year. Uh they closed an acquisition, 260 million revolving credit facility, 700 176 million contract from NASA, 10 million blue ghost mission. They reiterated the revenue guidance of 150 to 158 million for 2025. Okay, so you have a pretty big beat on revenue. New contract that they're confirming that they got from NASA. uh revolving credit facility going up is always a good thing. Means they have access to credit and liquidity and guidance of 150 million that continues to be green. All right, Firefly is up. I have not looked into this one. Firefly up 14% after I mean the stock was down 70% for the year. So they kind of kind of had nowhere to go but up, right? If they at least had a decent earnings. Looks like earnings were decent. That stock right now up 14%. Um again, DLO revenue beat adjusted EBIDA 71 versus 69. GAP EPS 18 versus 16 cents. TPV up 59% versus 40 53% from last quarter. Don't see why DLO should be getting hit, but it is getting hit up 6%. Firefly up 17% after hours as that one continues to go green. Uh, Grab did lose $6 today. Quick update on them. There was an article that came out around this whole Goto saga. And um, basically it showed that Anthony Tan is getting very serious about this acquisition, the CEO of Grab. So, um, essentially saying that there's private meetings now going on between executive officials and these meetings are influenced by SoftBank's decision to get rid of the CEO. I mean, it is saga that we're going to have to see play out. I do think it rerates the company. Maybe it doesn't, but I think towards the end of December, we're gonna have a much better understanding of what's going on there. Meta right there, 60930. Open door down a little bit after hours. Nebas down a little bit as well. Firefly still going higher, 18% as that one continues to go green. Serve Robotics, are we still getting hit? Serve Robotics down 3%. It was down seven. And then Zeta, which again I bought a little bit of today. Zeta right here. 2047 basically green after hours. All right, that's what we got for earnings, folks. That's what we got today for earnings. I will check right now if we have any 13Fs that are updated. Uh I'm not seeing anything too crazy. I have a couple sources. If we don't get it today, we'll likely get it tomorrow. Let's see if Bridgewwater is out. This is Ray Dalio, even though he doesn't run it anymore. Bridgewwater not out yet. Um let's see. Howard Marks, is that one out yet? Oak Tree Capital Management. That one's not out yet. We have a couple of other ones that I just see coming out. Don't know these people too well, but we do have a few of them. First Eagle Investment Management, they manage $54 billion. Um, they have a lot of buys and sells. They sold some of their oracles, sold some of their Meta, added more of their Google. This is all as of Q3. Um, they bought Workday and Omnicom. Those are brand new buys. 2 million shares of Workday, six million shares of Omnicom. They bought Pan-American Silver. Okay, getting into the commodities trade. They ah, this one manages a lot of different positions. Then they bought AIN and AEBI, which I don't know too much about. Seems like they sold off a decent amount of tech or at least reduced their positioning in tech. Uh and they reduced a little bit of their healthcare. HCA healthcare was also a buy for them. We have another one coming in. Linddale train. These guys managed 4 billion. Uh they added 10% to Google, reduced 7% of TKO, reduced 25% of eBay, reduced 1% of PayPal. They reduced a little bit of their fair Isaac corporation FICO. They add in Canadian Pacific. They added Estee Ladar. It's a great company. They sold a little bit of their Coke. They added 30% to Adobe. We all know Adobee's cheap. The question is, is cheap good given the narrative on them. They sold 50% of their oracle. Uh, and then they added 10% or 2% to their Equifax or Equifax. Yeah. a lot of these funds, you know, a lot I mean, we ended Q3, what, September 30th? I would not be surprised to see Oracle on a list of the top most sold stocks in Q3 because um it pumped to 350 on September 10th. Like, I would imagine some of these funds were like, "Hey, we're gonna dump this stock because we bought it at 200 and it's at 300 in less than 24 hours." I mean, it would not be crazy to see that they might have done that. Uh here's another one. Khan Brothers Group. They manage 530 million. Again, none of the super big names like the Acmans or Buffets of the world, but you do have some of these smaller funds. Uh they bought Seapport Entertainment Group. They bought MBIA. They bought American Express. They bought Nvidia. They brought Brookfield. Those were the main buys. They added 90% to their Google as well. 90% to their Google as well. For those that are new here and don't understand how to pronounce Estee Lau, again, you know, I really don't know how to help you.
>> Like, it's not that hard, but you do have to really look uh look into your soul to understand how to correctly pronounce some of these companies. And I'm not an English teacher, so I'm not going to be here to teach you, but I just I feel like the constant complaining of this stuff is not is not productive. All right, here's another one. 9.3 billion fund. Uh Thomas Russo, they added Heineken, they added Birkshshire, they sold 10% of Google, 3% of Mastercard, 4% of Philip Morris, they sold 4% of Door Dash, added 1% of Exxon, added 1% of Union Pacific, uh 20% of SPF. We're not seeing a lot of crazy names. We're seeing a lot of other parts of the market that are, you know, not super tech, not super growthy, but nonetheless, you're seeing some which I mean, you're seeing some rotations to them, which actually like they bought Caterpillar. I mean, that that goes into that trend again of a healthy rotation that is not crazy to see. And then they added a little bit to Truis, which is a regional bank. Those are most of the 13Fs. We're not getting Acan, Ter, Buffett, none of those yet. It might come out tomorrow. If we do get them, we'll talk about it, but so far not yet. Um, okay. The Epstein stuff. So, we talked about it in the morning. Some leaked emails came out. Trump has commented on it on Truth Social and well, he said it's a uh it's it's a Democratic hoax. So basically he came out and said that the Democrats are trying to um let me get the exact quote but he said the Democrats are trying to ignore the shutdown and convince the American people that the Epstein thing matters more. In other words, Democrats are using the Jeffrey and Epstein hoax to try and deflect from their massive failures, in particular the most recent one, the shutdown. He then went on to say, "The Democrats are trying to bring up the Jeffrey Epstein hoax again because they'll do anything at all to deflect on how bad they've done on the shutdown and many other subjects. Only a very bad or stupid Republican would fall into that trap. The Democrats cost our country $1.5 trillion with the recent antics of viciously closing our country." Caroline Levi did say that GDP growth might be down 2% in Q4 because of the shutdown while at the same time putting many at risk and they should pay a fair price. There should be no deflections to Epstein or anything else. Uh and any Republicans involved should be focused on only opening up our country and fixing the massive damage caused by the Democrats. DLOC still down 7%. Uh Fly still up 15%. Serve down three and then Meta up a little bit. So you got the Trump administration trying to navigate those headlines, but you do have a lot of those headlines after the bell that's playing out. BMR 40.93. That's green. 40.93. All right. Put in the chat if you bought the dip on anything today. I bought a little bit of Nebius and a little bit of Zeta. That's pretty much it, but uh let me know in the chat if people bought any of the dip. I mean, if it was even a dip. Again, some stocks took a dip. S&P was green. Nvidia was green. So, Meta definitely had a dip today. But curious to see if people actually took some dips. Oh, did Flutter have earnings today? Flutter, that's a big gambling stock. Uh, let me see if I can pull them up. I see a lot of VG. I see a lot of Nebas. We have Doug with Nebius. Jonathan DCA and Dualingo. I see a ton of Irene. I see a ton of Big Bear AIS. That one had a great day as well. Um, Flutter is down 3% after hours, by the way. Looks like their earnings were pretty good. We'll look at in actually no it looks like it was bad. Looks like they missed on a couple aspects. Um Big Bear ended on the day what 15%. Barons called them a smaller palunteer 18% of the day. So that probably caught some headlines. I see a ton of BMRs, Celsius, Fizer hims, uh Corweave, Chris made this AI VG video. He like put his podcast with him and Matt last night into some uh what does Google call it? A notebook LLM and it was a pretty good it was like a seven minute summary of the earnings recap and it was it was actually phenomenal. So like shout out to Google notebook LLM. That thing is pretty incredible. But I do see some VGs right here. Uh ASST, how is that one doing? 129 that was down 5%. Um, I think Nebis is the biggest one I'm seeing out of all these. Nebis and Meta, those are the main ones that I'm seeing right here after hours. Okay. Flutter third quarter revenue 3.79 versus 3.86. That's a miss. Flutter sees fiscal year adjusted EBIT of 935 million. That's down from 1.25 billion. Third quarter monthly players 14.1 million versus 14.7 expected. They are now unveiling a new prediction markets platform with FanDuel and Fluttershares are down 5% after hours on missing on revenue. This is kind of the same take I had yesterday with Jason about DraftKings. I am not that bullish on the gambling stocks simply because I think Khi and Poly Market in addition to Robin Hood. I don't want to say they're taking away their users because maybe I would have never been a DraftKings user if I had never learned about prediction markets, but I do think some of the excitement and momentum on those trades are being put into prediction markets, especially the sports prediction markets. And that's volumes that's not going to Flutter or to DraftKings. And so that could be a broader issue for those stocks. approximate the fact that it's missing on users and revenue is not nice to see especially adjusted eBay missing by almost 300 million right there 250 million that one is going down now granted I don't think draft king is going out of business anytime soon it's just a super bull case on holding this long term with prediction markets getting as much popularity as they have might not be as strong cor right there that's up a little bit after hours down 3.5% and then I reen slightly red after hours as That's what we got. That is what we've got for earnings. Uh let's get a couple of tech headlines. I'll see if we get any 13Fs or 13Gs. Again, it might end up showing out tomorrow. But those are some of the main headlines we have. First of all, let's get a little bit of macro data, particularly on mortgages. Oh, we were talking about Fanny saying that, hey, Fanny May saying that, hey, maybe the 620 credit score should be reook, bring that down. Today, there's some headlines saying that, well, we should have um movable mortgages. So, basically, if you have a 2.75% mortgage on your home that you bought in 2020 and you want to move, the White House is exploring a way, as for Politico, to take that same rate and the same lender you have and bring it to a new house. Can the federal housing administration make that possible? Yes. Is that the healthiest thing for the economy? I don't know. That would be a moving mortgage. And you know, that could be something that the uh the White House is thinking of making housing more affordable.
>> Some movement on the housing front with demand for mortgages ticking up last week. Diana Ol has the numbers for us. Hi, Diana.
>> Hey, Court. Yeah, even though we're heading smack into the slowest season for housing, home buyers seem to be making maybe one last gasp, likely because of more supply on the market and softening prices. Mortgage applications to buy a home rose 6% last week to their strongest pace since September, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Now, volume was 31% higher than the same week one year ago. This despite the fact that the average rate on the 30-year fix for conforming loans rose to 6.34% from 6.31 for loans with 20% down. That rate though is 52 basis points lower than it was a year ago. Purchase demand rose for all loan types, conventional, FHA, and VA as potential home buyers continue to shop around for the best deals. Now, as for refinance demand, not so much. It had been strong last month, but dropped 3% for the week, still 147% higher than the same week a year ago. Thanks to those lower rates, the average loan size for refies also dropped as higher rates offer less savings. Okay, so what about this week? Well, rates have actually come down a little bit to 6.29% on the 30-year according to Mortgage News Daily. That is likely due to the impending end of the government shutdown. But the big question remains, what happens when we start to get all that economic data from the government that we missed during the shutdown? And Courtney, how will markets react to that? So that is one thing that the government is thinking about. Maybe there is a world in which we can make mortgages more affordable or at least home payments more affordable if we were to allow them to be portable. And in other countries, this has been happening for a long time. This might be one of the routes that the US government tends to look at along with those 50-year mortgages that they were talking about. Uh mortgage rates are coming down though, which is nice. It's not anywhere below 6%, but the amount of demand that's coming in is good enough to at least get them to start ticking a little bit down. Uh ESB earnings, we got those numbers. Revenue is up,00% year-over-year. Uh they did about uh 10 million in revenue, net income 104 million, EPS 62 cents. Crypto assets are three billion. ETH holdings are 817,000 for ESBET. Um and then 1.5 billion share repurchase program from the board. The market cap on SBET is 2.2. Their ETH holdings are three in addition with their cash. Uh and they only spent about 31 million of the 1.5 billion authorization to date, but they also are staking which is allowing them to generate more revenue. So there you go. I mean, look, I don't know how. I mean, obviously BMR is in a different league in terms of the level of ETH that they're buying, but ultimately this depends on ETH going higher for us to see any bit of move. Ethereum right there 3417 and then Biddycoin right here at 101.7. And that's what you're seeing on some of the crypto stocks. Here's another stat that I thought was really interesting as well, going back to this idea of risk on appetite. in this broader bull bull market. So, uh, total quarterly options volume exceeded 3.5 billion in Q3 of 2025. That is up double over the past five years. It's up 10 points since 2023 and the 5-year average has been 49%. This is super bullish Robin Hood and we kind of saw that I think last quarter they sold like 600 million contracts or something like that and in October alone they already did 260 million. So you have the overall market sentiment being a lot more attractive towards these Q3 trading contracts and if that continues in Q4 in the options derivatives world that would be important but very bullish for the brokerages. In terms of the top 20 stocks that were traded today four options you had Nvidia and AMD take number one and two Tesla pound tier three and four. Then you had Meta Open Door was number six. So buy number seven. IBIT, Apple, Amazon, Micro Strategy, Microsoft, Circle, Big Bear AI is up there. Fizer, Core, Cisco, Iran, Oracle, and Google. These were your top 20 stocks that were traded in the options market today. Nvidia and Tesla end up being one and two almost every well, Nvidia is usually number one every single day. And then Tesla, you know, 90% of the time is number two, but today you have AMD. AMD again, 7% move, which is very nice to see for AMD. Uh, Steve, thanks for the $5 super chat. Thoughts on Micro Strategy. I'm up 100% on AMD and so far I'm down 30% on Micro Strategy. Take profits and buy the dip or do you think this will continue to mnav up one? I think it really depends on Bitcoin. I mean, a question about Micro Strategy is is basically to me a question about Bitcoin. And if Bitcoin makes a move, I think Micro Strategy you hold it, right? es you even buy the dip if you really think Bitcoin's going higher if not which I don't know I mean Bitcoin's got a month and a half to really make a meaningful move to end out the year and if it doesn't it is what it is you know the fact that it's holding 100 is really important there were some uh pictures I saw yesterday or some um some some wallet addresses and and this has been a trend over the past couple of months even Tom Le has been talking about this but you got a lot of OG holders because you can track the date that someone acquired a bitcoin given the transparency of the blockchain from 2010 that are starting to dump at these levels and like who could blame them, right? They were buying at like 10 cents and they're getting to exit at 101,000. But you are seeing a lot more OG wallets dumping and it is what it is. They're not going to hold on forever, but that could also be contributing to some of the selling pressure as well. So yeah, I think on Micro Strategy really just depends on Bitcoin. Uh Rivian, how did that stock do? It was up 10% yesterday, down 2% today. Not too crazy. Wow. White House tweet or not tweet, but a quote. Is Trump live right now? Where is the White House getting these quotes from? Committed to providing $2,000 dividend to Americans funded by tariff revenues. They are not giving up on this $2,000 dividend. They are not giving up on this. The House is voting right now as well. Yeah, the House is voting as well, but the White House $2,000 dividend to Americans funded by tariff revenues. Again, Bent said this would be if you make below 100,000 you would get this. Well, he called a rebate. I don't know if it's a sty check or rebate, but White House is saying it's a dividend.
>> Emanuel is not a proper parliamentary inquiry to ask the chair to indicate which side of the aisle has failed under the speaker's guidelines to clear a unanimous consent request as was stated. Okay. So, they will be voting. I mean, I thought they were going to vote at night. If they're beginning the vote today or like right now Oh, they're going to do a lot of speaking before the vote. That means we might get an answer in a couple hours. resolution.
>> House calendar number 46, House Resolution 873, resolved that upon adoption of this resolution, it shall be in order to take from the speaker's table the bill HR5371 making continuing appropriations and extensions for fiscal year 2026 and for other purposes with
>> Okay, so in a couple hours we should get news. Dude, if if I have a feeling it doesn't pass. If it doesn't pass, oh my goodness, if it doesn't pass, it better freaking pass. The Democrats aren't going to vote for it, but the Republicans have enough. I think they have a margin of safety of two votes, if I'm not wrong. They can lose two Republicans and still get it passed, but that's it. They lose more than two, they're screwed. So, I don't think we should have to worry about that. If that ends up happening, obviously wouldn't be the best thing in the world, but definitely something we'll keep up with. Here is the news on uh the Fed Collins again. Another Fed president turning into a hawk and making the argument for why we shouldn't cut.
>> Fair talks about financial conditions usually meaning the stock market. She says they're a tailwind for economic growth and economic activity has been holding up quite well. She says additional monetary support risk slowing or stalling the return of inflation to the Federal Reserve's 2% target. There are downside risks to employment, she says, but they have not increased since the summer. And she's hesitant to ease further without evidence of a further weakening of the labor market. Wants to assess the effects of the easing, the 50 basis points of easing that the Fed has done since September to find out whether or not it's prudent to go ahead. Prudent, she says, to ensure inflation is on track to 2% before making further adjustments. The importance here, guys, it looks like there is now a critical mass of officials. I don't know if it's a a majority, but a critical mass of officials either outright opposing a rate cut or suggesting the Fed should go more slowly. It's unclear if it's half of the 12 voters that you
>> I'm going to do a poll in the chat. See what you guys think about if we're getting a rate cut or not. But as he said, you are getting a significant amount of people on this open market committee potentially saying we don't need a rate cut in December.
>> You need or six of them, but it's close. This contrast with a market that before Collins spoke moments ago when her her uh her um headlines came out, there was a 64% probability of a December rate cut. It's now 61%. If the December inflation report comes out on time, that's a big if, will be issued December 17th, and that's day two of the Fed's two-day meeting. So guys, this is really interesting at this point. There is definitely a divide on the Fed. It's a substantial divide at this point where I would think you could have three maybe even four descents if they do cut and there may be as many as five or six who oppose a cut at this point. We're going to have to watch and listen carefully and then get this data hopefully it's coming out from the government to see if um indeed uh either the labor market is holding up as some say or if the labor market is weakening substantially or of course if inflation is under control. John.
>> All right, Steve. Thank you. Yeah, not a lot of data coming to change their mind.
>> Dude, if we don't get this rate cut, oh my goodness. I don't think it means we like go back to the lows of October like 640 on the S&P. I just think any hope of like a meaningful run towards the end of the year gets squashed. So, it doesn't have to be bearish, but it's definitely not bullish. And that's the issue. And we're gonna have to see what ends up happening. But they're not getting a rake cut is not going to be good. Yeah, that Santa Claus rally is gonna be a little cooked. I don't see any 13Fs. I guess they're not coming out today. Um, nothing on my side. I don't have Stanley Duck and Miller. I don't All these The last ones that were updated were November or uh June 30th. The only The only recent one we have is um Michael Bur. And I know people are quoting like Black Rockck is again guys, Black Rockck buys a lot of stuff. Black Rockck is not like Ray Dalio or Howard Marx that is having a subjective opinion on a stock and they're imposing their opinion by buying or selling the stock and you can infer what you want to infer from Stanley Driller's opinion. Black Rockck, Vanguard, Jane Street, I mean these guys kind of have to buy and sell everything at some point. So I don't think it's the most useful thing to look at what Goldman or JP Morgan or Black Rockck are buying. But it's really useful to see what ter is buying. I mean, you follow ter into the China trade back in summer of 2024, you made a lot of money. So, those are the people I more so care about. Doesn't look like it's today. Oh, we just got one just now. Uh, this guy manages 3.2 billion. It looks like he did nothing. Is that correct? Literally just got one. Tomorrow we're going to get a lot more of them. Um, amid all your polls split into 7030, the morning of a red day turned out wrong. Did most people bet red today? Oh, we did end up going green. I mean, we ended up red on certain stocks, but we ended up green on the S&P. 67% of you say yes, we get a, you know, that's close to the probabilities on the Fed tracker at 65%. So, people are betting we get this rate cut. It looks like this guy did nothing. Himalaya capital Leelu. He manages 3.2 billion. Is this the guy? Dude, this guy is epic. Leelu. Do you guys know this guy? Himalaya Capital Management. It looks like he did nothing. Google, Bergkshire, Bank of America, Apple, and Oxy. And then Pinu Duo. Didn't buy or sell anything apparently. Either this is not updating or no, maybe he did nothing. Maybe he just Usually it updates immediately. He's Buffett's good friend. Oh, that's why he has $500 million of Birkshshire, dude. Leelu is the founder and chairman of Himalaya Capital. It was founded in 1997. Oh wow. We embrace the value investment principles of Benjamin Graham, Warren Buffett, and Charlie Munger. and today primarily focus on traded companies in North America. We aim to achieve superior returns by being long-term owners of high- quality companies with substantial economic mo growth potential and run by trustworthy people. Some of our holdings date back to 20 years ago. Okay. Well, he didn't do anything in Q2. He kind of stayed steady. Bergkshire, Bank of America, Google, Pin Duo Duo, and Apple. That's what he did or that's what he holds. and doesn't look like he made a move back and forth. Charlie Munger gave him money. Dude, you guys know the Indian guy that Charlie, what's it? Monish Perbay. That guy um I mean I think he's a he's a very important investor and I like listening to him, but I mean he's his portfolio has not really been doing much. I mean, he owns three things and he and he doesn't really he owns five things and from my understanding, he has not really beat the S&P over the past decade. Correct me if I'm wrong, but this is his portfolio. Monish PBrite and he only manages 270 million. And I'm saying only, you know, metaphorically, but still it's like you would think the guy would manage a lot more. Valeris, HCC, AMR, NE, and Autoation. Obviously, he's not touching any of the big tech stocks or anything like that, but this guy is like a legit disciple of Munger. He his story is he got invited to a dinner or he paid to go to a dinner in 2007 with Buffett for like some charity and he got to talking to Munger and they became such good friends and then he became Munger basically became his mentor at that point. But those are his five names. You could do that. admit you manage 500 million. Dude, if I had 500 million to manage, wouldn't it be so much fun just to like swipe up and buy like a 100,000 shares of a stock on Robin Hood and that's like 01% of your 500 million. Dude, that would be legit. That would be so much fun one day. Be so much fun. But that's what we got. All right, so I think I mean I don't think we're getting any of the 13Fs or 13 G's tomorrow. we should get a lot more of them. But that's kind of the main stuff we're seeing. Again, we looked at these ETF inflows, very high. Also, Bend was talking this morning about the um the Trump accounts for kids that's going to be live starting this year.
>> And then the other thing you're going to see on the in the middle of the year are these Trump accounts. every child born retroactively to January 1, but for the next three years is going to get a $1,000 account that's going to be invested in the US stock market. So that's another $1,000 for working families.
>> So yes, see the problem here is, and again, I think I think I think the administration is really trying hard trying hard to figure this out, but no one cares. No one cares that kids are getting a thousand dollars invested into the S&P 5. We care. If you people who are investors here that are watching that have kids, you probably care. But the average American is not going to think that life is becoming more affordable because $1,000 for my newborn child is getting invested into the S&P 500 that, you know, 20 years from now will generate a return. As great of an idea as it is, and I I applaud Brad Gersonner for championing it, and you know, it's only 3.5 billion bucks for the government, so it's a very small expense. I don't know if that combats the affordability narrative because the payoff is so far from that. And you need a lot of compounding for that to to make more sense. Now, I think it's super bullish Robin and Schwab and Fidelity, all the brokerages, right, that are going to get a piece of that. But we're going to have to see longterm how much it affects the broader American people. Imagine a baby getting a margin call. I think you have to invest in like an S&P 500 index one. You can't like do anything with it. So many people would just yolo that thousand dollars into like calls or something. Um, but that is something that the administration is going to be doing. Uh, what do you think about Zeta? I bought a little bit of Zeta today. I think valuation is very compelling. I'll put up a one pager of it tomorrow and I'll show you guys. Uh, if anyone wants to listen, I'll link it right here in the chat. We did a Twitter spaces with Ronnie. I thought he did a great job on it. Davis, friend of the channel, he's been screaming about Zetta for the past couple months. Haven't really had the time to look into it, but over the past couple weeks, I was like, you know what, let me look at it. especially after their growth updates on um Q3. There are some really compelling arguments for why it's uh it's cheap. But as with anything, if the market takes a hit, also it's up 9% this year. So, it's not some high-flying stock that's gone up like crazy. I mean, it's like relatively been tame all year and they've just kept beating expectations. So, I'll put out a one page tomorrow so you guys can read it, but that Twitter space is if people want to hear 30 minutes on it, you can listen to that. Give each baby a B of an R leap. Yeah, exactly. 100%. There was a short report. That's correct. There was a short report. There's a court case. Obviously, you got to do a lot of DD to go deeper into it. But, you know, like with many stocks, there's tons of short reports and lawsuits and things that you ultimately have to look past if you're bullish. And if you're not, then that keeps you from investing. Yeah. Not seeing any other 13Fs. Let me see if Brad Gersonner's 13F is out. Brad Gersonner 13F. I'm curious if he bought or sold more Hood. Obviously, we know that was a big I think he bought he added like 300 million of Hood last quarter. Nope. Still not out. We're gonna have to wait. We're going to have to wait a day or two for this data. His top five holdings, by the way, Gersonner, ARM, IOT, Hood, TSM, and Nvidia. So, he's pretty bullish on those core five. The fact that Hood's a top five is wild, dude. Like Hood is not a top five holding in any of these super investor funds. Neither is Paler, by the way. You you do not Hood and Pounder are starting to have like better institution ownership, but you really don't see them show up in the top five. He also has uh 1 million shares of Meta. He added 41,000 last quarter. He did recently say that he's been trimming. So, I wonder how much he trimmed. Nvidia, he has 8.2 million shares. Uber they have 5.9 million. Hood, they have 3.2. Zillow, they have 2.3. And then Microsoft, they have a million shares as well. So that's what we got and we'll see over the next two days if we get more of these more of these 13Fs. I'm talking about Brad Gersonner. Brad is uh the managing partner of Ultimter Fund. All right, guys. I think that's it for me. I do have to leave a bit early today. Uh have an event in New York that I'll be talking about probably next week. So, I'm going to get out of here. I don't think we have anything else that's going on right now. Tomorrow, we have a few earnings and I think we'll have a lot more of these 13Fs tomorrow. Tomorrow we have New Bank. Dude, ironically, last time we got the 13Fs was the same day that New Bank earnings came out. I remember because Tanner was live and New Bank ended up delaying the earnings and he had to I was in this apartment. I was moving in and my phone wasn't working so I couldn't go live or so Tanner was like covering all the 13Fs that came out that day. It's the same day of New Bank, so it looks like that might happen again. You have New Bank, Applied Materials, Redcat, and QMCO, Quantum Corporation. Is this another quantum stock? I've never heard of these guys. QMCO. Okay, if it is a quantum stock, the stock price is not really reflecting the other quantum stocks. This one's down 80% this year. But those are the companies that we're going to have tomorrow earnings. Disney tomorrow morning. Correct. Disney tomorrow morning. Yes. Nvidia in a week. Nvidia in a week. Say hi to Mum Donnie. That'll be funny if I run into Mum Donnie. Um, it is not a date. It It's actually a It's a really cool event and I'll tell you guys about it soon. I just got to I got to figure out if I'm officially like kind of involving myself in this opportunity. But it's really cool. It's it's similar to what I was talking about with Triple what I told you guys I was talking about with TripleB yesterday and kind of getting his advice on some stuff. Um but yeah, I'm going to do that today and then we'll be back tomorrow. No, it is not a Grinder event. It's not a Grinder stock meetup. It is not a sauna party to talk about insider trading. Goodness gracious, bro. No, I'm not joining the Freemasons, bro. some of these guesses. It's not another root canal. Thank goodness, dude. But, uh, yeah, I'm not wearing my flipflop. This is one of those events you can't I mean, I could wear my flip-flops. I don't think anyone would care technically, but I probably shouldn't wear my flip-flops, so I'll not be wearing them. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. We'll be back tomorrow. Uh, daily recap also will be posted later today and we'll go through everything that happened. S&P 500 ended green for the day 683 38 tomorrow we'll get a lot more of those 13F 13GS exposure um what I'm trying to say um exposures or sorry disclosures we'll get and we'll see what exposure based on the disclosure these companies have or these investors have to some of the more important stocks in the market so far I haven't seen anything crazy I mean you're literally seeing some investors that have made zero moves so tomorrow we'll get a lot more of those disclosures and then we have earnings That's pretty much it. We also might get some macro data. I mean, the White House is saying we're not going to get CPI and jobs data, but you might get some parts of data tomorrow. And so that stuff will be important as well. Freudian slip exposure party. Goodness gracious, dude. Sage, thank you. Appreciate the super chat. If I end up taking this opportunity, it's not going to take away anything from the show. It's a really really good opportunity to be honest. And uh you know potentially it's gonna involve you guys in a in a way. Um I don't want to say what it is, but like in a week I'll probably talk about it. I got to sign the paperwork. It's not a brand deal, not a sponsorship, nothing crazy like that. I'm not I'm not getting paid on this at all, but it's a it's a it's it's a cool in my opinion. I was like, do you think because I'm very conscious of of the the career moves I make. Do you think this would be a good career trajectory move in the context of networking and getting access to different types of people that I don't have access to? And he was like 10,000% yes. So, it's not joining CNBC or Bloomberg. It has nothing to do with media to be honest. I know I'm being vague about it, but it's it's uh it's nothing to do with media and it's nothing that would stop me from doing the show every day, but it would make 2026 a lot more exciting. So, I think it'll be cool. I'll let you guys know tomorrow. No, I'm not a CNBC, guys. Trust me, it's not a CNBC contribution. It's like, you know, TripleA, he was asking me about that. Yes. He was like, "Would you ever want to do CNBC?" I was like, "No, dude." Like, like having my own show on CNBC is like boring, bro. Having a live stream, you know, where I can uh mispronounce words every day. Like, that's that's way more exciting. So, no, it's not writing a book. It's not anything in the media space, but I think it'll be cool. It'll be cool. We'll talk about it tomorrow. Or not tomorrow, next week. Okay, cool. That's it. I got to get out of here. Thank everybody for being here. Appreciate it. Um, are you finally going to learn English? I should sign up for English classes, dude. That's I really should. I think that might be a better opportunity. So, we'll find out. Uh, Ahmed, thank you for the $20 super chat. up over 55% on SoFi sold puts $27 strike expiring December 19th up 11,000. Should I close them or wait for expiration? It really begs the question, do you think SoFi will be above 27 by December 19th? And quite frankly, I cannot even say the market will be at this level on December 19th if we don't get a rate cut and if labor market data ends up weakening. So, you're up over 55%. That's a pretty big win. You have to ask yourself, would you be comfortable owning SoFi at 27 if it ends up going back there and given the price action? I mean, I don't think that's a horrible price. I bought around that price last week. And, you know, are you confident that the 30s will hold, but the answer to those two questions determine if you would close those puts or not. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'm not going to be Tom Lee's secretary, dude. Every time I try to leave these comments, oh my gosh, these are great. Triple V is a friend. He's someone who like donates a $200 super chat every other day. He's a very good friend of mine. I'm actually seeing him in New York. He's going to be in New York. Um, not today, but in a couple weeks. I think Steve is going to be with me to get dinner with him. So, I'll be seeing him again in New York in a in a few weeks. Tom Le's hair consultant. You know, I need whoever Tom Le's hair consultant is, quite frankly. That would be that would be helpful for me. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Bye everybody. Have a good one.