Hello my friends. Today is May 9th and this is Markets Weekly. All right, before we begin, I'll note that on Friday, the US government declassified a whole bunch of UFO files. And among those files, you can see that as early as the 1940s, the US Air Force was investigating widespread reports of flying saucers in the air. I know this because I have a firstirhand account of a UFO. Back in 2013, I was walking outside of London. I looked into the night sky and I saw what looked like flying flames flying in formation at high speed. By flame, I mean kind of like when you light a match, you can see that that that flame dancing around. That's what I saw flying out in the sky. I immediately took out my cell phone and took a photo. And to my surprise, this is what the cell phone photo looked like. To my naked eye, it was a flame, but to the cell phone camera, it was a circular object. Basically, a flying saucer. So as they say the truth is out there. Now today let's talk about three things. First off we have to talk about how the lower part of the K is falling apart. Secondly let's talk of course you have to talk about the stock market that has gone absolutely crazy especially the semiconductor stocks and that in my personal view that will inevitably implode. And lastly we have to talk about the latest financial stability report from the Fed. some interesting graphs as to the state of the financial system. All right, starting with uh the lower part of the K. So last week we had the non-formms per report and the headline job number was good. It was over a 100,000 jobs created, much better than expected. Now we have these changing demographic shifts. So what we really want to focus on of course is the unemployment rate which stood pat. Which is totally decent. Now, what really caught my eye though were wages. Because wages are decelerating. If you if you were expecting a hot labor market, what you would expect is employers to compete for workers, especially as the workforce is not growing and they would compete for workers by offering higher wages. But that's just not happening. Last week, we also got the latest University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey. And to my surprise, it printed at record lows. Like this survey goes back decades and there have been methodological changes but still it's a very low read. Now anecdotically it seems like consumers are very unhappy because of inflation right that is eroding their living standards. When you look at the inflation numbers uh they are accelerating and if inflation is accelerating and wages are decelerating that means your real wages are declining your living standards are declining. So say with gasoline surging up here, surging higher, consumers are going to have to spend more money at the pump. They're going to feel poor. They'll drive less and they'll have less money left over to buy other things. And that seems to be what's happening. So last week we also had a bunch of companies report uh we had, for example, Crab Hinds suggest that um for them their poor consumers are literally running out of money, reaching into savings and just not not able to make ends meet. Craft Hind is a company that produces a lot of food products particularly for those in the lower part of the K. Now we also had Planet Fitness, a gym company that caters more towards the lower part of the K also suggesting weaker uh weaker numbers. And of course, if you look at their stock price, the market just didn't like what they heard. Interestingly, we also had Worldpool report and according to Worldpool, uh demand for their appliances is basically at recessionary levels. Things are not going well. Part of this could be, of course, that high mortgage rates are limiting uh the new housing, new home market. So, usually when you buy a new home, you'd buy appliances as well. So, that could be impacting them. Um, if you look at their stock price, they did not like the earnings call, but they've been doing very poorly for some time. Warpool is a company that largely manufactures in the United States and so they are not really impacted by tariffs but um they should have been a beneficiary of a potential US manufacturing renaissance but you know that just doesn't look like it's happening at least not yet. So overall, a lot of the a lot of the workers in the US are suffering. And so that kind of stands in contrast with what we see into the market, which goes to our second topic. The stock market is just surging like every single day. All-time highs, all-time highs. Especially the tech stocks, they just go higher and higher and higher. Really, when you take a step back and look at this recovery from the um the panic from the pan from the war panic a few weeks ago, it really looks like we've gone vertical. Now the big driver of this of course is the AI boom. Now if you look at the socks index the semiconductor index you can see that guys it's going parabolic and I don't think you need me to tell you that this is not sustainable and whenever a chart looks like this on the other side eventually it will ultimately implode. Now in particular I'm going to point out Intel. Intel zooming out looking at Intel stock it's just insane right now. First off, uh, Intel is benefiting from the semiconductor AI boom, but also of course the perception that the government there is there to support them. Uh, President Trump made a big equity investment in Intel on behalf of the US uh, taxpayer. It looks like that that investment has been doing well so far. U, but of course at the end of the day uh, like anything else just supply and demand and in my personal view just momentum and leverage. Now, in the 1920s, in the dotcom era, a lot of leverage was through margin loans. People don't really do that as much now. The latest way to get leverage is through options. And you have this interesting chart from Zero Hedge suggesting that there is a surge in call option activity. And that probably is contributing to what you see um in the stock market. I know many people will note that, oh, it's different this time because of, you know, earnings and stuff like that. Um, but I don't find that persuasive at all because I don't believe earnings matter. So, one easy way to say that is if you look at the dot boom, these companies had basically no earnings, but they went to the moon, right? So, obviously obviously earnings is that that important. So, putting at earnings is neither here nor there. But just to further on that point, the S&P 500 as a whole does have strong earnings growth. technology companies do have strong earnings growth. Although some of the people who are a bit more thoughtful will also note that those earnings are are not completely what they see. For example, there's this article in the FT noting that for a lot of the big tech companies, a lot of their earnings are basically just in equity gains from their investments into AI startups like anthropic, like open AI. So basically these companies have stock again not publicly traded stock in open AI and anthropic and because of the AI boom the valuations of these stocks are going up and so that is showing up as increased uh income for these for the max for the hyperscalers. Also note that the hyperscalers are suggesting they have a lot of contracted revenue in the pipeline. A lot of people are buying their computing services but when you look in detail a lot of the people who are buying their services are basically the companies they're investing in. So basically you you have a hyperscaler say say an Amazon or or something like that or Microsoft uh investing giving money into anthropic to open AAI in exchange for equity and those AI startups turning around and sending the money right back and getting compute in exchange. So it's a very circular thing which of course can can be very good if this AI boom continues because the if the AI boom continues then the valuation of these AI startups go up and they will have more and more uh capacity to buy more compute so revenue contracted revenue will go up for and so it's kind of like a virtuous cycle for them but if uh you know there's a change in sentiment then that virtuous cycle will go in reverse in any case I continue to think that looking at um these huge huge surges again it's just momentum and leverage that makes the system fragile what uh changes the dynamics I don't know but when you are fragile it doesn't really take much all right the last thing that I want to talk about is the latest financial stability report released from the Federal Reserve now looking through it let's let's highlight a few things that I thought were somewhat interesting first off of course we have to go with the uh Fed's perception or the Fed staff's perception of the valuation of the stock market which which actually isn't super high though like the P ratio is historically elevated but not ridiculously so but you can just look at this chart of PE and you can immediately see that P does not matter right so sometimes it goes really high sometimes it goes really low if PE were were an important metric for stock for stock investors then what you would expect is that when um stocks are cheap you'd have people come in and buy them. And when stops are very high, you'd have people come in and sell them. And so the PE ratio would be a mean reverting series, but it's just not right. Sometimes it goes ridiculously high. Sometimes they say it's very low. Uh the the class of investors that would have invested according to this, we would call them value investors. Uh these guys are uh there's not that many of them left because it just hasn't worked for decades. So it's there and markets are are basically psycho prices are basically psychological right everyone buys and sells based on different perspectives and so if you have this uh this I guess way of looking at the world value investing way of looking at the world shrinking then that that that's just not going to shape prices and so maybe in the 1980s this was a useful way of looking at the world but u it very obviously is not today okay so moving on you can see in addition as we all know home single family home prices are quite elevated um when it comes to relative to rent and that's something that's been persistent for the past few years the good news is that the prices basically are are just increasing but increasing very slowly so over time what you would expect and cher has noted this is that prices will increase slowly wages will increase faster than home prices and after a period of time the level of prices won't look that expensive because wages are have been outpacing them and that's a process that takes many years and could be helped by lower interest rates. But, you know, it's it's hard to say what will happen with that right now. One thing that I did think was pretty interesting was that um according to the Fed staff, farmland is massively overvalued. Now, a lot of people are rushing towards hard assets in fear of debasement or whatnot, but you know, when you're looking at farmland relative to the rents that you can collect on it, historically, it's it's quite elevated. So, it it doesn't seem like that's um a great place to hide at the moment. Um let's see what else is here. Oh, okay. So, next up, let's look at what's happening in the consumer credit. So interesting thing is that credit card loan levels have been rising across the spectrum. Uh this looks like there's a very big jump for consumers that are less well off and that's kind of consistent what we talked about earlier for some of the least well-off consumers. They are literally running out of money and so they might be trying to make ends meet by uh by borrowing from their credit cards. Now, credit card loans are also growing for looks like the people that are better off, but you know, that just could be because they feel more confident about their spending. So, very much a K-shaped economy. Um, interesting that auto delinquencies are historically quite elevated. Um, part of that could potentially be that a lot of people during the pandemic era just bought cars that were vastly overpriced because of the supply lines, supply line chain squeeze, and so they were stuck with cars that were worth less than their loan and maybe they don't feel like paying it at the moment. A last thing I thought was pretty interesting in the financial stability report was this small segment on private credit. As we all know, a lot of people are worried about private credit. they made a whole bunch of loans to software companies that are being disrupted. And so there have been a lot of investors asking for their money back. So for some of the private credit firms uh so private credit is is a large ecosystem. You have different types of fund structures. Some of them provide quarterly liquidity and so far for those funds there actually has been a net outflow. So even though they get inflows from new investors on net more investors are asking for their money back. Now, this isn't a concern to Fed staff because well, first off, it's actually not that big a part of the financial system. Um, but these private private credit funds have a lot of liquidity. They have credit lines with commercial banks and apparently they have enough credit to cover let's say three quarters worth of outflows. At the end of the day, of course, they can o they only have to uh provide liquidity for about 5% of their fund. And uh for a lot of them they have clauses such that they don't have to provide any liquidity if they deem it's um I guess in the interest of the fund or something like that. So there are potential gates here that prevent any kind of serious run. So it's not something to worry about. All right. Just one thing to note is that as we discuss as we're talking um the street of Hormuz is still shut and there's this interesting graph from Bloomberg showing that so far even as the world is not getting as much oil from the straight of Hormuz um that they're drawing down their global inventories and the global inventories are drawing down rapidly and in the coming weeks it may reach a point where uh scarcity will hit and we could have some real shortages right now. Now, I guess the president sent a u ceasefire or peace proposal to Iran a few days ago, and he's been saying every day that he's been expecting to hear from the Iranians imminently. Uh but I I guess the Iranians are just not calling the president back. And so, I'm not sure what's happening. So, let's see what happens to that this week. And of course, at the end of next week, we have President Trump going to meet with President Xi. It's going to be an exciting meeting. All right, so that's all I prepared for today. Uh thanks so much for tuning in. Talk to you guys next week.