All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are going to go live right to Manny and Trump and that's why we are early and uh then we will get into everything going on in the markets. Let's pull this up real quick and then we will get into these headlines.
>> Even the first term and I can tell you some of my views have changed and we we had discussions on some things. I'm not going to discuss what they were but that I feel very confident that he can do a very good job. I think I think he's going to be I think he is going to surprise some conservative people actually and some very liberal people. He won't surprise him because they already like him.
>> And uh Mr. month. Um, it sounds like you had a productive discussion, but just days ago, you referred to President Trump as a desperate who trade the country. You said you'd be his worst nightmare and accused him of having a fascist agenda. Um, are you planning to retract any of these remarks in order to improve your relationship?
>> I think both President Trump and I, we are very clear about our positions and our views. And what I really appreciate about the president is that the meeting that we had focused not on places of disagreement, which there are many, and also focused on the shared purpose that we have in serving New Yorkers. And frankly, that is something that could transform the lives of eight and a half million people who are currently struggling under a cost of living crisis with one in four living in poverty. And the meeting came back again and again to what it could look like to lift those New Yorkers out of struggle and start to deliver them a city that they could do more than just struggle to afford it, but actually start to live in it. and I've been called much worse than it does bud. So it's not it's not that insulting. Maybe I think he'll change his mind after we get to working together. Yes, please.
>> Mr. President Anthony Marsh from MTV Lebanon. I I would like to ask you a question about the Middle East regarding you did said that in Lebanon is not in a good position and Lebanon now is the final unresolved after Gaza and Syria. Given your assessment like what do you say for the Lebanese today? It's the independent stay in Lebanon. And what is your next move to push toward disarmment? The disarmment of
>> We are pushing forward total disarmament of Hamas and frankly everybody else. And we actually have peace in the Middle East. As you know, the king of Saudi Arabia just left yesterday. We had some great meetings and he's uh made a contribution toward the United States of more than a trillion dollars. We have now over 20 trillion dollars coming into No Country has ever had anything like that. Not even close. If you go to two trillion or one trillion, it's a lot. We have 20 or 21 trillion dollars. U I think that uh Hezbollah has been a problem in Lebanon. Big problem. We're working with Lebanon. We're working with everybody in the Middle East. That's another thing I think we have in common. We want to see peace in the Middle East. And we actually have now for the first time peace in the Middle East after 3,000 years. And now we're going to refine it. And I think you're going to see some very positive things happen. the potential to invite the Lebanese president to meet you to the White House.
>> I would I would do that. Absolutely. And if the mayor would like to be here for that meeting because I know he feels very strongly I think you feel very very strongly about peace in the Middle East.
>> We we we desperately want it and and that's something that I shared with the president that when I spoke to New Yorkers who had voted for the president last November on Hillside Avenue in Fortm Road, I asked them why. I heard again and again two major reasons. One was that they wanted an end to forever wars. They wanted an end to the taxpayer dollars we had funding violations of human rights and they wanted to address the cost of living crisis and I appreciated the chance to discuss both of those things.
>> You said a lot of my voters actually voted for him and I'm okay with that.
>> I'll do that. I'll sign. Give it to me. I'll sign it in a minute. That's that's pretty good.
>> Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, you've threatened to send federal troops to New York City. Uh you both have differences when it comes to ICE agents uh in New York City. Mr. Mdani, you've called ICE a rogue government entity. I wonder how you reconcile your differences on both of those issues.
>> Well, I think we're going to work them out and I think that uh if we have known murderers and known drug dealers and some very bad people, you know, we want to get them out. And the mayor wants to have peace. We discussed this at great length actually, maybe more than anything else. He wants to have a safe New York. Ultimately, a safe New York is going to be a great New York. If it's not safe, no matter how well we do with pricing and with uh anything else, we could talk about anything you want. If you don't have safe streets, it's not going to be a success. So, we're going to work together. We're going to make sure that if there horrible people there, we want to get them out. I think he wants to get them out maybe more than I do. So, we'll work together. We discussed it at great length. Yes, please.
>> Yeah. Two questions if I may. One for you, uh, Mr. present on BBC in a second. But but first of all for the mayor elect um you're both um from different parts of the political spectrum. You're both populists though and I just wonder to what extent um the president's campaign style uh his techniques, his social media use inspired any part of your campaign?
>> Well, I actually told the president that you know so much of the focus of our campaign has been on the cost of living crisis. And when we asked those New Yorkers who had voted for the president when we saw an increase in his numbers in New York City that came back to the same issue, cost of living, cost of living, cost of living. And they spoke about the cost of groceries, the cost of rent, the cost of coned, the cost of child care. And too often politicians are looking to lecture to New Yorkers what they should care about as opposed to listen. And when we spoke to those voters who voted for President Trump, we heard them speak about cost of living. We focus on that same cost of living. And that's where I am really looking forward to delivering for New Yorkers in partnership with the president on the affordability agenda.
>> Hey, for me,
>> and I think we have to work a little bit. We talked about Con Edison. We have to work a little bit on getting the prices because, you know, we've gotten fuel prices way down, but it hasn't shown up in Con Edison and we're going to have to talk to them. You know, if if we're saying sending them fuel at a much lower price than it was a year ago, which is true, uh we have to get Con Edison to start lowering the rates. Absolutely.
>> And if I may, um, last week you told me, um, you were pushing ahead with your plans to sue the BBC for up to5 billion dollars. You're going to speak to Prime Minister Starmer as well. Is there any progress or any updates on those issues?
>> Well, we get along very well with the prime minister. We made a deal with UK. I like him. He's a fine person. And, you know, I think they have some big energy problems. You know, they've got windmills all over the place. are going to have to start using other methods because their energy is out of control. Talking about in the UK, it's out of control and he's got that problem.
>> All right, so that is Trump and Mdani. Thank you everybody for being here. We did start early to see kind of what this meeting looked like. Uh rather amicable meeting. I mean it's not really a meeting with sort of an aggressive undertone from either of them. I mean, some of these quotes from the meeting is, "We got to work together on the cost of living. There's an affordability crisis." Trump says, "I think we're going to do a good job together." I mean, it actually was very friendly. So, nice to see that from Mumani and Trump in the White House. What is going on with the markets? We're green. 1.21% on the S&P 500. It has been an absolutely wild day uh in terms of how some of this price action has played out. PayPal's green. Micro Strategy was more red. It's still red on the day, but not as red. S&P a full 1.2% move to the upside. Rocket Lab at 40.56. BMR still red given Ethereum and crypto still down. Palinger from 147 to 156. Nebius was almost below 80 at one point. Now back above 84. SoFi was at 2380 now 2531. So what happened? What caused that reversal? Well, we had a headline and quite frankly, I didn't expect this headline. And I don't even know if this headline even matters to be honest, but it is a headline that got the markets excited. The Trump team is internally floating the idea of selling the H200 Nvidia chips to China. That at 1:52 p.m. Eastern when it came out um kind of flipped a lot of the market. I mean, I ended up going green for the day as soon as that happened. You had a lot of different names pumped. Not everything pumped, obviously. crypto still taking a hit, but that definitely was the pivot. Nvidia got all the way down to 176 on the day. 176 172, sorry. Yeah, 172. That was at around 11 a.m. Then it kind of started moving back up. Then it fell back down to 179. And now you still are red on the day on Nvidia. 1796, but we did get up to 184 as soon as the headline came out. S&P 500 right there at 660, up 1.2. Now, how do we analyze the headline? Number one, I think the headline is irrelevant for Nvidia. You can't tell me the market is more happy about Nvidia being able to sell to China uh after the guidance and the earnings that they gave. I mean, the market should be happy with the earnings and the guidance without China. If you add another $20 billion a year from China, like that's good, but that shouldn't be enough to u like reverse all the pain that we've seen over the past couple days. That should definitely be enough for an intraday reversal obviously because you have a lot of traders that are going to be bullish on that headline. But it's just very weird how the market reacted to it and it's almost like we were getting so oversold to the point that the market needed some type of headline and that headline ended up being on the most important company on the planet. Now why would this get leaked from Bloomberg potentially from a White House official to Bloomberg in order for the news to come out? Well, uh I've been wondering I think all of you guys have been wondering what headline Trump might come out with to stabilize the markets in April. It was as simple as reversing the tariffs. This time you've got a more complicated situation given rate cuts and inflation. So, what better headline than to pump the world's most important company? And so, it seems like the White House kind of selectively said, "Hey, we're going to get some really good news on Nvidia. See if that can stabilize things." And the S&P is up 1%. So, it definitely did stabilize to an extent, but it is a very weird move because it's like this is not a reason that the market should be excited about Nvidia. The earnings that we got from Nvidia should be a reason the market's excited, which is why you're seeing the move kind of fade off a little bit. And it's just very confusing to imagine that going into next week, this is the pivot that we need and we have officially bottomed. And I really hope we have. It feels like we definitely got technically sold off on a lot of key levels, but next week we're going to have a lot more data in regards to jobs, inflation, how the Fed is thinking of this. We did have a lot of Fed speak this morning. Some of the Fed presidents were bearish. Some of the Fed presidents were bullish, or I should say hawkish versus doubbish. One of the most important Fed presidents, the New York Fed President Williams, who is one of the biggest proxies in the context of JPAL, was pretty damn doubbish and said, "We probably need a cut." That in the morning got the market moving green. But then we faded and then this Nvidia headline came out and then we pumped and now it's kind of fading. So again, I still think there's just fear around the idea of what's going on. But it it goes to show you as well why panic selling is just likely not the answer here. Um, one headline, one simple tweet by Trump, one simple idea about Nvidia can turn the market up. I mean, the S&P was down about 1.2%, now it's up 1.2%. Complete reversal off that Nvidia headline. And if if the market is that fragile, obviously, the downside volatility can be tough, but that also means it can reverse very quickly, which is why running for the hills might not be the best idea. 69.5% chance on the rate cut probability that was 75% today morning. was, you know, down um down at 30% yesterday. So, the fact that we at least got the move back up into the 70s is not the worst thing. Sherpa says at least it's not as bad as yesterday. Yeah, at least we got a little bit of stability going into going into the weekend, which is what matters. I mean, if we were uh if we were going to crash going into the weekend, it would have sucked. And so, I mean, it looks like we're going to end out green on the S&P, maybe end out red on Nvidia, but at least we're not $2 away from going below 170 on Nvidia. So, that was kind of the main headline that happened uh throughout the day. It was really this Nvidia headline that changed everything and that's when you got the market to get a bit more excited. We did get a little bit more BLS data right here from Bloomberg. So, this BLS data, well, first of all, the BLS, Bureau of Labor Statistics, that we're not going to get October CPI, that also wasn't the best in the world. We did get some PMI, some consumer confidence data, all of that was relatively good. slight beats in some of the metrics, slight misses on some of the others. Market didn't care too much about this. Here's a piece of data we got yesterday or this morning that I thought was really interesting. Americans with four-year degrees now make up a record 25% of all unemployed people in the country, aka white collar jobs are slowing down for the first time in a long time. The jobless rate for a bachelor's degree is higher at 2.8% up.5 percentage point year about 1.9 million people. Youth 20 to 24 unemployment is 9.2% 2% up 2% uh over the past year and 2025 job gains are almost entirely in health care, social assistance, leisure and hospitality with employment flat to slightly negative elsewhere. I mean that October jobs report when you look at a sort of aggregate piece of data like this, it's hard to imagine that October jobs report is going to be pretty. And even if it's positive, it's not going to be positive in all the other sectors. It might be only positive in certain sectors, which again is going to beg the question around unemployment and the labor market. So, the labor market's an issue. There's no way to deny it. We understand the labor market's a problem. The only thing that we can hope for is the Fed recognizes that even if they don't get the data, but regardless, you would imagine that hopefully that leads to a rate cut. We got about six minutes until the market closes. Let's go back to Trump and Mandani. Uh we will have Jason joining in about 10 minutes. So, I know we didn't get to do a lot of stocks on technical Tuesday. So, we will do a bunch of those stocks today for a Friday Friday edition of that. And uh then we will close out the markets. He's got a big immigration problem as you know and he's got a big energy problem and we talk about he's a good man. Prime Minister is a good man.
>> You have a chance to speak this week.
>> I haven't spoken this week to land in that
>> we're not going to get along on that issue. He wants to and he said some things that were very interesting very interesting as to housing construction and he wants to see houses go up. He wants to see a lot of houses created and a lot of apartments built etc. And you know I we we actually uh people would be shocked but I want to see the same thing.
>> Mr. Anti-Israel protesters.
>> Yeah.
>> Mr. President, I want to know one of the uh policies as well that uh mayor like Madami talked a number of times about on the campaign was shifting the tax burden for property taxes from what he called minority communities to whitebased communities and putting more taxes on white people. I also noticed that in your acceptance speech you didn't mention didn't mention anything about America or Christians or white people in general and so I didn't know if that was some one of the policies that you guys had spoken about.
>> We focused on affordability. We focused on the cost of living crisis. What I will say is that I am very much interested in property tax reform because what we see right now in New York City is a system that is so inequitable that it can't even stand up in court. And the president and I spoke about the importance of not only building more housing, but also making sure that regulation of housing is something that is manageable to actually get through and not the cause of yet another weight that we see.
>> But to be clear, you're continuing this idea of race-based property taxes.
>> No, to be very clear what you said.
>> No, the the the use of the term was a description of neighborhoods, not a description of intent.
>> So, you intend to tax the whiter neighborhoods more. No, we intend to create a fair property tax system because we want a New York City that is not only fair and equitable, but also one that every New York can afford.
>> Please go ahead,
>> Mr. Montani. Anti-Israel protesters just targeted a synagogue in New York. Are you concerned about Jewish New Yorkers feeling welcome and safe in the city? And President Trump, uh, you've threatened to cut off federal funding to New York City. What policies would prompt you to do that? Would that be cityrun grocery stores? Would it be something else? Well, I think if we didn't get along, whether it's cut off or just make it a little bit difficult or not give as much. We want to see I use the term we don't want good money going after bad and uh we just uh we don't want that to happen. I don't think that's going to happen. I did say, you know, subject to what what policies are being said. We had a meeting today that actually surprised me. He wants to see no crime. He wants to see housing being built. He wants to see rents coming down. all things that I agree with. Now, we may disagree how we get there, the rent coming down. I think uh one of one of the things I really gleaned very very much today, he'd like to see him come down ideally by building a lot of additional housing. That's the ultimate way. He agrees with that and so do I. But
>> if I read the newspapers and the stories, I don't hear I don't hear that. But I hear I heard him say it today and I think that's a very positive step. No, I don't expect I I expect to be helping him, not hurting him. A big help because I want New York City to be great. Look, I love New York City. It's where I come from. I spent a lot of years there. Now I'm right here. Uh we took a big setback with a mayor that we had named Delasio. I thought it was a tremendous setback for the city. I think this mayor can do some things that are going to be really great.
>> Mr. President, Mr. President,
>> Mr. president
>> pretty uh again pretty friendly. We'll go back to that after we get into the close. We got two minutes as we end out the day. Again, the most important news of the day outside of the Fed talk we got in the morning that signaled we would potentially get a rate cut which got those probabilities to go up is the United States is thinking of allowing Nvidia to sell the H200s into China. Here's another thing I forgot to mention about that headline. I don't think China wants the H200s. They want Blackwell. I mean, they've been pretty clear that they don't want the beat up chips and the old generation chips. So, again, the fact that Nvidia moved on that headline, it was just very weird. I just think it was oversold and it needed some type of juice to get moving, but uh Blackwell is really what China wants. And you know, if they don't even want the H200s, that might not be the most exciting thing for Nvidia's earnings growth into China. Rock Lab right there up 2%. S&P getting a little bit of a dump into the close. 658. It does look like it's going to go green. We got about 30 seconds into the close. Nvidia going red. Bit mine going red. You got PayPal up 4%. PayPal with some safety today. Palenteer back to going red 154.83. Tesla going red. Grab going red. Nebas app loving. All these names. They're up from their lows of the day, but they are a bit more green uh from those lows. Nonetheless, they are still down heavily for the week and obviously still heavier for the month as we've seen a bit of a market rerating over the past month. S&P 500 right there at 658. All right, Friday, November 21st, 4 PM. Thank you everybody for being here. It has been a wild, wild week and the week is now complete. The stock market is now closed. [music]
>> [music]
>> All right, third week of November is done. The thing about next week is that we are quite literally entering into one of the lightest volume weeks of the market. Friday, I will not be live. I'll be with uh family on Friday, but the market's going to close by about 1 p.m. Not going to have a ton of volume. Thanksgiving, obviously, in the States, we're not going to have the markets open. and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, people are going to be traveling. So, it'll be very interesting to see if the market's going to get any level of momentum up or down. I think most likely they'll probably be sideways um as we get into the last week of November. S&P 500 659 ends up about 1% on the day. IN 2.3%. Bit mine took a hit down.35%. Nvidia did bounce from 172 but ended down below 180 at 178.88. Nebas right there 8326. App that was down about half a percent on the day. by actually ended green up 1.1% bounced from 2350. Yeah, D-Wave that actually made a decent rebound. It was down 7% only ended down.5%. Regetti ended up going green up 3.46%. INQ also ended up going green. Amazon ended up going green up 1.6%. Visa was up about 1.3. Oracle below 200 down about 5% closed below 200. Weeble had a great earnings that was up about 48%. On the day you had Figma right there that was up 2%. Rockab again 40 30 pounder bounced from 147 to 154 still ended red on the day. Lily ended up passing a trillion dollars which is incredible. First pharmaceutical company to get to a trillion. Absolutely incredible. We did see a little bit of a rotation this week or a little bit more than a little bit of a rotation but you had a lot of money leave tech. Not all that money came into healthcare but a decent chunk of it came into things like Lily and J&J and those ended up outperforming. Adobe right there was up 3.7% on the day. Uh Amcore was up about 6% and then you had Intel that was up about 2.6% as well for the day. All right, we will have Jason on in about 10 minutes. We are going to try to take as many requests as possible for technicals. If you do not care about technicals, then uh thank you for joining throughout the entirety of the week, but we're going to shift more from fundamentals to technicals. I'm sure Jason will give some of his fundamental thoughts as well and what went on in this market. But if you do have a request for a stock, we're going to try to get about two hours of as many names and tickers that we can put up there and then we will go deeper into it. We'll finish up with Mani and Trump right here and we'll have a technical Tuesday edition on Friday.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. You're a billionaire. You have a different address nowadays than you used to, but you used to call New York City home. Would you feel comfortable living in New York City under a Mandani administration?
>> I would. I wrote especially after the meeting. Absolutely.
>> Dude, Trump is being nice. They both talked a lot of [ __ ] about each other. He just said, "Yeah, I would love living in New York under a Mundan mayor." I mean, that's pretty incredible. That's that these politicians, they say one thing, but then when they finally meet face to face, it's just a different story.
>> We agree on a lot more than I would have thought. Um, I think he's uh I want him to do a great job and we'll help him do a great job. You know, he may have different views, but in many ways, you know, we were discussing when Bernie Sanders was out of the race, I picked up a lot of his votes and people had no idea because he was strong on not getting ripped off in trade and lots of the things that I've practiced and and been very successful on uh tariffs, a lot of things. Bernie Sanders and I agreed on much more than people thought. And when he was uh put out of the race, I think quite unfairly if you want to know the truth, uh many of the Bernie Sanders voters voted for me and I felt very comfortable, frankly, in seeing that and saying that. And you know, it just turned out to be a statist a statistical truth. But um no, I feel very comfortable. I would be I would feel very very comfortable being in New York and I think much more so after the meeting. Yes, please.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for you, but a very quick one for the mayor. Why did you fly here? Aren't trains greener?
>> I will use every form of transit, and I want to make sure that they're all affordable in New York City. And that's why making buses fast and free is a centerpiece of working.
>> There's a bus that goes
>> I know, but it'd be fluid. That's a lot quicker, too. You know, I mean, he's he's working very hard for him to be it's a long that's a very that's a very long drive. I'll stick up for you. You know, the plane takes you 30 minutes and driving takes you a long. Mr. I was wondering if you could clear up.
>> Wow. First of all, I like the question. I love the question. I love it. You should you should re I love when the media actually makes these politicians answer for the promises that they have about whatever agenda they care about. I mean, it's true. 30 minutes versus four hours, but think of all the carbon dioxide on a plane versus a train. I mean, that's that's that's a good point. But the fact that Trump stood up for him right there, I also thought was interesting. So Trump knew he got a he had a gotcha question and Mdani didn't have an answer. I mean he basically said nothing. Trump stood up for him. It is nice to see they are being pretty friendly here.
>> Some confusion around a Washington Post report. Uh there was this explosive report that the Coast Guard is no longer going to characterize swastikas and nooes as hate symbols. DHS called that a lie and fake news. Can you clear up?
>> I don't know anything about it. When when was this written?
>> Yesterday.
>> Well, look, the Coast Guard's an incredible group of people. I know them very well. Just ordered a lot of new Coast Guard cutters. Beautiful. The most magnificent ship. They look like yachts with lots of guns on them. Uh so I I don't know. I haven't seen any report like that, but certainly we want them to remain a great force and they are a peacemaker and you did a piece in all the nine months around the world. I would like to ask Mr. Mamani, you've accused the US government of committing genocide in Gaza while President Trump were working on peace. Why? Why that?
>> I I've spoken about the Israeli government committing genocide and I've spoken about our government funding it. And I shared with the president in our meeting about the concern that many New Yorkers have of wanting their tax dollars to go towards the benefit of New Yorkers and their ability to afford basic dignity. And what we see right now is we're in the ninth consecutive year of more than 100,000 school children being homeless in our city. And there's a desperate need not only for the following of human rights but also the following through on the promises we've made New Yorkers and I appreciated the meeting we had and the work that we can do.
>> Do you agree that President Trump did do a peace and work hard to make the peace because he worked hard to do the peace in the Middle East and everywhere. What do you agree with that? I appreciate all efforts towards peace and I shared with President Trump that when I spoke to Trump voters on Hillside Avenue, including one of whom was a pharmacist that spoke about how President Trump's father actually went to that pharmacy not too far from Jamaica states that people were tired of seeing our tax dollars fund endless wars. And I also believe that we have to follow through on the international human rights and I know that still today those are being violated and that continues to be work that has to be done no matter where we're speaking of.
>> Mr. President, question for
>> Thank you, Mr. President. Do you feel that they're elected as the true leader of the Democrat party and do you think leader Schumer and leader Jeff, you know, have to follow his lead?
>> Well, look, I hope they have great leaders. This is a man that right now I think is focused on New York City. I really think has a chance to do a great job. We're going to help him, but I really think he has a chance to do a great job. But I'll let you answer that. Do you consider yourself the leader of the Democrats? I think it's more appropriate for him. I consider myself the the next mayor of New York City and I keep my horizons firmly on New York City and I appreciate the the meeting with the president which focused again on the five burrows and and whether New Yorkers could afford to live there.
>> By the way, being the mayor of New York City is a big deal.
>> Absolutely.
>> I always said, you know, one of the things I would love to be someday is the mayor of New York City. Being the mayor of New York and especially now because I think you're at really a turning point one way or the other. It could go great or it can go in a different direction. And I think you really have a chance to make it great.
>> Mr. President, you say you love New York City. Mr. Mandi, does New York City love President Trump?
>> New York City loves a future that is affordable. And I can tell you that there were more New Yorkers who voted for President Trump in the most recent presidential election because of that focus on cost of living. And I'm looking forward to working together to deliver on that affordability agenda.
>> That's a good answer. It's a good answer. And Trump likes it because he's getting the praise of the affordability narrative from Omdani. So they're both doing some A+ political politician speak right here and they're both feeding off each other and it's it's turning out to be a pretty good meeting.
>> A lot I got a lot of votes.
>> All right, one more. Go ahead. One or two more. Go ahead.
>> I tell you, the press has eaten this thing up. You know, I've had a lot of meetings with the heads of major countries. Nobody cared. this meeting that you people have gone. You know, outside you have hundreds of people waiting. This is just a small little group. For some reason, the press has found this to be a very interesting meeting. The biggest people in the world, they come over from countries, nobody cares. But they did care about this meeting and it was a great meeting. Go ahead.
>> Yeah, Mr. President, I was going to ask you exactly that. Why do you think there's so much more, you know, so much excitement around this for
>> Because I think he's different. All right. I think he's different and that can be in a very positive way, but I think he's different than, you know, your typical guy. Runs, wins, becomes mayor maybe and nothing exciting because he has a chance to really do something great for New York. New York is at a very critical point and he does need the help of the federal government to really succeed and we're going to be helping him. But, uh, he's different than, you know, your average candidate. He came out of nowhere. I said he has a great campaign manager standing over there. Uh he came out of he came out of nowhere. Would you start off at one or two and then I I watched I said, "Who is this guy?" He was at one and he was at three, then he was at five, then he was at nine, then he went up to 17. I said, "That's getting a little bit interesting, right?" And then all of a sudden, he wins a primary that nobody expected he was going to win. It's a great a great tribute. I mean, it's an amazing thing that he did. And I'll just I'll just add Oh, sorry. I'll just add one thing to to what the president said is one thing I also appreciated is in in our meeting to to appreciate a portrait of of FDR and the incredible work that was done with the New Deal and also in thinking about what it can look like when the federal government and New York City government work together to deliver on affordability. It can be transformative.
>> You know, we have a great portrait of FDR that I found in the vaults that was missing for years. I found it and I put it up. He's a Democrat. To the best of my knowledge, he's a Democrat. And when the mayor saw that portrait, he said, "Sir, do you mind if I have a picture taken by that port?" It's an amazing portrait. I hope the picture comes out good. But it's an amazing portrait in the cabinet room.
>> So, he's a big fan of the New Deal, I guess, and of FDR. Yes.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. You said that you both spoke about crime. There are many police officers set to come off the roles at the end of this year in New York City. uh are you going to allow those police to be replaced with police officers, actual cops, and are you going to require that that happens? Would there be some consequence if the
>> happens? But again, that's going to be ultimately the mayor's decision.
>> Is that I look forward to delivering public safety with the NYPD? And I've said over the course of our campaign that we have the number of police officers today, they are the ones that's budgeted about 35,000 headcount. And I
>> All right, that's what we got with Trump and Mumdani. It is Friday. We are going to get into a special edition of Technical Tuesday on Friday. Again, thank you everybody for being here. We're going to be done in about two hours, so we'll try to take as many requests as possible and do some rapid fire. It's been a uh absolutely wild week, but we're going to get through it and we will keep going from there. All right, on a Friday, it is time to roll the intro. [music]
>> What's up? [laughter]
>> We made it, man. How did you
>> I just want to know why I just want to know why this tweet got so so many people saying the same thing. All I did was ask bottom when the market started turning.
>> First of all, I don't know what's going on with your ex account, but that thing is blowing up right now. I looked at your feed and I'm just like, what is happening? [laughter] But people
>> I just asked this simple question and you and Farzad and Austin and I'm like [laughter] what is going on here? Like what is happening?
>> Power power bottom man.
>> Power bottom.
>> All I know is that whatever you and the community is doing right now is is special actually. And I think that whatever you want to call it, the bottoms doesn't matter. Whatever's happening right now is actually special and I'm I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be part of it and I think uh I think this is pretty cool, man. So,
>> well, we're here and people really appreciate your analysis. When you talk about community, you are a big part of that community and you know, I I can't do TA, but you can. So, the fact that you help our entire community understand it is really special.
>> We try. We try and I hope that nobody freaked out yesterday, sold the lows, right? Um, but you know, here we are. And I [clears throat] think uh I think it's it's decision time, right? Like and uh I think we did a pretty good job of kind of like outlining what we had to my my post that that you made fun of the other day was like, "Hey, look, it's going to be the fever dream." manic manic whips saws of like you know uh we're ripping we're we're we're dumping was pretty accurate like one after the other but um but that's what happens and I think uh I think that's exactly like that's that's exactly what happened and at the end of the day if you go back to last Tuesday what we said was there's going to be time to make a decision and not to get caught up in the day-to-day noise and by the end of it, we're probably not going to go anywhere.
>> And when you look at the charts, what actually happened is that well, really, we didn't actually go anywhere. And um and and that's that's what happened. So,
>> well, let's pull up the the S&P. We're going to get guys, we're going to do S&P and then we're going to get into rapid fire. We'll do two minutes 30 per tick. So, we'll try to do as many tickers as possible. But I mean in general I do think the analysis on what you think is happening with the index would be valuable here.
>> There are a lot of things going on under the under the covers right now. And so um I was listening to an a technician on like CNBC earlier today and I was like wow okay I hope hopefully I don't overly complicate things. So since it's Friday and uh by the way next week is like Thanksgiving I reality check for me. I'm like, "Holy crap, next week is Thanksgiving, guys and girls." Like, this is uh this creeping up really fast.
>> Here we go with the comments under the covers. Wink wink. Come back. [laughter]
>> A lot of hands.
>> All right, let's get five on the S&P. But um you know so the what's what's true is that the setup is um the setup is for a violent move right now one way or the other and and technically speaking
>> we got to start the timer.
>> Oh you want to do this timer on this one?
>> Yeah just five minutes
>> five minutes on this one.
>> Y
>> all right fair enough. So technically speaking, um there are signs of of of us fading here and there are there are have you talked about the yen stuff, Japan?
>> And so that that is a bit of an overhang and it's probably adding a little bit of fear to the markets and with the the influx of data coming in that we haven't had for a really long time, the market just just hates uncertainty, right? And while we got Nvidia this day, we also at the same time backtoback got non-farm payrolls, which if you haven't figured out is the biggest the biggest thing for the market. And what this candle should tell you is that even though Nvidia is extremely important, non-farm payrolls is still more important. And so, while Nvidia took us to the upside, non-farm payrolls pretty much took us to the downside. [clears throat] And and all that said, at the end of the day, it kind of washed out basically even closing right about here. But this is where we are now. We're going to actually get a slew of non-farm payrolls moving forward faster than normal. And so it's all it's all currently in flux. We are trending slightly down. We do have a bit of a slope here. So unless we can get over basically today's high now and if we do get over today's high where I'll tell you that we will go is to this level right here and and just like we talked about that Nebas chart it's going to be it's going to be as simple as two lines in the sand and it's yesterday's high and low 675 and 651 and and the center line is today's high right and so today's high happens to actually be 50% of yesterday's range, which when you look at this is pretty simple. So today's high was like right in the middle, smack dab of the middle of yesterday's range, which is very much [snorts] uh to be expected for a basic kind of push back. And if you can get over 66372, look, we're very likely going to get close to the highs. And this is this right here, this moment in time, this is going to be your point at which you decide, do I want to take measures here now? Protect my portfolio. I don't mean sell anything. What I do mean is like callers, things like that. Selling selling covered calls. That's your opportunity. Um, right here. And and it's going to be very much sentiment driven. So, does the market give you that opportunity? That's what it is. If we're trending lower though below essentially today's low [clears throat] then that violent move that I'm talking about actually in both scenarios and I'll show you then this this whole thing trending down is is is possible um and this is probably not going to be US related this is probably what they're they're yapping about in terms of like the end thing right the Japanese thing it's not going to be all in once this is like a multi-mon thing u but right now. This right here, 650, that's the lows. And so when you're deep red like that, that you don't want to sell that. Honestly, you'd probably buy that cuz we're going to bounce. Um, and that's exactly what we did. And we're not going lower right now. So, for now, the bottom is in. And I don't think that we're going lower right now. We're just not going lower. Today, all the internal gauges actually said that buyers started stepping in and it actually looked pretty constructive overall. So, I think that the local lows are in right now and that we're in for a pretty what's going to feel like a aggressive bounce and it's going to get a bit it might get a bit euphoric, but I don't want to get over my skis because we're actually not out of the weeds yet. The only way that we get out of the weeds, like out of out of like that we're no longer in trouble, is if we do get over that 675 level. And and if that happens, what we what we need to understand right now is that there are a lot of people that are currently hedged. And there are a lot of people that are currently short for like a big downside move, which I'm no doomsdayer. But
>> by the way, to your point, I just saw something from Goldman Sachs. this that is short interest for the median S&P 500 stock remains closest to the highest level in recent years.
>> Right? And so here's why I'm saying we're we're primed for a violent move. And I mean violent in in a short order violence. So it's not going to be is not I think it's going to be a quick move. And so if you're trying to sell and then reby, first of all, it's going to be really fast. And I don't know that and and and everything is going to bottom all at once. And so like you're not going to be able to pick and choose what you want to buy. It's all going to happen at once, all of it. And it's going to be really hard. So, uh, so like I said, callers are your friend in this situation. Uh, costless callers ideally. Uh, I'm out of time here, but my point is if we're over yesterday's high, all of these shorts are going to have to co cover and they're and they're going to start covering their shorts, meaning they're going to get long really over here and it's going to get more and more violent to the upside the higher that we go and a squeeze to the upside will ensue because we they are so so covered and exposed to the short side now because they want they kind of want it to go down and if it doesn't it's going going to be an upside squeeze and and if that's the case then boom boom 700s are back in play just like just like that and what and all this downside shenanigans is over now I don't want to be too polyiana but that's that is that is what it will look like technical analysis is very if this then that when I'm trending I can I can forecast what's what's happening right now is that the trend is in in flux and uh and it can go this way or it can go that way which a long-winded way of saying it's it's in flux and so we have to be very very attentive to the dayto-day action of the market and the overall sentiment right now.
>> What is what is your downside on the S&P? Like is there a level if we break it?
>> It's 620s.
>> Yeah, it's around the 620s. It's around the 200 day simple moving average if [clears throat] and then there's like I said there's a lot of things that will happen in between now and then but we we're not we're not going we're not going to sell everything at the lows man like that's not the way to do it [laughter] right so like yesterday at the lows no and I posted I posted stuff so definitely out of time and I don't want to I don't want to short anybody who wants to get their tickers in but if you don't follow me on Twitter like I've been really trying to like push out as much as I can. Like if you do follow me on my feed, I literally have been saying I'm not going home short right now or like this is it or like whatever, right? Like and and you know, in a joking way without giving away too much, but in a way that if you follow you or me or if you're in my groups or whatever, like as simple as this, as simple as this posted out of the gate this morning, right? This is stupid, right? But like they said it was over. They said it was going to gap over. They made it look easy, but I I literally said chase and this market will choose V. Like it's not going down is what this means. And and this is a this is just like educational. But um this post 4 hours ago when I gave an update on market internals, it's like teaching moment like what these are. But also, this is the exact moment if you if you really look at my stuff, like this is literally the exact moment that the market reversed course. I didn't know that what the headline was. I don't need to know the headline because I'm a technician some and that's kind of how we do it. But this is the exact moment, whatever time this was that I saw the market reversing course. And then even before that, right, like it's it's me posting whatever update it was that I was posting. Um uh oh my my alerts to you, but not like literally verbatim. I'm not planning to to swing short. Like I'm not going home short. And this was before the close yesterday. But so I'm trying to give you guys as much updates as I can.
>> All right. So we'll do 2:30 on the clock. We'll try to get through as many tickers as possible. Let's start with BMR because they had earnings today and just curious on kind of how you're thinking of the the price. I know it's correlated to ETH, but in general, how are you thinking of it here?
>> I might have bought the stock today.
>> Wow.
>> I might be early. No, I don't think I'm really, but I Okay. So, so here was the last breakdown because so BMR is uh the the comments are earnings. Yeah, I know. It's true. Hilarious. Um is so you can't you can't really look left because there's not Did I not press play? Damn it. Sorry. Here's our timer. You can't really look left on this because there's not a lot below this. You're just kind of in no man's land, which [clears throat] we are below this. Somehow this has a 200E simple moving average now. But that's we're we're below the 200 day simple moving average. But just like when a stock is in all-time high territory, I can I can actually forecast when a stock is in all-time low territory with with simple extensions. like fib extensions. And essentially what I was looking at um was it this one? It might not have been that one. Yeah, it was this. Was it this guy? I don't remember which one it was. Oh, it I'm sorry. It was this breakdown here. So here to here reversal goodness. I got to I got to pick the right one here. Okay, so here was the breakdown from the week and here was the consolidation. This is the one I was looking at. All right. Literally right here. So, this is the post postweekly breakdown. The last one. Um, I got to pull up what I literally sent it in our group. So, maybe I should pull it up over here. Not Palunteering. Anyways, yeah, I think this is very close to it. Mine was What did I do? I did it from this prior oh yeah prior weekly range I had like it's possible that it continues down but it had basically hit my downside target um and
>> to like 2650 basically roundabout
>> for what
>> is that your target 2650 or below 26
>> upside
>> no your downside like like when did you buy I guess my question
>> literally uh so I'll get into it right now so see this gap right here this is very small time frame Oh, shoot. I'm running out of time. So, there's a session gap here. And so, it's just a small kind of reversal day. If we're if we're over 26 26 bucks Monday, then this gap down for me, I have a rule set, like a trading rule set where like if I have a gap to the downside, what normally happens is that the stock should continue to the downside if it's going to actually continue on in that direction. And if it doesn't, what what that means is, okay, well,
>> [clears throat]
>> um, then I should I should actually expect that it's going to traverse up towards the gap. And so, there's a level here that if this is trading over 25 in change, 25 and a half, well, then I know it's at least going to hug in towards the gap. And so, for me right now, if it's going below 25 and a quarter, then I know, okay, it's going back down. and it's probably going back down to 22 and then I might even see 20. But that's my kind of like relative stop loss right now on BMR. So for this ad, if it's if it's below 25 and a quarter, look, I I'm very likely actually going to see 20. Um, so I can have a pretty tight stop loss in this instance. But this this line here, that was yesterday's low. And today it was actually closing the gap, starting to reverse it, and it actually closed above yesterday's low. So today I'm looking at BMR. Look, it gapped down. They bought the gap and it's actually closing above yesterday's low. This is what we call a failed continuation. Meaning it it was supposed to be going down, but people started stepping in and buying this dip. I'm looking at the market across the board. Okay, cool. The whole market is getting bought up on the lows. This is actually a relative low. It's worth a shot. It's all it is. It's it's a it's a basic shot. Um, and if it doesn't work out, it's going to be a quick and quick and dirty. Okay, throw it throw it in the trash. But this is this is trading. It's a very tight risk to but with a very high high reward type entry on BMR here. So that's for me this is more of a trading entry. Um, I think all all downside targets
>> for sure all downside targets here have been hit
>> also. So it's the time for shorts to cover. So, you bought it around 26 basically. That's what you're saying.
>> I bought it. Yeah, literally 26 in change. I bought it higher.
>> That's what I was saying. I mean, that's where it was hovering for the majority of the day. It broke down a little bit under that, but made sense that that's where you felt like picking up some more.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, cool.
>> Yeah, I posted it, but about 26, right when it was reclaiming yesterday's low. Okay, let's get into some others. Um, Weeble thoughts on this one?
>> Wow. Bull. B U L L. I bought a handful of stocks today. Actually, bought [clears throat] more Amazon. Weeble had a good earnings but really was not able to make a move after that. I mean, so this is similar. IWM as an index probably looks the most interesting to me. So again, this is super similar in terms of like look, you actually got that press to the downside. And this is a bit of a tell similar to like that Nebia setup, right? Where you get the press to the downside and then all of a sudden it gets bought up. This is a bit of a tell, but it's it didn't close. I mean, it did it closed over the lows. It's okay. Like, it's going to be the same kind of thing. If you go long Weeble here, that's a that's a quick it's a good trading entry. It's a decent trading entry. Decent trading entry. Um, but you need to see continuation pretty much right away. And you don't want to see um you don't want to see like a failure to go lower. But this here as I see it looks okay. You could probably put a stop right around 7 and a quarter. Is that 779? It looks okay. Okay. Uh can we do Marlo Libre
>> Melly? This one's been getting a lot of attention as well as it broke down.
>> So, yeah, this is the thing across the board. We see like buyers stepping in. I think we're just exhaustion, right? Exhaustion to the downside. I don't hate Melly here actually. So, Mellie is a perfect example of what a lot of charts look like right now. So, this is going to bounce to me. Um, and and the thing about things like this is that and where we are, I think a lot of things are primed for a bounce. The question is about your time frame as a trader and or an investor. I think we're going to bounce, but for how long and to where, that's really the question. And that is very much about your time horizon. And does this bounce, is it something to sell into and exit stage left or is this like an actual bottom? Like is it is it is it actually a bottom? And that that that question is TBD cuz if we do bounce, it's it's very close to a lower high. Um and is it is it a low low high? Is it not? So you're going to bounce and you're probably g and you're going to bounce right into resistance right over here. So that is uh the second that you get over 1965 that's happening. Period. End of story. [clears throat] But anything further than that, it's it's it's very much TBD. You you're not into a reversal until you are above that. So you have two two things happen. So this is going to happen very likely the second higher. Uh is that the trade that you're looking for? I don't know. uh because you you draw this across and you have a lot of traffic, a lot of traffic and this traffic zone is pretty thick. So it could even get to 21 and change before you hit resistance. But that's that's melly right here.
>> Okay. And fundamentally I think Mart Libre has been struggling a little bit more with competition and margin stuff or margin uh pressures and that's why they've kind of been getting hit as well. Uh Nick, thanks for the super chat. lift. I know you liked this one earlier, Jason. Do you still kind of like
>> I I like the setup of small caps in as a as an index. So, I mean, this is the thing. So, this is like this is the rally. This is setup. Big disappointing big disappointing pullback actually. Dude, Lyft has held up pretty well. And I and I think as we look at a lot of these, you know, one thing I I harp on these simple moving averages a lot. I think I changed the settings a little bit so you guys can see them right now. And and last Tuesday we talked about them as as magnets, not necessarily support or resistance. And I I do want you to keep that in mind. Um and there's this thing about like when when the underlying asset gets really far away from your simple moving averages, remember that magnet kind of logic. If you get pushed really far away, there's that reversion to the mean thing where you're going to probably come right back and that's exactly what happened at the index level and then and then it's going to get sucked in. It might even chop around and then polarity is going to shift at some point. Maybe it goes down, right? But it comes in, maybe it goes up, but that's that's the point of trading, right? It's if this then that if it gets over this, that is happening. And then you have another trade that shows up. If if over this level then that is happening but if it's below this level then that is happening. So to the question of lift is very much if this then that here is your here's your general support level. We call this a high volume node or essentially where the market deems that fair value is currently for the stock. You have to get away from this and away from this looks like essentially right here. So if it gets over this $20 level then boom like and I mean voom traversing you go into 22 that's about 10 10% move and stop because that is another kind of hightra area. Uh you could extend it just slightly but that's going to get pulled back and it's going to look a little something like that and stop. Um [clears throat] but you don't you just don't want to see it go lower. And if it does go lower, which it got bought up pretty h pretty heavily today with with everything else. And that right here. Wow. That's that's a big buy. That's a big quick buy. I was looking at Uber, too.
>> Dude, Uber. [laughter] Some of these stocks are getting 17 PE. Like, it's becoming funny at this point.
>> I was I definitely was looking at Uber. I actually had my eye on Uber also. I like this spot on lift. I think this 19 18 19 level held pretty strong. Wow. 1 2 3. I just don't want to see it come into that again. If it loses, let's say 18 cuz I don't want to be too precise, then uh I mean then for sure we're going to see around that 16 level, but I don't think it I don't think it's going to breach that unless all hell breaks l loose at the index level. If it does, then then we're probably going to see that. Um but until then, I I wouldn't I wouldn't say this party's over. Okay. Meta.
>> Um, I mean, I had Okay. So, I did buy a little meta, truth be told. But I mean, like a a a minuscule just a sliver. Um, and it was because it it started to act right, man. It started to act right finally. Um, it's it wasn't even a notable amount, but I haven't actually owned Meta for a bit uh since the the like the bigger downfall here. I don't know if I'm going to get these deeper levels, this this 550 and then some. I just don't know. But [clears throat] the the biggest thing about Meta was that I'm I'm looking for like uh I'm looking for this kind of a snapshot, right? And if you if you look at if you look at this, I mean, when you when you really look into this, what this looks like is a lot of chop right here. And and and when you really refine it, it's very much defined by this right here. Very much defined by these kind of bottoms in the very middle. And I can look at that and I look at where we are and I I I really see very much exactly that. So this is a a new base of people really picking picking at Meta and and throughout this whole shenanigans. I mean dude, I was I I I have been absolutely shocked at the fact that Meta has held this entire time. like this thing should have been 500 bucks by now if not lower if there were more sellers in the market and just nearly just on that fact alone I think they're done giving this a hard time it meaning that at this level there are no more sellers so therefore it has to go higher at minimum so so from a trading perspective also I'm ready to go long uh I need one clean uh one clean little thing. I I I need once this is definitively over 595, I'm going to take probably a very short-term trade and we're just going to slap this and it's going to go to 635, 634s, maybe 630s. It's going to go over 630s, but at that point, it's just like Melly where I don't know if it's actually going to extend over there. I know that this is going to happen once it's over 635, but I don't know that it's going to go any higher. because here there's no more sellers to push this lower. But up here, it's possible that there are more sellers that do show up that may in fact push it lower at that point in time. But right now, if if you're a bear, the bears have run out of steam. And just like, you know, the inverse of like if it can't go higher, well, then it needs to go lower to buy some more or to get some more buyers. It's the same kind of thing. If it can't go lower, it needs to go higher to get some more sellers. So, in this case, I I'm pretty positive this bad boy is done going down for the moment.
>> I love it. I I I tend to agree I hope on the earnings there is some level of understanding of the capex because if not, who knows? But I agree with you.
>> So, so, so the thing is though, and the whole market is just like this. Is this the bottom,
>> right?
>> Yeah. You don't we don't know that, right? because you're what what's going to happen is you're going to get a bounce and people that bought over here are going to suddenly be back to break even and they're going to have a decision to make. Do they hold on or do they buy more during the bounce? That's what we're going to find out. And it's very much about the the the characteristic of the bounce. Do they buy into strength? And do we see these people that bought here? Are they buying more as this is going up? because also I'm not seeing them step in with aggression just yet. I think next week is going to tell us a lot about what the characteristics of this market is. If they if if they come out selling aggressively out of the gate, okay, cool. Well, we're just going lower and that's what it's going to be. Um and and that is still very much on the table. But until then, uh we'll have to see. And if that's the case, by the way, I'm still probably not going to sell anything. I'm just going to call her a lot of my stocks, meaning selling probably in the money calls and and buying the equivalent strike puts.
>> Okay, Rocket Lab,
>> I had orders going through for Rocket Lab after hours last night, dude, at 38 and change cuz we talked about this 38 level. I thought I'd be cute for a second on Tuesday. We talked about this 38 level with the the the Nebia story and I was like, "Hey, at 38 Rocket Lab, that's where they really put up the the fight." So, [laughter] I went ahead and just threw some mortars at um at 38 and change. There's the fight, man. There she is.
>> It's at 38. It closed at 38. 3820. Yeah.
>> No, this happened in the after hours.
>> So, what did it closed at? Oh, it closed at Oh, okay. Okay. That was yesterday. It's at 40 today. Okay. Gotcha.
>> Yeah. But last Tuesday we kind of highlighted this 3820 level 38.
>> And uh shout out Connie to one of my followers who was like cuz I keep putting this like random order in that's like really close and I'm overly precise sometimes. She's like, "Yeah, just increase it by 13 cents." And [laughter] I'm like, "Okay." So like all of a sudden I'm getting the fills and I'm like, "Oh, cool. Nice trick." I I had a measurement here too. Whatever this is um probably from a prior extension. So this what I would say is this general area happens to be from the original breakout alignment. Uh so this is a down to 35 and a half is actually a pretty good deal. So this is my first nibblet in a really long time. Can it go lower? Yeah, for sure. Um, but again, this has made the whole trek from the 20-day all the way down to the 200 day. That's that's the typical trek when you lose the the the 20-day simple moving average, more or less journey completed. I would I would hope that maybe this goes a little bit sideways. Maybe you still get that 35, maybe even a little bit lower for a liquidity grab. Who knows? Um, but if you like the stop, it's it's a nibble spot. Again, I I'm not buying anything here that I don't have intention of buying much lower in larger quantity, though.
>> Yeah.
>> I I I have to be super crystal clear on that. Like that's these are these are almost like token positions right now because we're not out of the weeds yet.
>> Okay. Applovin This one. Okay. So, this one looks like it could bounce, but
>> you got it. The timer.
>> This one looks like it could bounce, but I don't like this setup because this looks like a bounce that would end up being a short, a bounce to to caller if you get if you if you if you get my drift. Um, so again, the sale the like the time to sell this was is past. Um, and I think it'll go up probably in this five nearly 550, but you're going to hit this this point right here. And this has acted as resistance in the past. If you can get over that, that's going to be a little bit more constructive. Um, and I think it's possible that it gets over that. the real the real level of resistance is actually just underneath 600. So it might get into here, but at that point that's really when I be like, okay. Um probably going to I would probably look at I would probably look at the stock. If the fundamentals are good, cool. If they're not, even if they are, I I would say your your your your track is is going to come into some resistance, significant resistance, and at that point, you're going to have some some major technical downside. And this is the area actually where that should come down technically speaking without knowing the the broader story. But that's that's what that setup actually looks like.
>> Okay, Nebius.
>> [snorts]
>> Are are you still buying NBS? The EBS.
>> Last buy was 92 for me. I haven't bought the 80s yet.
>> Dude, all these text messages and stuff are like for not.
>> Well, you texted at 87 and then it went to 80
>> four. [laughter] You texted 84 or something. Okay. So, 86 is interesting. 84 comes from over here.
>> [clears throat]
>> So, watch this. So, here's not the bottom, but it's a top. And then there's these little tops down here. And I'm going to snap that right there. And that's going to create this little box. And you be like, what is happening? And I'm not even looking at where the chart is right now. I'm going to drag this across. Let's go to a daily just so I don't have so much room to traverse. That's kind of where we are. And then there's this little It's It's basically this little top. Probably a completely different company that it was at the time. Why are my estimates all wonky like that? And this is a session gap. And one more thing, one more measurement from the lows to the highs. Okay. Boom. So, from the extreme lows, just throw this line on here. Extreme lows to extreme highs, that session gap and a 50% retrace is 7954. Like on on the dot. I'll I'll zoom this in. You didn't get a text message, but sorry. It Dude, that was today.
>> That was 79. Yeah.
>> 7954. So that's a that's an exact 50% retracement from the lows to the highs.
>> Yep.
>> Extreme highs. So probabilities in trading say these things. One, if Nebius is trading below trending below 79 and a half, then you are definitively going to see $618. That's a probability, like a statistical probability. Um, that's a trading range. But if it holds 79 and a half, well, it that's not happening. And you're probably going to continue back all the way up to the upside. And and this orange box that you might have seen how I got to it is is for the meantime gonna actually act as your support. And that's that's exactly what you're seeing here on Nebus and and where it was over here. So right now you're smack in the in the buy zone where all the battles have kind of ensued. So it's a very hightraic zone and and that's that's why this is an interesting spot here. And now can it lose this? Yes. Do you want to buy in this box here? No. Because this is a very low traffic zone and this move is going to be a very quick kind of whoosh. maybe like two two trading sessions it's going to whoosh 20 bucks. Um so let it whoosh and then grab it. Not even let it whoosh. Maybe sell some $70 calls at that point. Um covered calls up here, guys. That's not going to help you out. Uh by the way, [clears throat] but that's Nebius and and it's not it's not really back like in the up and up until it's over like 100. Until then, it's in it's in it's in the battle,
>> but it's
>> lemonade. So, this is one of the in my note, I said, look, some high-f flyers are probably going to get hit on the chin. I know this is insurance, but this is definitively a high-f flyier. Um, and I'm not so sure that this is a stock that is going to be this is this one. I I unless growth and all that and that narrative, this is very sentiment driven. [clears throat] That's my gut. So, take it for what it is. But earnings here. Oh, this is simple. I'll take this earnings gap. Boom. If she's below 64, you're going to fill. You're going all the way down. Um, and you just tagged it. So below 64, then you go all the way down to 56.87 and you retrace the entire earnings move. That's actually true. And it's probably going to be in short order, like in very short order. That's that's the earnings gap. We'll just do this so it's not like so top bottom right there. over over 68, you have a chance at doing this, but um but you already have a lower high, so I'm not so sure. If you lock in a lower high around below 75, you're probably more at risk of of getting to this. This area 65ish is is holding, but yeah, you're about to lose a 20-day, which means that the 50-day is in order soon. and you lose a 50-day here. That's that's the iteration, but but this one is a high-f flyier. So, it's more on it's more on a cautionary note at the moment. But power earnings gap, no full continuation, similar to a Google where you're probably at least a 45day hold, but you have to hold this or else you definitively fill that full gap. Next,
>> Reddit.
>> Haven't looked at this one in a minute. I have not looked at it and it's at 183. That's actually holding up.
>> It's not horrible.
>> It's not This is another high beta name. They've got good growth, but they also got
>> the the the difference here though is that it it's already had the pullback, right? So, the things that have already had the pullback, I'm not nearly as worried about. It's the ones that really have not had the pullback, right? And and and and Lemonade kind of goes into that bucket, right? So this this though is also it's just it is in a downward channel. This is an extremely choppy channel. So this is a very hard one to this is not quite tradable. I would wait till this gets a bit tighter. So this to me looks like is going to start to consolidate around the 200 day simple. Look at this. So you have a very this is the low volume node, low volume pocket, whatever. You have a lot of room to kind of fill in. That's probably going to trend. It's a slow grind down to about 165 and finally fill in this area right there. And it's not it's probably not going to bounce like boom off the 200. It's probably going to do this nasty chop for a while. Um, and and this channel, this range, if you will, it's probably going to get very tight. If you know what Ballinger bands are, this is probably one that I would I would slap that on. Um, I don't even have like what Ballinger bands. I haven't used these in forever. Ballinger [clears throat] bars, Ballinger bands, Ballinger bands. You pro Oh, so they're tightening. I would wait for these Ballinger bands to get real tight. um maybe whole bands, different types of bands that will tell you when volatility is actually um becoming something to watch for and a move is in route. Okay. Uh Coree, why is she doing like that? Okay. um did not continue below the lows. [clears throat] So this is a whole so this is this is just like the index. Actually it's a pretty clean read. Um 83 8350 is of the highs and you're going to have to take this as well as the rest of the market one day at a time from here is not going lower. Congratulations. [gasps] Corweave for now uh is done right. Uh so done I mean for now but you have to you have to take it's it's as simple as I'll tell you it's done but 75 which is only like a dollar away is your resistance [laughter] and so you're probably going to see 75 which happens to be like this last couple day uh consolidation. Oh god just don't let me don't don't let Jose watch the segment. Okay, that's all I have to say. Um, if you can get over 75, you're going up uh not far, but you are going up and you're going up to just under 78. Let me just pull this in a little bit. Actually, you know what? I'll give you a little bit better news. You're going up to $80 and change if you're real lucky. 82s, but you're going to have to break this $83 level. 83 and A2. If you can actually break over 83 and a half and start trending then boom, right? Then the trend then that is it then then that is in fact a bearish to bullish reversal. And so again just like the market that f that what day was it? Wednesday.
>> Yeah. The Wednesday high is across the board going to become a pivotal high and low pivotal spot. Until Wednesday's high and/or low is broken across the board, expect to violently violently for the next week traverse this entire range because either the high for the month is in or the low for the month is in. And until we can get like clean closes above, then we're traversing to the upside. But if we get clean closes below multiple, then we're going we got more, we got more, we got more red to go. But today, look, test the low. If all of a sudden we start testing the highs, even if we pull back and then we hold, this is actually perfect example. If we if we go up here and then we hit the highs, get rejected and then we do this this this actually and then this this this is going to be constructive. That is structure across the board. And if this is a slow grind, this is chop may be frustrating, but this kind of thing is going to be the healthiest thing that the market can see. It's going to give everybody time. It's going to be beautiful for your for your straddles. You're going to be perfectly fine, whatever. Uh this is actually going to pay you a lot, especially with VIX this high. Um and uh and shorts will cover and slowly the market will start to reverse and this is going to be extremely healthy if if we can get that. But if you inverse that and we get the opposite like that, not going to be good. But it's very much that that scenario. Cool. Next
>> Netflix.
>> I I actually sold all my Netflix to buy um the stuff that I bought.
>> I like Netflix for Meta. I think is fair. I mean, which was, by the way, was not was not a large position, but the this Netflix chart is uh it this is actually one of the worst looking setups right now. [clears throat] Um I even added to a short on Netflix today. That's what this [laughter] is on my screen. [gasps] Um this is ugly chart, dude. when we go back and we look at like that that um uh Tesla chart and when we say hey look what does a bearish to rever to to bullish reversal look like I mean this on my feed it you see my boy by the way like how he's looking he's looking sharp
>> um
>> I know but this is this is it right actually sold Netflix equity you could have collared I didn't have to sell it by the way it's not a big deal I just I just honestly I didn't have a lot of Netflix. So, it was that it was a clean double for me. Not a big deal. But the difference between this and the rest of the charts, price below all significant smoothing averages, bearish divergence on the oscillators. I'll show you that in a second. Broken support and trend lines, right? Multiple attempts to reclaim the tren the trend had failed. I'll talk about this. Also, uh I still like the company, but I can come back later when the chart is better. It's not better. So, I'll show you what why all of this what what what be what bearish divergence means. It's about oscillators. You can talk about this on an RSI. I don't use RSI, but if this was an RSI, this is a daily chart. It would show me the same exact thing. I might go a little bit over. Um, but if that's okay, I don't I don't know if that's okay or not. I'll try to be quick here, but this is a high, right, on the chart. So, higher high on an oscillator, whether this is RSI, this is a MACD histogram, whatever. This high on my oscillator, which is all this is, is a lower high on the O. That's called bearish divergence. That's what that is. Even here, this this is below the zero line. All of this, this is all bearish net net. I'm looking at this. Okay, this one was like, all right, it has it has an opportunity. I actually tried to take this long in this moment, but the second it got down and it did this and these lower highs, this was the death. This was the death moment. And then I don't know if it was Elon or what, but multiple attempts to get back over. Let me get back into it. So, that's what bearish divergence is. Uh, [clears throat] and it's about those oscillators and whatever it is that you use RSI, it doesn't matter. Um mult the trend support is here. Multiple attempts to hold. One, two attempts to get back up here. Even below that here. One, two here. Lower support. Failure. Failure. Failure. I'm just not liking this. And so again, attempt attempt attempt. It just like breakdown below all significant simple moving averages. The distance between my SMAs is widening. It's just now widening. Um and so this is one of those setups where it looks like it's going to get worse before it gets better. So, it's it's better for me to either collarer my stock, meaning like sell like in the money calls and and buy puts with the premium that I collect. It's not a massive thing, but you're you're going to 90s 90s, low 90s first, and you're look, this is a midcap stock. Um, it could turn around, but the risk on a steep and uncorrected move trend. By the way, this is the trend. Whatever this is, near-term trend broken almost. Anyway, I sliced it. Maybe it can come down to here. I don't know. But I just saw more downside. I'd saw 90s possibly down to here and I was like, h I think I'll sit this one out for a bit. Plus, I had other things I'd rather buy, which was mostly this. All right,
>> Oscar.
>> That's the difference between like a bearish a bearish turn and my logic. Oscar, dude, this thing uh it's still the same price. It's like it's below 14. Yeah, some of these I mean it's this is like a this is like it's still the same price. If you like it, you pick this up. I don't think there's any ACA um good news built into this. Wow. So, let me turn this heater on or what. Um there's no ACA good news built into this. Uh I think this is at one of the steeper discounts we've seen in a while. pretty far from these SMAs. This looks like springloaded right now because of that bigger move [laughter] and most of the downside has happened. So I think this is one where this is a little bit different where I think that the downside has already ensued. What is this down like 50%.
>> About
>> Yeah, you're already down 50%. So I mean this most of the downside has happened. This unlike a lemonade I I I I don't think there's a lot more pain to be had here. I hope.
>> Yeah. And I think this is all due to obviously the healthcare subsidy stuff. So
>> very much so. And there's no but the thing is I in this chart I don't see a lot of optimism priced into it.
>> No. No. Um, Sofi.
>> Sophie. I mean, when's the next uh NFP that we're gonna get? It's like on the end of the month, right?
>> Um, no. It's December 16th.
>> Are you sure?
>> Yeah, because we're not getting October.
>> I know, but I thought I thought November 29th we're getting something.
>> I I could be wrong.
>> Yeah. No, no, it's only November for December.
>> Okay. Well, this was going to be 24s. It ended up breaching 24. There's a little bit of a like fair we call fair value. I think the near-term is in now we bounce and you're going to get sucked back into these simple moving averages. And more likely than not, this is so this is going to pop. This thing's alive. But this this balance is again this is one where you're like well it's not dead but it's in flux. Did are SoFi options are they can you even like get much premium on them?
>> The premium is better than what it was a month ago. Um, but yeah, you know, it's not the most volatile, but I mean, it is picking up. It It is starting to show up in the top 20. Yeah. Even today, 700,000 contracts. It's showing.
>> No, no, no. I mean, like as like protection.
>> What do you mean?
>> Like I don't I mean I don't know. Like if it took a downturn, I'm just thinking protection wise. So like this looks like you're going to start to have so you have a lower low. Uh so you're going to start to have another little broadening formation show up a new one is what I'm looking at. So this is what I'm looking at. So doing the SoFi thing again. So you could start to see this and you went up which shows me about 20 bucks to the downside.
>> Yeah. Do you think it actually Do you think the breach below 24 today was like
>> I don't think it's a big deal.
>> Yeah, that's I was gonna say. Do you think it's a big deal or it was just part of the whole selloff?
>> No, I think it's part of the whole selloff. I don't think it's a big deal at all. I think Yeah, not a big deal.
>> Okay. PayPal. It's like how how many people on Oh, that that hit the bottom. It's primed for a bounce. Again, how big of a bounce you're you're very likely to go right into here. And this is again into market sentiment. Um once we see So, so we don't want to sell the lows. The bounces are very likely coming, but how this is why IWM looks good. But it's like is a trade good and if if these things can actually if these things can actually get up and over I mean from a percentage perspective like these are the lows. What kind of bottom is this? I don't know. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. How what do you Is it seven?
>> Roundabout. I mean, it it is funny that this was safety today against everything.
>> Was it though? Like I don't know if it was. It was just like Wasn't PayPal didn't I see PayPal like halted at some point after hours? Swear I did.
>> Oh, no. That was Block. I think you're talking about
>> Oh, Block. It was Block. You're right. not PayPal, like blog consultant. [laughter] Um, which is probably in the same boat, by the way. Um, 57. Sure, you're probably going to 64. If it gets back over 64, you might even get to 66. But that's where that's where your traffic zone is. You're going to hit your head. You're going to pull back right around here. You're probably going to go a little bit something like this, maybe. Boop boop boop boop and then you're then it's TBD. We don't know. We don't know what's going to happen. Then it's going to be earnings. So I think it's actually probably going to stop right there.
>> Okay. Um let's do this one. Palinger broke below 150 today.
>> I know. I bought some more.
>> You bought some more.
>> I did. I bought Paler. I almost took an option. I almost took a shortdated option upside on Palunteer cuz I'm like this is I'm like I I really like this spot cuz I mean it's basically made the track. It's basic like it's Look how close it is, man.
>> I agree.
>> Like so close. So close. And and Okay. I I I really bought it. Um, and I really like this close. I just wanted to see a slightly larger upside. I think this is prime for a this is prime for a pretty big bounce next week, dude. I mean, pretty big bounce next week cuz this is [clears throat] this one has taken such a heavy beating. But preface by the way with everything that I've been saying about everything else. A big bounce. Is it a bottom? I don't know. We have to see what happens after that. And um but yeah, you don't want to you don't you don't want to sell this like just I hope to god nobody's I I don't know, right? Maybe I eat my words later and it just dumps another $100. Who knows, right? But this is
>> I think for that for that to happen I think Nvidia's got to get collapse. Like I think they're tied together. I don't think pounder easily goes to 100 and Nvidia stays
>> like again they they are the AI trade together. That's why they're talked about together. So I I think it's a good buy today if we think Nvidia stabilizes as well.
>> Well, so the logic was pretty simple, right? Last Tuesday we said, "Hey, look, there were two zones. Last Tuesday we talked about this or two two or three Tuesdays ago we talked about this 173 uh zone right which I said like 180s is probably fine I said this not a buy zone that that it's you want to see this hold but this is not a buy zone right and that the real support was in this 150 area I actually nibbled at 160s um and I made a post and I was like my token my token my token contribution to the paler support club So, it was a bigger buy. Um, but I is it like the buy again? Any if I'm buying anything right now, it's it's it's with more ammo later to come. But, um, but this general area right here, we can see it pretty clearly on the charts. I I like this area. Can it like go down? Look, Palanteer is one of those like it gets it gets wicked up so fast. So, if I want to be, let's do this. Let's call out 142. And it's just this general node. So, I can see 138s. I can see that on the charts. It's possible, right? But this if it gets over and really what I'm what I'm talking about is if it gets over 158 and maybe this little wick of 160 next week, we're going to revisit this 173 level that I talked about last Tuesday in extreme short order. And so and and at that point, I know that there's going to be a very quick trend like next week. And that would be that would be a pretty violent bounce. That's a that's a near 10% bounce for next week and it could probably extend into those SMAs at which point hey look I have a I have a decision to make and when things get a little overheated well it's possible that I actually see 190 from here. So that's that's the logic. But at that point, all right, of these buys probably I need to take a little profit on. I will say that because you have you have if you're trading uh you you'd have a 25% quick profit on something like that just on equity, not even options. All right. I like it. Can it go lower? Yes. But this is primed actually for a pretty big bounce. just a mean reversion kind of to to get back to these SMAs. Uh, and if it does, then cool. We're flattening out, but still not out of the weeds.
>> Okay, AMD, this [clears throat] one is tough. So, we're we're exactly where we could have gone to had we lost this 227. It just again, this stuff happened so fast. Um, so that's where we were. That's kind of the level that we highlighted on this is a this is this is one of those high-f flyers right now, just so we're clear. This is [clears throat] a highf flyier. Um, and it would be one that that could possibly be a little bit at risk. 185 is is a is a zone. Uh it's it's a technical pullback level. Does it hold is the question. And even if we get there right now, we hit 196, which is halfway point from that earnings move. That's a good hold, right? Um it's a good hold. I think you can bounce. You're probably going to bounce right into this general. you're going to bounce into that 50-day and probably around 213s. If it can get over that, then you're into 227s. Again, we're in a very we're very much into the if this then that, right? Then you're here. This is that 227 is resistance right now. That's definitive. And this is this was the question is does 227 become resistance or is it support? And so structure, what we talked about, we said this could be a downside. This could be a liquidity grab in its entirety. Structure would have to look like that for an upside. This is choppy. Uh this is going to be messy, but that's what it would have to look like. Otherwise, you still have to be prepared for this situation also. Um but all that said, any way you slice this, what what this what this sets up for is some kind of double top like this at at bare minimum as a potential. What you just don't want to see. So that's bounce. That's up. What you don't want to see is this. That's just no good. That's no good. So bare minimum, we're looking at this. Then you make your decision. This is what we don't want to see.
>> Okay. Let's do Nvidia right after that.
>> Have you seen uh a 3 and a half% reversal like what we saw on Thursday? I mean I think Goldman said the last time it happened was like 10 years ago at the magnitude that it happened. I mean it was pretty incredible to see
>> on the NASDAQ.
>> Well, yeah. On the entire market, but Nvidia kind of led it going up 500 billion then down 500 billion in two hours.
>> Was it three and a half? I honestly I didn't even notice.
>> Like I've seen reversals like this on a regular basis. Uh it didn't feel like that crazy to me. Um I was I was literally expecting something like this. Um like if I go back if you go back and if you go back to last Tuesday or no I'm sorry last this Tuesday and you click on the Nvidia time stamp. Can we do that? Is that possible?
>> Not right now because we got a lot of tickers. But
>> you can do that if
>> do that and go back. Click on the Nvidia time stamp. And I'm like 99% positive I drew a line on Nvidia and it looks like this when I drew that line. I'm like I'm 99% positive that that was my line and it stopped exactly right here. I I'm actually I'm 100% positive because that is the zone. Um and and and when that happened in this moment, like I was live in in my group and I was like, "Okay, celebrate. It's cool." Um but the the thing is that that we don't know cuz that's after hours and after hours is is TBD. It's all about premarket in the following day. um it needed to go higher for me like to really solidify an upside. It's very possible that that next morning it actually did open. So it we didn't really know in the moment um because it could have continued on but when the market opened and you see this you you know pretty much immediately there's no extension and and that is what we call like the bearish retracement right here. But yeah, go back to the time stamp and and so here we're actually all that said, we haven't gone anywhere and and we're we're exactly where we are. Um this is not horrible, but even after the news kind of today, I think it's a bit of a tell, but we're holding the lows. So here's yesterday's low. I don't know that you need to use Nvidia as the example because it just had earnings. So I don't I don't actually think that Nvidia is going to tell what's going on in the market. 77 is was and actually remains pretty much the level on Nvidia. Um and that's exactly the point of control of this entire consolidation here and it remains the the the area of interest uh for this general consolidation. So I actually don't think anything has changed for Nvidia. Um the chart based on what just happened actually not that I don't think like nothing has actually changed on this chart
>> quite frankly. It's it's exact same what it was like the other day. Dell.
>> Dude, I I really like Dell here. [snorts] But okay. Oh, but shoot. That's good thing. I almost took this, but then I then I uh I bought a little little but then I Good thing I didn't take a trade because they have they have earnings on Tuesday. Um so Dell is a good spot, but again, it's already m it's made the whole So this one I feel like okay, it's made the whole the whole trek. So, not a high-f flyier. Already made the trek. I'm [clears throat and snorts] not too worried about this. It's Is it possible this continues down? Yeah, it is. But this when I pull this back, I'm like, okay, I I don't I don't hate this, right? Something that's made the whole the whole move like bottom top. We're right here at the halfway point 118 is literally swing low to swing high. I mean, I'm smack in the middle. I I'm actually holding that downside here is possible statistically speaking to $12 if I lose that$118 level. That's that's probably what's going to happen. I have I have a little bit of a high traffic area right in here. But if earnings is no good, it's probably going to revisit 100. That's like that's what's very very likely to happen. And then it's it's going to go it's going to go sideways for a while. And then if it can get over 105, then we're just going to 118 and it's probably going to stop right there. So, for now, for this to bounce, I I can see that. And then you're going to revisit this orange. You don't see this uh this orange line right here. This 127 is what we're going to bounce towards. And if you can get to to 127, there's another these are old levels, but these all remain here. These are these are pathing levels that have been and remain actually the structure on Dell. It's a pretty clean chart actually when you when you digest it. Uh but there it gets a little choppy in here and then and then they get like boom. But that's actually how Dell has been like in the past. It's kind of always like that. They had a big downgrade last week, which is I think what started the spiral, but they also increased their guidance, which is why they pumped a month ago.
>> Yeah, their downgrade was for prices of memory though, right? Like, oh, they're not going to keep their they're not going to keep their margins up, dude. So, first of all, the freaking fracken market does not understand Dell. They never will understand Dell. Dell's margins are good because of because they sell engineering services and they have a massive like like swath of products and services that they sell nothing like the their server margin might come down but server margin as a whole is always been poo poo like [laughter] that server margin um anyways grab.
>> That's my I texted you.
>> I texted
>> I bought
>> you bought
>> they bought my my orders were filling. Well, actually exactly where it is right now. So if you buy right here, literally this is my cost. [clears throat]
>> Was that 485 something or 49? I had 490 uh 494 because I wasn't trying to be super specific. I missed the 520 which I ended up buying anyways. And then 480 um 494 to whatever my What is it now? Grabby grab. What does that give me a cost of? Oh,
>> wait. Just under five, right? Or a little bit above five. little bit above their even orders.
>> This one to me feels a little like SoFi where it just gets it now. SoFi bounced back up above its key levels. Grab has not made it bounce back up above five.
>> Yeah, I don't know how uh how how much the dollar influences this. I just I actually don't um [cough] we'll see. It's not US equity necessarily. Um, so I don't, you know, we're uh we're we're we're playing kind of in a different market. We're playing with something that's not fully influenced by US um by the US. So that's the only thing. But same thing here like yes, if we go lower, it's going to get a little worse. And that is what it is. But um downside could be wild, I suppose. Um but it's I think it's prime for a bit of a bounce. And this whole again yen thing like I get I get that it could be bad, but then at the same time it's going to be really hard to actually be short here if you don't know about it. Like if if the BOJ steps in and they start selling a bunch of dollars and buying a bunch of yen to to offset a lot of stuff, that's a real thing. And that happens and all of a sudden in in in the blink of an eye, we're going to be up another 2 3% out of seemingly nowhere [laughter] and you're going to be like, "What just happened?" And and that's actually a real thing. So figure that out. So it's going to be hard. it's going to be really hard to be short, especially if you're net short or especially if you're you're putting a lot of money into shorts, which is what I don't want to do. So, if I'm taking any short trades, they're very cheap uh and they're very kind of like shortdated, which is always the case, by the way. And uh and if I'm hedging, I really don't want to pay for uh a lot of hedges. I'd rather either do it for free in a and in a way or on the cheap and in a way that isn't really capping a lot of upside for me. All right, done with that rant. Sorry. Um, Coinbase,
>> dude.
>> Actually, actually, we should do we should do Bitcoin first, right? [clears throat]
>> That makes sense.
>> Yeah. I feel like I'm just Let's do BTC. What are you thinking about that? [gasps]
>> Dude, it almost was below 80 last night.
>> Well, I mean, this is the level.
>> This is the level. It's it I mean this is this is generally the level. The I mean the level is lower. So, um if you like it, you're you're in the area, right? So you've you've lost this this general traffic zone, which is this this general traffic zone. You're gone, right? So just like everything else, you basically just traverse to the next one, which is down here. You're probably going to wick into this. You could extend. The real one is actually in here, right? But let's say you bounce here. The thing with this, which is what's happening, is that you're going to get back up in here. What What do you think is going to happen when when you do get up here? That's really the tell. So, again, we're going to have moments of that that that wild euphoria. Just does it hold? We don't know, right? So, it's going to it's going to happen at some point, right? The question is, are you going to be caught up in the I'm I'm super ecstatic like we're going to the moon again or or what are we doing? Right? And I think that's that's that's trading. Is it investing? It's not investing. It's trading. Um and even if we get higher, this is why trading is very much if this then that, right? Or you know, it's one level to the next because it's it's also possible to get back here. And even if you get all the way back here, then well then you have to deal with the same the same question yet again. What are those people going to do? Right? And then and then you're same question yet again. What are those people going to do? [clears throat] And that's that's how this works. But this right here, those are your levels. If you lose them, then you go to the next one lower. But right here,
>> are you are you are you like at all interested in buying here like
>> Bitcoin? Yeah. Like a DC simple DCA here or you think below 80 is more? [clears throat]
>> No. Well, no. Not Bitcoin.
>> Bitcoin.
>> Yeah.
>> No. No.
>> So, you would not buy here?
>> No. You think it's a falling knife here? I just don't have any interest in buying more Bitcoin.
>> No, but in general, if you had to objectively, if someone wanted to buy the dip, would you think this is a price that's attractive?
>> Also, no.
>> Okay. Because 84 is down a lot from 126, right? If someone was thinking, hey, maybe it's time to finally buy.
>> No, I'd tell them to wait to the 70s. I for sure. like like legit you want you want to do it. Um like okay 70s boom there it isoo. So [laughter] uh I would I I I legit would tell him to do that like where did my where'd my volume thing go? I think Tom Lee at 77 is the bottom.
>> Okay. Why does he always have to say this is the bottom?
>> I you know it's a good point. I don't know why he has to be so specific.
>> It's going to be here. There's no there's no there's no I don't have a I don't have a thing of confluence in my chart that says 77 is going to be the bottom. Not a penny of confluence there. This just it's it's a speculative order block. I know what he's talking about. And he's talking about this. It's a it's a it's a order block right here between 78 250. He or his his analyst, whoever. It's probably it's not him because he's not a he's not a technician, right? He's talking about this area right here. But I'll tell you what, you guys look at my screen. We we do this all the time. These are this is volume, right? These are volume historical volume levels. You you these are hight traffic areas and low traffic areas. If if this represented, let's say, city centers, right? City centers where traffic was heavy, where you're going to get congestion, right? If if price is the car that you're driving and this is congestion on the freeway, right? And these are these are the cities that you have to drive through to get to your destination, whatever it is. And these low volume areas, these low peaks, these the little valley valleys in the mountain range are no traffic zones. These are the interstates between the the city centers. Like this looks like a pretty fast drop to me and I don't know why you would magically stop at 77. That's just my two cents. I could be wrong. That's just [laughter] me cuz there's basically just a small little town at 77 compared to I don't know Mount Vuvius and Mount Kilimaro over here after leaving Mount Everest.
>> Okay. So before coin, let's do ETH as well. I assume you think ETH is in the same trend as BTC.
>> No. So I actually So ETH I like better. because because one, it hasn't made the move that um Bitcoin has and so it's it's different. It's a different it's a different situation. ETH is actually at my level general area. So ETH is at the equivalent level of Bitcoin at 70. Now that's the difference. So ETH is is essentially at the equivalent of Bitcoin at 70 right now. The issue I have right like with ETH is that everybody in their mother um when I said like 28 from the from the highs and then you know and I gave like very explicit numbering numbers dude everybody this the grind to those levels was slow and and and methodical that's that's not usually indicative of a bottom. A bottom is like fast and violent, right? Like a liquid liquidation event. It's not that's not a liquidation event. I know that that feels like a liquidation event. This is not a liquidation event. This is a liquidation event, [laughter] right? This right here, it doesn't have to happen. That's a liquidation event. Like this is a liquidation event. But the slow the slow and steady grind to the downside. [laughter] This is not a liquidation event. Although it feels like it feels bad. Like it feels like my my bank account is getting liquidated as an event. Um
>> do do you think it was because of the Binance crypto glitch or No? Um, I think that I think that yesterday's continuation to the downside looked very much like an algorithmic like like continuation sell all day long in in the markets as a whole. Um, I don't know. I [clears throat] don't know if I would attribute that to this as a whole. I think that maybe the yen thing has to do with the crypto markets possibly. But all that said, 26 373 I don't that like I think that was my level. That's that golden that's literally right here. Um that's possibly it. It's possible that that's it, right? And if you like Ethereum, the truth is that anywhere from here down is probably a really good spot long term. Like it's probably a decent spot. Unlike like Bitco Bitcoin is probably a decent spot. A little bit lower, but this is probably a decent spot. Now, are there better spots? Yeah, there are. But that general area, this general area can come as as low can come as low as 21. So it's like this green box right here. And from here in the event of an actual liquidation event, that's 2159. So I did post that, right? Like if you really wanted a nasty entry, if if all of a sudden everybody got liquidated from buying at that at at my level, whatever it was, why do I have so many numbers here? What's going on? Anyways, from this 26 37 whatever 2637 like those liquidation events can come down to 259 and and and 2159 and that's in that general box overall is going to be probably a massive discount long term. But again, do do you need to be ultra specific? I don't think so. But if this if this fails, that's probably where it goes. But I don't know that it's going to fail. That's a guess. Total guess. So, uh, if you like it though, I I think this is your area.
>> Okay. Coinbase [clears throat]
>> Coinbase is this is similar um in terms of Okay. If so, okay, so Coinbase is is not similar because it's it's a company and it has earnings and has debt, right? First of all, there's no debt on crypto, so you don't have to factor that stuff. Um, this one's rough and tough. So, it's made the track and then some [gasps] uh We are here at 240 which is a revisit of this prior area. And if I draw this all the way across IPO levels and I and I'm pretty sure this is again like some kind of level bottom to top boom 50% from incept like from all-time lows to all-time highs. So at this level on Coinbase, it's interesting. So again, why why these these areas are important. It's like, yeah, if you like these companies, this is probably a nibble spot. But with a grain of salt, like that said, it's all it's all said with a grain of salt because here now like if it goes lower, you just kind of have to be prepared to buy a little bit deeper and don't don't buy like immediately. Let it kind of let the bottom fall out if it does cuz it's the next level's pretty much like much deeper into like sub 180s at the 200E simple moving average. So 235 give or take is very important on Coinbase. Must hold. If it doesn't and it starts to lose that, you're in for a world of hurt. But if it if it does go up, then it's a choppy sloppy I mean choppy sloppy slow multi-month grind to the upside.
>> Okay. Anthony says, "You might be interested in Dutch Bros."
>> I might be interested in Dutch Bros. They're going to open up a store over by my place
>> and do the East Coast
>> to the West Coast. [clears throat]
>> Like they're not
>> they're only in the pack north. They're in the pack northwest. I I'm I'm I might be interested in Dutch Bros. So this is the beginnings of that bearish to bullish reversal. Wild, right? in a market where everything is poo poo. [laughter] Like this one actually is like wanting to be in in a reversal pattern to be bullish. Like can you believe that? It really wants to. It's not there, but it wants to. So, um today, look at this. Look at this. Look at this. This is wild to me. Um I've been watching this chart and so shout out to you said Anthony Was it Anthony?
>> I don't know if this if this guy is is part of my crew or not, but my crew maybe knows that I've been kind of watching this chart or had it on my radar because this is uh this is bucking the trend. It really is. And there was a recent low. Oops. Recent lows here. Your favorite pattern there. a higher low and I think we start to go into a bit of consolidation. So, so all that said, this is this is definitively on watch. I do think it goes into consolidation and it although it's not out of the weeds yet, the the the one caveat I I'll have on Dutch Bros is that if this does get rejected, let's say price starts to trend down, right? If if price starts to trend down, well, all of this is going to turn real bad real quickly. So, it's it's it's trying to, but I actually need to see a little bit more. I I I this is one where I would actually rather buy above 58 and know that I'm on I'm on a bit of a mend because if I step in here and now, I could actually be buying the highs before it takes a downturn and I don't really want to do that. So, while this looks good here, if Dutch Bros gets rejected, this coming in the next week or two, this chart is going to quickly turn very bearish on me. So, that's the that's the caution right now. This could be one of those bounces where I just don't want to step in front of this. It's on it's on the fence of it's about to look really good, but I don't need to step in front of this one right now. So, this one I think is a little bit patience, but it's it's a very it's a very heavy watch. It's very interesting story. I don't need to jump in front of it yet. Uh if it goes higher, it will begin to look very good. That number is about 58 for me.
>> Okay. Um another one, AET. Any thoughts on the
>> made the track? Uh [clears throat] yeah, it's made the track all the way back uh to the 200 day SMA. So again, ideally, these will start to go sideways. This one I didn't look at today. Uh, this one went lower. So, this one went lower than yesterday. I don't I guess it's a highf flyier. That's That's going to have to start closing over 120. So, if it can get over 120, that's a mandatory for me to start looking at this upside. So, we'll call that 120 a break of structure. I really can't look at at this for now um until it's over that or I can circle back to this um like closer to Jeez. Yeah, I closer to the 200 maybe a little bit lower but I need to see structure form. Not yet. Not yet. over 120 or continue to wait
>> uh micron
>> short. Well, [snorts] I said this was the highf flyier that like so this was the I actually I actually took this short um this one data dog crowd strike uh and a lot of the hardware plays I covered all those shorts the day yesterday. So those were my three trades to the downside. I'm [clears throat] not short this name anymore. It was just like literally from here to here. Um, but this was this is a highf flyier that for sure would be like steep and uncorrected still. Uh, I get that. Yeah, sure. Like hard hard like HBM, whatever, super cycle, etc. But you guys got to realize that this is a $100 stock a 100 days ago also. Uh, and like Western Digital was a $30 stock this year. And that SanDisk was like these things are insane. So super cycle or not, these are steep and uncorrected uh and and dangerous. So I don't I don't want to short them because they just took a big move to the downside. I'll let it breathe. All the same rules apply here as everything else, right? So I'm not I'm not putting any prejudice on this one way or the other. Um, I don't think you want to short this either here because look, it just came down a lot. Uh, so people might, this is still a good company. There's nothing there's nothing wrong with these companies either. Just also, uh, it's just the stocks went up a lot and now they kind of breathe a little bit. So, I think you give this a minute to breathe. But, you do the same exercise everything else. If it's over now, it's it's really far away. Thursday, Wednesday's high. Cool. It's going back up. Period. End of story. That's the 20day simple moving average. If it's below the lows, it's going down. Simple as that. That's 200 bucks. That's the 50-day simple. Right now, it's smack dab in the middle. So, this is a no touch until it's outside of either one of these. Let it do its thing.
>> Hoodie. Hoodie. [clears throat] Uh it's right into this it's right into this area. So hoodie so first of all hoodie as much as I would love to say that oh it's it's done going down I have I have no idea. Uh it is not is not made the lows yet. Uh well it has not made the track to the
>> bit if you think Bitcoin is going to 70. Unfortunately I think Hood's down with it.
>> Mo most of my buys on Hood are actually set to like 70s just to be straight up. Uh and I but I have been absolutely nibbling. Um and uh right now I think that we can bounce a bit on hood hoodie. Um last Tuesday I said hey look we're we're up here. This I think is a bounce spot. I think that we bounced at least to like 115 maybe even that 120 area again. Um but at that point is very much TVD. Uh so this 113ish area here 115 is how this works. That that's your kind of trajectory. This is actually about about the halfway point from here to here of yesterday's range 11516. See how that works? Right there. Um got bought up pretty quickly. I actually bought this because I I think this is if if the market turns like and all of a sudden um first of all I don't have to be super bullish on crypto to me in my mind for me to be bullish in in hoodie. You guys can you know think what you want but um Bitcoin doesn't have earnings. Hoodie does. Hoodie has a lot of lines of business. Bitcoin only has Bitcoin. Um, that said though, this is very correlated, extremely correlated, and I think it can bounce, but I think it can get in trouble around 115 for sure. And it's going to be the same thing as everything else. If it can get over 115, cool. I can see 123. This bad boy is not out of the weeds yet. If it can get get over 123, then boom, I can see 130s again. Not out of the weeds yet, right? If it gets like definitively below 100, well that 75ish level is happening. Um and and that that is what it is. Even if I get to 130s, that 175 kind of extension is not in play, right? Cuz what what what I have to deal with at that point in time is I have to deal with all of these buyers. Any upside here is going to be slop and chop, right? I have to deal with all these buyers that are going to decide whether or not they're going to sell on me. I know what I'm going to do or I know what I'm not going to do, but I need to see does this happen and does that happen and if so then what? Right? And so if that then what right? So that that takes me to 135 which would be if this if this is the low then I have to really really be concerned at 135. If I can get over 135, cool. I'm talking about 150s, but that's all I'm talking about. I can't be talking about anything else other than that. And only if we're over 150s then then for sure. I'm talking about higher and I'm talking about 180s now. I'm not talking about 175s, but not not until those things happens. That's what slop and chop means from a technical perspective. Um, but that's what this looks like for now. What has happened is that I have come right into that. If if this was the mountain range and this is the city center, I've just hit a high traffic area and it's going to be really difficult in the near term for Hood to actually get below this $90 kind of level. So, I'm okay with thinking that buyers are going to step in as they have in the past on the greatest company on earth. I don't know about you guys, but that's just me and I'm super biased, so don't listen to me. But that's that's my two cents.
>> Zeta.
>> Zeta. Zeta. [clears throat] How How do you feel about Zeta?
>> I think it's cheap. I think
>> How do you feel about Hoodie? Well, obviously I love Hoodie, but I think Zeta is like $30 fair value or at least I mean, dude, like it's not the most exciting company.
>> All they do is keep beating and raising on earnings.
>> I was about to say this looks good.
>> Yeah, the chart looks great. It it's a it's a decent analytics advertising. The only thing is their stockbased comp is a bit aggressive and it's just an advertising company. So why the hell are they spending that much money on stockbased comp?
>> But outside of that I don't see that many.
>> It's like $200 million%
>> 20% revenue 20% of revenues I think round about.
>> That's not bad. What was Hoodie at the at the worst?
>> No, but so like Pounder and Hood were worse, but Pounder and Hood are also amazing companies. Zeta is just an advertising like They don't need to be paying their engineers that much stock. I feel like I understand why Paler needs the best talent in the world. So that's the only issue. But outside of that,
>> I think you bounced to 19 plus on this. Like this is sorry. So this looks like a bounce with the rest of the small caps
>> into 19 plus and you retest this into here. 16 to 20 has kind of been that range for it.
>> Yeah, this is the bottom of the of the of the pocket.
>> Okay. Um,
>> I like the hoodie. I think it's a good spot.
>> I agree.
>> And by the way, I if crypto dips, I don't think it's going to happen during the market. So like I think I think any liquidity is going to happen any liquidity grab I I guess I should have prefaced that. I think would happen during the weekend and it'll be over by a Monday. So I don't think you would see like a crazy dip during the market hours. Um, so Bloom used to be like a running joke like of a of a of a uh what is the vaporware, but I guess they actually had real stuff come out maybe. Um, but
>> I really I've never looked into them so I just don't know anything. Okay. So, Bloom Energy used to be uh they power buildings. Like there's a power generation company. They used to make power out of sand, but it was like vaporware back in the day because the way they did it was that they heated the sand with gas and that was really not actually ESG or whatever. And [clears throat] um and and that was kind of funny, but um but now they have something else. So it was like, oh, it's clean energy because they use sand to power like full like they they power like eBay down the street and stuff like that. But um but they heated the the sand with gas, natural gas, [laughter] but um but [clears throat and snorts] I think it's like a much more
>> there became a data center play basically for power.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. I understand. Um, I don't like this chart. Like, this is too hot. This this this this I I I would I would I I think this would if I'm going to take something short, I'm I'm taking this short. What? You just think it ran up too much and
>> Oh, for sure.
>> For sure. And I like I'll look into it more, but I I honestly don't think it's So, I'll keep my opinions to myself, but head and shoulders like whatever. If you're going to be a pattern trader, there it is. Like bright and shiny. If you get any lower than this 84, I'm just going to I'll just do it real quick. Um, so extensions would be 56. Well, it would be 47. [clears throat] So, if you get lower than if you break through here, that's the you you risk doing another 50% downside. Real talk. If you lose this level, that's your that is your um realistic target, realistic drop on Bloom Energy. This blue line here is the power shift, if you will, on the chart. Can you see it? Probably not.
>> Yeah.
>> Right there.
>> It's a light. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There it is. So that that blue line is 8680. You don't have to be super specific, but it's this general it's just general area where see this super high congestion zone that is testing right here and all of this right there. So it whatever happened here starts to give up and you see this high volume area, high traffic area which I it's already below the 20, it's already below the 50. A bounce can even take you up to 109. So even if but even if it bounces up to 109, the thing is that this chart is not out of the weeds. That that that that still is not it's it still is not a good chart. Even if that happens, even if that happens, you're no, there's so much work to do on this chart to No, I don't like this chart at all. Okay,
>> Rivian,
>> there's this weird part of me that feels like Rivian could revisit 1285, dude. I'm just [laughter] not I love my Rivy, but um it's just it's just what it is. Um it's holding is a big move. Uh it did it didn't it didn't it didn't break the 18 18 and change. Like we didn't we didn't really even we got kind of close but we didn't really like I said we didn't we didn't get up there. It's okay. R2 is coming. There's some catalyst here. That little wick to 1394 is just barely above that hightraic area. So I like it. Not doing anything here. Um I'm not if I if I saw a wild push to the downside I'll probably add. But uh I'm going to hold tight here and uh do nothing on Ruby.
>> Okay. Um Adobe
>> Doby had a big move today. I saw that. I don't know. Was there news on Adobe or was that just like oh it was just like one of those that's like holy crap so low.
>> I think it was the latter. Yeah. So, holy crap, so low. So, I hate when I say stuff like that like about Bloom. I don't if anybody works I don't know. But that chart that chart is really that was really dangerous looking chart. I mean this is a interesting spot. Yeah, with earnings coming. I think it's a speculative bounce. It probably gets back into the 350s, 330s. I think people are just so bored of this name, but they also know it's too cheap to ignore.
>> Uh yeah, but they keep selling it every time it bounces. Man, what are they?
>> So, it'll probably go a little bit more and then do the same thing again and then sideways and revisit the lows. That's it. There's nothing um there's nothing doing here really. All right, we got about five more tickers left and then
>> this is the definition of an oversold bounce, by the way. Like all of these are over oversold bounces. Oversold is cool, but they're just like they're temporary bounces that usually get sold off.
>> All right, before we get into the last five, again, just a reminder, Jason's Twitter, please make sure to follow him. Uh he worked overtime for us this week, two days in a row or two days this week. I like Hoodie, but I don't think I like it. I like it a lot. I like this this traffic area.
>> This is the biggest area that we've had that we've gotten to visit hoodie on in a long time. Just saying this general area.
>> I agree. The problem is
>> problem is the market and crypto.
>> Yeah. And like the reason But remember the reason we got to see hoodie at 150 was because of Euphoria. The reason we're getting to see at 100 is not because of a opportunity. It's because we might be rerating the market, right? And no one knows, right? As you said, we get we need a trend in place.
>> So that's why it's not exciting to me to buy here either because I'm like,
>> well, if things are going south, Hood's uniquely going to get screwed.
>> But now I will buy it for the long term if they really get hit because it's Hood.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's not like a it's the most attractive buy at 100 just because it's down from 150.
>> Yeah. I I like it here. I really don't think like something would have to be I mean epically wrong for us to see
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> anything over here,
>> right? Like and I mean like disgustingly wrong. Um, but I just don't think that I I think that maybe while maybe things can get wild, um, it's just not that uh I don't know, man. I'm not that scared in general. It would be it would be 60s at the worst to retest this at the absolute worst would be retesting this and 80s to re retest that and that would be brutal. But at that point, if we're losing this collaring, caller the stock, not necessarily selling, but like selling selling puts probably around 80 or selling calls probably around 80 and buying puts probably around 80 at the same time would probably be free and that would give me that protection. All right, last five tickers, then we got to get out of here. Um, um, I really didn't move that much. Yeah,
>> it's already down a lot.
>> Did MSTR move today? I know. I I didn't even look at it. So, this looks like I don't know. This might be one of those steep and uncorrected also. So, like my thing is that the highf flyers probably have more pain to go. So high-f flyers like a Micron, Western Dig, Bloom Energy, possibly I red the data center plays probably have more pain ahead and the profits that people get to realize from these go into some quality names and maybe get spread around the market into some healthcare biotech that we're seeing and it and widens the breath overall. uh at that the indust indices probably are doing fine, but the high-f flyers probably get hit. Um that's my gut. And that said, this really has to get over 48 to be we should probably look at cipher um 4950 or if if it it bounces it it could bounce to 48 and change. But even if it does this, that's not really going to that could be a short from a trading perspective because you would need to see that. I couldn't really go long unless this was a day trade or a quickie. Yeah, this one is at risk. It's also come down a bit a bit too much for me to think about shorting here too. What did you say?
>> I was going to move to the next sock. Uh, hymns.
>> Oh, hims. [sighs and gasps] Uh, I think I had my lines literally drawn wrong last time and I like um try and redo it one more time. So, So whatever I had before, let's just if I just do these two uh still. So this was kind of that area. That's an extension. Now this has to get back over 37s. It's interesting. 32 is here. It's great, but it's a good spot. It's It could bounce. I think I see a bounce. I see a bounce, but that bounce like really has to carry you up and over 37. To think we have life coming back in. It's It's really far away from these SMAs. But again, now that the chart didn't bounce earlier, this is starting to widen, which has me more concerned than before. So, even if this bounces, I think that's fine. This 20-day SMA is going to come in like that and at that point, so if the 20-day comes in and and then the price can get over it, that I think is going to be fine. But I think it has to happen like that. And so, that could be more breathing time. You're going to have earnings coming at the end of March. So, a lot of stuff can happen between now and then, but that's the first phase of a reversal. And and if and when that comes, what I don't want to see is I don't want to see the stock do that at the same time. Like, I don't want to see the stock rejecting the 20-day SMA when it gets close to it because I think it will get sucked up into it, but I just don't want to see it get rejected off of it and continue to reject it. That's the danger. All right. Next.
>> Okay. the last three. Um, upstart.
>> Yeah, I I'm I'm really not sure what's going on with this. There's like zero interest in Upstart. There's something broken with this. Uh, it's it's at the lows, but I'm I am missing. I don't know what's going on with this chart or this company, but I'm like for sure missing something. Um, do you know what's going on with this? Like
>> I just their loan originations are not at all exciting, especially compared to SoFi. I don't know why people still like it, but
>> I I I So, super near-term. Here's your channel. You lost the So, like this is just getting dude, these are just getting wider and wider. You're below the 200 week SMA, which is rarity. Um, but the channel that you're in is like still trending down. So, I need to see a lot more signs of life from this. Otherwise, that channel can continue down and just bleed bleed bleed. So, I know I got I still got to wait. This one's barely moving. I just think the market has completely forgotten about [clears throat] this stock based on what I'm seeing. And we're here. So, until I see this, so this means that like this can continue down till this gets really tight and then squeeze. Cool. But what does that take you to? It's it's it's not interesting. It takes you to here like that [laughter] like that. So, I mean, no, that's all you got on up start. Yeah, that's literally what I would expect. Okay, next.
>> All right, last two. Amazon. I like So I bought Amazon a little bit more. [gasps] This is actually [clears throat] my my main buy today. So why' I have that? Oh, that's from prior. What the hell is that? That's from prior something. I guess I have that labeled wrong. That we'll just call it something else is a big deal. level. This goes like way across. So the lows today actually here were these relative lows 216 which we kind of talked about last or this Tuesday earlier this week. Um which is which is like we bought you bought the other day too, right? Yeah, you said that. So, I think you and I both bought the other day. And I'm not being super specific. I don't know if you're being super specific either. Like, I just know, hey, look, it's come down. I'm just going to just grab it somewhere. What? I don't even care. Right somewhere in this area. Um, and then if price gets in here, I'll probably buy it that day, too. Uh, and that'll probably be it for now, unless I see something like nasty. So, I think I'm I'm mostly done with this general area of nibbling. [clears throat] Um, and from here, like this is just look, I think this this move was steep. I think Amazon is of all of the Mag 7s, I still like where this spot is. Uh, I like this one the best for a bounce area here. I don't I I don't actually think there was a lot of damage to this chart throughout this entire thing. So, of all of them, including Google and Apple, I actually like this one the best here based on a lot based on it's already made the the trajectory down. I think Google and Apple might actually be a little bit more at risk. They might be just the last generals to fall. This hasn't made that. And I have a pretty clean riskreward from even trading perspective. And I can probably get a little at least mean reversion here, which might even bring me back to the general areas, at least to the top of here, and then I'll have a better decision to make for now. So, I like this one a lot.
>> Okay, last one is Tessy.
>> Tessy, I think you just chill. It is at the spot. It's re It's revisited the spot. I think it needs more time. The problem with Tesla is that that 415 zone, which is like we've talked about this um 415 zone again, the biggest deal level ever is still acting as resistance and that's what we're seeing right now. So Tesla is stuck. That's what's that's what that's what's going on with Tesla. It's completely stuck. Um, which means it's actually going to be trendless right now. It's not lost it, but it's hugging this line. You don't want to see it lose this. So, this is the broader uptrend on Tesla. And if it does lose this, well, well, then the trajectory is down like a larger leg down to the 200, but not not before then. So, it's these local lows like this that are holding. If Tesla loses this, wherever this is, then this is happening. Until then, um it's sloppy, choppy in here until you can get back up and above. And so, that is the story of Tesla right now. trend is intact, but it's not it's it's it's got to reclaim its footing right now. This is the broader trend. And I think if anything, you need to be really patient with Tesla. If you're buying here, it's just okay. It's not great, right? It's it's it's literally just okay. If you if you'd like a better buy, wait for this to break down. That will probably be a better buy. Uh or you wait for it to reclaim its uptrend and you buy it higher. That's just me. That's a trader mentality. It's not an investor mentality. That's what the session's about. Um, [clears throat]
>> I think it's very sloppy, choppy.
>> Yeah, I think a it's because it's got a it's got a it's got a lot of work to do. It's you're going to you're going to think that it's going up and then all of a sudden it's going to go down the next day which actually makes this prime for like selling premium for for a little
>> and probably prime for selling premium around that 415 420 area cuz so if you do do that I would actually say this might be a perfect time for you to do something like that on on Tesla cuz this between 4:15 and 430 area. Actually, that's [clears throat] going to be a trouble zone for for a while on Tesla.
>> I agree. It would be hard to see it break out to that all-time high range if the market's not the fact that it's even holding these levels, I think, is pretty impressive.
>> The breaking above 480, I think, would be a bit tough here.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not bad, right? And trust me, I I made a good chunk of money on on Tesla. But for me, if you know my trade, that that those march offs, those are off the table right now. So, I have to wait for a new setup.
>> All right, [snorts] there we go. What a week, dude.
>> So, I think we have Tuesday. It's been It's been a good week. We're on edge. I think a lot of stuff sets up for a good pop. It's not over till it's over. Uh, and we still want to be on edge, but um I I don't I don't I'm I I like Hood a lot more than a MIT does right here. And I I think that we're good for a bounce, but the question is, is that bounce sustained?
>> If I if I just felt like we bottomed, Hood's an obvious buy. I don't know, right? That's the problem.
>> Nobody knows.
>> Nobody knows. Nobody's going to know. We're You know when we're going to know? When we're all at all time highs.
>> Yeah.
>> I have such I have such a full position on Hood. That's why I've been looking at Nebius and some of these other names and seeing like, all right, are these like way more attractive.
>> But again, they're all falling. All of them. I mean, outside of that Nvidia headline we got today, everything was dumping. So,
>> I think now is a lot more rooted in rate cut, inflation, Trump. I mean because we have no more earnings catalyst.
>> We have light volume next week because of Thanksgiving.
>> That's the other thing, right? So over the holidays we get we get really whips sometimes and we're going to find out if you know with low volume sometimes comes extreme volatility because if if prices start just going up, there's not really a lot of sellers around. But at the same time, conversely, if prices just start going down, there's not a whole lot of buyers around. So, we'll get this low volume movement that can seem really violent and um and really big, but it it may and it may it may last a while, but we won't know really what's going on. But in the meantime, what I did see definitively is I saw a lot of people, a lot of buyers, a lot of market participants stepping in today. Uh, and breath definitely widening across the board on some good names, just not the high-f flyers.
>> Agreed.
>> All right, folks. That is it for us. There is Jason's Twitter right there in the chat. Please make sure to follow him. I will see everybody on Monday. I am not going to be having a Sunday future show. to be with family this weekend.
>> How was birthday match?
>> We didn't throw a party or anything, but it was it was
>> Was she surprised? Did she watch the stream?
>> Well, the problem is no, dude. She saw my location when I was driving home.
>> Oh, busted.
>> And then and then I I I I didn't answer a call because I was like whatever. Then I while I'm on the highway, I'm like [ __ ] she has my location. So yeah, she ended up finding out. But I did surprise her with a gift that she didn't know I was going to give her. So,
>> oh, that's cool.
>> But, all right, that's it. Again, I'll be back on Monday and um Jason and I will be back on Tuesday. I mean, next week is Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, then we have Thanksgiving. So, it's a short week. But
>> I cannot believe Thanksgiving like snuck up so fast, dude.
>> Yeah, it's kind of crazy. December's a week away. Like,
>> it's wild. are you?
>> And it kind of sucks because a lot of the progress people made this year on their equities kind of got torn away in the past three weeks, which is why this is so emotional for a lot of people because you spent a year, you know, building this progress and then but that's the markets, right? That's what they do.
>> Did you ever do a training on how to like caller stocks? I I know that we didn't, but like
>> we need our 301. We need Dude, over Thanksgiving break, we need to freaking do 301. So many people have been asking for it.
>> Um, so
>> spreads, butterflies, like
>> I will just say the setup is for a violent move if it happens. So I don't think you need to do it with a lot of time. I think 14 between 14 and 45 days less than 45 days at least 14 days somewhere in the 21day to expiration. I don't want to pay for it. Um, which means that I would like to sell something at or maybe even in the money if I'm really worried about it. Covered calls are not going to protect you at all
>> if things happen.
>> That's for that's for premium generation. That is not going to protect any downside. Like like maybe a little bit, but [laughter] your portfolio is not going to notice your covered calls. Trust me. Well, if you haven't figured that out. Um, [clears throat] if you if you really want to use covered calls as protection, they have to actually be sold in the money. Um,
>> yeah.
>> And so, think 75 delta plus, if you know what I'm talking about.
>> But anyways, if you if you do it in a way where, you know, I can collect premium by selling calls and then instead of just pocketing that premium, I take that premium and I pay for a protective put and I and I don't pay anything out of pocket. That's a costless caller. It doesn't cost me anything. It usually hedges about about 50% of my equity on paper, but because of the setup, because it's possibly a quick and and possibly a quick move, volatility will amplify that that paper 50% hedge, and it's probably going to end up being better than 50%. So, um, that's what that looks like. A hedge is insurance. Uh, which means that hopefully it goes to zero, which also means that that's why I don't really want to pay for insurance. So, I'd like to get it for cheap.
>> I just take the premium and use it for insurance instead. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. That Jason's Twitter. I'll see you guys back on Monday and we'll keep going from there.
>> Adios. See you then.
>> Thank you everybody. Have a great weekend. See you Monday.