Philosophy is so refreshing, it makes you so happy
Each episode introduces you to a philosophical thinker
In the past few episodes, we have introduced the three philosophers of ancient Greece.
Now we are finally entering modern philosophy
Introducing Descartes, the founder of the European rational Enlightenment.
Descartes was born in 1596 in the small French village of La Haye
It is now called Descartes Village
His family is a landed aristocrat
Received aristocratic education since childhood
Because there was no philosophy department at that time
If you want to receive knowledge and education, you must enter the Catholic Church
Descartes entered the Jesuits to study mathematics and physics
It was also here that I came into contact with the skepticism of medieval philosophy.
Makes people doubt their own rational abilities
Not enough to understand the truth of the world
In the end, you will be humble enough to believe in God
Later, Descartes would turn this skepticism around and question God.
At the age of 22, the Thirty Years War broke out in Europe
Descartes actually joined the Dutch army, possibly to move to the Netherlands
Because the French Catholic Church was so powerful at that time
little freedom of speech
The Netherlands was the country with the freest speech in Europe at the time
So Descartes later moved to Amsterdam
Lived there for over 20 years
While in the Netherlands, I wrote a book "Methodology" in French.
Intellectuals at that time all wrote in Latin
Descartes deliberately wrote in French
It is because he believes that philosophical methods and rational thinking
It is regardless of class or gender.
Everyone has the ability to do it
At a time when women had no way to receive education,
Descartes had already popularized philosophy
It can be said to be very advanced.
This "Methodology" later became the prototype of "Meditations"
Descartes published Meditations at the age of 45
The original text is called "Meditations on First Philosophy", with a total of 6 meditations
First philosophy means metaphysics
Metaphysics is thinking about the existence of God, soul, and world
Why talk about soul and God
It is possible that Descartes wanted to attract Jesuits to read his book
Because the church at that time was an institution that monopolized the authority of knowledge.
To change the perspective of human knowledge
You have to talk to the intellectuals of the time
So today’s video
Let us introduce this classic work "Meditations"
First in the first meditation
Descartes said:
Everyone should give themselves at least one chance in life
Doubt all the knowledge learned from childhood to university
After dismantling all past knowledge
Let’s rebuild the foundation of knowledge
Descartes called this the "method of universal doubt"
As long as there is a little bit of doubt, it means it is not trustworthy.
It cannot be regarded as the basis of truth and must be eliminated.
Now Descartes asks you to recall:
Have you ever experienced being deceived by your senses?
Discovered that what we see with our senses is actually false
In 1629, a sun dog occurred in Rome.
Three suns appear in the sky
Apparently an optical illusion
Descartes became fascinated with the study of optics ever since
Human vision is found to be unreliable
Then Descartes went even further and doubted
i sit by the fire
It's the same feeling as when I dreamed I was sitting by the fire
Is there an objective standard that can distinguish dreams from reality?
if there is not
How do I know I'm not dreaming now?
Is it possible that our entire life is a dream?
Both Chinese philosophy and Japanese philosophy have discussed this issue
In "Full Start"
The protagonist has implanted a Cartesian suspicion of his own wife.
Make her think reality is just a dream
In the end, she chose to commit suicide
Here we must pay attention
Descartes' skepticism is a tool
It is to enable people to access certain knowledge
Rather than being used to guide life actions
Descartes did not say that all sensory perceptions are false.
life may be a dream
So if you jump off a building, you can wake up.
This is not Descartes' position
Doubt is just a tool to help you seek knowledge
So how did Descartes respond to this dream problem?
He used a painting metaphor
The image in my dream
They must all be copies of elements that have been experienced before.
It's impossible to create something out of nothing
Even if you dream of a snake with a human face
This is also a combination of real people and snakes
No matter how strange the images in the dream are,
Still based on reality
So even if our life is actually a dream
It doesn’t mean that there are no elements of reality in dreams.
We can still find certain things in our dreams
What does it look like?
Knowledge like mathematics still holds true in dreams
If you dream that you are taking a math test
The mathematics in the dream will still be 1+1 =2
A square doesn't have 5 sides either
If you solve a math problem in your dream
Still solved a math problem
So there are actually many great mathematicians and physicists
Can't think of an answer in life
Later, I found the answer in my dreams.
Like quantum physicist Wolfgang Pauli
I just saw the number 137 in my dream
This number turns out to be the fine structure constant of the atom.
Later, Pauli went to find Jung to interpret his dreams.
became a famous case in the history of psychoanalysis
This means that mathematical knowledge is still true even in dreams
This allowed Descartes to find a deterministic basis
So is mathematics the most certain truth?
No, Descartes had to doubt even more thoroughly.
Even mathematics is doubtful
Because even the most unshakable mathematical knowledge may be false
But I can prove that there are things in philosophy that are beyond doubt
Doesn't that mean that philosophy is more reliable and fundamental than mathematics?
Now Descartes says
Is it possible that there is a god lying to me?
Make me think that mathematical knowledge is the truth?
Or maybe man was flawed when he was created
As a result, no matter what the inference is, it is wrong?
Just like artificial intelligence is not perfect yet
So the answer it gives you will also be wrong
to god
Human beings are artificial intelligence created by God
Not perfect compared to God
In this way, even mathematical knowledge is no longer credible.
Or imagine that there is an evil spirit lying to me
Make me mistakenly believe that the world in front of me exists
But it’s actually just an illusion
Because human sensory experience is all about perception sending signals to the brain
So even if you send a false stimulus signal
The brain will also feel that it is real reality
This isn't real?
What is reality?
How do you define reality?
If you are talking about something you feel, smell, taste, see
That reality is just an electronic signal interpreted by your brain
Man may just be a brain that has been deceived
Maybe not even a body
This is the thought experiment "The Unified Brain" proposed by the philosopher Putnam
The prototype is Descartes’ evil spirit
Why did Descartes raise this problem of evil spirits?
Because in 17th century Europe
Rumors of witches often circulated in the Catholic Church
The most famous case was that of 1634
There are reports of people being possessed by evil spirits at the monastery in the Loudun area
A local priest, Urbain Grandier, was accused of witchcraft
Must be tried in court
But all witch-hunting courts will encounter a problem:
If a witch could cast a spell to deceive a judge
The judge may lose the ability to make rational judgments
The result of the trial is simply not credible.
If even the court responsible for arbitrating right and wrong, truth and falsehood could be deceived
Then there is no ultimate guarantee for human knowledge
The Taiwanese movie "Two Eyes" actually plays out this incident.
After the policeman who handled the case rationally was haunted by an evil spirit
The judgments made by the police began to lose their rationality.
turned into superstition
There is no way to handle the case
As long as the evil spirit problem is not solved
Human knowledge is not guaranteed
Even mathematics that is closest to the truth may be false
So the entire modern Western philosophy is actually an exorcism session.
To get rid of the evil spirit of Descartes
The pursuit of certainty in human knowledge
Ensure that humans will not be deceived
Then Descartes will propose his answer
After doubting that everything is untrustworthy
Descartes is trying to find something that is beyond doubt
Archimedes only needs to find a point outside the earth
You can use levers to lift the earth
Similarly, Descartes believed that as long as he could find something beyond doubt
can be used to construct the entire philosophical system
Human knowledge system is like a tree
Philosophy and metaphysics are the foundation, physics is the backbone
Other disciplines are branches
We have already demonstrated in the previous meditation
Everything I've ever experienced could just be a dream
Maybe the evil spirits want me to believe
Now Descartes further argued:
If I dream that I'm walking
I'm not actually walking
This is just an illusion in my mind
So you can't say I walk therefore I exist
Because you're not walking at all
But if you suspect that you dreamed that you were walking
When you doubt in your dream, you can be sure that your mind exists
Even if what I think is false
It doesn’t matter if it’s all just a dream
I can at least be sure
There is a subject who doubts these contents
You use reason in your dreams
Use reason with you when you're awake
is using the same ability
Just like you solved a math problem in your dream
Still solved a math problem
This reasoning was actually inspired by the philosopher Augustine
Augustine said: You can lie to me as much as you can
But the more you cheat
On the contrary, the more it proves that I exist
Because there must be something out there that you are deceiving
Otherwise who is being deceived?
So Descartes said:
"If I am deceived, there is no doubt that I exist."
Every time I suspect I'm being cheated, I exist
And doubt is a kind of thinking activity
So when I think I exist
This is what "I think, therefore I am" means
It is not a causal logical proposition
but an existential proposition
It means that "I think" automatically implies "being"
In comparison
My actions may not exist
Because I might be dreaming
Not really in action
My body doesn’t necessarily exist either
Because maybe the evil spirit deceived me
Make me think I have this body
This highlights the difference between humans and animals
Your dog may dream about walking
But he won't doubt that what he's walking on is a dream
I won’t doubt that my body is fake
So for Descartes, animals have no cogito
But what does this “I” that I think therefore “I” am refer to?
I'm not referring to your body by this.
Because the body does not necessarily exist
Could that be the brain?
After all, I can't think without a brain.
But this view only became popular after the rise of brain science in the 20th century.
Descartes believed that the brain was a material entity just like the body.
May be deceived by dreams and evil spirits
So I can't be any physical entity
but a spiritual entity that engages in skeptical thinking
Descartes called Cogito
Man is composed of two entities
The physical body is a physical entity
I think is a spiritual entity
Some philosophical books equate Descartes' cogito with "consciousness"
This is actually not correct
Because what we are talking about now as consciousness refers to brain activity.
But what Descartes said about the cogito is that it continues to exist even after your brain stops functioning.
So the cogito is actually closer to what we call the soul
Now we finally have certain knowledge
The real world is suspect
But there is no doubt that I think
This led Descartes to draw a conclusion
The nature of mind is easier to understand than the nature of matter
We know that the nature of the mind is the cogito
What is the nature of matter?
Descartes said, look at a piece of honey
looks yellow
Tastes sweet
It feels hard
But if you heat this piece of honey and melt it
its shape, color, size, taste
Everything has become different
So is the same piece of honey still there?
Of course it exists
It has not evaporated
But my eyes, ears, nose, tongue, and body all feel different things
The sensory knowledge I acquired in the last second
The next second it suddenly stopped working.
So we have to ask what is constant behind this?
Honey can change form
But no matter how it changes
It will take up space and have length, width and height
This is called "extension" in philosophy
Even though the physical world is constantly changing
We can still grasp an unchanging essence
It is the expansion of matter: it has length, width, height, volume, and position.
Descartes believed that this was the difference between humans and animals.
If you show a dog a piece of solid honey
With melted honey
It cannot recognize that the two are actually the same thing
But humans can
Because people don’t know through their senses
Rather, reason tells us
Although honey has changed its form
But it still continues in the same time and space
So it must be the same thing
in other words
When you see a piece of honey deformed
You think you are using emotion
But the practical thing is rationality
Only then can I be sure that this is the same thing.
After the emergence of contemporary virtual reality technology
Descartes’s sensory skepticism often appears in movies
In "Spider-Man: Far From Home"
Mysterio can change his appearance using virtual reality
At this point Spider-Man must rely on non-sensory knowledge
To confirm that the other person is the same person
Happy, is that you?
Happy, is that you?
當然是我
Is it me? Yeah, of course it's me.
Stop and tell me something only you know
Stop! Tell me something only you would know.
Something only I know...
Only I would know...
Do you remember that time we went to Germany?
Remember we went to Germany?
You ordered a paid video in the room
You pay-per-viewed a video in your room?
They didn’t list the title but at checkout
They didn't list titles, but I could tell by the price
As soon as I looked at the price, I knew you had watched porn
it was an adult film at the front desk.
You still don’t know how I found out
And you didn't know how I knew.
Okay, I know it’s you, stop talking
okay fine. it's you. Stop.
Descartes's theory overturned the mainstream Aristotelian philosophy at the time
Aristotle said that the essence of honey is not expansion.
It’s the principle and purpose behind bees producing honey.
This is the key to what makes honey different from nectar
But for Descartes
Human beings cannot determine whether the properties of nectar and honey are just illusions of human senses.
The only thing that is certain is that they all have extension, length, width and height.
This makes Descartes' philosophy the origin of modern geometry
The XYZ axes of geometry we use today were invented by Descartes.
So they are called Cartesian coordinates
This is the first time that humans have used mathematical methods to understand geometry.
In the world of geometry, knowing an object means calculating its extension
It doesn’t matter what the color, temperature, or taste of the object is.
Because they can change
So later the 20th century philosopher Husserl said
Cartesian philosophy is the mathematization of nature
On the one hand, it paves the way for the scientific revolution in the West
But it also sowed the seeds of crisis for modern society.
Thinking that mathematical rationality can solve problems in nature
After finding the certain knowledge that only "I think" exists
Descartes now wants to provide us with a reliable criterion for truth
Descartes said: When you see 2+3=5
You won’t ask again why it can’t be equal to 6
Or like the Pythagorean theorem of geometry
I can prove it to you with a few pictures.
No need to say anything more
This is as clear as mathematics
No need to explain
We can no longer doubt it
It is a standard for something to be true
Descartes called it clear or distinct.
On the contrary, liberal arts knowledge often requires a lot of explanations
Because this knowledge is not clear and clear
There are a lot of things to be suspicious of
We said in the first meditation
Maybe I thought the math knowledge was correct
It's because God is lying to me
This problem is more serious than the evil spirit problem
Because this directly questions that God may be an evil spirit deceiving mankind.
Like Taiwan’s previous ghost film “The Curse”
That is, people think they are worshiping "gods" or "buddhas"
Later it was discovered that it was actually an evil spirit
In this way, the certainty of knowledge is shaken
So now Descartes has to go toe-to-toe to answer God's deceptive question
First prove the existence of God
Let’s prove again that God doesn’t lie to people
How to prove it
Descartes first distinguished three concepts of people:
The first is foreign concepts
First encounter it in reality, and then form these concepts in your mind
Because Descartes' opponents at that time were all empiricists.
Believe that ideas must originate from sensory experience
To have the concept of horses, you must first see horses
After seeing many horses, you will gradually form an abstract concept of horses.
So God must not be like this
Because God has no image and cannot be known through the senses
The second idea is a fabricated idea
For example, monsters in fairy tales do not exist in the real world.
Just human fiction
Is it possible that God is just a fictional concept created by humans?
Descartes said
Although God does not exist in the real world, this does not mean that He is fictional
Think about it if you have a favorite food
But it has been discontinued and does not exist in this world
When you desire something that does not exist, your desire is still real
In 1998, McDonald’s promoted the Disney movie Mulan
In 1998, they had this promotion for the Disney film Mulan,
At that time they made a new sauce for Chicken McNuggets called Sichuan Sauce
where they created a new sauce for the mcnuggets called szechuan sauce
很好吃
and it's delicious.
Later they stopped selling them and now they are gone
And then it got rid of it and now it's gone.
I can only taste it in my memory
this is the only place we're gonna be able to try. it is in my memory.
Desire for something that does not exist is not a false delusion
The opposite of
You think you can still eat the food even though it is no longer on sale. This is just an illusion.
Even if no one has ever seen God in real life
It does not mean that people’s concept of God is false.
So Descartes said that the idea of ​​God is neither foreign nor fabricated.
It's an innate concept
Descartes believed that cogito, mathematics, and God were all innate concepts.
Just because you are born doesn’t mean it will automatically appear in your heart.
Mathematics concepts are innate
But only with the guidance of a teacher can people's natural abilities be stimulated.
Likewise, the idea of ​​reason and God is innate
But this does not mean that everyone will use reason or believe in God.
Just say it like Descartes
The Aboriginal people of Canada have innate knowledge of reason and God.
It's just that they don't know
Descartes believed that reason, the ability to know God, did not distinguish between races.
Instead, after the rise of racism in the 18th century
Later philosophers Kant, Hegel, Heidegger
They all believe that only Europeans are rational
So the Chinese audience friends here
No, don’t get me wrong, I’m not targeting you.
I mean everyone here is trash.
So Descartes’ views are actually very ahead of his time.
Later the 20th century linguist Noam Chomsky called himself a Cartesian
the idea that grammatical structures are innate
Because when children are learning language
Can understand sentence structures that have never been heard before
Moreover, when children say something wrong, parents will not correct them, but find it funny.
That child should continue to say wrong things
but in fact no
This means that grammar is the same as mathematics
It is all knowledge that is innate in the human mind.
Now we know for sure that God is not a fantasy
It's an innate concept
So how can we prove that having this concept guarantees the existence of God?
Descartes proposed two arguments
First, human perception is limited and imperfect
Because people will have doubts and uncertainties
But God is an infinite concept, all-knowing, all-powerful, all-good
How can finite humans conceive of an infinite God?
Infinite existence should also have an infinite reason
Because there must be a cause if there is an effect
But imperfect humans cannot conceive of a perfect God
The concept of God must not have been thought up by humans themselves
But God implanted it in human hearts
So God must exist
Here comes the second argument
You think you exist because your parents gave birth to you
But Descartes said
In life, every moment is independent
You existed at one moment, and it cannot be inferred that you will continue to exist at the next moment.
Because existence has no inertia
The material world cannot exist on its own
Unless there is some force that continues to ensure the existence of the world
???
This power is God
Even if your parents gave birth to your body
If there were no God maintaining the existence of the material world every moment
The entire universe may cease to exist in the next second.
The reason why we can continue to exist proves that God must exist
So Descartes' universe is a bit like a movie
Halfway through the movie, if the power suddenly goes off
The whole movie just disappeared
There must be an announcer (God) out there supervising
To ensure that the movie can be played completely
Now Descartes came up with a proof of the existence of God
But that doesn’t break the possibility that God is a liar
Descartes said: Since God is perfect and infinite
There's no way he could be a liar
Because deception represents an imperfection, a shortcoming
Only people can be deceived and deceived
If God is not a liar
The problem in the first meditation is solved
etc.
Descartes sounds a lot like a circular argument here
You say God must be a perfect being
Then I ask you how do you know that this God exists?
You also said that because humans are limited
Must be guaranteed by God to exist
Then why does this God not lie to people?
You also said that because God is a perfect being
The whole argument sounds like a bullshit.
So later people criticized
Descartes did not really solve the problem of "God deceives people"
In today's video, we introduce the first three meditations of Descartes' "Meditations"
The first meditation, using universal doubt, denies the reality of the senses
Second Meditation, discovering that the nature of the mind is the cogito
And my thinking guarantees my existence
Third Meditation, proving that God exists and that God is not a liar
These three meditative steps
In fact, it reflects the tradition of "spiritual training" that Descartes received in the Jesuits.
The church’s spiritual exercises first allow believers to close their senses and deny external reality.
Let’s cleanse the impurities in the soul
Finally become one with God
These three steps correspond exactly to
First Meditation on Skepticism
second contemplative inner self
Third Meditation on Affirming God
So Descartes actually philosophized the church tradition.
But these three musings also leave many questions
If the cogito is a spiritual entity, what is its relationship to my body?
If God really exists, why did he create imperfect humans whose senses are deceived?
The proof of God has been criticized as a circular argument. How did Descartes explain it?
When a philosopher's thoughts are contradictory
These contradictions often have deeper meanings
It highlights some of the pressures and limitations that philosophers face when constructing theories
In the next video, we will continue to explore the last three meditations of Descartes.
Answer these questions for everyone