All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. This is the final market close of the week as tomorrow is Thanksgiving. Thank everybody for being here. Uh I see the thousands of comments that I'm one minute late. I'm here. We're live and we are ending out the week today on a green day. We got three green days in a row. Very nice to see. It has been a long time since we've had three green days in a row. S&P 500 right here is up about 1% 1 point or 0.93% 681.32 in the morning. kind of started off in that 670 uh 8679 range, broke through 680 and now it does look like we are going to get that close above 680 which is very nice to see. As a result, you got a lot of things moving upwards. Bitcoin touched 90,000 today for the first time in a couple weeks or for the first time in a week. Uh but nice to see Bitcoin at the point where it was at 80,000 last week. Now it's at 90,000. So that's really cool to see. Ethereum as well broke above 3,000. We are still holding above 3,000. That is what has led to BMR having as good of a day as it's having BMR right they're up 9.5% on the day after being up 5% yesterday up 15% over the past couple days. Amcor is up 4%. You have Meta that's slightly taking a little bit of a breather today. Rocket Labs down about 1%. Weeble's up 9%. Roblox is up 2%. Novo's up 3%. AMD is up 4% and of course Hoodie ended up having just an incredible day. 11.2%. And you know, when the news came out yesterday that Robin Hood was acquiring their own derivatives exchange and creating a clearing house for prediction markets, I thought it was bullish. I thought it was important. I thought it mattered. I did not know the market would say, "We don't care what's going on in crypto. We don't care what's going on in the broader market. We care that Robin is essentially getting rid of the middleman here and doing what they did with stocks, which is vertically integrating. Same thing they did with crypto. And as a result, that announcement that you had yesterday, Vlad tweeted about it a couple of uh well, about an hour ago, also is why Hood is getting the momentum that it's getting today. I mean, it makes sense as well. The reason it's getting a premium uh in terms of like the price action is because if they're able to not do two cents per contract and then give away 50% of that revenue and keep even 25% of that additional cent, that dramatically increases the earnings updates. And if you think the volume of growth is going to be there for prediction markets which from everything we've seen 9 billion contracts in the past year 2.5 billion in October alone and that becomes very very very compelling and that's why Robin Hood is getting some momentum today. So yes markets are open on Friday. I won't be live on Friday. I will be with family but it's going to be a relatively light day. We're going to have a half day. It'll be closing at 1 pm. So the price action for today, I mean maybe there's some different price action we see on Friday to the upside or downside, but this is kind of the big day for the end of the week to see if we can hold on to the green and it seems like we are holding on to the green. Koshi's valuation is 11 billion and today's hood market cap went up 11 billion. You know, I think there was a lot of people today questioning there. I actually found some uh some people that specifically focus on there there are people making entire newsletters off prediction markets like they write about the entire industry that is the prediction market. So, I started subscribing to a couple of these people as I've been getting more into it and a lot of them are questioning if Kali should be worth 11 billion because if you're not vertically integrated and all you have is marketing, which is what Kali has, the actual prediction market itself is a commodity or at least it's becoming commoditized, what do you have? And so, that's why I think the markets are giving a heavier premium to hood and that's why we're seeing a little bit more momentum. So, some exciting stuff that we saw today, a couple other macro stats to give you guys and then we do have Tom Lee who was on today. So, we'll take a look at him and his thoughts uh after we get into the close. Margin debt continues to go higher. October margin debt 57.2 billion at a record 1.2 trillion. Now, November was a deleveraging event in the market in the context of crypto and equities. And you would imagine a lot of people probably brought down their margin exposure either because they had to or because they wanted to prevent margin calls. So, we'll see what happens in the November numbers. But October showed that margin debt was continually going up and to the right. Maybe that's also the reason why November was a little bit choppy. Um, but over the last six months, margin debt has surged about 39%, the biggest jump since the year 2000. So, people are still taking out tons and tons of capital to be able to buy stocks. And that also makes a lot of sense in the context of what we're seeing for some of these equities that are getting some more momentum. Now, again, the S&P 500, one thing to remember about the S&P is that um, it was down 4.4% in November. I think the lowest it got to was down 4.4%. We are up 3 and a.5% from that 4.4%. So you're talking about one of the largest intraday reversals or I should say intrae reversals on the S&P 500 in a pretty long time, especially in the month of November. November tends to be bullish, but obviously this November was uh relatively choppy. And the fact that we are less than 1.5% away from alltime highs is pretty incredible. It's pretty freaking incredible. And again, if we close positive, this will be the largest reversal for this month for the S&P 500, which was down at 1.4.4.4% for the month. So 7,000 end of year is starting to come up as a question. We'll get Tom Lee's thoughts on it in a little bit. [snorts] Uh he still thinks that it is possible. It's just now a little bit more nuanced given everything that we dealt with over the past couple of weeks as well. Here's some more data from Goldman Sachs. I showed this a little bit in the morning, or at least I mentioned it, but here's the chart to kind of uh solidify this. Hedge funds recorded their largest two-day net purchase of US equity since May on November 21st and the 24th, which was over the past week. Uh this marked one of the biggest two-day buying periods over the last two years. Single stocks and macro products such as index futures and ETFs reflected 56% of net notional buying. IT sector led overall activity, aka the market went into tech, and the strongest buying was in semiconductors, technology, and hardware and communication equipment. hedge funds seems like they aggressively bought the dip, which is very exciting to kind of see the momentum that has taken place over the past couple of days. The 10-year, by the way, the Treasury. Wow, we're actually under four. That's pretty incredible, dude. Market's green and people are buying bonds. I think that that's the market pretty pretty much saying we think the Fed's going to cut. I did not expect the 10-year to actually dip under four today. That is incredible. So, people are buying bonds causing those yields to come down. Rate cut probabilities highest I've seen them today. In the morning, it was at 82. We are at 84.9. We did get a pretty crappy PMI this morning, which ended up being good news because it means we're likely going to need to expand instead of contract, which would make the argument for a rate cut. And jobs claims this morning came in at 216,000. The market expected 222,000. It's actually the lowest average we've seen for jobs claims in about four months. So, labor market not horrible even though it is weakening. Fed probabilities almost 90% for a rate cut. The 10-year under 4% which is very important for those 30-year mortgages to come down which would help unlock the housing market. And you got equities that are recovering a decent chunk of what they lost. And then you got Bitcoin that hit 90,000. So, I guess the number one question is have we bottomed? And if we have, then maybe some of the prices we've seen, uh, Hood at 100, Nvidia 169, SoFi at 23, maybe those prices are gone for the rest of the year, which would obviously be very productive for people who took advantage and bought the tip. Ethereum right there at 3,22, AMD at 214, Google right there at 320. That's also barely down in the day, down by 1%. Then Bitcoin just under 90,000. Where is SoFi? I think it was at 2850. SoFi 2863. Okay, so that's still up at least 1% on the day. And then Tessy, did we get 420? Wow, 425. Haven't looked at Tesla for the past couple hours. 425. That's a hell of a move on Tesla given that it was at 410 a couple of days ago. Broadcom, oh my goodness, that's pushing 400. Broadcom 397. That's a new alltime high. 399 was the 52 week high, so it's very close. LAR is up a little bit on the day. Nebas also had a great day as well. Let me know if anyone bought the dip on anything today or if you took advantage on I mean there wasn't really a dip but if you kind of just continued to add today or if you trimmed any positions and took some profits right here. Uh Neb's right there up 7.3% 9538 on the day and then you had Coreweave up 5%. Cipher as well 9.3%. All right so all the data center plays getting back a lot of what they lost over the past couple days. Amazon's been relatively flat. I think it peaked at like 232. Amazon is at 230 229. All right. Yeah, Amazon being flat. See a lot of metas. I see a lot of zscalers. Uh emit are covered calls dangerous here. You know, it's a great question. It's it's hard to if I Okay, my best answer to this and I think a lot of people would agree with this is sell very very out of the money uh low delta calls. So, if you think hoods run up too much, I wouldn't sell a 135 call. I would sell like a 150 call. in a short time frame, you know, because so because it would have to really make a move for you to get called away. Uh or if you think this run is extended and Hood's going to top out around here and, you know, come back down to the 115s, then obviously selling like a 132 134 call makes sense. I just momentum is on the side of the bulls again and you got a lot of things that are lining up like that rate cut that could be very effective. So I would be a bit hesitant to sell calls going into the month of December and if you would do it, I think it would be very very low delta OTM calls. I see Celsius, Irene, Hood, Oscar. Oscar got some momentum today as well. Oscar, wow, 8.8% recovering a lot of the drop that it had a couple days ago. The reason Oscar is up is although that ACA subsidy is not fully confirmed, and this actually I missed this news in the pre-market. This explained a little bit better why Oscar was up, Piper Sandler said Oscar can grow market share and profitability even if advanced or enhanced advanced premium tax credits expire at the end of 2025. So basically they're saying even without the ACA subsidies we think they're going to be okay. They upgraded them from 13 to 25 and they upgraded them from neutral to overweight. So that's a really big upgrade from a pretty reputable firm on Oscar without the need for ACA subsidies basically highlighting look we think the stock is really undervalued and so that's why that stock made a move. Uh, I see BMR. I see Meta. I see a lot of metas. I see some Rocket Lab, Zcaler, CleanSpark, Zeta, Cipher. Um, Oracle. Oracle did get back above 200. Where is Oracle? Right here. I think we're at 205. Oracle right here 20530. That's up 4.3%. Fell to 185 yesterday. So, that one making a recovery as well. Rivian, have not looked at this in a second. Rivian right here. Wow. 4.4%. Rivian had a pretty good earnings last week and got a move. So, Rivian right here holding on to that Robin. It looks like we're going to get that 128 close. Maybe we get 12750, but would be very nice to see 12816 on the day. BMR, that's up 9.3%. And then Ethereum 3,27. Misti continues to get hit. Uh, so Misti to me is just going to be a tax loss this year. It was an experiment. Unfortunately, Bitcoin didn't work out, so Micro Strategy didn't work out. Uh, someone asked, "What are you doing with your Misti?" Yeah, it's going to be a tax loss. I mean, it's 500 shares. Wasn't meant to be the like I know a lot of people use it as as an income strategy. For me, it was just like, hey, maybe this thing makes sense from a yield max. And I think again, YieldMax is not necessarily the worst type of fund in the world because the Nvidia ones, the Hood ones, the Palenter ones are doing well. It's just Bitcoin absolutely the bet and as a result, so did Micro Strategy. So Misti did not work out. Now, if you're kneede in Misti and you're legit using it as income, I don't know if you take the tax loss here because if you believe in Bitcoin and Bitcoin comes back, Micro Strategy comes back, then Misti should come back. The problem is Misti is going to have a lot of nav erosion until that happens. And Bitcoin might not come back for a long time. Now, we're going to listen to Tom Lee in a second, and Tom Lee was a bit more excited about Bitcoin, so maybe Bitcoin comes back quicker than normal, but yeah, I think it's just going to end up being a tax loss and a harvest this year. Door Dash right here 196. Uber at 85.81. Cava 4972 that's up 2.4%. We talked about a lot of the uh retailer stocks this morning. Look at Chipotle getting another 1.63% on the day. Zeta right there that's up.94%. Nvidia still holding 180s. Would be very nice to see it close above 180. Verizon was up on the day. Even PayPal's up 1% on the day which is great to see. Small caps having a great day up 1%. Dolingo best day I think in a couple months. That's up 7% on the day as well. Lyft is up 2.75. even got grabb up 2% on the day and then Dell which had a great earnings up 6% just overall pretty pretty strong day and very exciting to see a lot of these stocks continue their momentum. So it looks like we are going to close green for the third day in a row. It has been a tough couple of weeks. We've all dealt with the pain of seeing a lot of these names get hit pretty hard. But the fact that Nvidia is barely up on the day and the S&P 500 is really trying to get back into that 680 level to me just means we're broadening out. There are other sectors that are getting that capital. That means not all the pressure is on Nvidia. Not all that pressure is on tech. You're seeing a bit more of a broadening rotation. We don't have to have to go back to the moon anytime soon. But the fact that we're stabilizing at these levels without the world's largest company participating realistically in that upside even after those earnings, I think is very productive. And Nvidia, if it were to get back to its earnings price at 197, would also be really good for the S&P. All right, there we go. Wednesday, November 26, 4 p.m. Thank you everybody for being here. Last market close of the week. The stock market is now closed. [music and bell] [music] All right, we are done. We are done for the week. What a week it has been. I mean, we still have Friday left, but nonetheless, this was the end to the majority of the trading that is going to be happening this week. And we ended green. S&P 500 67967 on the close was up 67%. Oscar got 816 on the close. Tesla got did we get 425? Tesla got 426.49. Hoodie. Did we get 128? Wow, we got 12820 on hoodie. 11% on the day. Absolutely incredible pounder right there at 16577 on the day. Nvidia got the 180 close 180.26. Microsoft actually up 2% 48550. Apple 277 that was up 21%. App was up 5.4%. Abbercrombi up another 5% on the day. New bank all-time highs 3.79%. ESTs was flat on the day. Kohl's was up another 7% after being up 40% yesterday. a lot of those retailers getting some love. You had Cisco that was slightly flat on the day. McDonald's that was up a little bit. Um and then you had Broadcom hit an all-time high at 397, 3.26% right there on Broadcom. Amazon relatively flat 229. I do think Amazon is next after Google. Don't know when it's going to happen, but 300 is inevitable in my opinion for Amazon. Nebas right there up six and a half% as well on the day. we can all enjoy a little bit of our Thanksgiving. Last three days makes Thanksgiving and spending time with your family a bit more enjoyable. So very very grateful for the markets to kind of rebound a decent chunk from what they lost last week. All right, Tom Lee, here's what he has to say and here's what he's thinking about the state of this market.
>> Managing partner and CNBC contributor Tom Lee. Tom, great to see you.
>> Great to see you, Mike. So you had been saying, you know, let's say a few weeks ago that we could get some choppiness in the first part of November, but you were still kind of bullish looking beyond that. What in your view has the market been contending with in recent weeks? What have we learned and how does it set us up for for for the outlook here?
>> Yeah. Um well, I think the market's been struggling with the same things that it's grappled with all year, which is uh a monetary policy direction that's not completely clear. As you know, uh, the odds of a December cut have really jumped around from as high as 60 down to 30, back to 80. [snorts] And the second is, of course, policy volatility because the administration does make proclamations and statements that are sometimes head fakes but confuse investors. And it's all done, it's all resulted in really suppressed enthusiasm for stocks. you know, sentiment has been bearish
>> and then that, you know, led to a five plus% pullback in the S&P 500. A lot of the more aggressive parts of the market, uh, took on a lot more pain than that. Uh, where does it leave us in your mind? I mean, you know, as I mentioned, four days, this market has barely even flinched at pretty much all the hurdles that were along the way, the moving averages. We got above last Thursday's high. Uh we know it's kind of a upside bias the Wednesday before Thanksgiving and the Friday after, but beyond that, where do we go?
>> Uh I I think we're set up for a really strong rally into year end. And I know we just came out of a pretty terrible grind. I've talked to a lot of PMs that have said it's one of their worst six week periods ever uh in their career. So we know people have lost money they've derisked. But we know into year end we have the positive seasonals especially given how strong October the mid October was. You know it's really a five or six chance that we're going to be up 5% into year end right.
>> Um the second is monetary policy I think is going to shift doubbish. Even if Fed chair Powell is hawkish we know it waiting in the wings is now a shadow Fed that's doubbish. Um the third is we know sentiment is going to have to chase this rally because 80% of fund managers are trailing their benchmark. And then I think the fundamental story is pretty intact. You know, as we're doing work into next year and I think earnings visibility is going to be really good. So I don't think I'm questioning if earnings are peaking. It's more just that stocks price in and correct enough.
>> Now you've been I think pointing toward let's say 7,000 in the S&P by year end. Now that's only like two and a half% up from here. We made some progress, but a year ago, you also thought we'd hit 7,000 in the first half of this year. So, what happened along the way? And and I guess what might you think about in terms of impediments looking into 2026?
>> Yes. I mean, we're almost through this year and I'd say looking back, this was a five years of history compressed into one year because we had a major bare market, the biggest tariff hikes ever, and that of course killed any hope of any 7,000 in the first half. But miraculously stocks went into a waterfall decline and recovered every single point of that decline symmetrically. So it really speaks to the resilience. But I guess as we're thinking about next year, I bet you it's going to be very similar in the sense that we'll get a policy shock. Maybe whether it's monetary or from the administration, it could lead to a big draw down of 20% again.
>> Yeah. But it's a replay of this year. And maybe that's we've now had three 20% bare markets in five years. I mean, that's a lot of history compressed into a 5-year period.
>> Now, we you mentioned uh obviously the confusion over the path for the Fed as contributing to this recent pullback as well as some policy flux in there. Uh what role did the violent shakeout in crypto have on all that? Because a week ago, that's all we were talking about was Bitcoin can't stop going down. the NASDAQ wants to follow it or people are concerned about how that's going to knock other things loose uh in other financial assets. So it's stabilized but it's not exactly sort of participating to the upside in this bounce.
>> Yes. Um so crypto had been a leading indicator for for actually most of the last five years but on October 10th crypto had what I would call Armageddon. You know a flash event but it led to a liquidation that was never seen in the 15 years history of Bitcoin. you know, about a third of the market makers went out of business that day. Uh almost 2 million accounts went to zero. Yeah.
>> And it was because of a a pricing error, what I would call a glitch, you know, it and it led to that level.
>> You definitely made that case that it definitely seems as if there was something in the uh the kind of market maker functioning that that that got fouled. Now that being said, the reason you can have all those accounts autoliquidated is because there were that many accounts with that much leverage that got bit Bitcoin up to where it was above 120.
>> Yes.
>> Right. I mean, so it's not as if it happened in a vacuum.
>> Yeah. So if in a way it means crypto represents really a very precise measurement of of risk appetite because there's so much more leverage and that got wiped out, right? that last time it happened in 2022 it took eight weeks before people sort of know you know touch their toes back in I think that's where we are we're near a bottom but now I don't think crypto leads crypto is lagging because it's really the AI that's going to be leading
>> okay so it's no so basically that is kind of sidelined the idea of what Bitcoin 150 150,000 you were thinking before
>> uh well I think it's still very likely that Bitcoin is going to be above a 100,000 for year end and maybe even above one to a new high. So, Bitcoin makes its moves in 10 days in every year. I think some of those best days are still going to happen four year end.
>> We're watching it right now at 895.
>> That would be Bitcoin at above 126 by end of year, which would be pretty exciting if uh if that's how this story ends up playing out. So, the question is just going to be do we actually get that type of risk on momentum and maybe the rate cut is going to be the catalyst to get there. Here's the last of what Tom had to say and then we'll keep going from there.
>> The full uh leadership of the first half of this year where the open AI orbit and everything else can participate.
>> Yeah. Um well, I know stocks have been sort of trading uh pole position. Yeah. Nvidia and Alphabet,
>> but to me the biggest story arc remains that AI is a mega trend. there's a lot of resources and spending and it's a big contributor to growth and we know there's a shortage of both power and silicon. Um so I do think it kind of it's going to ultimately move over the next 12 months kind of as one cohort. Uh I don't think valuation sensitivity is as important as people think. We're actually studying this now. We're going to be publishing it soon. But if you look back 10 years ago, the most expensive stocks at the end of 2015 continue to be the best stocks over the next 5 years.
>> Right. Yeah. I mean, it's interesting because I don't even know if it's really a valuation story in terms of what's taken a step back. It's a matter of, you know, kind of who's got the current lead,
>> who's Yeah. whose model clear path or something like that. Yeah. Um Cameron in ter
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I I think that argument that he's saying about the valuation is isn't as irrelevant because 2015 the most overvalued stocks like an Amazon have turned out to be the best performing stocks. I think that's also just kind of obvious to an extent, right? Right? Like if you have hype beta stocks that are overvalued, 10 years later, they probably either won't be around or definitely won't reach those valuations. But if there are companies that are growing earnings and they're quote unquote overvalued or trade at expensive multiples, I mean, they either a grow into those multiples or b the street continues to give them that premium because there's just not there's a handful of companies that are worth getting that much capital and there's a lot of people that want to invest. So, I think that could be the case over the coming years for some of the AI stocks that do seem expensive and obviously a lot of them were more expensive a month ago and we've since had a draw down and that gives them time to continue uh growing into their valuation. So, look, I think what Tom Lee is saying right there is kind of keeping that bull story intact. Obviously, the rate cut scenario would be kind of what really helps this move on into the end of year. his Bitcoin target has moved down from that 200,000 range to at least above 120. And then going into January, we're going to see how the market ultimately acts as we enter 2026. But that was pretty much what Mr. Tom Lee had to say. And that's what we've we've got going on. Ram, thanks for the super chat. Glad I found your channel. You met my sister at her apartment gym. She doesn't want to come over to see your hack collection. if you can stop texting her.
>> This is why I am this is why I'm thankful for you guys. This is this is these are the com these are the super chat. The fact that someone paid $4.99 to put that out there publicly. This is why you guys are the best chat on YouTube. This is why. Even though Chat GBT roasted you guys this morning. If you haven't seen the market open, go to the chapter where it says Chat GBT roasts the chat. Just go to it. Just got you you'll see how super intelligence hundreds of billions of dollars of GPUs thinks about how how you guys treat me sometimes. Okay, couple of their headlines and then we're going to end it out for today. First of all, I want to show you guys something. Uh if I showed you this picture that is on the screen, everyone would say this is AI. Kind of obvious, good-look picture, but you would say it's AI. If I showed you this picture, everyone would probably say, "Yep, that's that's AI." If I showed you this picture, a little bit better, more realistic, everyone would probably still say it's AI. Now, if I showed you this picture, it is not that easy to say this is AI, folks. This is Nano Banana Pro. Nano Banana Pro apparently took two or this is a sideby-side between Nano Banana and Nano Banana Pro. Obviously, you can tell the one on the left is Nano Banana. So, that's like a decent picture, but anyone could tell, hey, this is probably AI. The one next to it is if you upgrade. I could not I verified with a bunch of different sources. This is accurate. It's been going viral. And this is what Google is putting out. And this is why Gemini is getting the attention that it's getting. This post itself got 23 million views. People cannot believe that this is actually real, but both these are AI. I mean, when I saw this picture, I thought the guy like sent this picture into Nano Banana [clears throat] and said, "Hey, make me a version of this." And this is what it popped out. But apparently, he prompted girl sitting at a bar. And then on the pro version, you get this. I think the existential impact this is going to have for humanity in regards to what is real, what is fake, what is an influencer in the next five years, if if anyone can just code up an influencer and then prompt them to speak in a certain way. I mean like it really begs a lot of questions, a lot of questions. So bullish Google, dude. So bullish Google. I I don't think we've seen any other model that has been able to create content like that. Now Sora is really good and I've played around with Sora as well. Nano Banana Pro in terms of image generation. I've not seen an image like that from Sora. I've seen some pretty good videos which are obviously very realistic, but my goodness, that one did not feel like it was AI, but that's what you got. And so again, a lot of these new innovations in regards to the R&D that these companies are putting up, it looks like it's going to lead to a lot more excitement. By the way, speaking of Google right here, I found some analysis. Remember when the information apparently said that Meta was going to be using Gemini for ad targeting? Meta later denied the report. This is a quote they put out a couple months ago. We've always built our own industryleading proprietary ad targeting re recommendation systems. Separate from that, we regularly evaluate thirdparty tools for the purpose of benchmarking, which is the case here. [snorts] The company, the media establishment that put out that report a couple months ago was of course the information. So again, we have zero update on TPUs from Google and Meta in regards to a collaboration. This is the reason why Nvidia got hit so hard yesterday. None of the companies have come out and confirmed it. But again, the information does not have the best history of making these stories the most accurate. So we're going to see if that ends up becoming true. But nonetheless, if it's not, then maybe a lot of this pain yesterday around the TPUGPU debate was not as big of a deal. Google right there 320 up 0.08%. 08% after hours. Again, when you see images like that and when you see how fast Nano Banana is growing in regards to how much attention they're getting because now everyone realizes that if you want a amazing lifelike image, you got to go to this new Nano Banana thing. It's hard to imagine that Google does not continue doing well. So, we're going to see if that momentum can continue. We do have another piece of breaking news right here, unfortunately. And this was at the White House. Some of you guys probably heard the story, some of you guys probably didn't, but um it included a shooting of two national guards at the White House. James,
>> Mike, we're monitoring reports now of a shooting incident just a couple of blocks from the White House here in Washington DC. This happened just about 20 minutes ago. And what we know is that according to the Department of Homeland Security, uh two National Guardsmen have been shot. Their condition is unclear at this time. DC police say
>> the Wall Street Journal just confirmed five minutes ago that they have unfortunately passed away. Those two National Guardsmen that were shot,
>> they have a suspect in custody already. Now, this took place uh within a couple of blocks of uh the White House complex itself, but not adjacent to it or at the White House complex. This is uh somewhere around 17th and I 17th and 8th Street. So that's somewhere between uh Farragut Park and Lafayette Park here in Washington DC if you know the area. We're also seeing a report now Mike that DCA Ronald Reagan National Airport uh does have a ground stop due to security. No additional information on that ground stop uh just yet. Uh but we are seeing reports as well uh that a medevac helicopter landed on the Ellipse at the uh south of the White House and then took off bound for a medical facility. So, uh, we don't know the condition, as we say, of the National Guardsman. There are conflicting reports now of
>> the shooter is or the suspect was shot and is in custody. Some of you guys are saying they didn't actually die. From what I'm seeing, Wall Street Journal at 401, so 15 minutes ago. Uh, two members of the National Guard have been shot and killed. Uh, that's at least what the Wall Street Journal is saying. We'll see if they have an update on this article. The suspect is in custody and has also been shot. Retracted. That's weird. Usually you get an update on the Wall Street Journal if they if they update the statement. I don't see an edit here yet. Um I will try to figure out what's happening, but there's so much missing context on like who is the suspect? Why did they start shooting? Were they aiming for someone else? How did this happen? like we really don't have a lot of details on how this ended up happening, but it was just one of those stories that broke literally right before I went live. And so, yeah, hoping for the best for those families. It's obviously very sad this happens before something like Thanksgiving. Uh, but we'll try to get an update on exactly what's happening here and why this ended up taking place. So, those are most of the stories for the days, folks. I think that's pretty much it. Um, the AI stuff I wanted to show you guys on Nano Banana. Looked at some of the margin debt increases. Obviously, markets had their third green day in a row. Auster got the upgrade by Piper Sandler. And then you had Tom Lee's thoughts on what's going on in the world of crypto. Some of you guys are saying they did die. Let me see if I can get another article that explains it. This is saying critical condition. No, AP they've died. Fox News as well saying they've passed away. Either all these sources have it wrong or they actually have passed away here. Yeah. BBC News, New York Times also saying it. It's weird, dude. Yeah. It it's very confusing like why and how this even took place, but that is something that happened earlier today. How did they die? It seems like from from getting shot. It seems like they were in critical custody and then the bullet wounds were just too much and that's how they ended up getting killed. But I'll see if I can get an update on this story. Hopefully when we come back next week, we'll have a lot more details on why this happened or how it happened, who they were actually aiming for. But that is something that did happen today. Pounder right here 165 after hours, Nvidia 180, Robin Hood 128, Amazon at 229, and then Google here at 320. Yeah, the why and how is confusion. It's like really really confus and no one has any updates on it. There's no coverage other than this has indeed happened. Uh, Trump. Oh, Trump has a tweet on this. Hold on. Trump. Okay. The animal that shot the two National Guardsmen with both being critically wounded and multiple sources now reporting uh dead uh and now in two separate hospitals is also severely wounded, but regardless, we'll pay a very steep price. God bless our great National Guard and all of our military and law enforcement. These are truly great people. I as president of the United States and everyone else associated with the office of the presidency and with you. So, no context on exactly how and why this happened. All right. Um, I think that is pretty much it on the day. Um, yeah, nothing else in terms of major major headlines that took place today. I think the fact that we ended green was very bullish. The fact that, let's pull up the heat map. fact that we ended green into the the fact that we ended green into the uh broadening of the market aka Nvidia didn't really participate which you know as much as I love Nvidia I do want the rest of the market to continue helping uh to continue help the the overall broadening formation of the S&P 500 like that's bullish and so you had Salesforce that was down in it that was down service now that was down invid was up 1.3% Google was flat meta was flat but everything else got a which was very nice to see. That's pretty much what we have for the day. Do you think we sell off a bit on the short Friday? you know, if we do get a sell-off on Friday, a lot of it is probably less uh like less reasonable to assume if it's that big of a deal because it's it's such low volume and it's also it's it's like a Friday before we start December. So, I mean, I I I wouldn't overreact to any massive move up, any massive move down. You're just going to probably have people that are trading in and out of stocks on Friday. So, I don't think we're going to really see a trend, but yeah, the the the momentum over the past couple of days at least has been relatively green. There will definitely be some algos that uh have some fun on on Friday. No, the sister thing is not true. Ram is just a funny guy. It's a good comment. I'm not going to lie. She doesn't want to see your hat collection. It's actually a funny comment. All right, I think that's it for me. I guess uh last question I'll have for everybody for the week. This will be the last stream for the week. I asked this last night on Steve's stream, but I think it's important to ask before Thanksgiving, what are you thankful for? What are you thankful for? You put in the chat, what are you thankful for? Mits hats. [laughter] Oh my gosh. I obviously I said this yesterday, but uh the you know, health, family, all that stuff goes without saying. Really, one of the things I'm the most thankful about is this community and the audience we built and the ability to navigate everything going on back and forth. I mean, these are tough markets to deal with. It's uh not easy as an individual person. Uh I I greatly benefit from Chris and Steve and Jason and all these people Matt money people I can just call up and ask questions to. So to be able to cultivate that community live every single day hopefully be a source of information and entertainment and you know be part of something bigger than ourselves which at the end of the day is creating more financial independence and the way we do it is the stock market and it's the most dynamic and interesting time to be an investor I think of the history of investing given the technological revolution that we're going through and it's just really cool to be doing this together with everybody. So very very grateful to be here and do this every single day. I'm [laughter] grateful for a misprononunciation [gasps] for all the people saying grateful for you. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Again, there is no me without you. So, it is a two two-way street. And you know, I just deeply appreciate being here every single day. I I try never to take it for granted every single day. And some, you know, some weeks it's tough. Like last week it's, you know, going live every day when it's bleeding red and you have to basically give a reason when you might not have a reason for why things are horrible. I mean, like you got to be able to navigate it. So, but the fact that people even care about your perspective, your opinion, that you're a source of comfort for them to try to give them some guidance and in terms of what's going on, whether we're up or down, that to me is is very, very, very, very, very humbling. And I'm very grateful for that. So, I think that's it. As we end out the year, Dererick just texted me today. Derek is Dude, [laughter] there's like rich and there's like rich rich. Dererick texted me a video of him and Vlad getting on the private jet to New York. I was like, "Bro, you guys are rich rich. You guys are just a different type of rich. Freaking private jet from Miami to New York." But I didn't know he was going to be showing up to dinner, but he'll be there today. So, it'll be fun to catch up with him. And then Steve will be there. My sister just called me. She was like, "Wait a second. So, why am I going to this dinner again?" I was like, "Vlad said to invite, you know, anyone who wanted to come." So, I asked if you wanted to come. And she was like, "Vlad, you mean we're we're having dinner with like Vlad Tenn?" And I was just like, "Bro, like sometimes she says things and I just want to throw my phone." I'm like, "Yes, we're having dinner with Vlad Tenn." Yes, exactly. We're having dinner with the CEO of Robin Hood 100%. That's that's what's happening today. And she was like, "No, but are we?" I'm like, "No, we're not freaking having dinner with that Vlad, but uh we are having dinner with another Vlad." And it's going to be hilarious because like again, she's she's all on this like tax the billionaires like type of thing. And it'll be funny. This will be a funny dinner. I'll be like, "So, here's a billionaire. You wanna you want to tell him how much you want to tax him?" I think it'll be a a fun conversation.
>> Wait, she doesn't watch your channel? No, she never. Dude, she watches a ton of YouTube. She never shows shows up to my channel ever. It was funny because I was on the phone with Triple V a couple weeks ago and I told her like, "Yo, my sister like wants to tax the crap out of you." And then he he told me to send her a video. It was like a four-minute video explaining how taxes work for like third graders. I showed her the video and she's like, "Yeah, it makes sense, but I still want billionaires to be taxed." I was like, "All right, so now you have an opportunity. You're going to be at dinner with two billionaires. It's time to tell them." how much they need to be taxed. It's time to have a conversation. So, Amit's taking his sister to roster. No, I do want I do want her to meet them, though, and it'll be fun. It'll be a good conversation. And then we'll have Steve there, so that'll be good as well. All right, I think that's it. Again, thank you everybody for being here. It's been a fun couple of days, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, as we continue into the green. We got to see if this ends up holding up for December. And if it does, I think it'll be a fun end of year. Um, but the most important thing I think is that we recovered some really key levels. And getting to these key levels was not easy to get back to. The market almost made it seem easy over the past couple days, but realistically, it took this whole narrative flip on the rate cuts took a lot more momentum on the AI trade not seeming like it was a bubble, even though you have, you know, Michael Bur still saying all this stuff. And I think you also just needed the market realizing like things aren't that bad in the economy and the labor market data we got over the past couple days kind of confirmed that. So labor market's weakening. It's not deteriorating which means there's a case for a rate cut. AI trade intact and that's what that's where you get your bull market. All right, there we go. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. Love you all. Deeply deeply appreciate everyone being here every single day. Uh we'll be back on Monday. Hey, I think this is the longest break we've taken in a while. So, no show tomorrow, Friday, Saturday or Sunday. Again, Sunday night going to be with family. But Monday morning, we'll be live. And Monday starts the last month of 2025, which again, I still can't believe that, dude. I still can't believe it. Last month, I really can't believe it. But we're ending out last month of the year and then we enter 2026 and then we're going to have to navigate a ton of different challenges within the new year. But my goodness, just getting through 2025 itself has been kind of crazy. Well, that's it. We ending up the year has been a great year with a lot of different opportunities and obviously if this market can end out green, we are 5% away from having three backto backto back 20% years. So that would also be very important for everyone and the broader markets. All right, thank everybody. Deeply grateful for all of you. I will see you guys on Monday. Enjoy the time with your family. If you don't celebrate Thanksgiving, enjoy the time off. Markets again will be open on Friday. Won't be open for too long. It'll be a half day at 1 p.m. And I think Steve is streaming on Thanksgiving. He told me he would. So he might end up streaming. If he doesn't, then we'll be back on Monday and we'll keep going from there. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Love you all and we'll see you guys on Monday. Bye everybody. Have a good one.