(Consolidated) (Due to the pandemic) (I couldn't go to London) In 2019, I visited a religious temple in London. I sat there with people and sat down on the ground. What I remember the most is not Imaam's prayer. It was after he left. Everyone left. I live in a woman who is crying. A lot of people comfort her. My father had just passed away. At that moment, I seemed to have some kind of comfort. I can understand the emotions and the warm collective memories that religion brings to people. (The Temple of the Holy Spirit) At the same time, I also understand why Hasan said to liberate religion from the self-conceitedism of the Jianghua, to let the core concept of Islam come out and combine with the hearts of modern people. This temple is where Hasan grew up. His father was sent to London by the Shat religion in the 15th department in the 1970s. 建立了这家最早、最有名的萨拉菲清真寺所以哈桑曾经热爱科学,但只能按自灭理解宗教认为进化论是独神,被分裂所固但最终他意识到,自己有选择2008年11月,哈桑在微报发表文章写道穆斯林思想家很早就认可,试者生存是生物学本质的一部分科学和宗教可以调和  I'm against the very narrow rigid interpretation of Salafism and the harshness of trying to enforce it on other people, which a lot of Salafists do. The basic idea about Salafism is that you don't follow men or authorities, imams, even blindly. You have to go back to the source, you have to see the whole picture, and you have to come up with independent judgement. I was shocked by his words. I never heard that Salafi could bring independent thinking. But Hassan said he was going to use the spirit of Salafi's resistance to traditional teachings and teachings. The source of the paper is the text. After reading this article, Hassan's opponent signed a letter of alliance asking him to leave the mosque. Osama Hassan asked for a public debate, but that day the discussion ended with a conflict.  You said it millions of times, man. You're talking about Sattaha. When you woke. After the scene suddenly stopped, someone told Hassan, "I'm going to kill you." What was your reaction? Shock and disgust. How do you say the Prophet's father was a monkey?  In the book of Gulan, the real master uses soil to create Adam the Great. The warrior can only understand the text from the front. He believes that the evolution wheel is the only god and wants to respond with violence. In 2015, the terrorist attacked Hassan in the park. He escaped under the protection of his family. A year later, he saw that face on TV. The cook of the London Bridge attack on June 3, 2016. that's your fact. Terror attack in London. That white van runs off the road on London Bridge. starts ramming pedestrians. At the south end of the bridge three men with long knives get out and start slashing and stabbing people. It's crazy the first thing he shouted at me and I was angry about it was the evolution issue. You believe you come from apes. So it shows the extremist mindset how all of these different things are combined.  millions of young extreme fundamentalists who are actually teaching their children that basic science is wrong. We can't let those kind of people win. So it's completely unacceptable in the state of affairs. After a long time, the evolution of the article in the blog of Osama Hassan has not been followed up or debated. 连骂声都没有对反对者来说他已经被驱逐不再存在但是将近一年之后我看到这个博客项出现了一条留言写着多年来我一直面临着心理冲突和迷惑这是我察觉科学与宗教冲突的结果接受了进化论接受了人类由源起源的事实我感到巨大的欢喜署名是苏海儿署名是苏海儿 Why? Because I was a top student in science all the time. I really enjoyed science. There was just this one thing that I didn't believe in, which even to me then seemed like, "Okay, this is a bit weird. Why am I believing in everything else but not this?" And then I looked at his work. It felt amazing reading that, that look at his stuff. The first thing I did was, is homosexuality real? And I was like, okay, it's not something that you can change. And that's when I accepted myself as gay. Once I accepted evolution, it was like one domino and then all the rest go. Those things don't link to each other. No they do. It comes together as like a package. If you remove a large chunk of this package, change it and put it back. It's not going to fit back. Like, going all the way back to my childhood, that, you know, I don't hate my non-Muslim friends, they seem fine. Why should I hate them in my heart? When I was thinking about carrying terror attacks, oh, actually I'm going to be killing innocent people, why should I be killing them? Once I questioned the Manif story and I changed that, it gave me this opportunity to change everything else, to question everything else that I thought was wrong. What does it mean to you? and it really meant that I could finally I live accepting myself and be free The worst prison is the prison in your mind It's like sitting in a prison cell with the key in your hand In May 2010, Su Hai'er had a relationship She changed her name to "Chi Shi" He told me that this was a ending to the past. He redefined himself. The extremism was built by suppressing feelings and doubts. But the suppressed things can also be awakened. David read the book "The Vicar of the Dead" in prison. It talks about a desperate dead man, how painful and angry. He said that when he read this book, he was stuck in a cold wall.  I said to myself, humanity is not so bad. Really. So, through this book, you can touch another stranger's soul. Yes, I could feel him as my brother, my son and my father. After the accident, David helped a Muslim refugee family. When this girl came to Xiek, she was shocked by the beauty of the girl. Two weeks later, she came to propose. The two people did not speak Chinese. According to tradition, the girl should be given a cup of tea. If she agrees, she will give it to the man first. If she disagrees, she will give it to her mother. The girl put the glass of red tea in front of him. I burnt myself but I drank it in one time as vodka. I couldn't speak. Two minutes. Your fingers are hot. But. How did you feel about the feeling of falling in love? Great. Fine. It's the way of life. I like so much to spend time with women. Didn't you need them to obey you? No. No, no, no. No, because I am stupid so I will give stupid orders. So I need one clever, who says "You are stupid and will not obey you" Ok? Yes! When he smiles, his chest is beating like a child. (Speaking Chinese) You've been your whole life to chase a question. To seek answers. Who am I? Do you get answers? No! Who am I, you know? And I don't want to know. You don't want to know? No, I prefer to have little peace every day. It's better. Why is it better? Because when you know who you are, it's boring after what you do with your life. Benyatou quit the organization after the Meila attack in 2015. The first victim was Mussolini. The media thought it was a very clever move. So Benyatou scolded the victims of the chase until he realized that the murderer and he came from the same ideology. I thought that there was a lie, that it was an extradition here in France, that I could be a victim myself. I really identified with the victims. And the moment I discovered what happened, a bit like everyone else, I was very sad. It was really difficult for me. That's the first time you have this kind of feeling to the victim. Before that, people who died in the jihadist operations, for me, entered into categories. It was not human beings. It's a traitor, it's a hypocrite, it's a miscreant. And there, for the first time, I see the human being. Obviously, what comes after is a crime. I can't explain it. It was something completely new. It's as if at that moment, I was re-humanized. Benyatou went to nursing school with the education he got from prison. When he first made a new path for a strange female patient, he wanted to escape again. But he knew that the time of choice had come. The moment has come You can do something minimal, simply help to eat, help to walk, or change its protection, etc. Little things quite banal, and then you see that you have brought something. What's your feeling when you realize you're able to help those who are in need? It's like everything I believed in before had just collapsed. I wanted to help others. I joined the ideology, I wanted to attack corruption, establish a just order on Earth. In the end, there were only deaths. That's all. And now, just with simple things, you help others. Who are you now? Today I am French, I am proud to be, I am proud to say. Do you think yourself as a traitor of your religion? It's not a lie. It's not a lie. I think I betrayed my religion for a very long time. I spent all this time lying, making myself feel like I wasn't. When I was a jihadist, yes, I betrayed my religion. Not today. It's not a lie today. The prejudice is often a result of self-doubt. But the beginning is to dare to know. In the home of Mawa, I saw a book he had been staring at the stairs from the ceiling. He had been reading for 10 years, the one he used to be called "The book of the Yijiaotu".  strong attachment to any ideas, whether it is religion or politics. 15 years ago you spoke to me, I'm speaking with confidence about Islam. I know what it means. One eternal unequaled and beyond partnership of any kind. That is Allah, your Lord and my Lord. This is right, that is wrong, follow this, don't be sinful. I read for 15 years, I've learned more, read more, heard more. Why you ask me things I don't know. Maybe that's the essence of freedom. Yes, I'm relieved. It's like something gone off. I'm free. These answers gave me a shock. The real transformation is not finding the truth, but no longer seeking ultimate truth. Not finding the answer, but not needing a single answer. Not finding an identity, but having an identity that is always open and constantly updating. Human identity is built on a story. The fear of fear is based on telling a story. And these people who escape can become powerful re-tellers. At the beginning of 2018, the United States and political-Israeli expert Emily established the Center for the Analysis of Islam and Antisemitism. She was in the dialogue with the antisocialists in the school of Jialinghe. With these young people, you don't get to say you are wrong, I am right. Don't give the answers. Only ask questions, but the right one. You get to give to subject the way to think one more time, to use his mind. Hassan gave up his scientific research, and became a professional anti-extremism activist. He and his colleagues published "The Anti-Terrorism" which was a follow-up to ISIS's religious books. In addition to the two-dimensional world of the Middle Ages, he adopted the order of the Thaimid, the pen-pattern of the 14th century, to give the Muslims under the rule of non-Muslims the third choice, the place of many religions. He used the Islamic legal framework to persuade the occupiers that the countries where the Muslim women are in Europe have contracts, and cannot be the battlefield. Democracy is compatible with Islam. The duties of citizenship are actually religious duties. So there's no problem with Muslims being good citizens of Britain, Europe, America, wherever. Mawa was working with the government in the British National Security Plan to fight against violent extremism. He went to the prison and to the school to talk to every kind of extremist. He invited the right-wing members of the British organization to every meeting. He said to me, "Talk, listen, ask, otherwise you can never convince anyone." Some people don't like you, they're not monsters. They can't be monsters. They have been infused with hate, like we have infused people with hate. I met with an accident in the UK, Saffochka. He had EDL tattooed on his arm. This is the name of the biggest British NGO. He was the leader of the Eastern region. In 2012, He took someone to challenge me but the book hasn't really adapted, it's up to the person to adapt on the book. So when Man Wou allowed you to criticise his religion, how did you feel about that? When you're able to challenge somebody and say what you want, it gives you, it empowers you as well because if you're not given that chance to talk about that view or explore it, like how How you gonna change, how you gonna learn, how you gonna move on? In June 2013, Mawa and Ivan organized a march to commemorate the British soldiers killed in the attack. Mawa's little daughter brought a large number of flowers to each person. Soon after, Ivan participated in the last E.D.L. march. He used to walk in the front with his flag raised. calling out the slogan of anti-immigration and anti-Muslim. For this, he could fight against his own children. For this, he could die. But this time, he stayed in the process for his whole life. He just stood there and watched. After that, he quit the organization. I just didn't fit in their bubble anymore. Why? A bubble, a room, it's just somewhere where you're trapped in. And it's not until a bubble pops that you see a bigger picture or things change. changed. Forget that label, it's time to look at people as human beings. I saw another line of writing on the other arm of E1. It was a quote from the British Republican MP who was assassinated by the Right-wing in 2016, George Cox, who said, "Our similarities are far more than different." Not every extremist can change, but they have exposed the possibilities and paths of change. Civilization will not automatically gain in a society, it is the result of education. Hayek said that if we can't defend rationality and humanism, every country may be able to return to its original state.   I have my own people, that is 640,000 citizens of Rotterdam. The limit is the law and the limit is violence. President of Rotterdam told me that the Christian Church has a 200-year time to be in a modernization. And Islam, with its large-scale immigration into modern Europe, just 50 years, needs time and patience. I think that in the long term there will be European Islam. I think that in the long term there will be European Islam. I believe in that. that is a kind of equilibrium between the constitutions in Europe based on humanity, based on freedoms, on protection of minorities and the way the Muslims will grow up in Europe and show the connection between democracy, humanism and Islam. The Islam, we know the word Shura.  My Spanish friend knew that I interviewed a Muslim mayor. He asked me in shock what kind of Muslim he was. I said that this person would never let you think of this question. The other person who gave me this feeling was the first victim of the Mohamed Meyla attack. This Muslim soldier refused to surrender under the gunshot of the murderer. He stood there and died. When I watched her video, she was so close to the people around her. I wouldn't think if she was Muslim. Because that was her inner belief, not her external identity. This is her mother Latifa's education. A month after his son was killed, Latifa went to the street of the murderer, Mohammed Meila, and found out that he was abandoned by his parents. He grew up on the street at the age of four, and entered the orphanage at the age of nine. That's why I forgave Mohammed Mara. He was the one who killed your son. If you chose to forgive him, how could you tell Imad? about his forgiveness. I forgave him if he was, because he had no chance. He didn't find someone to recover him, to frame him, to love him. He found someone to put him in danger, because he was very fragile. That's why I tell parents that education is important. A month later, he established the Youth Association under the name of his son. He believes that France cannot only lock up the dangerous, but must also be like Salafi, into the crowd, searching for the weak youth. I'm here to help my father. Êtes vigilants, protégez-les, cadrez-les, aimez-les vos enfants, donnez de l'amour. Viens, viens, viens. Je te vois très triste. What's the key point of this radicalisation? If we take care of the last section of the child's motherhood, we won't know what chance we'll have of giving the child up to college. It's too late. The best way to prevent the invaders is to let children learn body temperature from childhood. What is this God? Why must God exist? But a lot of people will think it's offensive. Offensive to what? It's not offensive. We want to encourage healthy, robust debate. Whether about foreign policy, Israel, Palestine, anything. Bring anything on the table, talk about it. You should be able to come to a sixth form school, 15, 16 year olds, and talk about, in Islam it says that Muslims should stone adulterers. What do you think? So it's not about what does Islam say, what does scholars say. What you have done is ask the people, what do you think? If you don't even do that, how would they let them know how to connect with their hearts, their conscience and their values? Nowadays a lot of people see this kind of topic as taboos. They don't dare to talk about it. They're not taboos, they never were taboos, they shouldn't be taboos. If I don't control... how you think and what you mustn't discuss, then I can't really keep my followers. It's as simple as that. Su Hai-er believes that the education system should be adjusted with the knowledge. For example, when teaching evolution theory, don't just provide answers, but discuss the relevant questions thoroughly. I really wish that the kind of that information was there, was provided. What if they did? I might have, you know, just closed my ears and not listened. I might have done that. Or I might have listened and then a year later I might have, you know, you know what? Just like a seed. Yeah. I am also the wife of Lubna Lavkiri, the love of my life, who died during the attacks of March 22, 2016 in Brussels. Moulin-Bic's late Moorish, Mohamed Baqiri, lost his wife in a terrible attack. He believes that the educator should leave it to the next generation of philosophy, art, music. Because the way to the soul of the people is to the true Islam. He participated in the election of the city council, for the future of three children. Islam is not Wahhabism. Islam is not Salafism. Islam is spirituality above all. It is a way of believing, a way of seeing, which is thought, rethought and will be thought again in centuries. Like that. It is a work of introspection, and trying to know everything around us. the best way to fight against any form of obscurantism and intolerance. The Socratic, for me, he takes all his senses, it's important. At the end of the interview, Bacchus gave me a book he wrote. In this book, he wrote, "I don't care if I'm Adam's grandson or the result of the evolution theory, I only believe in three things. 1. Life is sacred and not to be violated 2. Individual will always be free 3. Brothershood of human The Bahiris are subway drivers Latifa is the school's teacher President Lutedan is a young boy who was raised in Morocco when he was 15 years old If it weren't for the terror attack, I wouldn't be able to see or hear them But their existence is a demonstration with common sense and rationality. Humanism, to fight against all kinds and human identity is built on a story. Professor Kaipel said, "A good story is a good story." [Music] This is just a trap. I personally am caught in this trap. The best way is to give them one doubt. Once you stop yourself from thinking, you're gone. And who in no case imposes his truth. My confession, I am a Muslim. And my nationality, I am French citizen. When people present a harsh and tolerant version of Islam, they are defaming the Prophet. Let go of anger, hatred and violence. Approach the world, life with love. My true jihad. So, is it heavy burden? I can talk a lot about doing nice things now to save or help and repent and nice talk. As you said, some people died. I didn't. I hope God forgives me. I do want paradise. But do I deserve it? Why? Can you forgive yourself? No, you can't. I don't think you should allow yourself to. If I killed, killed your brother. And you say, "You can forgive me that I've killed your brother, but if I am the murderer, how do I forgive myself for killing your brother?" You are personally accountable to God if you believe in God. If there is no God, you have to live with your own conscience. On August 17, 2021, at 10 a.m., the ceremony of the victims of the massacre began at the Miro Maceque in L'Ambra. There was no official speech, only a black man, a chair and a cello. This song is called "The Song of the Bird". It was once a religious song sung by Jesus. Many years later, the artist of Gataionia painted it as a general comfort to people's hearts. The song of the little bird is only one sentence Peace, peace, peace This song is not a war song Its tune is sad and quiet Because people who have experienced disasters know the difficulty of peace But this shaking piano is unbeatable. Han Wei's father stood in the front of the crowd, where his son had fallen. He was holding his ex-wife's hand, and his daughter was not by their side. When the zither fell, he took a Bai Qiangwei and walked a few steps into the flower bed. I saw him kiss his palm and pat his hands on the ground. It was like a father patting his son's shoulder. If he were still alive, he would be seven years old. de ter um fim insuêlo. I went to the crowd to find her. I wanted to say something, but I couldn't say anything. I just asked, "Is your daughter okay?" He embraced me. Only in the great disaster, I have received such an embrace. Only those who are sad and can't be told can have such a serious weight on the shoulders of strangers. I am a foreigner. It is he who broke my instinct to be lonely and to escape. Many nights, on the road away from home, I raised my head from the table, and saw the bright moon shining on the ground outside the window. I was so happy. I was so happy. I was so happy. I was so happy. I was so happy. I was so happy. When I was immersed in the story of others, and forgot who I was, I knew who I was. In the "Gulan Sutra", I understood the other meaning of strangers. To distinguish people, is to let them know each other. My daughter asked me, "Mom, what is the story you wrote?" I said, "It's called 'The Stranger'." She said, "Why did you write about the Stranger?" I told her the story Latifa told me. When she was still a Moroccan girl, she saw a coffin passing by the street. Her mother held her hand and stopped to watch until the car disappeared. She asked her mother, "We don't know this person. Why did you do that?" Her mother said, Because one day, a stranger will stop for us.