Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
today
Let's continue to talk about Yangming's philosophy of mind and Chinese culture
In the previous video
We said
Yangming's philosophy of mind presents an extremely attractive
Narrative of Personal Independence and Self-Awakening
It does not depend on any specific knowledge or material conditions.
or interpersonal support
Instead, it encourages people to reflect on themselves,
Intuitive Insight and Spiritual Practice
Get rid of troubles
Achieving a stable and happy psychological state
therefore
Various versions of Yangming's philosophy of mind in China
Corporate training, Chinese studies courses, success studies lectures
It is common
However
We also pointed out
Two Contradictions and Strange Things in Yangming's Philosophy of Mind
First of all, this looks
A theory that promotes human subjectivity
Why did it occur in the Ming Dynasty?
Such an unprecedented era of despotism and oppression
Another contradiction is
On the one hand, Yangming's philosophy of mind emphasizes "the unity of all things".
But Wang Yangming himself
He is a very vicious and cruel general.
When he suppressed the uprising
Demonstrated an exceptionally cruel and tough fighting style
Even by ancient Chinese moral standards
It is also relatively low
Wang Yangming also vigorously promoted the law of collective responsibility to restrain the people
And he always
They all maintain the self-perception that “this heart is bright”
As we summarized in the previous video,
Wang Yangming's Thoughts and Behaviors
Not unrelated
Quite the opposite
His thoughts and actions are completely mutually supportive.
This huge contrast
To understand it, we must start from his theory itself
From Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism to Yangming's School of Mind
This ideological path is actually a path of continuous involution,
A road that continues to close itself off
It is also a microcosm of the entire Chinese culture
So this video
Let's first talk about the historical background of the emergence of science
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have any
Topics you want to discuss and consult with me
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
We know
Hegel has a basic evaluation of Chinese history
That is to think
Chinese history and culture are stagnant
No development
This view
Of course there are very reasonable and profound places
However, looking at the details
Chinese culture is obviously not static.
China's political system, ideology,
Religious beliefs
There is a distinct evolution and development trajectory
Let me give you a simple analogy.
Chinese culture is like a huge operating system
When the system starts to break down
Maintainers do not look for fundamental problems with the entire architecture
But keep patching
As a result, the system became increasingly bloated and rigid.
Finally, we need to optimize the system functions.
It's already very difficult
No matter how you change it, you can't reverse the situation.
Another example
The development of Chinese culture
Like an ecosystem on the verge of collapse
When the system encounters a small-scale crisis
The original negative feedback mechanism
Can also adjust and fix problems
The whole system is still in an open state
However, as more and more problems
The system loses the tools and resources to deal with the problem
The result can only be a positive feedback
Constantly reinforcing existing patterns
Finally, the whole system loses its flexibility.
Falling more and more into a state of madness and loss of control
The same is true of the development of Confucianism
We know
Neo-Confucianism is an innovation of Confucian scholars in the Song Dynasty
Therefore, it is also called Neo-Confucianism
This New Confucianism
In fact, it is to give Chinese culture this system
A huge patch
Wang Yangming's philosophy of mind
It can be regarded as a derivative version of this patch
So what was the historical background in which Neo-Confucianism emerged?
We need to understand the source of the crisis in Chinese culture.
That is, it started from the Qin and Han dynasties.
We say that for two thousand years
The Chinese society follows the Qin system
That is, the absolute monarchy system established by the Qin Dynasty
Although this system established the principle that “no matter how big or small,
The principle of "everything is decided by the superior"
However, to truly implement this principle
But faced with huge difficulties
Imperial power needs to integrate various complex political forces
Balancing the interests of all sectors
At the same time, the supremacy of the imperial power must be maintained
This requires a series of
More sophisticated institutional and cultural innovation
From the perspective of political system and ideology
The initial version of the Qin system was still too primitive and crude
He relied mainly on military conquest and harsh laws.
To suppress the six nations
But there is a lack of a mechanism to reconcile the central and local
The lubricant between rulers and the ruled
Qin's Strategy towards the Nobles of the Six Kingdoms
It is migration, dispersal and surveillance
Rather than political and cultural absorption and integration
at the same time
The Qin State unrestrainedly absorbed and mobilized social resources
It also caused the people of the six countries to have strong hatred towards Qin.
This eventually led to a popular uprising led by Chen Sheng and Wu Guang.
The most direct force that destroyed the Qin Dynasty
It was the Chu forces represented by Xiang Yu and Liu Bang
The legitimacy of the Han dynasty
Built on resistance to the tyranny of Qin
However, the Han Dynasty still inherited the Qin system.
The Qin system was not defeated
But win in another way
This is because
Designer of the Han Dynasty system
For example, Xiao He and others were originally officials of the Qin Dynasty.
After Liu Bang entered Guanzhong
Received various archives and documents from the Qin Dynasty
Therefore, the Qin system was quickly restored in the Guanzhong area.
And absorbed a lot of human and material resources
This is Liu Bang, who was defeated repeatedly in battles
But the key reason why Xiang Yu was finally defeated
therefore
Although the Han Dynasty vigorously criticized the Qin Dynasty in its political propaganda
But in terms of specific systems, it is a return to the Qin system.
However, in order to avoid the fate of the Qin Dynasty
The imperial power of the Han Dynasty still needed to be outside the violent machine
Build a
An ideology with greater legitimacy and justification
Finally, Emperor Wu of Han chose Dong Zhongshu
Reforming Confucianism
Mystifying and theologizing Confucianism
At the beginning of the Han Dynasty
In the documents of various princes persuading Liu Bang to become emperor,
No mention of providence
It just emphasizes that Liu Bang's merits and virtues are higher
That is to say
Liu Bang's imperial power came from his achievements in this world
Dong Zhongshu believed that the imperial power of the Han Dynasty was entrusted to others.
Changed to "Ordered by Heaven"
With the illusory divine will and heaven's will
To replace the real existence of human will
This kind of destiny is easy to manipulate
Dong Zhongshu also preached to Liu Che that heaven and man are in harmony
That is to say, the monarch does not exercise benevolent rule.
Will cause disasters to fall from the sky
It is intended to remind the monarch to reflect on himself.
This gave officials and intellectuals
Theoretical Basis for Criticizing the Emperor Using Natural Disasters
Because of this theory
A lot depends on people's arbitrary interpretation
Therefore, it can both deify the imperial power
It is also easy for political opponents to use it to seize power.
The imperial power of the Han Dynasty later became increasingly unstable.
The emperor lacked an institutionalized mechanism for assisting the government
They also need to rely on their maternal relatives in turn.
Eunuchs and nobles maintained rule
But this itself
This led to a huge challenge to the imperial power.
This eventually led to the warlords' melee at the end of the Eastern Han Dynasty.
The Wei, Jin, Southern and Northern Dynasties were a series of turbulent times.
It was also an era when imperial power was relatively retreating.
The "Nine-Rank System" during the Wei and Jin Dynasties
It was originally created by Cao Wei to solve the chaos of the recommendation system at the end of the Han Dynasty.
Trying to establish a standardized mechanism for selecting officials
The system is intended
It is to let all places recommend people with both moral integrity and ability.
Entering the Central Government
But in reality, it was soon monopolized by the aristocratic families.
For example, in the Eastern Jin Dynasty
The Wang and Xie families controlled the central government for generations.
Monopoly of official positions
Formed a de facto decentralization of imperial power
at the same time
Due to years of war and the court's heavy taxation
A large number of civilians fled to the manors of the aristocratic families.
The wealthy and powerful families not only monopolized the power of personnel
It also controls vast land and population resources.
This period
This is rare in Chinese history.
Aristocratic republican power structure
Emperors often rely on compromise
To maintain relations with the nobles
The imperial power was therefore relatively weak
However
This retreat of the Qin system was temporary.
In this old structure
A new force to restore imperial power began to emerge:
Then the Han clan generals' control over military power
for example
Liu Yu in the late Eastern Jin Dynasty
He came from a humble background
But relying on direct control over the "Northern Army"
Defeat Huan Xuan and other traditional families
Cleared the last remnants of the clan
Founded Liu Song
Liu Yu's Seizure of Power
It is the resurrection of the Qin system logic
He does not rely on family background and reputation
It depends on the control of the army.
Liu Yu also started a political situation where the poor people were in charge of important matters.
This is a core principle of the Qin system.
That is
The imperial power established a political alliance with the humble clans
Together we fight against the power monopoly of the aristocratic families
The political fate of the poor has to be tied to the emperor
They had no resources independent of the imperial power.
Background and fame
Must rely on the favor granted by the imperial power
To survive and advance
This is in a dictatorship
It is a very common personnel system.
Afterwards
Throughout the political structure from the Northern and Southern Dynasties to the Sui and Tang Dynasties
Poor families and common people continue to enter the central government
Gradually replaced the aristocratic families
Become the pillar of imperial power
After the "interruption" of the Wei and Jin Dynasties, the Qin system
In the hands of the poor people represented by Liu Yu
Re-patched and reactivated
In the Sui and Tang Dynasties
A series of explicit systems to consolidate and strengthen imperial power
Gradually taking shape
The power to appoint officials in prefectures and counties was returned to the central government.
Establishing the Three Provinces System at the Central Level
The Secretariat drafted edicts according to the emperor's will.
Provincial Audit
The structure was then approved by the emperor and handed over to the Secretariat for execution.
The three ministries of Zhongshu, Menxia and Shangshu were all prime ministers of the government.
They check each other and are responsible to the emperor
Prevent any civil officials from becoming too powerful
Of course, compared to later generations
The three-province system also had a certain restraining function on the emperor
For example
The emperor controlled the central imperial guards
Control the national center
This ensures that the supreme power is controlled by the emperor.
This is clearly reflected in the various coups in the Tang Dynasty.
However, despite the Tang Dynasty's
Measures to strengthen the imperial power
But it still hasn't stopped the political decline
After the An-Shi Rebellion
The imperial court had to rely on local military governors
Organizing an army and suppressing rebellion
As a result, the Jiedushi became too powerful to be removed
This eventually led to a long-term situation of separatist regimes.
Entering the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period
Chinese Society
It has fallen into a complete and comprehensive collapse of rituals and music.
Patricide, fratricide, usurpation of the throne, coups, etc. are extremely frequent
All forces, you kill me, I kill you
Many regimes rose rapidly
It collapsed quickly
The Confucian ethics of ruler, minister, father and son were completely abandoned
Therefore, starting from the middle of the Tang Dynasty
There are already many Confucian scholars
The beginning of the decline of traditional Chinese culture
Feeling deep anxiety
Ouyang Xiu believed
During the Five Dynasties
The order between the ruler and his subjects and between father and son completely collapsed
It's just a mess
In the "History of the Five Dynasties"
He said in a very sad tone:
"The chaos of the Five Dynasties was extreme!
Unruly ruler, unruly minister, unruly father, unruly son
As for brothers and couples
Between Human Relations
Everything is bad, and the principles of heaven are almost destroyed."
Wang Anshi also said:
"When looking at the internal affairs, we must not be without worrying about the country.
"We cannot help but fear the barbarians."
What is even more shocking to the Confucian scholars is
The influence of heterodox culture on China
For example, during the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period
King Qian Liu of Wuyue believed in Buddhism.
In Hangzhou, he built many temples and pagodas.
Including the famous Leifeng Pagoda and Lingyin Temple, etc.
Hangzhou was known as the Buddhist Kingdom at that time.
For example
Li Congke, the emperor of the Later Tang Dynasty, was a devout Taoist
Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period
Many regimes are controlled by military men
They believe in ghosts and gods, advocate violence, and have no regard for discipline.
Confucianism is no longer the dominant ideology
Scholars have no place to stand
This made the Confucian scholars in the Tang and Song dynasties
Feeling a sense of anxiety far beyond previous generations
therefore
They almost instinctively thought
In a more rigorous way
All gaps that are not conducive to the Three Principles and Five Constant Virtues
Fill it up
For this purpose, Shi Jie wrote "On the Spring and Autumn Annals" and "On China".
Respecting the king and expelling the barbarians is the most urgent task of the world today
Shi Jie also wrote "The Four Executions of the Ming Dynasty"
Advocate for comprehensive strengthening of the monarchy
To change the state of neglect of ritual music and criminal justice system
Let me tell you here
The Four Executions are the four types of people who should be killed as mentioned in the Book of Rites.
For example, playing with language, analyzing concepts
People who make it difficult to distinguish between superiors and inferiors
He should be killed.
For example, making obscene sounds, strange clothes, strange skills, and strange instruments
The obscene sounds here do not refer to pornographic sounds.
It refers to music that is sentimental and sensual.
This sentence means that
Wearing inappropriate clothing
A person who attracts the public with novel techniques and objects
Should be killed too
In the Confucian view
The diversification of aesthetics is a precursor to the collapse of rituals and music.
Once the public starts to pursue the strange
Start to be different
It is easy to abandon orthodoxy
Eventually leading to the collapse of social morale
For example, those views are incorrect
But a person who is eloquent and well-informed
Should be killed too
This can be said
This is the statement that best reflects the authoritarianism of Confucianism.
Facing the invasion of foreign culture and religion during the Tang and Song dynasties
Confucian scholars
Almost instinctive
Strengthening such a defense mechanism
By constantly belittling the diet of the barbarians,
Customs and religion
Clarifying the distinction between Chinese and barbarians
To maintain the superiority of Confucian orthodox culture
For example
Ouyang Xiu wrote On Orthodoxy and On the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Emphasis on the unity of monarchy and Confucianism
Repeatedly emphasize the harm of foreigners, Buddhism and Taoism
Writing "On Factions"
Emphasize the importance of guarding against gentlemen and villains
Writing "Biography of Eunuchs"
Talking about the harm of women and eunuchs
Honoring loyalty, filial piety, chastity and righteousness
Zeng Gong, one of the Eight Great Masters of Tang and Song Dynasties
There is a more straightforward statement
He said:
"Those who behave differently will be punished, and those who speak differently will be banned."
That is to say
The reason why a society is stable
It doesn't matter whether the system is fair and reasonable.
It depends on whether the ideology is unified enough.
As long as the thoughts are highly consistent
Even if the system is flawed
The country can also maintain long-term stability
On the contrary, even if it is properly governed
As long as there is "heresy"
There will be chaos in the world
What's even funnier is
Confucian scholars in the Song Dynasty
Even Li Shimin and Wei Zheng
This Confucian model of monarch and minister
Also criticize
For example, think
Wei Zheng once worked for Crown Prince Li Jiancheng
So even later in Li Shimin's
Became a wise minister
Not enough to praise
Song Dynasty Confucianism
Not only do I not appreciate
The limited tolerance and openness of the Tang Dynasty
Instead, I think
It is precisely because of these founding leaders of the Tang Dynasty
I have destroyed the relationship between the ruler and his subjects.
That’s why the Tang Dynasty was in chaos.
Deterioration of discipline
The world can do without a wise minister like Wei Zheng
We must not lose the relationship between the ruler and his subjects.
This line of thinking completely ignores the facts.
They are not starting from the perspective of excessive concentration of power
To reflect on the fate of the dynasty
Instead, they believe that the root of all chaos is
All because of not thoroughly implementing the principle of monarch and minister
and allowing heretical ideas to spread
This kind of historical summary with dogmatic and sacred color
final
Leading to an increasingly extreme and rigid state
This is a cultural regression
We say that after a traumatic event,
Often retreat into a more dependent,
Fear and irrational states
He will reduce his desire to explore and curiosity about the outside world.
Will be more strengthened
Even the traditional values ​​of myth
Refuse to reflect
Hiding back to the most familiar state of the womb
He will also show stronger mental cleanliness
and control
Trying to strengthen the purity of the original system
and purity
To eliminate all uncertainty and ambiguity
This pursuit of purity and rejection of others
This does not mean that the system is strong
It is a sign of fragility
He no longer has the confidence to face an open,
A complex world
No longer trusting oneself to engage in dialogue with others
Only by constructing a self-consistent
But a closed system
To keep yourself from collapsing
One more word here
This kind of cultural regression has occurred frequently in Chinese history.
Whenever Chinese culture encounters external shocks
For example, Buddhism, foreign cultures
Including later Western thought
Often put oneself back to
A more primitive and rigid state
Typical examples are the Boxer Rebellion, the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution.
However, although Ouyang Xiu, Shi Jie and other Song Confucian scholars were very anxious
But what they proposed
After all, they are still some physical measures.
Some specific means to deal with external threats
However, if the Confucian world itself
They began to doubt and waver in their Confucian ethics.
That is the truly terrible crisis of faith.
What makes Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism superior to other Confucian scholars in Song Dynasty
They keenly discovered
In those places such as the separatist regimes
Behind the Crisis of Barbarian Invasion
There is also a deeper spiritual crisis hidden
The scholar-official class itself
A comprehensive shake-up of Confucian ethics and cosmic order
This is the core issue that science aims to solve.
They want to give Confucianism a more comprehensive patch
Next video
Let us introduce
How did Neo-Confucianism respond to this spiritual crisis?
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "History and Society"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!