Okay. See, it's very uplifting. Um, [laughter] who here thinks that the job won't be automated by AI in the next five years? Wow. What do you do? How do I get a job? So, who here thinks that your job will be automated in the last in the next five years? Okay. Okay. So, how about the rest of you? Like you you like don't have a job or something like [laughter] Yeah. So, so I just did this um question yesterday. It was just curious like what people online would think and it seems like a lot of people think that the jobs are going to be automated. So, don't despair. I think I think I was trying to end the talk on a very uplifting note. Uh but I think like recently I I launched something as a side project. It's small. I'm happy about it. Uh it got like some some eyes on it, right? It's like a week. It's like 300,000 views. And um within a day, I got an email from someone saying like, "Hey, I love what you you built." So I use Clico to recreate exactly that and here's a link. And I'm just like I'm flattered, but also like what? like [laughter] so so so and so like made me realize that whatever exists can be replicated. So I think like it's it makes me feel weird because at the same time like I just fluctuate between excitement and despair because on on one hand right I feel like now I can build anything I want but at the same time anyone can build anything I want. So what is the incentive structure for me to do anything right? Like I think I have stopped using a lot of what I call like SAS light like some some products I feel like s a very small problem and charge me like a lot of money like per se for example like I don't know $50 per seat per month for single like and I feel like why should I keep paying for you when I could just recreate exactly that um like with with AI um and of course people can tell me that like okay it's not quite the same there are things that's like harder to build right you can't just get AI to do like a Google like in a day. Of course, it takes longer, but I also noticed that like um AI just get better and better over time. Maybe it cannot create recreate Google in a day, but maybe like over time it can. And I think there about research by um people showing that AI can accomplish tasks like expo exponentially more complex. So what AI can do today is already way way more powerful than what I imagined it could do like just a year ago or like way way more than three years ago. Uh so so maybe it's just a matter of time and people used to tell me that like okay there are like different modes like data is a mode but it turns out that like data is not a mode it's just like expensive like you have seen how easy it is for people to replicate dips or like GBD5 it's just it's not it's not it's not really a mode if somebody can just throw money at it and acquire data and build it then what exactly a mode here like why should I continue building uh so sometime I call it like I call it like the deeply moment of software Uh so the idea is that like a few years ago like everyone was excited about hey you can use AI Jared pictures in any star and somehow the Gibly studio star became the star that people really like and I think was by that point I realized that if you can describe a star AI can generate it and just sending software if you can describe a software then AI can build it for you and the more you build like the more put things out there you remove the need for imagin ation you can say okay now I like that website do that for me uh and and this is quite weird so the question I want you to understand is like so why should I continue building so um I'm curious here like why why do you think that we should continue building if whatever we build can be copied in like very very short amount of time
>> learning process
>> learning process that's great and then what
>> sense of purpose So is this make you feel like he has purpose but if I don't do it somebody else will do it you know like it's somehow not needed anymore.
>> It feels great.
>> It feels great. Okay you stole my punch line. It was supposed to be like the end of the talk. [laughter] Um but I do think that's one thing that's like make me want to build is that I built because I want to s problem right build you create a product and it doesn't exist in a vacuum. The product you build is your son a problem. So that like the more you do that the better you become at problem solving. And one thing I do believe that it will never change that there wouldn't always be problems to solve. I don't think AI will just instantly makes me a happy person or h like I don't think AI will like magically make me stop being annoyed at like customer support agents like I don't think it's going to go away ever. Um so I think there a lot of problems to solve and when I look at the world of like problem I do believe that problems like follows a longtail distributions and just by how AI is trained it's it will be able to do a lot of things that like see a lot right so I think of them as the top of the long long tail problem like something very common issues that a lot of people experience AI wouldn't get really good at it and over time AI would cover more and more edge cases but the edge cases this would never go away. So there are a lot of things I consider longtail problem. Um by the way anyone here into prediction market
>> prediction market like anyone into betting gambling it will never go away.
>> Huh?
>> Other than without. [laughter]
>> Yeah. So so I'm thinking so it was so so it was thinking about so so I I did build a bot to do trading. Everyone has some of my friend was like I'm shocked that your trading phase comes so late in life because I feel like if you're into engineering and math at some point in your 20ies you just have to get into trading. Um so so I got into trading and I realized it's like the the bigger the market like if some higher trading volume the more efficient it is. Like if you get into sport um prediction, it's almost like impossible to compete with like all the sport um uh trading firm or if you get into like I don't know like um um you cannot compete with like hedge funds because anything when when it becomes big enough so people with a lot of money and amazing investors get in. So I found out like the sweet spot it was something that's like that is a market that is big enough to make some profit but not too big that like the sharks are you know ready. So, so I think of it as the same thing as a problem that I want to solve, right? Like if it's a big problem like everyone can see then only this big companies would get into it but where is this like there are a lot of problems it's like smaller then maybe open AI won't be motivated to solve it but maybe I can like a lot of people can and I think like what what what do these problems look like and I think it's like human preference is one thing I don't think that human preference is just an equations that people can just like package nicely and like hey ask people hey which of these two answers people would prefer. It's very very personal, very culturally dependent, geographically dependent, age dependent. So, uh I'm from Vietnam and recently I came to I went back to Vietnam and talk with a bunch of people doing AI there and I noticed something very interesting. So, here when a lot of companies deploy customer support chatbot agent stuff, right? They usually go the text route first. Like you do text and be and and text is easier and then they do voice bots because like voice is like so much more complicated. Like instead of having like text uh in and then text out, you first have like transcribe from like speech to voice and then oh sorry voice to speak oh sorry speech to text and then you input the text the question from users into the LM get back the answers and then synthesize into the voice and then get back to the people. So it's a lot more complicated. So it's natural that people here do tax first. But in Vietnam and also in a lot of other Asian countries, people are on the move all the time. Like people are on the motorbike all the time. So actually really don't like typing. So the voice like a lot of the companies in Vietnams actually deploy voice bots before they do uh do chatbot. And then I talk to them and there a lot of like cultural nuances. Uh so for example like the response time. Uh, so I was like just showing um so so I have a niece and nephew who's like very young and then I have like my godp parents here who like a lot older and then I put them on the call. I feel like it's a disaster when you get like a 60 years old American grandparents who like 10 years old Vietnamese boys and girls and and and my god my godmother right because she want to avoid awkwardness she just kept on talking and when she asked a question didn't answer she just kept on asking a lot of questions try to get conversion going and then after that I told her it's like do you know that there's a research that show that um in the US people expect you to respond instantly so like when you finish sentence people only give like 80 second 80 milliseconds for the other person to respond otherwise you need to continue whereas in Asian culture like our respect like you we actually wait a lot longer more like 200 millisecond or like 300 millisecond to make sure the person finish so if you just keep on throwing to erase awkwardness it will become awkward because the app was like wait I can never get my voice in so the same with being chatbot uh voice bot right because like voice bot you want to like balance our latency and also like humanness of it, right? You need to like wait for the human to rest to like finish. But then you if you wait too long, it would be too slow because now you had to generate all this like process of like parsing and then generating. So like all of that is very hard to solve. You have to understand all these nuances and all the examples that I show are just like um they like very obvious like cultural differences but they are a lot more things that only when we go into like specific use cases and specific demographics we're targeting that we can understand. Another thing I think is very important is the way humans interact with AI. So I I think there's a lot of thing we're still trying to imagine what would be an AIdriven world look like, right? I think people are trying to like retrofit whatever exist to fit what they think is a new workflow. So for example, um like the IDE and the terminal. So who here is using a lot of coding in the terminal? So who here only started using the terminal because of coding? Nobody. I guess you are more engineering. But I think saw someone here. Thank you. Appreciate. [laughter] Uh I I have friends who a lot of them are like PMs or doing more of like a product. They never use terminal before but now because of AI they they actually like beame like wow what is this like I have to do this now and it's terrible because like you cannot copy and paste you cannot like upload a a file into it. It's just like very annoying to use but people use it right because that is what what we have and people was like okay can we have a different terminal like why is there separation between like a terminal and a VS code for example right like why is there's a debate what they do is that use they take an instruction and they produce code like or like or like product like why should there be difference what's a fundamentally difference between a terminal and and and and an IDE so I think like a lot of that is still like ongoing questions um that we need to figure Wow. Another things that I think is so very important is the human to human collaborations because I do think that AI is getting really good at solving like problems for each persons but I do think that like to build things that are meaningful right we need to work together and now the human to human collaboration with a makes actually very complicated so here's an example um so who uses GitHub a lot right so who here like collaborate with your team on GitHub like via PR, right? So who here is still review every single PR lie by lie. [laughter] So so so like so PR or like the way it's like it should go rail the human to human collaboration. So the idea that somebody could review some like your coworker work to make sure that it meets the standard before merging. So I talked to a team recently and and one of the most senior people person on the team told me that he still does that live by line. Now he does not review his AI record code live by line but he reviews his team members AIG record live by line. And the [snorts] reason he said oh it's not just for code quality control but also for education like he's mentoring his team. So he want to give feedback so your team can get better. Uh and then I asked his team member like okay do you read his feedback and they were like no. Um because the reason is that like it's not actionable right like because those junior members are not the people who write the code like if you say okay instead of writing code like this write like this they were like yeah but I'm not writing the code like how do I give that feedback to my AI so you can write code like that. So I think that the whole workflow of like reviewing code is very outdated like I don't think the I think the senior member instead of like giving feedback on the code they should be giving feedback on like how you give instruction to AI to produce better. So I'm just like another example of like how the humanto human collaboration is going to be very different and another things that is I think it's very exciting is to AI interaction with the environment. So right now we interact with AI mostly uh on the computer. So think like we're just giving AI more and more access to different things right first is a leak code on the IDE and then terminal which terminal is already getting a bit more dangerous because recently for example like just two days ago cl just wipe out my my postgress locally and the reason is that it was trying to create a new app and I already have another post running locally and was like wait a second this port is taken let me just remove it so to create this new I was like dude like um yeah so so so it's it's very scary but luckily I have a local backup because I'm not stupid. Uh but but yeah, so it was fine. Uh but I think like that made me think about like a lot of the environments that AI currently operate in are reversible. You can be they can be snapshot, right? Like code if AI mess up, you can revert back to the last comet. Like if the even if you have a database, okay, you can just go back to like the previous backup. But like there are a lot of environments where the like they where the action cannot be reversible by us. So let's say that we have like an agent that we usually fill a form for us, right? Maybe it go to a website, enter a form and click submit. Now as a user we cannot reverse that action because now it belongs to somebody else computer and we cannot do that. Or like if we give AI like more access outside the digital wall like in the real world, right? Let's take an example of like a car, it runs over a pedestrian, you cannot reverse reverse that, right? It's just not working. So I do think that we need to build out the whole guard rails for the reversible actions because that actually where things get really really scary. Um and another thing that could be very interesting is that um I do things like AI to environment interaction is two-way street on the one hand we have also foundation models function labs that are making models better at interacting with the world but who is making the world more agent ready right like for example like a lot of the website I I do things for the book like I I write books and as much I wish that books as a format will be like will survive I do think that people don't read books the same way anymore more right like I mean I don't think people like read books and I wish they did to my book if someone told me that I was like you're lying you probably jump around a little so so I do think that like um the world is changing and we need to come up with format like the websites is easier for agents or like I was reading something else like so a lot of the world nowadays is or like digital world is control rate limit right and a lot of time it makes sense because as humans we don't do things that fast Right. But with AI now AI can just interact with like AI to AI can be really really fast. So also whole concept of rate limit is quite irrelevant to AI like it's can become bottlenecket also the whole concept of search. So recently I spent a lot of time looking into how AI do web search and it bother me. So, so when I sent a search as uh like uh so I did a bunch of benchmark between grock and um Gemini and um claude and open and GPT model to do web search and I asked a query and I saw that for query um some of them do like 900 and a thousand URLs visit and like that is so much burning my credits like crazy um and and then I look at like how many of this URLs are unique and Oh shoot. Yes, [laughter] I think that's five. How's already done? So, so, so and it's like it was like how many of these a thousand URLs are like unique, right? And it turned out it's like only 20 of them. So the AI kept visiting all of these LL's like again and again and to me that's stupid and then I realized what happened because like it first it visited LL it took the citations it took the part that relevant and then it do another query it found the parts that relevant and I feel like it's a very human way of doing web search right because we enter things in the Google and we see all the like citations the quotations part but like why would we limit AI to that if AI only visit a page why just p the entire page out why do you keep on doing that again and again. It's just stupid to me. So I feel like or maybe not stupid, I'm sure the people who build that are smarter than me. I'm just saying that like my mental model is just seem off and I I feel like there I think there must be a more efficient way of doing things that are less humanentric and more AIcentric and I think like I hope that somebody will do that. So I do think that um there are a lot of things you build and the question nowadays is usually less about like how to build because if you can describe the problem and the solution you want usually AI can do it maybe not today but maybe like two or three years from now on they can do a lot of those. The question is like what you build because we talk about like yes if something exists right AI can replicate it but like who's going to build the things that don't exist yet? Who should be like imagining it? like do we want AI to be able to like just create this solution or like imagine a future of how humans should live or like we can also propose this idea like think about we want to build um and going back to like what you said about previously like why should we why should I contributing is I do think this is like because fundamentally I I enjoy building like it just bring me joy and I do things that um I do think that I hope that we can normalize like building things for fun because before I found out that I spend a lot of energy in doing things just like just to get to the part of building. But now it's just so much more fun. It's so much easier. I can do a lot more things. Um and I think it's like if you look at our uh a lot of economic or like industrial progress uh so in early day for example right clothes like we did everything by hands and then we have like all the mass manufacturer clothes which is great because like people can access to clothes cheaply like anyone can have like fast fast fashion but then when people have like higher like disposable income they start looking oh actually I don't want mass-produced stuff I want something that's like custom made for me. Um, I don't think we would have a future where when where like artisan has software. I don't think I'm not sure people would actually be interested like, oh, I like this app more because it's built by hand versus like this app, right? Um, so I'm not sure if we'll get there, but for now, I do actually enjoy building apps as a gift for my friends. So, for their birthday, instead of like buying them something, I'm like I'm going to spend like a weekend build them like an app because first of all, they like tea. I'm going to build them a t tracking app, you know, like it's just like very very simple and it's a lot of fun. So yeah, so I do enjoy building and AI does make my life for now happier except when I'm feeling very very depressed because I'm don't know like why should I continue building but I think like we can figure it out. Um but thank you so much everyone that is that is my talk. Um, [applause]