美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者你知道吗投资英伟达扭一半的价值其实都给到了黄仁勋这个人黄仁勋只长英伟达32年这在硅谷这个换CEO如换灯泡的地方堪称是个神话 So this company has left a deep mark on the yellow heart Investor Fei Xue said that the company management and the company's performance are equally important The two combined to determine the value of the company Buffett said that good management can make a mediocre company great And the bad management layer will destroy a good company However, we retail investors seem to be afraid of management layers For the investors of Inveda Most people only know that the white-clad Pidak led the Huang Renxun of the AI era But how important is it for the company of Inveda? What impact does it have on the company's development and future investment value? I guess a lot of investors don't know 今天这期视频每头就要来跟各位看官来申罢一下黄仁勋这个人我们不会像其他自媒体那样专注在那些曲折的布示上我们会把重点放在黄仁勋身上那些投资者所必须了解的经历和品质上而这才是决定英伟达未来投资价值的关键相信看完本期视频你会发现发生在英伟达身上的很多曲折都有即可循了未来持有这家公司你也能够更加安心 1963年,黄仁勋出生于台湾,10岁的他和哥哥被送往美国,有舅舅照顾。童年时的黄仁勋过得并不如意,初到美国时,他在肯纳基州的一所收治问题学生的基督教寄宿学校中就读。过得并不如意出到美国时他在肯纳基州的一所收治问题学生的基督教寄宿学校中就读 他是校内年龄最小身材最矮的学生又因为和哥哥是校内仅有的两名华人所以他们备受欺负还被分配去打扫厕所不过黄仁勋天资聪颖16岁时便考上了俄勒岗州立大学主修电子工程17岁时他在学校里遇到了Laurie也就是黄仁勋未来的妻子正是Laurie为黄仁勋设计了他标志性的黑皮衣和黑牛仔裤的造型 After graduation, he entered AMD as a chip engineer and completed his degree in electronic engineering at Stanford University. Then he joined the ISA-based share-loan company LSI founded by the legendary Wilfred Krigen, and participated in the work of handling hardware development and sales. 实话讲作为那个年代的一代移民能够走到这个位置已经实属不易了然而黄仁勋似乎并不满足于此1993年初黄仁勋与两位好友当时还是太阳微系统公司的工程师马拉科夫斯基和普林姆在加州盛河赛的一家丹尼斯餐厅里聊起了图形处理技术的未来而正是在这顿饭后黄仁勋决心辞去LSI的高管职位下海创业 王人勋和他的这两位朋友一共凑出了4万美元踏上了他们的创业征程公司起初很长一段时间内都默默无闻他们甚至连个名字都没有三人一直用NV作为文件缩写意味New Venture新公司用NV作为文件缩写,意味New Venture新公司 Later, the reason why the company was called Nvidia was that it took the word "NV" as the beginning and forced it to be used in Latin. It's hard to imagine that the company that is now ranked No. 1 is so sloppy in its name. When it first started, Huang Renxun thought it was very simple. He decided to flat-line the expensive 3D image technology. After two years of hard work, they launched their first product, ENLY ONE, in 1995 Fortunately, the product was so popular that it sold 100,000 grams of it Soon after, the company successfully received the $10,000 fund from Hongshan Capital Huang Renxun was in a state of shock talk about this, but the stock price went down and the stock price fell down. However, not so long later and quickly the stock was sold out and hundreds of companies started their own business, so the price fell rapidly, and the original selling advantages of Inverter immediately became nothing more bad was the standard that Nv One's closed structure could not comply with the standards of Veren at that time, which was eventually completely abandoned by the market. The failure of NV1 revealed the major deviation in the product path of Enveida At this time, Huang Renxun first showed his sharp business mind outside of technology At that time, one of the founders, Primo, as the core designer of NV1 He insisted that the graphics chip should not just be a standard But should be the core of the entire platform Of course, this is a perfectionist technical pursuit But in Huang Yunxun's view, no matter how perfect the technology is, if it is out of market demand, it is just a building in the air. Letting the company survive is the key. So he decided to adjust the technical route, give up the original NV1 closed structure, and bow to the open ecosystem led by Microsoft. And this is undoubtedly a betrayal of technical ideals in the eyes of Primo. So the two founders are completely white. Later, Inveda continued to make strategic changes under Huang Renxun's leadership. They began to reinvent a chip that supports mainstream standards, Riva. But it's not easy to do this, because the cash flow of Inveda was already in the building. But Huang Renxun decided to stick to the same idea at this time. He invested all the cash in the company to develop it. In order to save the expenses, he was the first to owe the supplier, then the water and electricity fees. In the end, even the employees had to pay an unlimited amount of debt. 黄云勋后来回忆说那是我最艰难的日子我们除了空气什么都没有了所幸这场绝望中的豪赌赌对了1997年英伟达发布RIVA128上市仅四个月销量便突破了100万克这成为了公司真正意义上的第一款成功产品它不仅填补了财务的空缺也让英伟达在图形芯片市场上首次站稳了脚跟 From the failure of the first chip, NV1, to the later strategic transformation, our investors have already seen some important features of Huang Renxun. And this has also buried many changes in the future of NVDA. First of all, we can see that Huang Renxun has a sharp business wisdom. After the failure of NV1, he can actively sacrifice the pursuit of technology to lead technology development by commercial standards. As a person born in technology, it's not easy to do this when you get on it. We can also see his firm determination and never give up It is through this firm determination and never give up that Huang Renxun can lead Envy to get out of the mud Finally, the most important thing for our investors We see a kind of great wisdom hidden deep in Huang Renxun's personality that is flexible and communicable under high pressure At the point of life and death, he can choose to put down his ideals and compromise to the market In the crisis of cash flow and gold construction, he can support suppliers and employees to focus on product development Behind these are the characteristics of the flexible transformation in Huang Renxun's bones And this feature is now just a stepping stone After that, it will bring a lot of unexpected effects to Ying Wei-da Speaking of which, the future is promising. It also reminds me of one of my sponsors, FUTU MUMU. FUTU MUMU has been developing a market-oriented strategy for years, and is now a comprehensive app that combines multi-directional investment functions. The strong point of MUMU is that it integrates all the information we need to analyze the basic surface into one app. On the macro level, Mumu allows you to control the latest policy of the Sino-USSR半导体 It also allows you to see the important data of professional non-farmers It also allows you to keep a sharp eye on the market while saving time for you On various levels, such as the English answer we introduced today Through Mumu's industrial chain function You can clearly see the AI industrial chain pattern of English answer You can also find the upper and lower potential stocks that are benefited by this And for the company itself, the financial data we care about the most, market expectations, and the information of the organization's rating can also be seen on the stock pages. You can also view the latest sales records of all internal people, including Huang Renxun, for free. Of course, in the business of the boss, the transaction level, Mumu's transaction fee is also very competitive. The US stock and ETF are zero-use funds, and the contract fee for the 7-sum contract is also zero. This time Mumu also gave fans of our Meitou Jun a special cash benefit. Through the link to the link to the following comments, friends in the United States can enter the US dollar for free and give away the value of $199. More entries can be obtained at most for $1000 because of the stock price The withdrawal fund can also be obtained at most for a high rate of 8.1% Friends in Canada can also be given a $1400 extra fee to enter the US dollar More entries can be obtained at most for a $4600 extra fee There are also various free travel activities such as free cash For more information, please check the comment below Thanks for watching, let's get started After the success of Riva 128, Umeda continued to make efforts In 1999, they launched a brand new GeForce 256 Although the concept of graphics processing has long existed But Huang Renxun still confidently named this product the world's first GPU Huang Renxun even shouted at the press conference GPU will redefine the calculation From that moment, the name "GPU" entered the public eye and marked the beginning of a new era. In this year, the English answer that has been established for less than six years has entered Nasdaq. Huang Yixun used 3.6% of his equity to break through $500 million. He became one of the richest people in the United States under the age of 40. But the richest man is actually the famous "dumb" in the valley He once told the high-ranking official that there may be someone smarter than me, but no one is more hardworking than me He works 14 hours a day, starts work at 6 in the morning, communicates closely with employees and 60 direct subordinates He didn't rest for 7 days a week Behind the struggle is his experience of being bullied at school and being attacked by the police after the age These setbacks instead created his hard-working personality And this kind of hard work also passed to the entire Ying Wei Da Huang Yunxun asked employees to ask themselves with the highest standard Working at Ying Wei Da every day until the early morning, working overtime on the weekend is a home-cooked meal Even the market department has to work full 60 hours a week If you want to feel how hard Ying Wei Da works, you can go to their headquarters parking lot on the weekend Huang Renxun is not only strict in management, but also has a bad temper. He is a famous tempered fireball in the Silicon Valley, and is considered the CEO of the most hateful company among the rich. In 2003, he quit G-Force FX graphics card because of his frequent applause and had a mouth-to-mouth crisis. Huang Renxun was furious and hurried to the meeting immediately, and the public was angry at the entire product team for an hour. At the meeting, he asked the relevant person to stand up, explain the mistake by the bamboo strips, and carry out live review. In an internal meeting, he also said many times that failure must be made public and responsibility must be made clear. In 2011, at a group meeting of thousands of people, he shamelessly pointed out to the public that the person in charge of the phone chip project was a failure. It is known that the pressure is so great to work under the hands of the Chinese people. You can see that Huang Renxun never shows his high demands for himself and others, and even some of his unkindness. It's hard to say that this is a good management method, but this is indeed Huang Renxun's unique style. This high-pressure governance has also made Ying Weida a company that pursues excellence to a certain extent. As we said before, there is a high pressure and flexible change in the human body. But this flexible change is never a Huoxinni. It's just a high pressure and flexible change that's extremely aggressive in terms of strategy. And in terms of execution, it always sticks to the highest standards and can't tolerate any在工作态度上他始终寸步不让甚至还表现的比任何人都要坚决 The happiness of entrepreneurs is always short-lived Every two years, when Huang Renxun's GPO is in full swing A huge crisis is coming This crisis is wide and deep Let Iwata adjust and bend for ten years To finally resolve And the whole process Huang Renxun also played in it Unimaginable but irreplaceable and also plays the role of unimaginable but irreplaceable. We know that traditional chips include both GPU and CPU. CPU is also called a central processor, it is a typical versatile, all-round player, almost anything can be done. And GPU is also called a graphics processor, the name C is mainly dedicated to processing image characters, which is a typical specialty. But the problem came, and after 2000 years, the CPU performance became stronger and stronger, and the strong began to take the job of GPU. At that time, Intel's CPU was directly launched into the integrated graphics card, and without GPU, it could handle most of the image business. At that time, many people thought that the future of GPU would be completely deformed by CPU swallowing, becoming part of the CPU. And this is exactly the beginning of the crisis. Facing the gradual expansion of the CPU's rule of thumb, Huang Renxun and his InviDAR were beaten to the ground. There were two ways to deal with Huang Renxun. One was to continue to go through the GPU, to compete with the CPU on the image circuit to compare the CPUs that were caught up. The other was to use the GPU to get close to the common calculation, so that it would also have the ability to be able to be a player, to compete with them on the Intel circuit. Guess which road will Huang Renxun, who is born in technology, choose? However, what is unexpected is that as the CEO of Huang Renxun, he chose the third road without any choice, a road that all engineers have not expected. Make software. This time, Huang Renxun's business mind played a very important role again. He clearly has no interest in comparing parameters with CPU in hardware performance. Even if the GPU is strong, if no one uses it, it can only be a cold tool. The real key is not in the computing power, but in the user's choice. Huang Xun noticed that ordinary consumers can't tell the difference between CPU and GPU. The real key users are the developers. They are very sensitive to computing power and effect. Only when they are willing to use GPU and can't leave the GPU, can they keep their position for the cause and effect. So, Huang Renxun made this bold decision to soften the GPU. The famous CUDA platform was born in 2006. It wants to create a complete software development platform, so that programmers can easily call a GPU hardware platform without having to know the gray commands and structures. This will make GPUs more useful and more inseparable in the developer community. It can be seen that it seems that Kuda, who seems to be the head of the high-end site, was the one who had to survive under the pressure of Huang Renxun. But this time, the pressure was not enough to show Huang Renxun's different commercial brain again. He did not choose the path of dependence under pressure, but started from a commercial perspective to find a strategic direction of escape. This is the same as when NV1 failed, it gave up the closed route and turned to the Microsoft Open standard. And this time, its goal is the same as before, to live. Don't let GPU be replaced by CPU, first protect your own 1/3 of the screen. This strategic breakthrough has indeed helped the UK to find some new opportunities in the next few years. CUDA has gradually gained market among developers and researchers. And in the exploration of these advanced intellectuals, GPU has shown a lot of new areas in addition to images, such as protein folding simulation, climate model and fluid mechanics. In addition, Huang Renxun also found that the GPU also has the ability to calculate in general with CUDA, and he also found that multiple GPUs have parallel computing functions. These are all unexpected situations when Huang Renxun first started doing CUDA. So he further expanded his investment and put most of the company's resources into the development of CUDA. Now we know that CUDA is the key to the success of the day, but the Chinese people's decision to resign was a crazy decision at that time. In 2006, when CUDA first interviewed, the annual income of Inveda was almost $3.5 billion, which had been maintaining a high-speed increase in the double-digit number. However, after the Quda interview, the situation has completely changed From 2006 to 2015, the company has almost no growth In 2016, the income has reached 500 million US dollars The income and profits have almost stopped But the research and development costs are rising year by year From less than 15% in 2006, it has risen to nearly 30% in 2009 And it has been in the high position for 10 years It sounds like a bold innovation, but it's actually not only huge, slow in sales and high risk. Kuda has become a heavy block in the past ten years, and has been a burden on the company's financial and stock price. We see that the company's stock price has almost not moved in the last ten years. If you are a shareholder of Inveda at this time, you will feel very uncomfortable. This kind of performance naturally also attracted the attention of the various parties Wall Street was the first to stand out and not buy the bill Why would you let a drawing chip do scientific computing? Does this kind of market really exist? The shareholders also started to attack the management level Blame them for strategic mistakes, resource configuration confusion Let the shareholders' interests suffer losses Some even asked Huang Renxun to resign Don't drag the development of Enveda anymore And Huang Renxun still persevered under such pressure And it's ten years of perseverance that's hard to imagine In the ten years of CUDA We saw a Huang Renxun that was so hard to deal with In that time of GPU survival anxiety Huang Renxun was a realist who was completely devoid of reality He didn't take the risk of opening up an uncertain new market But chose to save the market Keep this one-third of his own This is CUDA, but it's for saving lives However, in the process of Kuda's investment, we see that Huang Renxun is an extreme idealist. He no longer pays attention to the short-term market question, and does not care about the pressure of performance. Instead, he puts his eyes on the long-term layout of the common computing, scientific research and computing platforms, and the collaboration system of multiple GPUs. Kuda was no longer a shield in the hand, but a stronghold in the open river. Why did Huang Renxun do these two seemingly contradictory characteristics at the same time? What value did Kuda bring to the English Veda? Let's continue to watch. In 2012, three scholars at the University of Toronto trained the world-famous image recognition model AlexNet with the great CUDA and GPU. This is the first case in history where GPUs have been used to improve the study of deep computing efficiency. This breakthrough opened the door to the modern AI wave. However, AlexNet's horizontal rise caused the academic world to discuss the topic of deep learning, but in the business field, almost no one paid attention. Even if it was the same in the internal business world, AI technology was still very early at the time, and not only was the technology limited, but the demand was also very uncertain. This is more like a closed application in the academic circle without a real business scene. But when Huang Renxun learned about this, he was like a demon. He went to all kinds of AI academic conferences to study the technical prospects of AI. In private, he even strongly promoted the investment of AI at the board of directors many times. Facing the doubts of the team, he used low-quality principles to refute them. Since AI neural networks can solve the problem of completely unstructured computer vision, what other problems can't they solve? 答案似乎是没有在这条逻辑下神经网络以及其背后所涉及的GPU算力就将是未来AI时代的核心驱动力认准这一点后他毅然决然地开启了公司AI方向的转型为了部署这次转型黄云勋亲自带队在公司内部进行AI相关的秘密实验 那時很多員工都不知道黃仁勳在做什麼突然就消失了幾個月後在一個平平無奇的周五晚上全體英偉達員工突然收到了這麼一封來自CEO黃仁勳的郵件郵件中寫道從現在開始我們不再是突行公司而是一家AI計算公司英偉達副總裁格雷格·埃斯特斯後來回憶說到了周一早上英偉達已經徹頭徹尾的變成了一家AI公司了 The final result is probably familiar to everyone. Ten years later, with the release of CHAT GPT, AI has come to its peak. Huang Renxun's AI layout finally got a name. The company that used to make game graphics cards is now the most valuable company in the world. Because it is the first step to transform AI, the speed is fast, and the whole chip industry is very rare. Why can Huang Renxun do this? Now many people look back at Huang Renxun's decision to transform AI Think he either hit a big hit or is a genius In fact, you will find out about Huang Renxun's experience before The reason why he was able to seize the opportunity of AI in 2012 Is inevitable In 2006, when Enverda made the transition to CUDA, Huang Renxun already buried a "dangerous seed" in his heart. Huang Renxun believes that the strategic direction of the game graphics card is not only clear but also has a high risk of being subverted. So they have to take the initiative to seek breakthrough. This is the reason for CUDA's appearance, and CUDA itself cannot solve this problem. During the whole Kuda's research and development process, Huang Ruiquan has always been looking for breakthroughs and observing the future trend. He has found various research directions and possible commercial routes and has been doing countless commercial proposals and thoughts in his head. Finally, when he met AI, he could make the right judgment immediately. Of course, this has its own vision and its own extraordinary power. But more importantly, it always has the attitude of "peaceful thinking" and full preparation. These are the things that make it able to decisively lower the flight in the opportunity. So, because its AI transformation is definitely not a sudden OK, that's it. I have already introduced some of the most important experiences of Huang Renxun. Now we can answer the question at the beginning of the video. What kind of person is Huang Renxun? What features of him created the success of today's "Answer" First of all, Huang Renxun has a unique strategic vision. Whether it is the failure of NV1, the decision to choose the Galaxy market as a technical transition, or the impact of Intel's CPU, he found the way to the innovation of CUDA software to guard the position. It can be said that Huang Renxun is a top CEO with a sharp technical background and sharp business insight. Second, he is a person who will never give up and firmly execute what he has decided. All the decisions mentioned above, including technical path adjustments, large-scale transformation, and the final AI layout, are very difficult decisions. This naturally reflects his strategic vision, but what he needs to be able to execute in the end is courage and execution. Facing pressure and doubt, Huang Renxun has a strong sense of "one step ahead" And a "the enemy is besieging thousands of insects, I will not move" This kind of strong belief and execution in the opposite world Also built a solid defense box by Wei Ying Third, Huang Renxun has almost a partial degree of "working hard" Huang Yixun worked from 6am to dawn every week This kind of hard work is not just a personal label It is also a cultural foundation of English-speaking He worked hard for decades to prove that The real strong enterprise does not rely on luck But on a group of people who can work hard, can handle things, can handle it Did it little by little Finally, I think that Huaren Xun is a very rare and flexible CEO. This may be the key to his distinction from all other CEOs. Huaren Xun has a unique Chinese-Indian quality. It is difficult to give him a single label. He can quickly adjust the strategic direction when in danger, and he can be stubborn until the end when the opportunity arises, not being swayed by doubts from the outside world. He can be in the internal management, and can be very kind, and can also be in the company's sanctions against China and the US, and can be between the two big countries, and can be very kind, and can embrace all new technologies when he is looking for directions in Kuda, and can also resist temptation when he has a clear demand for digital currency and blockchain. You will find that he has some personality characteristics that are contradictory to each other. And all of these are, in my opinion, a kind of flexible change that is determined by the situation. Usually, great CEOs will play their advantage to the extreme. For example, Musk's idealism, Bezos' long-termism, and Huang Renxun is more like a calm and solid corporate operator. He will first look at the situation and then take out the side that he should take out. He won't make a big mistake and he won't miss the opportunity. I think this kind of CEO is the CEO that can make investors feel at ease. From the perspective of an investor, I am willing to invest in Inveda, of course, because of its unique competitive advantages that it has in the AI era. But the most important thing is also the existence of Huang Renxun. Huang Renxun refers to Inveda as not a positive aspect, but a decisive one. Unlike a platform company like Microsoft, Apple and Google, CEO can also operate smoothly when the bad guys are replaced. Enveida is a company that still relies on the evolution of technology As long as this foundation does not change, Enveida is destined to encounter challenges in technology and opportunities in new technologies as before For me, the small shareholder of Enveida, I know that Enveida's development is destined not to go smooth Whether it is the fall of their own product or the threat of other people's technology, whether it is the influence of the macro or the policy of the contract, as long as there is a Chinese community, I will be very assured that the company has the ability to make the right response and can perform well. I also know that there will be more opportunities and potentials for Inveda in the future. such as AI software applications, and as long as Huang Renxun is there, I believe the company can take a step to release more of their potential. It is because of Huang Renxun that I am willing to give time, trust and patience to this company. Well, here, Ying Weida and Huang Renxun are all finished with you. If you like this kind of deep research on management, please give the video a thumbs up. If you like this video, I will continue to do more research for other companies. If you want to know more about the content of YAN VEDA's shares, you are also welcome to come to my METO PRO. METO PRO is a professional trading platform specifically designed for Chinese METO investors. I will not only do a comprehensive basic analysis of YAN VEDA's shares, but also continue to follow up on the basic changes in the shares, so that you can invest in peace of mind. In addition to the investment, you can also share your investment experience and investment opportunities with thousands of members. If you like the video, don't forget to like it, follow it and forward it. Thank you.