I'm MJ Franklin and this is the book review from the New York Times. Today we have two interviews for you. I recently sat down with the bestselling author John Green. He's known for his young adult novels, but now he is out with his first work of fiction for adults. I'm excited to share our wide-ranging conversation about writing fame and the books that made an impression on him when he was young. That's coming up in a bit. First, Dwight Garner is a longtime staff book critic at the New York Times. Recently, he reviewed Marlon James' new novel, The Disappears, and spoiler alert, he loved it. He called it, quote, [music] "A masterpiece, the novel of the decade and possibly of the century thus far." That's high praise from a tried andrue critic. So, today, I wanted to bring Dwight into the studio and peak behind the curtain a little bit. I wanted to chat with him about what this book is, what makes it so good, and more broadly, what's it like to write criticism today.
>> Dwight, thank you for joining us. It's great to see you, MJ. Nice to see you, too. And wow, this review, it is superlative in so many ways. I think it's the most positive review of yours I've seen. New York magazine has this great books newsletter called Book Gossip which pointed out that this review seems to have concretely moved the needle in terms of book sales and cultural impact in ways that few reviews do anymore. So, it's superlative in that way. You say the book is a banger, but so is this review. How are you feeling? Well, thank you MJ. I appreciate that. You know, it's the kind of review that a critic, at least me, only gets to write once in a career. I mean, I've never written a review like that. But then again, I haven't been able to review a book like this, you know, and so you have all these pent up feelings that sort of emerged. I mean, it's a long book and I went back and reread the previous book. So, you know, that's about 1,200 pages right there. So, it took a long time to read and then I sort of paced around the room for a couple of days because I I sort of was scared to write what I felt like writing um for two reasons. one, you're sort of walking out on a wire a little bit. And I was worried I was worried too about sort of adding pressure to Maron James. It's got to be harder to write with that sort of bearing down on you. And I it's probably some literary envy that comes with having things like that said about you. But in the end, I don't write for writers. I write for readers.
>> And um this is just uh this is one of the rare reading experiences of my life. And I just felt like it was time to come out and say it.
>> Yeah. You said you only get to write one of these types of reviews in your career. What do you mean by that?
>> Well, I suppose you could have two or three. I mean, I think Pauline Kale probably did, but I just, you know, I've liked a lot of books. I'm not a hater. I tend to look for things to like in a book cuz, you know, I like to read, but I haven't had a experience like this before reading a novel that I was assigned to review for the New York Times. And on some level, I forget who said it. It may have been Nabacov. In the end, you go by the prickle on the back of the neck. This is one of those books that it starts slowly. You know, a lot of people are going to put this away after 75 pages. I fear their loss. And you know, there are some times in the book where you feel like it's starting to slacken a little bit and then suddenly you can't believe that you're back in this maelstrom again as as a reader. And then this happens again and again and again and it keeps ratcheting up. And it's just one of those experiences that I'm just glad that I was able to read that book. I was glad that I got to read it before the rest of the culture did in some ways and um be able to say what I was able to say.
>> Can you give us a topline? What is the disappearance? What is this book about? And who is this author? Marlon James.
>> Yeah. Well, Marlon James is a Jamaican writer who now lives in America. He's written four or five novels. The best note of which is um brief history of seven killings and which which is you know won the Booker Prize deservedly and it's a very serious novel and it's a it's an excellent novel. I think that The Superior surpasses that book. Put most simply, it's about a handful of young gay men, most of them in Jamaica in the 80s and 90s where homophobia was vibrant in killing. And they meet to put on a play, a sort of under the radar underground production of a Canadian play about men in prison. It involves, you know, rape and it involves sex acts, both desired and undesired. And while they are rehearsing one night, a group of vandals breaks in and basically just kicks the hell out of them. I mean, worse. Eyes are gouged out, teeth are scattered. It's just, you know, a horrible. And Jamaica being Jamaica as it was during this period, the the attackers, the marauders are treated like heroes in the media and by other people. And so Maron James is exploring. He's he's Gen X. This was the period he grew up in. AIDS was just on the horizon or just there just arriving for the first time. And so after this attack, we follow these young men, some of them are a bit older, backwards and forwards in time. Sometimes several decades, sometimes a decade or two back. And many voices speak. I admit in my review that once or twice I got a bit lost in the voices. I wasn't sure who was talking. It doesn't matter. It's almost part of being a serious reader that just happens. It happened to me a little bit. It doesn't matter. James just has this ability to attack his core themes again and again and again from different angles. you just can't believe he has more to say about the things he cares about because you think, "Oh, he's blown through this notion of um terms of attraction and repulsion and sexuality and about music and culture and what these things mean to his characters and you feel like, okay, he's said this thing already about whatever it is about the music out from out of Seattle in this period or walking the streets of an urban city and then he just does it better the next time." Um, I'm curious to know how you came to the book because as one of our critics, you have a lot of autonomy. Rather than typically being assigned a review like most of our reviewers, our freelance reviewers are, you claim Dibs first. Um, what made you gravitate toward this book in the first place?
>> That's a good question. You know, um, you know, his last novel or his LA I mean the Seven Killings was more than 10 years ago now. And um I had really never read him seriously. For whatever reason, other critics had done his books. I realized I really want to know what he's about. And so I took this as an occasion to go back and read just about everything he's written. And I'm lucky. I'm lucky to be able to look at the horizon and single out books I'd like to review. And I saw Marlin. And signing up to do a big book, it's always a bit nerve-wracking um in the sense that, you know, taking on a big book is taking on a big project. And it really took over my life. decided to read behind during my other reviews to catch up with all the stuff he's written. It was it was a it was a hard book to review and it's been a hard it's been a weird couple of weeks since it appeared.
>> Weird. How so?
>> I don't know. Just this this sense of you know to me it's just it's it's a book review, you know, but I just this sense of this cleague light swinging around to focus on Maron James, which you know I'm proud of. He deserves it. And you know, I feel like on myself a bit as well and um I'm a humble guy. I live in my apartment and I don't I don't go out that much. Yeah. I'm I'm just a private human being. But it feels good to be able to good to be able to say something that that does move the culture a bit. I didn't set out to do that. This was just the book that was there.
>> When did you know that this book was a masterpiece?
>> Well, probably not until the very end because even 75 pages before the end, there's another like slack period. Then he grabs you. I kept thinking, "All right, now is the time. Now is the time this book's going to let me down." and then it doesn't, which is amazing. Um, I don't think I knew it. I didn't feel sort of the orchestra fully in tune. I felt like there's a lot of practicing, a lot of squeaking in the in the uh horn section, you know, for the first 90 pages, you know, and the full orchestra only really starts to swell up 150 to 220 pages in. So, that's when I felt like, okay, this this is this is serious fiction. In my review, I wrote that here's a guy, Marlon James, working out on the margins of his subconsciousness. And I feel that's true. So much fiction now in fiction that I like, by the way, is sort of, you know, micro ironies and observations. And I, don't get me wrong, I love that stuff. But here's a guy who has a talent that um is almost a derian. He's he's I call him a long haul trucker of the human spirit. This is one of those big books that that just sort of runs you down over the long haul, you know, and also he has that draerian power and yet he does have the micro felicities. He's so quotable. I mean, I probably took 30 pages of notes out of this book just about his observations on food and music and culture and everything. It's just it's just all there. It's the entire package.
>> You have this feeling this book is it. The the hairs on the neck are prickling. How did you approach writing this review after you had that feeling?
>> Oh god. Well, you know, I approached it the way I approach everything I write, which is, you know, as I'm reading along, I really destroy books as I'm reading them and I underline and I write notes to myself and remember this scene. It might be a good ending or critics do this. That's how most of them work. And then I sit down and I type up those notes. And typing up the notes for this book took me two entire days because I I just I there was so much that I just adored about it. And I had so much to work with. I almost said in the review and I didn't I could probably write a book about this book and I think people will. I didn't even get a chance to get into a lot of things I wanted to get into because listeners might not know but even though this is a long piece and it I hope it sounds considered you you have to do this stuff in a week. I want to ask about the headline the topline book of the decade if not the century. You mentioned that's a scary thing to say. Can you talk a little bit more about that? What makes it scary? How do you how how are you thinking about that?
>> Well, I I I think on a primal level, you're worried that you're wrong. I I am I am a critic with a big platform. Thank you, New York Times, for letting me do this. But it's scary to use those big words because they're overused and they're blunderb or at least very rarely employing those kind of adjectives and terms to a book. I just don't like to do that. But I just felt like, all right, this is the time to make some noise. And I'm glad I did. The review is tremendously buzzy in a way that I don't think I've seen in a while. I keep joking with friends like criticism is back. Not that it ever really left, but like it's exciting to see your field get the spotlight. I've been getting texts from people in my personal life, people who aren't readers, who are like, "Have you read this book? Is it this good?" And I'm like, "It is that good. The book is sold out everywhere." the discourse seems to be about both this book but also this review.
>> Yeah, I you know I haven't seen a lot of that yet, but I think um I'm sure that it's coming a lot more discourse about James because the kind of review that sets up something to bounce off of or to agree or disagree with. I'm sure people are going to fall both ways, but that's great. I fear in America and I've written about this that there aren't as many book critics as there were. And I I I missed the tumult of the conversation. I've read some really good reviews of this book already. Laura Miller's in Slate and she agreed. She used the word masterpiece as well. I was happy to see that. But I look forward to the people who completely disagree as well. I I it's good for the culture. One of my favorite critics is a British critic named Kenneth Tinen who wrote back in the ' 50s '60s7s for the most part theater criticism. And um he would always be proud of filling theaters. If he liked something, he wanted that theater to be packed the next day. And I've sometimes felt that way about a book, but really never until this one. I have my favorites and I I like books all the time, but never I mean I this theater deserves to be packed.
>> Yeah. I think a lot about the critic Elizabeth Hardwig. she wrote in 1959 this like essay kind of taking to task a lot of the book reviews and she at that point said like there were a lot of bland commendations going around and what she really wanted was rather than cover she said she wanted the quote the drama of opinion and I think about that phrase a lot the drama of opinion and that doesn't mean you have to like savage a book sometimes loving a book is the drama of opinion communicating that a book is a masterpiece is the drama of opinion and I feel like you set that bar in that conversation and to see your review break out is tremendous.
>> Well, I'm glad you think so. I I feel lucky to I mean, there aren't many um staff critics left in America. You know, I'm one of the few book critics in the country who has health insurance. It's just insane. And I'm lucky too to be um I don't go to book parties. I don't know a lot of writers. I have a couple of writer friends that I'm close to and they know I can never write about them and vice versa. It's always been a professional hazard and criticism of just getting to know the people you're writing about too well. And it's a hard thing to avoid. No matter what kind of critic you are, you're invited to all the parties. People seek you out. And luckily, I'm a bit of a hermit slash probably missenthrop anyway. Um so I don't really miss the [laughter] book parties. But um you know, I make an effort not to uh mix too much with writers. And if I meet a writer that I like, I say, "Well, this has been so much fun. If we do this one more time, you know, I won't be able to write about you. I'm telling you now." Dwight, thank you so much. This has been great.
>> Thanks, MJ. It was fun.
>> [music]
>> Coming up after the break, my interview with the bestselling author John Green. [music] [music] John Green is known for his incredibly beloved young adult novels, many of which are more than just books. They are cultural events. He's probably best known for his uber bestselling novel, The Fall in Our Stars, which was adapted into a blockbuster film. But he has a robust catalog of other titles, too, including Paper Towns, Looking for Alaska, Everything is Tuberculosis, and more. I could keep going on and on and on. It has been about 10 years since John has written fiction. In the past few years, he's published two non-fiction books, but now he is back with a new novel, Hollywood Ending, about two young actors on the brink of fame. And notably, it's John's first book for grown-ups. John, thank you for being here.
>> Oh, thanks for having me.
>> I have to tell you, I am so excited for this conversation in a very nerdy way, and that is because for as long as I've been reading, I've been reading a John Green book. they've become a part of me and I think a lot of readers feel that way. So, I'm really really excited for this combo.
>> Thanks. It means a lot to me that you would say that. I think one of the great joys is uh growing up uh with readers and and and watching readers grow up, especially when you get to write for teenagers and to have a seat at the table in those folks lives.
>> You have shaped how people think. You shape how people feel. And now you're back with a brand new novel, Hollywood Ending. Hollywood comma ending. Before I even begin, can you tell me what is that comma there? What's what's that about?
>> Well, there were a few reasons I wanted the comma. I mean, I think you have to read the book to fully understand the comma, but I wanted to complicate the idea of a Hollywood ending, I guess. And then also, I do think that there's a kind of Hollywood that I'm writing about that that is ending.
>> Yeah. And so that's just a teaser. The comma, there's a little bit of intrigue already in on the title before you even begin. But speaking of beginning, I was wondering if you could introduce us to this book. Can you tell me what is this book Hollywood, Ending about?
>> Sure. Uh it's partly about learning to say what your book is about because it's about young two young people in their 20s uh who named Kai and Juniper who are starring in a movie a sort of modest movie with a big star in it but that doesn't have huge expectations around it. And as the movie starts to blow up it's about the last year of Andy Warhol's life and uh the movie starts to blow up. It gets really good test ratings. uh people are really excited about it and suddenly they're in the spotlight and their lives start to blow up in ways that are exciting and intoxicating but also in ways that are really difficult for them and along the way they have to survive all sorts of things including press junkets where you have to learn uh the elevator pitch for the work of art that you are shilling for.
>> So this isn't awkward or meta at all. We're in a press junket talking about books about press junkets. Um, but I hope this goes as a little less fraught than what Kai and Juniper face in this book.
>> I hope so too, MJ. [laughter]
>> I was just listening as you were explaining this book. I noticed you said the word blow up several times, which is interesting to me because previously in a lot of books and especially young adult literature, coming of age is a thing. and blowing up feels like a coming of age, like a development, like a transition, but it is more contentious.
>> Yeah.
>> Talk to me.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think when The Fault in our Stars was published, I was 35 or 36. I was married. My life was fairly stable. And yet this huge hugely destabilizing force came into my life in the form of this tremendous uh all this attention and all this success and being invited to fancy parties uh which was very exciting but also having a lot of scrutiny on my my personal life which was less exciting and people coming to my house in the middle of the night and knocking on my door and all kinds of other things that were really sort of destabilizing. And that that was for me, you know, a dad in Indianapolis who was middle-aged when all this happened. I think when it happens for young people, it really does feel like an explosion. It does feel like a rupture in their lives. And it's a wonderful thing. Of course, success is a wonderful thing in a lot of ways, but it can be very destabilizing, especially if you don't have those grounded, you know, lifelong relationships that are going to be at the the center for you. and Kai and Juniper are still both trying to find those relationships as their their lives start to um get suddenly scrutinized.
>> I'm curious to know a little bit more about Kai and Juniper as people, as characters. You talked about the big picture, but can you tell us a little bit more about them?
>> Yeah, so one thing they share is that they've both had to learn too early that you can't always trust the adults who are tasked with caring for you. You know, when you're a kid, all you really have to give is love. you don't have resources or money or or anything else, but you do have a lot of love to give. And that love can be misused. That love can be twisted in ways that are devastating and traumatic. And that's both Kai and Juniper have experienced that. But they're very different people. Kai is in his first movie. He's never been on a movie set before in a meaningful way. He is really charismatic, really green. And Juniper is a former child star. And so she's been on movie sets since she was 5 or 6 years old. This is really the only way she feels comfortable, which I found is the case for a lot of folks who who act for a living or work on movie sets for a living. And she's extremely ambitious. She's very hardworking. She's very dedicated. She has something of a reputation for being difficult, but the reason she's difficult is because she wants to make really good art. And I kind of think that's worth celebrating actually, but is often treated as as a difficulty or a complexity in the world of Hollywood when an artist is really obsessed with making good art.
>> I want to dig into that a little bit. You mentioned difficulty, but it's actually a good thing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, a lot of times our flaws are also um areas of strength for us, you know. I mean, Juniper is very ambitious and she is very hardworking and she can be a little cutthroat in the pursuit of the things that she really wants, but sometimes you have to be that, you know, like sometimes you if you want to be successful, especially in a highly competitive industry. Sometimes you you have to be a bit of a perfectionist. You have to work really really hard. And especially with young women, that is sometimes interpreted as, well, they're difficult. but in fact they're just really hardworking and really dedicated and really trying to make something great.
>> When she is assertive, she's written off, but when men are assertive, they're celebrated. And so I'm curious, can you tell me a little bit about exploring that theme from these two different angles through these two different characters who do come from different backgrounds and have different experiences? Yeah, I think when you really want success and it happens, it's different than when you sort of stumble into success. And it's almost harder when you really want it because then the parts of it that are complex or difficult or or not your dream uh complicate your relationship with your own dreams and your own desires. when it came to writing about ambition and Juniper's willingness to do what it takes to make a great movie. I mean, I was thinking some about myself, but I was thinking a lot about my spouse, too, who works in the arts. And I think her ambition and and work ethic and what some would call perfectionism is treated very differently than mine. And I think that's largely a gendered thing.
>> You mentioned thinking about yourself and your spouse. What inspired the story that makes up Hollywood ending? I started out wanting to write I mean I've been writing this book for eight years so I've had plenty of time to think about what I wanted to write about but I started out wanting to write about the attention economy and celebrity culture and the way that private experience is packaged and commodified uh for public attention which used to be a question mostly for movie stars and to a lesser extent novelists but is now a question for everyone because we all participate on the social internet we all trade paid in this weird currency. And so I wanted to write about that. But then along the way, I realized that what I was writing about more than that was how you find the love that you need to find in order to survive what you have to survive. And both Kai and Juniper have real challenges in their lives that they have to get through. And and what hopefully they find is that not doing that alone makes it manageable. How did you land on that theme out of this big topic, fame, visibility, celebrity?
>> Yeah, you know, I've had a bunch of my my books adapted into movies and so I've been on a lot of film sets and I've also, you know, had whatever encounters with celebrity myself that I've had. And I kept thinking, what is it that makes it okay or not okay?
>> Mhm. M you know what is it that that makes some people get through it and other people not get through it? And I came back to these grounding core relationships. But when you're in your early 20s, you don't have those core relationships yet. Or most of us don't anyway. I certainly didn't. And so you're trying you're still trying to figure out not just what you're going to do with your life, but who you're going to do life with. And that's such a big interesting question and it has so much import on the rest of your life. Like looking back overwhelmingly the most important decision I ever made was who I was going to marry and the most important decision Sarah ever made was who she was going to marry. Making those big decisions which you're making with limited information. I always think about how bonkers it is that when I was like 26 years old, I stood at the front of a church and made a promise and had no idea what I was promising. [gasps] But who you're going to do life with is such an important question. In some ways, even more important than what you're going to do with your life. And I really I really wanted to explore those private intimate considerations amid this big public spectacle.
>> Mhm. This is your adult debut. That to me at least is huge because in my brain you are so synonymous with young adult literature. you've written so much in that age bracket, but then also your books have been so impactful in that arena. So, I'm wondering what was it like pivoting to adult literature? And I guess why tell this story in an an adult novel rather than a young adult novel? I started out trying to write about younger people going through the fame machine, the machine that turns human experience into movie tickets or book sales or whatever it turns them into.
>> But I found that these people that I was writing about just didn't have high school problems. And that was so exciting for me because the great thing about writing about teenagers from a creative perspective is that you're writing about firsts. And the first time you do something, it's so intense. It's so unprecedented. When I first fell in love, it wasn't just like I'd never fallen in love before. It was like no one in human history had ever experienced what I was experiencing. And that's really fun for a writer to be able to be in this these sort of heightened spaces where you can use heightened language and other strategies to get across the intensity of your first falling in love, your first time grappling with grief, your first time asking the big questions about meaning and suffering and loss and all that other stuff. But with these characters, what was so exciting to me was that it it isn't their first.
>> Mhm.
>> It's Kai's first movie. It's their first brush with celebrity. Those are firsts, but it's not their first time trying to fall in love. It's not their first time grappling with grief or grappling with trauma. And that was really, I don't know, it was just exciting to me because I'd never done it before. And so, I really enjoyed writing about people in their 20s. I also found, as much as I think my teens were hugely important to the person I ended up becoming, I think my 20s might have been even more important.
>> H, can you say more about that? Well, I don't know about you, MJ, but my 20s were pretty catastrophic. Um, I remember going to the doctor once when I was like 24 and she left my chart open when she left the room and I looked at my chart, which you're not supposed to do, but I looked at my chart and the first thing I saw was patient is a low functioning young adult
>> and I was
>> devastating. Devastating.
>> Well, devastating in its accuracy, too, because I really was a low functioning young adult. And so I I just think like for me like learning how to be a grown-up, learning how to interact with the grown-up world, learning how to live as an adult was hard. Paying the rent every month was hard. Figuring all that stuff out was really, really hard. But it was also a time of great excitement because it was a time when anything was still possible. You know, when my life could go any number of ways and there's a sort of intoxication about endless possibilities of it all. Yeah, I mean that's what happens in literature, right? There's tension, there's challenge, there's conflict, and then the story develops, the characters grow, or pointedly do not grow. Life is like a novel to pseudo quote Forest Gump. [laughter] So now we're in our 20s, we are in the world of adult literature. What did that unlock for you as an author? Did you write differently? Did you think differently? because you're in this new age bracket.
>> So, I don't think there's anything in terms of literary conceits that is unavailable to young people. Like, if you think about it, most of the people who are going to read Gatsby and Hamlet this year are teenagers, right? Most of the people who are going to read Beloved this year are probably teenagers. I've always thought, you know, however well I can write, teenagers are going to be up for it and then some. And so there was never a really hit on this one or something like that. There is however a grapple things that aren't considerations for most teenagers. Like a lot of teenagers are living through trauma a lot unfortunately. But that's very different than what it's like having survived trauma. And for both Kai and Juniper, their childhood traumas have come to an end, but aren't in the past. You know, there's that great Faulner line, the past is never dead. It's not even past. And that's very much the case for Juniper and Kai. Like they they're not able to think of what happened to them as having happened because it still feels like it is happening. And that was also a part of my 20s. And I think it's part of a lot of people's adulthood that um you know childhood is still with us in profound and sometimes really difficult ways.
>> H one thing I'm just noodling on and thinking through is you mentioned
>> teenagers deal with a lot of a lot of heavy stuff, a lot of complex stuff. Um, but you were able to approach it very a little bit differently in
>> this book because it was explicitly Hollywood ending explicitly for grown-ups.
>> But your books across the board are pretty heavy. We've dealt with cancer. We've dealt with death. We've dealt with OCD. And so I guess I'm wondering a little bit more about Yeah. just craftwise in writing a more mature story and writing these characters, what you were able to do, what you were thinking about, how you brought this story and this these characters to life.
>> Sure. I think when you're writing about teenagers, there's no narrative distance. There's no distance between the story and its telling. There's no, you know, because it it it feels like it's happening right now because for them it is happening right now. M
>> um when you're looking back on childhood experiences or adolescent trauma, it's very different because there is that narrative distance. There is that ability to contextualize to see my current self through the lens of my past self. And this honestly was one of the gifts of writing the book for me. I mean this was the most joyful experience I've ever had writing. And I think one of the reasons I had had that joy was because a lot of stuff in my own life that was very present tense even though it was in the past I was finally able to sort of situate in the past tense.
>> I love this idea of like uh acceptance different phases of life like looking back with hindsight and hopefully wisdom. Um, you said this was one of the most joyous experiences that you've had writing, but you also mentioned, I'm circling back to something you said earlier in the interview, that it took you eight years to write this book. My question is why? Well, there were there was a lot that factored into it. I mean, I did write two non-fiction books for adults in the interim, one a history of tuberculosis and one a collection of essays. But I think the biggest reason was that it took me at least five years to really find my way into the story. The story is told both from Juniper and Kai's perspectives. And for years, I thought it was only going to be told through Kai's perspective. And that really limited me. And and and it was only once I kind of turned the camera around and realized that I was going to write as both of them that I was able to unlock it and start to feel like the rhythm of of the pros coming to me. Why did you initially think only Kai and then what was that juncture? What was that point where you realized wait I do need to turn this around?
>> Yeah. So I thought I thought only Kai because I I thought through the lens of this anxious charismatic newbie. We could really see a lot of what is good about Hollywood and a lot of what is profoundly broken about the machine that turns kids into movie tickets. I don't know how else to say it. It is your literal body that is turned into movie tickets. And that is a really weird, somewhat dehumanizing thing. So I I was trying to write about that. And as long as I was only writing about that, it made sense to be in Kai's perspective. But when I realized that what I really wanted to write about was two people falling in the kind of love that can that can hold us together, that's when I knew, oh, I've got to turn the camera around and so that we can see Kai as Juniper sees him and we can see Juniper as she sees herself.
>> You have this quote about fame that I'm thinking a lot about. You said, "I've done a lot of drugs, but nothing hits like fame." Sometimes it's an upper, sometimes it's a downer, but it will always rock you. Not you said that your character in your book says that. Um,
>> yeah, thank you for [laughter] the distinction.
>> Clarification, this is not John Green talking about fame as a drug, but there's an older movie star character who's talking to Kai and Juniper and says, "I've done a lot of drugs, but nothing hits like fame." Right.
>> How do you feel about fame?
>> Oh, mixed. um as I think will be clear to readers of the book, but I think we all want to hear that we're doing a good job.
>> Mhm.
>> And that our especially our creative work has has been valued and wellreceived. And so when you get a lot of that input, it feels really really good. Um it feels really good, especially at first.
>> You also get a lot of negative input. And the negative input hits much harder for me at least. It hits harder because I think it's true. I don't really fully believe people when they say that I wrote a good book, but I do fully believe them when they say that I wrote a bad book because that confirms what I have always suspected of myself, which is that I'm an impostor and I'm not worthy of the success that I've, which I'm not. Um,
>> can confirm you are not an imposttor. I literally open this conversation by being like, "Your books have meant so much to me."
>> Well, you can. Yeah, I mean it's very nice of you to say that and I and and I deeply deeply appreciate it. I do not fully believe it. Like I just can't and I think that's true for all of us. I mean at least all of us who are vulnerable and anxious and seeking security from the world that the world can't provide. And so that part of it is mixed. The thing about fame, and I think Matthew Malone, the kind of movie star who's in the book, says fame makes you big, but it also makes you two-dimensional.
>> This is one of the reasons I wanted to write about Andy Warhol is that Andy Warhol was sort of the ultimate example to me of an artist who became very very famous while not being particularly wellknown. And so he was very big, but he was also extremely two-dimensional. And that experience is disconcerting because we all we all want to be free to be three-dimensional people. And when there's a single narrative about you or there's a single dominant narrative as there is about say Anne Hathaway or Tom Holland or whatever other celebrity, when there's a single narrative about you, it sort of two-dimensionalizes you. And that's even more the case now that so much of our experience of celebrity is mediated through screens. Like they're literally two-dimensional now. And so that part is was very difficult for me to reconcile myself to. And to be honest, MJ did not particularly relish the period of my life when like Kim Kardashian was tweeting about me.
>> Tweets are what 140 280 characters. So talk about necessarily two-dimensional, though I guess they are two-dimensional, but also like brief, small, flat.
>> Yep. No context.
>> No context.
>> No nuance.
>> It's interesting. I realized reading this book how little I knew about Andy Warhol as a person. I knew I knew soup cans.
>> Yep.
>> I knew pop art. That's what I got.
>> So the movie that they're making is about the last year of Andy Warhol's life. It's called Andy Warhol Never Gets Old. And the two young people are Kai plays Andy Warhol's sort of one of his many assistants at Interview magazine and Juniper plays a young reporter who's who's writing a profile of him, which was a notoriously hard thing to do because Warhol only spoke in extremely elliptical sentences and was constantly uh sort of obfuscating his own past.
>> He would have loved a podcast.
>> He would have loved a podcast. [laughter] Um, you I don't know if you could have gotten Andy to talk for an hour, but maybe you probably could have, MJ. So, um,
>> correct me if I'm wrong, your wife is an Andy Warhol scholar.
>> That is correct. So, that was an ancillary reason to why I wrote about Warhol, both as a love letter and knowing that I would get lots of helpful feedback, a real time fact check.
>> Real time, real time feedback. I can just like shout down the hallway and ask if uh Warhol would have said something and then Sarah [laughter] will shout back no. Uh so that that was one reason. The biggest reason though I wanted to write about Warhol because he saw so much of our world coming. He saw the fact that everything was going to be two-dimensional. You mentioned the soup cans. Those are famously three-dimensional objects that he then rendered in in two-dimensional screen prints. You know, that was really what made him famous in the first place. But, you know, he did screen tests with actors where he would have them just sort of stare at a camera for five or 10 or 15 minutes and they're utterly arresting. Those those those works, the the video works of Warhol. Fascinating.
>> I did not know he did that. I can't wait to I have my research to do my my homework after this conversation.
>> Yeah, I I think I had some of that stuff in Hollywood ending, but I cut it. So, [laughter] it's not your fault for not learning about it. It's my fault. Um, and then the other thing about Warhol that really fascinated me is that he was extremely famous and um, and yet found a way to protect his core self. And that's really hard to do. That's something that I've struggled with a lot. And so I was looking to him as an example of the fact that maybe it is possible to do that. After researching this, after writing this, do you have any answers, any suggestions, any advice?
>> My advice to young famous people? Um, the only way out is through, as Robert Frost put it, but you have to remember that there's a lot that's very enjoyable and a lot that's a gift about people loving your work. Like, it is overwhelmingly a gift. Like the generosity with which people have read my novels over the last 20 years astonishes me because a novel really does require a generous reader. Like I remember when I was 16, I read The Great Gatsby and I thought it sucked and like the problem looking back was obviously not with The Great Gatsby, right? Like you were very kind earlier in this conversation to say that my books have meant something to you. But the reason they meant something to you was because you took your deepest self, the parts of you that are hardest to articulate, that are hardest to find language or form for, and you brought them to my stories. And you have to remember that.
>> And so that's what I would say to them is try to hold on to that. Try to hold on to the fact that there is real magic here and real gifts being made here. Even as the way that the sausage gets made is sometimes distasteful. Um, I'm a vegetarian, so I love a sausage gives me a metaphor. [laughter] After the break, John Green on this moment in his career and a few books that made an impression on him when he was young. [music] [music] I I want to transition. We've been talking about Hollywood ending specifically for a while, but I want to pan out and I guess I want to start by asking like
>> how do you understand this moment in your career? Your first book came out what in 2005, which means you've been writing for 21 years. You've written young adult novels, love stories, stories about illness. You've written non-fiction. You've jumped to Hollywood. your books have been adapted. You're very online. Like now we're here. How are you understanding this moment in John? Um, you know, for a long time I felt uh really unworthy of the audience I had and the success my books had found and my videos had found and other work that I I make has found. And I felt like, oh, I just don't deserve any of this. But deserving is the wrong framework, right? Like my brother doesn't deserve the success that he's had as a writer or or a video maker. He also didn't deserve to get cancer. I don't deserve the success that I've had. I also don't deserve to have severe OCD. Like there deserving is just the wrong framework to through which to think of this stuff. I think the right framework is that life is both a challenge and a gift. And you don't know the challenges that you're going to get along the way. And you don't know the gifts you're going to get along the way. And when I look back at the last 21 years, I think, my god, like not only have I been so lucky, but I've had so many people share their deepest stuff with me, and that's such a blessing. I though want to dig into this idea of like deserve. You mentioned luck and I want to channel Juniper and her ambition because you've been hustling for 21 years. And so I guess I'm it's this this complexity of I didn't feel like I deserved the fame, but you were working really hard in a variety of forms.
>> Yeah.
>> Writing and online. Was this what you hoped for or did this kind of grow beyond your wildest imaginations?
>> MJ, this is certainly what 23-year-old me hoped for. [laughter] 23-year-old me, low functioning young adult me was desperate, desperate for success and fame and worked very very hard for it, you know. Yes. Wanted that very very badly. wanted the outside affirmation of of celebrity very very badly. I want it less now, which I think is a sign of just growing up and needing different things. I want deep connection from with my with my closest friends and with my family and with my kids, you know, that's that's what I that's the connection I value most now. But when I was young, I really really wanted it. And I still I still must on some level or I wouldn't publish, right? like uh I was I was thinking about that recently because it's such a stressful time between when you finish a book and when the book comes out because you have very little in the way of feedback and you just don't know how the book's going to be received and it makes me very anxious and I um [clears throat] I was thinking like God why did I publish this book? I could have just written it and put it in a drawer and then they could have published it after I died. [laughter] But I love it. I I am so grateful for it. that that's the ultimate answer is that like even though it's even though it stresses me out and I'm really scared right now, I also love it. I love connecting with readers. I love hearing from readers. I love the, you know, I think in everything is tuberculosis, the book I wrote most recently, I said that for me, writing is like the the child's uh pool game, Marco Polo. You know that game [laughter] where like one person says Marco, Marco, Marco, and then all the other people have to say polo. But like with writing, it's like you spend like eight years in your basement saying, "Marco, Marco, Marco, Marco, and then finally uh this book is going to come out on September 22nd and hopefully someone will say Polo." And like that that connection uh that call and response is just magic to me. Why? Well, it's almost like I mean I'm an extremely introverted person in real life, but I want to tell you a story
>> and writing is the best way to do that. I also love writing because it gives me a chance to try to get it right that speaking doesn't give me.
>> Like we're going to end this interview and hopefully you'll go about your day, but I can tell you what's going to happen to me, which is that I'm going to spend the next several hours thinking about what I said and didn't say.
>> John, you're not alone cuz I will be doing the same thing [laughter] right after this.
>> Good. Great. Glad we're on the same page at least. So that's just the nature of it. But with writing, you get a chance to make it right. That's one thing I love about it. And the other thing I love about it is just that I this is how I've been expressing myself since I was 8 years old. Like through stories, through making up stories. And it feels like child's play to me. It feels like play in a way that
>> nothing else does. Like even other forms of art don't feel like play the way writing does because it takes me right back to being that little kid.
>> What makes it feel like play, especially knowing that publishing is so anxiety producing?
>> I definitely have to put out of my mind that it's going to be published. My wife jokes with me that every time I write a book, I tell her that I'm going to publish this one under a pseudonym. Um, and she's like, "Yeah, no, I've heard that before." Uh, [laughter] but I think that every time because I think like, "Oh, this is too intimate. this is too close to the bone to share under my own name. And then over time I reconcile myself to it. But I have to forget about the publishing part when I'm writing or the even even the sharing with readers part. And I just have to
>> try to make something as a gift almost to the people I'm closest to, if that makes sense. Like I almost want to I want to make a story that will delight Sarah and that Sarah will think is great. That's kind of my first priority. There is a quote that I love from the New Yorker writer Katherine Schultz and um she published this giant story about the big earthquake that will hit the West Coast and and
>> yeah, I read that
>> it went super super viral and they asked her does that influence what stories you pick up next? How do you feel about about the attention the theme? And she says it doesn't impact her because quote part of what makes a story beautiful is the fact that you're dying to tell it. Yeah, I was dying to tell this story and it's almost like the book that gets written is the one that demands to be written, you know, like it was a little bit of a jump, MJ, as I'm sure you can imagine when you have mostly written young adult literature in your career to call your publisher and say you've written a history of tuberculosis for grown-ups. [laughter] But that was a book that had to be written. Like
>> why? It just had to I because so much of so much of my life was was at the time spent think I mean still but very much at the time was spent thinking about this radical unfathomable injustice that a disease that's been curable since 1955 still kills over a million people every year. And I just couldn't think about anything else. I couldn't read about anything else. I couldn't write about anything else. And in the periods where I was writing Hollywood Ending, which was sort of hit and miss between those non-fiction books and then for the last two years pretty much non-stop, I I couldn't write about anything other than these these two young people trying to survive this stuff because the book becomes undeniable at some point. And that's a really it's actually a really fraught moment, but a really fun moment for me.
>> What made Hollywood ending undeniable now? And I ask that because you've been writing again for many many years and you've seen the Hollywood apparatus for many years. I think what the fault in our stars movie came out in 2014. What was it about 2026? What was it about the world? What about what was it about John that made this book feel undeniable now? Well, there were certainly uh things within my private life that made it undeniable, but I think the biggest thing that made it undeniable was the fact that now everyone is participating in the machine. Everyone is both the labor and the raw material. We are all crafting narratives about ourselves and about our work and about our families for public consumption. And all of that is being intermediated by five or six extremely large corporations run by extremely wealthy people. And that's not so different from Hollywood. And so instead of this being,
>> oh, look at these poor little rich kids and their poor little rich kid problems. It really has become something that we're all part of.
>> Yeah. When we used to speak about social media, we used to say visit my profile or visit my page. And now we say visit my channel, visit my platform. The idea that even individual people, small like we're not in the industry, small creators are now like using the language of mass distribution responsibility for our own private lives, which I'm fascinated by.
>> Our our private lives are being mass distributed, right? Because in these many to many platforms, you don't know. Like you put a Facebook post up about your divorce or about your sick kitten and you don't know that it will only be seen by your friends. You know, unless you really go through the settings and make sure that it will only be seen by your friends. It could be seen by tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people. And that feeling of virality is very intoxicating, but also very disorienting and not that different from fame in the end.
>> Yeah. Terrifying. Terrifying. I don't want to end on a terrifying note. Can you tell me one fun fact about Hollywood ending? One tidbit, one nugget that you squeezed in to this book that you're excited about and then I want to get to recommendations.
>> Let me let me think about how to answer that. Let me think about how personal to get because the thing about being personal, MJ, is that once you say something, it's out there, right? Like it's not it's not yours anymore. Oh, uh, I had a great time referencing my friends who are actors in ways that only they will see. Okay. So, we won't know what those references are, which is kind of a fun puzzle cuz now we can read like everything and be like, "This is a reference. This is what does it mean?" [laughter] So, you've given an Easter egg to your friends, but then also um a fun way of reading this to the reader. But before we go, you are a reader, you're a writer, you love books. I want to know, can you recommend five books that made an impression on you? Because your books have made an impression on so many other people. I want to know what has worked on you.
>> Well, especially when I was young, Catcher and the Rye made a huge impression on me. Sula by Tony Morrison or I could say The Bluest Eye. I could say either of those. Um, I could say Song of Solomon. all of those books I read in high school and they lit me up because Tony Morrison was the first writer I read who who helped me understand that literature was not some cold dead place that it was something that was happening now and that was like thrilling and exciting and and just intoxicating and so so amazing what could be accomplished with language. Um so that's three right there, but I'm going to I'm going to count that as one. [laughter] We're talking about words, not math.
>> Um, The Mysteries of Pittsburgh by Michael Shaban. I read that book. It was the first book I ever read with a queer main character. First time I'd ever read a book um about someone in their early 20s and had made a huge impression on me, shaped my work in a long-term way. Um gosh, what else? Uh the Slaughterhouse 5 by Kurt Vonagget. I read that when I was in high school and then I heard Kurt Vonagget speak at the University of Alabama and there's very little I remember from high school but I remember everything about that night. Um and then the last book I'll site from that really has had a long-term impact on me is uh Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zorn Hursten. That book has um has stayed with me. I've reread it a lot through the years and it's fun to have a book that you kind of grow up with like where the words don't change but the story changes because you do and I that's that their eyes were watching God is that book for me.
>> How has that story changed because you've changed? [sighs]
>> Well, when I f when I first read it I I I just kind of fell in love with the language and didn't really follow the story that much. And now I think about it more as um it's similar to my relationship with Catcher actually where like um I read it once as comedy and now as tragedy.
>> Yes. Yes. I feel like we read that books frequently in high school because you are following this young very angsty teenager. I actually first read it after I graduated. I was an adult and I was just struck by how sad it was.
>> It's so sad. It's so sad. Catcher is one of those books that people read really poorly [laughter] in my opinion. Like
>> how so?
>> I just don't think people read it very generously. I think a lot of times people are like, "Oh, this kid, you know, buming around New York for a couple days who's gets to go to boarding school and has a pretty good life." And and I was a little dismissive of it in high school, too. Even though it had a big impact on me, I was almost like like I like the way I talked about Catcher and the Rye was different from the way I felt about Catcher and the Ry because I'd been told that talking about it as if it kind of sucked was the cool way to talk about it.
>> And there are aspects of Catcher that are super problematic and like don't don't appeal to me at all in in the 21st century. But um it is profoundly sad. It is it is such a sad story of of a kid who, you know, just just desperately desperately wants to be loved in a way that he he can't be.
>> Yeah. Wow. Out of this list, I also want to say I was so excited when you said you love Sula cuz I also love Sula. That's one of my top favorite books overall. It's my favorite. Tony Morrison.
>> Wow. That's a that's a big that's a big statement.
>> I know. I know. It's the friendship that's at the center of that book is so perfectly drawn.
>> Yes.
>> Perfect. It's it is without it's a small book and maybe like it's not as ambitious of Song of as Song of Solomon or as Beloved, but like it is perfect in the sense that it there's not a word you would change in it.
>> Not a single word.
>> Yeah.
>> Those are past books that have influenced you. I have one last question. What's a book that you are really excited about now? You are a very big champion of new books, emerging writers. You champion Martyr, for instance, that also has a punctuation play instead of a comma that has a an exclamation mark. You were a champion of books like Tomorrow, Tomorrow, Tomorrow. What's a book that you are really excited about from 2026?
>> Well, I'll give you one that's out now. Canon by Paige Lewis. Um, I think the line to share about canon is uh I can promise you that you've never read a book like canon because uh nobody has. It is utterly itself. Uh it's an it's a non-binary epic. It shatters every expectation. It is hilarious. It is strange. It is it is absolutely wondrous. And then um a a book that's coming out that I really loved is a book by Robin Wasserman called Some of Us May Die about artificial intelligence and um the the the quest for eternal life and what all that means for us when it comes to grappling with grief and loss. All right, so you've got your marching orders. Go read that book. Go read Canon and go read Hollywood [music] Ending. John, this has been fantastic. Thank you so much for joining us.
>> Oh, it's been so fun. Thank you, MJ. [music]
>> The book review is produced by Sarah Diamond, Amy Pearl, and Patricia Subaran, and mixed this week by Daniel Ramirez. [music] Original music by Dan Powell and Alicia Eup. Special thanks to Dalia Hadad. We want to hear what you think about [music] the show, so send us an email at the bookreview@ny times.com. I'm MJ [music] Franklin and for Goa Cruz. Thanks for listening.