We were founded uh 24 years ago with the one uh the one primary goal and that was to build rockets and spaceships that would take us to live on other planets and 24 years ago that seemed really crazy but today it doesn't seem that crazy. I want to roll a video just in case you haven't seen some of the technologies leading towards that. Go ahead.
>> All stations verify ready for launch. FTS
>> FTS down props go. Avi
>> AVI go
>> GNC
>> GNC go. 5 4 3 2 1 lift off. SpaceX is going for spacew walk operations. Heat. Heat. fantastic. So you can't go live on the moon and Mars without connectivity. So certainly we want to work on connected solutions for there. Unfortunately, there are still almost a third of the people here on planet Earth that remain either unconnected or incredibly underserved. And that's why we started Starlink. Uh we started flying in 2020. We have a giant constellation of satellites that serve humans here's humans here on Earth. And connectivity is not just about watching movies, although it's a great way to wind down. But those that are unconnected, once they are connected, have access to banking, better health care, education online, and it's an incredible technology for emergency services. It can also help save lives.
>> So, what is Starlink? Starlink is the world's largest and most advanced satellite constellation. We're now operating nearly 10,000 satellites in lower Earth orbit, providing hundreds of terabytes of capacity for broadband services nearly everywhere in the world. Starlink is enabled with innovations like our advanced phased arrays, efficient use of spectrum, and our highly performant lasers that create a mesh of connectivity that literally encircles the globe. In the 5 years since we've been offering Starlink service, we've connected millions of people with highly reliable, high performing connectivity and we just actually reached our 10 mill we just actually crossed 10 million subscribers. Here's a video from some of our customers. Excellent going.
>> Can you see my Star Link over here? Even my neighbor downstairs. Enjoy my Starling because it is fast.
>> Here we go.
>> Head out to remote locations, not miss a beat. Well, good clear sky. And because I have Star Link, I was able to get in touch with the US Coast Guard. Hello. This is my mini. Most reliable connections we've ever had. Oops. But we're not stopping there. Uh, in 2024, we began launching our directto cell constellation, which as of today, we're calling Starlink Mobile. The goal of Starlink Mobile is to connect to to regular unmodified cell phones everywhere in the world. At the time that we started the the directto cell program in 2024, 20% of the land area and 90% 20% of the land area in the US and 90% of the earth's surface was uncovered by terrestrial mobile connectivity. Starlink Mobile fills in those gaps. Now 18 month after 18 months we fully deployed the first generation Starlink mobile constellation consisting of 650 satellites and we are now operating across five continents and are the largest 4G coverage provider by geographic area in the world. We've actually connected over 16 million unique users across the constellation and are connecting 10 million active users on a monthly basis. We expect that number to exceed 25 million by the end of 2026. The Starlink mobile constellation works by connecting over lasers to the broader Starlink constellation, which means we can connect to devices wherever they are in the world. The the constellation flies lower than any other satellite constellation at 350 km. That's to optimize the link from the satellite to the user device as well as for space safety. Back in 2024 when we started, we launched the first satellite. A few days later, the Starlink team was connecting over the satellite and texting using unmodified cell phones. A a few months later, we had demonstrated video calls. Here's a video showing what the service looks and feels like today. We're here today in the Eastern Sierras doing a demonstration of the Starlink mobile service. The place we're currently at is in a cell phone dead zone. So without Starlink Mobile, you would be unable to connect to your phone. you'd be truly isolated if anything happened. So, we're going to today do a couple demos here with a unmodified cell phone here that's connected to the Starlink satellites overhead. The first thing I want to do here is open up Grock. I'm going to take a photo of where we are. And then we're going to ask Grock, where are we? And it's searching the web for the image. And it says, hey, it looks like you are in Alabama Hills in California, just outside Lone Pine. This is exactly right. It's an incredibly cool capability. Uh, the next thing we're going to do, I have one of my colleagues up in Seattle, Daniel, who I'm gonna click on and give a video call.
>> Hey, Daniel. How you doing today?
>> Hey, Chad. Good to see you.
>> This is amazing. So, we're here uh talking to Daniel. He's uh connected to a terrestrial network and we're just here in a
>> terrestrial dead zone talking over direct to south.
>> Daniel, you want to say something to the camera?
>> Hey everybody. Good to see you from space down to Earth
>> and back again. Oh my goodness. How insane is this? Can you believe this is working?
>> I mean, I guess we can believe it's working. We built it and we built it and it works and it's great to see that
>> you are out there and enjoying yourselves.
>> Yes, it's good times. Uh, all right. Talk to you later.
>> Have a good day.
>> Cheers. Bye.
>> Hey, Chad.
>> All right. So, that was a video call. Uh, again, we're in a dead dead zone. We just had direct to service. Uh, and we're able to call Daniel up in Seattle. Uh, insane. So watching movies is great, but this capability can provide life-saving connectivity. Last year in Los Angeles, there was devastated Los Angeles was devastated by wildfires. Starlink worked along with our mobile network operators to activate our directtoell capability, Starlink Mobile. And over 400,000 people connected in that terrible time. We sent over 250,000 SMS messages and over 150 wireless emergency alerts. So this technology is not just for reaching uh our our mobile apps and our download our videos. Um but it is also uh necessary for or great enhancement for life-saving capabilities. Uh we serve the people of Japan after the Kamchatka earthquake in late July and again uh with the Amorei earthquake in December. Think about landbased, terrestrialbased connectivity often is the first hit when there is a disaster. That's why the satellitebased capability is a great augmentation for day-to-day but a critical element of emergency services. There's over 4.4 million people who have connected to Starlink mobile during disaster Starlink mobile during emergencies and disasters. So we've already enabled wireless emergency just chatted about that in the US, Canada and Japan with support of our operator, our partner operators. We are just starting to leverage our broader 2 gigahertz spectrum uh for emergency services and emergency alerts in Europe. Uh I think it's critically important here in Europe because you're so well connected terrestrially. You you almost have you have very few white zones compared to the United States. We are full of white zones in the United States, but during those emergency times, that's when the terrestrial network is quite vulnerable. We have a test license actually to test this um emergency alert system. And if you want to try it here in Barcelona, we have a test license. And if you want to try it, please come to our booth between hall three and hall five. It's hard to miss where where the food trucks are. It smells like hamburgers. Um and give it a shot. See see that emergency service work. Next slide. So an especial a special emergency to talk about here ongoing emergency and crisis is what's happening in Ukraine. We've provided Starlink in Ukraine since the beginning of the conflict. But very recently, we signed a partnership with Keestar uh to help those that do not have access to the Starlink or the broadband capability and they're connecting people directly from our satellites to their mobile phones. We've been in service for about two months. We have over three million customers subscribed and we've sent over a million 1.2 million SMS messages. We're pleased to be able to support the Ukrainians in both these ways with broadband as well as the direct to mo or the Starlink mobile connectivity. And we're especially pleased with our relationship with the Ukrainian government to help them during this very difficult time. So let's look at the coverage map for Starlink Mobile. We have 32, we're in 32 countries. We have 35 partners, telecom operator partners in six of the seven continents. We started as Mike mentioned earlier with just text messages but now we have ser we go from text messages, light data, little more data. We're doing voice and video calls now. The service works with your existing LTA LTE phones whenever you're outside. We have 16 million total users connected with 10 million monthly active users. We're working with device manufacturers to improve your experience with our current generation. Mike will talk a little bit about the next generation. And so now you you can get WhatsApp uh on Starlink mobile. You can talk through Signal. You can get X feeds and the other uh applications that are available. We will continue to work with the the cell phone providers uh with with our partners who are who we uh basically leverage their spectrum with the Gen One system to make your experience even better. So I mentioned we have 35 global partners. T-Mobile was the first uh in the United States, actually our only partner in the United States. Uh they were the first to to sign on and we've had a great partnership since since then. We work with Rogers in Canada. We're about ready to announce a new operator in Mexico. We're with Intel in Chile, a new operator in Costa Rica. By the way, this is a big week for announcing uh deal new deals. So, you'll hear more later today. Huge one today at 2 o'clock. You'll hear in Oceanana, we are working with Telstra. Uh they've been an incredible partner. New Zealand, One New Zealand is our partner in New Zealand. If you guys haven't seen their Starlink mobile video, it's about the zombie apocalypse. It's hilarious. I think it's the best video so far that has Starlink Mobile in it. We're in the Philippines, Japan. KDDDI, we actually cover almost the entire population of Japan with Starlink Mobile. KDDDI was our first uh telco partner there and they have been extraordinary leaning in. Uh we're in the Philippines, we're in Mongolia, we're in Kazakhstan. uh Switzerland uh salt UK VMO2 recently recently announced uh Ukraine I talked about Keefstar uh and Spain Moss orange and in Africa Airtel is a partner a very critical partner for us in Africa and we will be lighting up 14 countries there which we are quite proud to talk about having a service capable and helpful for the African people. So now we're excited to tell you about what's next for Starlink Mobile. The first generation Starlink mobile constellation was the first ever global directto cell constellation capable of providing text and light data services nearly everywhere in the world including voice video calls like we just saw. The second generation constellation which we'll tell you about here will deliver broadband capabilities to unmodified cell cell phones reaching hundreds of millions potentially more devices as we scale the constellation. The goal of Starlink Mobile, which will be enabled by the second generation constellation, is to provide a terrestrial-like connectivity when you're connected to the satellite system. So, in the right conditions, that's outside when the phone's your phone's in your pocket, when you're in your car, and you're connected to Starlink Mobile, it should look and feel like you're connected to a high-erforming 5G terrestrial network. That kind of experience is what we're shooting for. How do we enable that? We'll tell you about the satellite and the constellation, but but a key factor is the spectrum we're going to use. So our plan is to utilize globally harmonized Sband satellite spectrum. Um last year we acquired Sband spectrum rights in the US and we'll be able to use that Sband spectrum globally. It has priority IT rights which will allow us to scale the constellation globally subject to regulatory approvals and offer a consistent level of service everywhere we operate. We're also working closely with device manufacturers and modem manufacturers to to get to enable the service on as many devices as quickly as possible as soon as we launch. So when we launch, which is expected in mid 2027, we will be on most devices in the US. And as Gwyn just talked about, we're already testing new capabilities utilizing the spectrum like the wireless emergency alerts that we're testing here in Barcelona today. Um, next we'll tell you a little bit about how the satellite and the constellation work. So the most critical piece of a of delivering a high quality user experience from a satellite to a cell phone is having a really high bandwidth link on the second generation satellite will have 20 times the link performance of the first generation satellite. We accomplish that with a large phased array antenna five times the size of our first generation satellite and four times the bandwidth per beam. So we'll use 20 x 20 meghertz beams as well as new new capabilities like myo on the satellite. We'll also be utilizing the 3GPP NRTN standard, 5G NRTN, nontrestrial network standard, which is specifically designed for the satellite to user to to user links and will will enable improved experience, especially when a user is at the edge of a satellite beam by something like a factor of 10. In ideal conditions, a user could expect to receive download speeds of up to 150 megabits per second, a truly broadband experience. And then the overall capacity of a satellite is actually also very critical. How many users can you support with this great experience? The second generation satellite will have nearly 100 times the data density of a V1 satellite. Again, we accomplish this with with the much larger phased array, which means a smaller spot beam on the on the ground and as well as 16 times the number of beams per satellite and other advanced features. The overall satellite's throughput will exceed 100 Gbits on download and 50 Gbits on upload, making it comparable in capacity to the Starlink broadband satellites we're launching today. The satellite is critical, but delivering a constellation that has global and contiguous coverage is is just as important. Um, so so for that, enter uh SpaceX's new uh highly performant launch vehicle uh Starship, fully reusable launch vehicle. So with Starship, we'll be able to deploy the constellation very quickly. We'll be able to launch more than 50 satellites on every launch, and we'll begin launching in mid 2027. Uh with with Starship, we'll be able to deploy the constellation very quickly. Our goal is to deploy a constellation capable of providing global and contiguous coverage within 6 months, and that's roughly, 1200 satellites. From there, we'll continue scaling the constellation to add capacity, much like we scale on the Starlink broadband system. This will allow us to offer data and voice services everywhere. We'll also scale the constellation to cover tr to have truly global coverage including the polar regions. This is incredibly important. The polar regions are some of the areas least covered by terrestrial networks and where satellite can make a real difference. And finally, we'll fly the constellation low like the first generation satellite at 350 km. That's again to optimize the link between the satellite and the user and for space safety. What's our overall vision here? It's where Starling Mobile is a key component of a hybrid network that includes terrestrial and satellite capabilities. Satellite is complimentary to terrestrial networks. It cannot provide the data density that terrestrial networks have, but it can augment terrestrial networks in the places where terrestrial networks cannot reach or when terrestrial networks need additional capacity. Already with Starlink broadband, we're connecting cell towers with gigabits of capacity for both primary and backup use case with our mobile partners. This is a capability that's scaling very significantly. And with Starlink mobile, we'll be utilizing our mid-band spectrum connecting phones directly. We're beyond the reach of terrestrial networks. And then in addition, this network will have a significant amount of capacity that can be used to augment this the terrestrial networks. For example, in Europe, we'll have terabs of capacity over the over the European continent. we can utilize that capacity to uh cover the regions where terrestrial networks cannot cover you know uh top of mountains in the ocean that kind of thing but then in addition we we have this amazing capacity that can be used when there's emergency situations when cell towers go down or when terrestrial networks need additional capacity dynamically whether that's for uh sporting events or people gathering that kind of thing and overall the the system may even replace the need to deploy uh terrestrial networks in certain locations in the most rural locations.
>> So, we're trying to close the connectivity gap first with Starlink broadband to homes and other platforms and now directly to mobile devices. The impact of this technology and the partnerships that we're forging across the globe will only increase to serve more and more humans, helping them have better lives, raise the level of their economy, and ultimately making a better world. We're excited to enable this vision and we're extremely proud about the partnerships that we have forged with Telos across the globe. So, we have a number of folks here at SpaceX. I already talked about our booth between halls three and five outside at the food court. Please come by the booth. We'd be happy to show you the emergency alert system, how that works, and how other connectivity solutions can reach you and your family and others across the globe. Thank you so much for listening to us. And uh have a great Congress. Thank you. Thank you.