最近一年多以來啊在中國房價持續下跌的大環境下經常會有人問我一個靈魂考問老周啊我房子的價格都已經跌到比我的房貸餘額還低了這個貸款我還還不還啊這個貸款我還還不還 這個問題背後反映的是很多中國人正在經歷的痛苦現實房子不再是致富的工具反而成了負資產面對這樣的樓市逆轉我們到底應該怎麼做呢?我認為首先你需要具備正確的金融認知才能在這個亂世當中做出正確的判斷 兩周前我給大家普及了一些實用的金融知識本來我以為會比較枯燥但沒想到愛學習的人那麼多視頻反響極好6月份我的頻道漲了3.3萬粉應該是YouTube中文實證圈的月冠軍在這裡向所有支持我頻道的觀眾們表達感謝 那麼今天我繼續來給大家普及一些跟大家切身相關的金融知識而且今天的主題也是目前千千萬萬中國人急需了解的房貸過去三年多以來中國房地產泡沫已經正式破裂 现在全国二手房均价已经从2021年的高位下跌了25%而三线城市有些地方下跌幅度超过了60%即便是一线城市有些非核心区域的房子也已经跌掉了30%以上因为房贷断供而被银行收回的房子不计其数法派房堆积如山根本卖不出去那么现在很多人就面临一个非常残酷的问题 假设说你在2021年用500万买了一套房子当时支付了30%的首付也就是150万现在房价跌了30%你的房子只值350万了也就是说你的首付跌没了350万的房贷如果按照4%的年利率来计算30年贷款下来利息大约是250万加上本金350万那么总共你还需要支付的房贷是600万 這裡你可能會覺得說不對吧350萬貸款30年利息居然要250萬這是肯定沒算錯的別急啊後面我會給你拆解那麼現在問題就來了除了你已經虧掉的首付150萬你為什麼還要繼續用600萬來購買一套現在只值350萬未來甚至可能更低的房子呢 要回答這個問題其實有兩個方面的考量第一個是從純金融和數學的角度繼續還這個房貸是否划算第二個問題是現實方面的考量就是你不還會有什麼後果把這個後果也考量進來是不是應該繼續還呢 今天這兩個方面我都會來給大家做詳細的解析我們也會探討為什麼2008年美國次貸危機發生的時候有很多美國人乾脆就戰術性的不再繼續支付房貸了而這種是在中國房地產泡沫破裂的今天卻比較少聽到呢這跟兩國關於房貸的法規不同有關 Now we are going to the main topic Since we are going to discuss the price of the house and the price of the house should not be returned after the price of the house is high First, you have to understand how the interest of the house is calculated Many people think if I borrow 1 million the interest is 4% and I borrow 30 years it means that my interest is 1 million times 4% equals to 400,000 per year So the interest of 30 years is 40,000 times 30 years equals to 1.2 million But it's not calculated like this There are two types of bank loan cases The "Equal Funding Law" or "Equal Funding Law" In most cases, people who understand the principles of these two methods use the "Equal Funding Law" So let's focus on how the "Equal Funding Law" works First, the balance is that your monthly payment is fixed. If it is a 30-year loan, then from the first to the 367th period, the amount of the loan is the same. However, although the amount of your monthly payment is fixed, the capital and interest you pay in each period will change. 还是用刚才的例子你买了一套价值500万的房子贷款期成也就是350万年利率为4%贷款30年每月还按节那么第一步就是要计算出每个月的固定还款金额是多少其实这是一个相当复杂的公式长这个样子 But don't worry, Excel has a simple formula called PMT to complete this calculation Let's take a look equal to PMT The first parameter is the interest rate per month We are a monthly payment, so 4% divided by 12 months 第2个参数是总共多少期我们是367第3个参数是贷款金额350万第4个参数不需要填然后最后这里填入0代表月末还款如果是月初还款那就填1这时你就可以得到答案了每月按揭金额为16709.54元但是你还是不知道这利息究竟是怎么计算的30年下来你总共要支付多少利息 我們把這個還款過程完全拆解開來你就能完全明白等額本息內部的底層邏輯了首先我們列出來總共360期還款好那麼第一期我們實際需要支付多少利息呢非常簡單我貸款350萬元所以第一個月的應付利息是350萬乘以一個月的利息也就是年利率4/12=11666.67元 好,上面我们已经用公式计算出来了每个月固定还款金额是16709.54元既然我需要支付11666.67元的利息那么我第一个月支付的本金就是月还款金额16709.54元减去本月利息11666.67元等于5042.87元 Ok, let's look at the second month How much interest should you pay in the second month? The interest in the second month is no longer 3.5 million times the monthly interest Because do you remember that you have already paid the 5,000 yuan in the first month So when you pay the first term of the loan Your remaining capital will become 3.5 million minus the first month's capital 5,042.87 yuan Equals 349.5 million yuan So the interest you will pay in the second month is the remaining amount of cash 3494957.13 yuan times 4/12 equals to 11649.86 yuan which is 17 yuan less than the first month's interest But the interest is low, don't forget that your monthly payment is fixed So the amount of your monthly payment is much more The second month, the monthly payment amount is 16709 yuan minus the monthly payment interest Equals 5059 yuan 同樣的,我們來計算支付了第二期按揭之後的剩餘本金也就是本月還款前的剩餘本金減去本月支付了的本金所以你的房貸剩餘本金又少了五千多元每個月還款之後,我們記錄累積到現在我們總共支付了多少利息和本金 So, the interest paid in the first month and the interest paid in the second month are added. We have paid a total of 23,316.52 yuan. The capital is also added. A total of 10,102.55 yuan of capital has been paid. The third month is still the same. Use the remaining capital after the second quarter to calculate the monthly interest. Then use the fixed return on the amount to reduce the interest to get the monthly capital. Then update the accumulated interest and capital. Repeat the same calculation 360 times and you have completed the calculation Of course, in Excel, you don't really need to calculate 360 times As long as the formula is set, just drag it down and you have completed the calculation in a second Here we check if the calculation is correct Let's go straight to the last issue When we pay the 367th the remaining capital is exactly equal to 0 which is equivalent to completing all obligations of the loan contract Then we look at the accumulated capital is 350,000,000 yuan Not bad at all This is our loan amount Then we know that this calculation is completely correct Ok, then the answer we want to find at this time The loan of 3.5 million 4% annual rent How much interest do you need to pay in the next 30 years? The answer is here The total interest is 2515432.72 yuan Ok, the most important feature of this equation analysis method is The interest you paid in the first period is more, the capital is less As the remaining capital is less and less The interest you paid in the month will also be less and less The capital you paid will be more and more For example, in the previous period, you have to pay interest for 1.1 million yuan in the case of 16,000 yuan. Pay 5,000 yuan per month. After the third year, the interest will drop to about 10,000 yuan per month. This kind of decline is slow in the beginning, but it will be faster in the end. 從這張圖我們可以很直觀的看到這種現象紅色代表每月支付的利息藍色代表每月支付的本金到第十年以後每月支付的利息才會下降到每月九千元左右但到第20年已經剩下五千五百元左右每月支付本金的部分首次超過支付的利息發生在第153個月也就是第12年又9個月的時候 Now you know how to make this bill With this bill, you can know If you want to pay in advance at any time What is your balance? For example, when you suddenly got a lottery in the fifth year When you want to pay in installments once You look here The balance for the 60th month is 316,562.96 yuan 由於等額本息這種先息後本的特性所以當你在前期想要提前還款的時候你會發現你的剩餘本金是幾乎沒什麼減少的比如在還了三年的按揭之後你總計已經付出去了大約60萬元但這個時候你想提前還款的話你就會發現350萬的貸款剩餘本金還有大約330萬只減少了20萬另外40萬都付了利息了 Ok, now you have fully understood the principle of the mortgage loan There is another method called the balance of capital But this mode is used less I won't talk about it in detail Just skip it The balance of capital is the same in the entire payment cycle The amount of capital you pay for each period is the same The calculation method is much simpler 我們還是同樣的350萬30年4%的利息那麼既然367都要支付同樣金額的本金那麼每一期的應付本金就是350萬除以367等於9722.22元既然每一期本金金額是固定的所以這裡我們直接拉到底 After you have the capital, we will calculate interest with the remaining capital The first month's interest is 350,000/month So the total amount of your first month's return is 9722.22 yuan plus 11666.67 yuan Equals 21388.89 yuan 以後每個月在償還固定本金的前提下按照剩餘本金計算利息這跟前面等額本息的計算方法都是一樣的重複360次現在我們來檢查同樣的在最後剩餘本金為0累計償還本金為350萬計算正確 How much interest did you pay in 30 years? Only 210.5 million Less than 400,000 in the equivalent interest law Down to almost 16% The audience who are not familiar with finance may say Why don't you all use the equivalent capital law? Instead, use the higher interest rate equivalent capital law? There are two characteristics of the equal amount of money The first is that the monthly payment amount is not fixed The more the previous period, the smaller it becomes The second characteristic is that the previous period payment amount is relatively high For example, in the previous period of the equal amount of money The monthly payment amount is more than 16,000 yuan But the equal amount of money in the previous period of the month is up to 2.1 million yuan That's more than 5,000 yuan 31% of monthly pay is very high this situation will continue for 4 years monthly pay will be less than 20,000 until the 12th year monthly pay will be less than 16700 yuan this explains why most of the cases on the market use the equal pay method because for most people loan is because the money is not enough the pressure of paying the money in the first place is too great The second reason is that Unstable monthly pay For people with unstable income Also feel inconvenient and unstable From my perspective as a financial and investor I will never choose the equivalent of the capital As my mortgage This is because fundamentally The equivalent capital violates the meaning of my dare to buy a house When you use real estate as an investment tool, and the interest rate is low, you want to maximize the leverage, which is to borrow more money. For ordinary people, you can't find a long-term loan that is lower than the interest rate. So for me, an investor, whether it's the US dollar, the fund, the bond, etc., I have no reason to pay the interest rate in advance. 如果你看过我上一期金融科普的视频你就知道当你把手上多余的钱拿去还房贷的时候这就是你的机会成本于是你失去了投资更高回报项目的机会而等额本金法等于是提早的把更多的本金给还了那就违背了我DC贷款的意义了 这一段关于我本人为什么不会选择等额本金法的话你要是听懂了那么你就算是具备了初级杠杆投资的理念了但听不懂也不要紧以后再慢慢领悟有机会我也可以再深入做一期讲这个课题但这并不是今天视频的重点 好 那麼在完全理解了房貸的兩種計算方式以後我們來聊一聊現在很多人遇到的困擾如果說你的房子房價已經跌到低於你的剩餘房貸了你是否應該繼續還貸呢? In 2008, the US had a financial crisis The price of the house went up Many Americans chose not to pay the debt This is a strategic breach They don't pay the debt even if they have money Because they think Why should I buy something worth 80 yuan with 100 yuan? They just want to make a loss in time Let the bank take back their house But please note This is because the law on the US's debt-freeze Is different from China In China, the loan is considered as a "cash of the owner" In other words, when the bank can't cover the loan after the auction The bank can continue to pursue you personally For example, you can seal other properties, take your car away Or ask for your future income to continue to pay the loan etc. But in the US, the mortgage is a loan without any right to be owned. If the house price is soaring, you don't want to pay the mortgage, and the bank closes down the house, it is not enough to pay the remaining 10% of the deposit, then the bank can only accept the loss. Even if you have a few hundred million in your bank, and you have dozens of houses, the bank cannot continue to pursue you personally. In other words, the bank and the lender are actually taking the risk of losing their lives. 这时可能有人要跳起来骂中共无良了但是有一所疑虽然我经常批评中共但是这件事还真批评不了因为其实世界绝大部分国家的房贷都是有赘所全的反而美国是个特例而且严格来说也不是整个美国而是只有少部分州的房贷是无赘所全的贷款比如加州、华盛顿、亚利桑那、明尼苏达、夏威夷等等 作為我的觀眾如果你不是美國人或中國人而你正在考慮斷供那麼你必須先搞清楚你所在國家的房貸是否有追索權但大概率都是有的日本、台灣、新加坡、馬來西亞的房貸全都是有追索權的 有一点必须要留意即便是在美国你房贷断供了你只是不会被继续追索但是你的征信依然还是会受到影响的美国人如果信用分数低了那么以后所有类型的贷款利率都会变得非常高甚至连租个房都不容易 So whether the mortgage is cut or not, it is not just a financial problem. Because even if you continue to pay the mortgage, it is not worth it. But if you don't pay it back, you will be listed as a "lost person" by the court. In China, you will be restricted to flying. High-speed rail can't be used for the upper-level seats. Can't get into public service. Children can't go to private schools. etc. But if you say, I don't care about these things I'm already poor and I don't want to take the plane I don't want to be a civil servant High-speed railways are supposed to be the second-class I just want to know The house has fallen like this Simply from a personal wealth perspective I pay or not pay For long-term, it is a more cost-effective choice The answer to this question is Even from the perspective of pure finance and finance It may be more complicated than you think Because there are too many things to consider in it Now I will tell you how we can think about this question step by step First, we need to make a reasonable prediction of the future price of the house Is it going up or down? Or not going up or down? In addition to the trend, we also need to set a time limit for prediction No matter if you think the price will go up or down If this prediction has no time limit It is meaningless For example, you say that the price of Chinese houses will definitely go up again What is the meaning of going up again after 100 years? 我想把这个时间范围设置在未来10年是比较合理的10年以后的事谁要是敢斩钉截铁的跟你预测会发生什么那这种人要么是天真要么是骗子你千万不要信好那么在这个框架下未来中国的楼市有三种可能性第一未来10年不涨不跌维持现状第二房价持续下跌跌到谷底之后停止 第三,在未来十年内,房价恢复到2021年以前的高点,甚至再创新高,带领中国经济走向另一个巅峰。如果是第三种,你相信房价会回涨甚至再创新高,那就简单了,只要你有能力当然就应该继续还贷。但我认为这恰恰是三种可能性当中最不可能发生的。 Even if we ignore all the problems facing China's economy, China's real estate is facing two most basic problems now. The rapid aging rate and the birth rate of the population are constantly declining. These two problems are combined together and fatal. And when we look at the world history, we can see that the population aging rate and low birth rate are almost irreversible for a country. According to the current birth rate and population aging rate Chinese population from 2025 to 2050 Every year, it will decrease by 8.5 million people A very simple reason No one has no house needs Of course, the Chinese housing market is facing not only these two problems There are also the serious over-earning of the stock Economic slump Entrepreneurs' confidence in China's future The rate of youth unemployment is not low And so on are factors of decline The most important thing is that the attitude of young people towards the purchase of a house has changed fundamentally I have analyzed these in March this year Is there still hope in Chinese buildings? A large amount of data analysis was provided in the program If you are interested, there will be a link at the end of the video I will not talk about it here Since the price of the house is unlikely to rise in the next 10 years, there are only two possibilities left. In fact, whether it is to continue to fall or to maintain the current situation, as long as your current house price is lower than the remaining capital of your mortgage, simply from a financial perspective, continuing to pay mortgage is equivalent to you buying a thing that is less than 100 yuan. It must be not worth it. Suppose your mortgage is 3 million But your house is only worth 2 million Suppose your mortgage interest is 4% And you have to pay 10 years According to the equation analysis method I taught you You will find that you have to pay 3.65 million for the loan In order to get a house worth 2 million This is still the case that the house price does not continue to fall 当然利息部分可以跟你如果失去了房子以后所需要支付的房租来相互抵消那么你还是在用三百万来购买了一样价值两百万的商品可能有些人要说了没关系我不是只看十年的我准备把房子留给我的孩子再等个二十年三十年我就不信房价永远不会再涨了我相信中华民族的坚韧 But if you have watched the video I explained to you in the last episode about the value of money and the cost of opportunities you will know that this idea is wrong The 3.65 million you pay for the mortgage if you don't give it to the bank you can also leave it to your children If you don't pay the money to the bank you can start a business and invest in other places to make money Even if in 20 years, your house will grow back to 3 million, but that is 3 million after 20 years, according to the 4% annual rate, the price of the house today is only 136.9 million yuan. So if you leave out all other factors and only look at math, then you really shouldn't continue to pay back. 但这并不代表说老周今天在这里劝大家断供我并没有下这个结论因为正如我所说这并不只是一个金融问题拥有自己的房子所带来的安全感还有当私信人员所带来的心理压力对家里人的影响等等这些都是因人而异的有些人在乎有些人不在乎这些都不是能够单纯用金钱来衡量的 所以,與其在斷供的計算上花太多時間,我想給大家提供一些更加實際的建議。我認為,在你走上斷供這條比較極端的道路以前,我建議你可以先跟銀行協商。 協商什麼呢?就是讓你暫時只付利息不付本金你不要以為銀行都是牛逼紅紅的不可能跟你協商但今時已經不同往日了現在斷供的太多發牌方堆積如山根本賣不掉銀行慌得不得了 According to the data provided by China Real Estate Information Group (CRIC) In April, the new legal house was 3.04 million units The return rate was 53% But at the same time, the return rate of the legal house was 61% Only 1244 units were paid 一边是增加3万套另一边只卖出1200套在这种情况下,角色互换了现在不还钱的才是大爷因为银行知道把房子查封了他们也卖不掉,直接变成坏账现在银行坏账,行长终身追责所以据我了解现在很多人还不起房贷的时候银行主动求着他们只付利息只要不完全断供,一切好谈 所以你一定不要害怕去跟銀行談就說你還不出錢了先要求三年只付利息對方不答應再繼續談判是兩年還是一年只付利息有什麼好處呢就是為你爭取到了繼續觀望的時間 Now the interest rate of Chinese real estate is very low Paying interest is not a loss It's like paying rent If you cut off your only house You also need to rent a house outside Don't underestimate the time you have to fight for In any investment Information is everything As long as you don't pay the capital It doesn't count as you continue to buy this already unworthy house But at the same time, it also retains the right to continue to hold the house for you If after a few years, the property market is really back to normal, then you can continue to pay the interest. If it does not return to normal, but in the future, you only pay interest, then it is just going back to the original point. You are not losing money. You wait until the bank does not allow you to continue to pay interest, or the house price has fallen to the price of cabbage, then you can consider to cut the supply. 除了跟银行协商只付利息我还有另一个提醒一个半月以前5月20号中国央行刚刚宣布贷款市场报价利率LPR再下调十个基点五年期以上贷款利率从3.6%下降到了3.5%你的房贷是直接跟LPR挂钩的比如说如果你的贷款合同是LPR+0.5那么你的贷款利息原本是4.1%现在下降到4.0%了 But in fact, your mortgage interest rate will not change with every adjustment of LPR Most people's real estate loan contract will be set to a re-priced date Usually every year or every half year Suppose your contract is before April Then you have to wait until October The bank will start to use the latest interest rate to calculate interest 有些銀行的APP上可以查詢到重新定價日或定價週期你可以先看看自己什麼時候能夠享受到新的LPR如果還有很久那就去找銀行協商要求讓他們將條款改成每月重新定價那麼你下個月就可以開始以新的LPR來計算你的利息 现在中国正面临严重的通缩问题大概率要进入降息周期所以把重新定价周期缩短对你而言肯定是有利的每次央行下调LPR你下个月立刻就能享受到更低的利息当然这一点银行不一定会同意但值得试一试 Alright, these are my two suggestions One is to save money The other is to use a very low cost to fight for the time to continue to watch At the same time, I also left myself a right to choose So I think you should at least try to walk through this path first Instead of walking on the path of breaking the CCP and becoming a messenger Finally, I want to say We can't choose which country we were born in Will we encounter a good or a bad era? We can't fight against the red flow of history But we can choose to have a higher self-awareness Have better skills and knowledge To deal with the difficulties and opportunities that the times have left us This is the meaning of your following this channel 我是老周横眉冷对 誓言不諱我們下期再見