Hello my friends. Today is March 18th and this is my March FOMC debrief. So we just got finished with the uh presser and um I think it was a pretty hawkish conference and you can see that in the rates market as well. Uh suddenly you see the market pricing in fewer rate cuts. Now before we get on to what happened today, let's review a little bit. So the last time we had an FOMC meeting, we had a couple descents by Governor Moran, of course, and of course, Governor Waller as well, noting weakness in the labor market. Between then and now, a whole lot has happened. On the labor front, we did get a shockingly weak non-form print last month. We lost a lot of jobs and the unemployment rate ticked up a little bit. On the inflation front, honestly, it looks like we're kind of stuck. It looks like we're probably stuck around a 3% inflation and have been for some time. But of course, the big thing that happened over the past few weeks is the war in the Middle East. That's led to a huge energy shock and that's potentially uh going to feed into another wave of inflation. So today, what many people were looking at is how Cher Powell would um think about this inflation shock, this oil shock. And of course what I was personally looking for was what Cherpa would do uh as his chairmanship ends in the coming months. Now this quarter this is a March quarter uh meeting. So we also have the SCP dot plot. Looking at the dot plot. So the the FOMC the median FOMC participant didn't really change their expectations for policy. Still one cut this year, one cut next year. They did modestly upgrade their growth estimates for GDP. modestly raised their inflation forecasts and surprisingly did not really change their expectation for unemployment thinking that it would hold steady at 4.4% um this year. Now, the reason I think that this press conf Okay, let's move on to the press conference. Now, the reason I think it was hawkish, well, there's three reasons why I thought it was hawkish. First off, how is Cher Powell looking at the energy shock? Now, if you go to central banker school, they'll tell you that, you know, you got to look through these energy shocks, right? So, there's a couple reasons for that. One is that monetary policy uh acts with a lag. So central bankers think that when they do something with interest rates, there's a lag between when they hike rates or cut rates and when it impacts the economy. Maybe it's like 12 months or something like that. Again, no one really knows. But the point is is that if they change interest rate policy in reaction to the energy shock, you know, maybe 12 months from now the energy shock is long gone and so they basically overreacted. The second thing is, of course, that energy is energy inflation is basically transitory. Let's say that the oil price goes up $50 right now. I mean, we don't really expect it to go up another $50 next year, right? So again, this is basically a onetime change in the price level rather than a change in the rate of change, that is to say inflation. So you would look through it. So that's what the US did actually in 2003. Iraq invasion and early 1990s operation desert storm. Both of them had huge spikes in oil and the central bank looked through them and continued to cut. Now asked about this, Chowo was like, "Yeah, yeah, that's what we should do." However, and this is the big problem that many people have noted, we've just had a lot of shocks over the past few years. We've had COVID and we've also had the tariff shock. And so Charl was like, "Yeah, we should I want to really want to focus on what happens with the COVID shock." the sorry the tariff shocks first. So his expectation is that tariffs kind of one time change the price level. He wants to see that go through uh goods inflation first before he wants before he's willing to look through any energy prices. So again that's not super doubbish nor hawkish. It's kind of non-committal kind of waiting and seeing. So there was a lot of I don't knows that cher mentioned and that makes sense. We are in the fog of war. The second thing that I thought that was much more hawkish was how Cher Powell characterized the weakness in the labor market. So from my perspective, the labor market is quite weak. Uh if you look at what happened to jobs last year, basically almost all the job gains were revised away and of course last month big job losses. Now Cher Powell actually strongly deemphasized this. He was like yeah you know that job number stuff that's mostly because of changes in immigration policy. If you look at the unemployment rate, which he views as a better measure of supply and demand, you know, it's around 4.4%. So that's basically where it's been for several months. So he is doesn't is not signaling urgency uh about the labor market. And related to this is that Governor Waller, who was very worried about the labor market last meeting, did not descent to this meeting. Only one descent this meeting. That's from Governor Moran. So again, that shows you because Governor Mo because Governor Waller did not descent, that shows you that the FOMC uh is a little bit more hawkish now. So again, if he's not talking about uh weakness in the labor market and he's more emphasizing inflation, that suggests uh fewer cuts than than expected going forward. Now, the last thing that I thought was super hawkish, and this is what I've been focusing on is what Paul would do after his chairmanship ends. So, historically speaking, once your Fed chairmanship ends, you would step down uh from the Fed and then the president at the time would get to appoint someone else to fill your position. In Pyo's case, although his chairmanship ends in May, he's he could still be a regular governor and stay on the FOMC for a couple more years. Now, if he were to again what do what fetchers typically do and just, you know, ride off into the sunset, then President Trump could fill his spot and we could have again a more dovish composition in the FOMC. But, uh, this is what Pal said today. Uh, and while I'm at it, um, on the question whether I will leave while the investigation is ongoing, I have no intention of leaving the board until the investigation is well and truly over with transparency and finality. And I would refer you to the statement that was in the Fed's brief that you will all have seen. And I won't have anything more for you on that. On the question of whether I will then continue to serve as a governor after my term ends and after the investigation is over, I have not made that decision yet. uh and I will make that decision based on what I think is best for the institution and for the people we serve.
>> So it it's very clear that POW is basically standing up for himself and what he thinks as the interests of the public. So first off again there's that lawsuit the president launched against Powell and the Fed trying to I guess create a pretext to get him to quit. Now, Powell is standing firm, saying that as long as that lawsuit is ongoing, he's not going anywhere. Secondly, again, he brought this up himself. He's suggesting that whether or not he's going to stay at the Fed, he it's going to be based on his view of what's best for the institution, for the American people. That is him basically telling you that if he feels that the Fed is going to Fed's independence is going to be challenged, he's just going to stay there. He's going to stay there and do what he thinks is best. And because Powell has gravitas with and influence with the rest of FOMC, again, a lot of people there respect him. He's been at the FIT for a long time. He knows the people. Um so they're going to listen to Cher um Cher Powell, then future Governor Powell as he as the chairmanship goes to Kevin Walsh. And basically because of that influence I I could see POW becoming something like a shadowfed chair continuing to exert significant influence on how the mean thinks even though he's no longer formally chair. So this is something that's going to throw a wrench into um expectations that we would have a more politicized Fed that would be more amenable to Ray cuts as demanded by the president. So that's again something else that is sending a hawkish signal. So this is a super interesting and fluid situation. We'll see what happens. I continue to think that as the Oshock becomes longer, it's going to have a negative impact on growth and maybe after OPEX we could see more meaningful declines in the market. And I think what would happen is that the market would also become more focused on growth uh rather than inflation. That will feed into the Fed's reaction function. So, I'm not uh I I Fed is hawkish today, but I still think that they're going to end up uh cutting rates a few times this year. All right, so that's all I prepared for today. Talk to you guys Saturday.