[音乐]最近看到中国有个开出租车的师傅说我开出租开了一辈子封你来鱼里去的拼命赚钱好不容易花了几十万 終於熬到兒子今年大學畢業了好了現在我開夜班兒子開白班我那個去啊我不確定這是真事還是個段子啊但就算是個段子這也是來自中國老百姓對目前經濟狀況的一種切身感受和自嘲 Although China still insists that China's GDP is 5% But you see, these kind of announcements are basically closed comments or empty comments This is because the actual feeling of this number is really too different 现在只要一聊到中国经济不论你是打工人还是老板是体制内还是体制外几乎人人一脸愁容房价下跌消费降低青年毕业即失业中年担心降薪裁员小企业撑不下去大企业不敢扩张甚至以前最安稳的公务员现在也大面积面临降薪 都难 都难 现在都难马云这段让人心酸的表达似乎更符合中国人民的实际体感你没发现吗甚至连官方媒体过去一直讲的稳中向好从去年开始也不敢再讲了 人們的焦慮和恐懼往往來自於對未來的不確定性所以現在大家最想知道的應該是中國經濟見底了嗎?這樣的情況會持續多長時間究竟何時才能恢復呢?今天我們就來聊聊這個問題 一講到中國經濟目前的慘況一些樂觀者總是會告訴大家這是中國經濟正在面臨轉型的關鍵節點只要轉型成功了就好了他們會接著告訴你經濟有週期有起有落是正常的 What they want to say is actually the Eritrean theory This theory indicates that the economic cycle is a regular process of continuous repetition We just have to go through this part and go up again But I don't agree with this view 國內外經濟分析師和一些所謂的權威機構不管是看好中國的還是看衰中國的他們過去二十年來經常對中國的經濟走勢做出錯誤的判斷我認為恰恰就是因為這個所謂經濟週期的理念在人們的心目中過於根深蒂固我認為埃瑞特波浪理論只適用於一個已經成熟了的市場並不適用於所有的國家尤其是對中國這麼一個特殊的國家來說 我當然不是第一個提出有些國家是需要被特殊看待的人1971年諾貝爾經濟學獎得主GDP之父普遍被譽為史上最偉大經濟學家之一的庫茲涅茨就曾經說過世上有四種國家發達國家、發展中國家、日本和阿根廷 This is a bit humorous, Kuzunetsu wants to show the speciality of Japan and Argentina in the development process The economic rules we are familiar with cannot be directly applied to them Later, someone added that If Kuzunetsu can live to this day He may say that there are five countries in the world Then add China Although I don't have any title of the chief economist of some institution But in the past 20 years, my judgment of China's economy and my actual investment strategy for China I can say that I have never missed it In 2007, I was a senior analyst at the U.S. Bank of Japan When my career was at its peak, I still chose to develop in Shanghai At that time, Huifeng said that he would give me 30% to keep me. I didn't agree. At that time, I was so optimistic about China. From 2008 to 2015, in the 7 years, I invested 100% in real estate in Shanghai. And I put all my house in the biggest auction. I want all the banks can lend me. And I have been borrowing for 30 years. 我身邊的朋友和同事我都勸大家有錢就應該買房聽勸的基本都發了不聽勸的基本後來都後悔當然懂得入場只是一方面更重要的是懂得什麼時候離場 2015年以後我不再勸人買房2022年我開始賣房2023年底全部清空人民幣全部兌換成美元離境這段期間內我對身邊的朋友我都勸大家賣房同樣的聽勸的基本都感謝我不聽勸的現在比較麻煩 As long as you know the price of the house in China in the past few years, you will know that my departure is quite timely. I can't say that I left the factory at the highest position, but at the point of buying and selling at a low price, it's basically enough. Because I dare to buy a house, when I left the factory, the return on investment in the past 15 years was up to 900%. In addition, from 2008 to 2023, I left Shanghai for 15 years I didn't get a penny in A shares Even in June 2015, the stock market was in a frenzy The market index directly reached more than 5,000 The company's chairman and cleaning aunt Everyone is talking about the stock Everyone believes that this time it must reach 10,000 But I still have no heart I advise you not to enter the factory 還是同樣的結局聽勸的後來都感謝我救了他們身家性命不聽勸的有些到現在十年了都還沒解套我說這些沒有任何炫富的意思啊我是想告訴你我是有資格來評論這個課題的而我對中國的判斷往往比專業機構的所謂經濟分析師更加靠譜這是因為對於中國我沒有盲目的遵循這些書本上的經濟學理論 包括现在我在新加坡理财的银行我作为高净值客户他们每周都要给我发投资建议和全球经济分析报告我就跟客户经理说你们的国际分析还可以但显然你们对中国一无所知啊对中国的分析和预测简直就是胡说八道我劝你们的中国分析师真应该多看点老周的视频啊 My client manager also knows that my judgment of China is more reliable than their bank. Unfortunately, these analysts don't understand Chinese at all. They can't learn Chinese from me. After the old state sold its own melon and self-sacrifice, I said that the economic cycle is not suitable for China. 中國的所謂愛國人士們經常非常自豪的掛在嘴邊的一句話是什麼我們用30年的時間做完了西方300年的路然後再跟你說這是世界從所未見過的經濟奇蹟 This may be right, but since you are developing at a very special time, why do you think China can apply these economic cycle rules that are suitable for general countries when it comes to economic recovery? Have you ever thought that maybe China is not facing a cycle, but a bottleneck? 周期跟瓶頸不是一個概念周期給人的感覺就是肯定會回來的周期嘛 繞了一圈回到原點但瓶頸就不一樣了瓶頸不是一定能越過的你是需要滿足特定條件的 Of course, this does not mean that the process of China's economic development is completely different from everyone else. No, China has its own speciality, but it is also similar to many developed countries in history. For example, China is the same as many countries. From the period of rapid development of the first poor and the second white, it seems to have fallen into a middle-income trap. 對於中等收入陷阱很多人都已經有基本的了解但今天我們更深入一點去講大家都知道中等收入陷阱的意思是說落後國家因為勞動力成本低所以在國際競爭中具備價格優勢只要政府不是太差的一般上可以經歷一段高速發展的階段但隨著經濟的發展國民的工資也會逐漸往上漲於是就會逐漸失去了原本的低人權優勢和低成本優勢 Generally, when these countries are about to enter the high-income country The economy will not be able to move forward This is the so-called middle-income trap This is how the World Bank describes the middle-income trap 這些國家既無法在人力成本方面與低收入國家競爭又無法在尖端技術研發方面與富裕國家競爭換言之就是既失去了過去的優勢又沒有形成新的優勢根據世界銀行在2024年世界發展報告中指出自1990年以來也就是過去35年在100多個中等收入國家當中只有34個中等收入經濟體成功跨身高收入國家行列 But there are more than ten countries in this list which is about one-third of the countries Either they are good at joining the EU or they are good at new discovery of oil resources such as Qatar, Argentina and Saudi Arabia In other words, among the countries with more than 100 middle-income countries only about 20 countries rely on their own system reform and industrial upgrade to become a high-income country such as South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Israel etc. And even if you successfully cross the threshold of a high-income country, you may still be able to return to the country. For example, Russia and Argentina. Please note that the World Bank only talks about high-income countries, not developed countries. High-income countries are only divided according to the total income of the people, GNI per capita. The calculation method of the GNI per capita is a country's total income of the population. According to the definition of the World Bank, the RMBGNI must be higher than $13,845 to be considered a high-income country. The standard of developed countries should be higher, including education, medical, and the development of the system. For example, China has been a high-income country since 2012, but it has not reached the standard of developed countries. Until 2024, the RMBGNI in China was $13,500, but it has not reached the standard of high-income countries. Over the past 10 years, although China's human resources GNI has been pushing the standard line of high-income countries, but it has not been able to exceed it. The World Bank warned that if China does not reform, it will be trapped in the middle-level upper income stage due to growth fatigue. The International Monetary Fund (IMF)'s 2024 evaluation report also pointed out that China's potential growth rate will drop below 4%, and it is estimated that it will be difficult to break through the high-income threshold. In fact, the World Bank and IMF are saying that China has fallen into or is likely to fall into a middle-income trap. In history, the reason why the country fell into a middle-income trap is not only the loss of low cost but also the loss of the editing effect of learning and imitation. For the post-election countries, in the process of development, we can imitate the path that developed countries have already taken, avoid the mistakes that advanced countries have already tried, and avoid the exploration process, which can be less likely to go a lot of detours. Of course, the development is fast. But as the gap between developed countries and developed countries decreases, the things that can be learned and imitated are less and less, this advantage is gradually disappearing. But the loss of advantages is just one aspect Now some scholars think that this kind of "rear-end advantage" will even gradually turn into "rear-end disadvantage" This is the so-called "rear-end curse" Curse to the lead comer The theory of backward The theory of backward There are two aspects The first is the fragility of technical imitation The second is the difficulty of system transformation 技術模仿的惰性很好理解因為模仿別人成本低效益高因此就會形成一種模仿的路徑依賴我們都知道人是有惰性的那很多人沒有想過國家是由人構成的也是遵循人性的 這事你可能要說了誰說中國都是模仿沒有創新中國有華為有大疆中國的新能源車世界遙遙領先世界500強企業裡現在也有100多家中國企業首先啊我們說的創新是真正的革命性創新不是在別人的基礎上演化出不同應用型態的所謂創新 For example, when the world doesn't have the Internet, I invented the Internet. That's revolutionary innovation. In the event of the Internet, the Taobao beauty group DD was launched. That's not an innovation. Not to mention Taobao also has Amazon first. DD is because they have Uber first. For example, when there is no phone, I invented a phone That's called revolutionary innovation All people's phones are using physical keyboards When I launched a smart phone that doesn't need a keyboard at all That's revolutionary innovation After you already have a smart phone Make a triple-layer screen That's not a shake 再說新能源車從沒有電動車到有電動車那是革命性創新人家開源之後你的電動車產業才開始發展起來那不是革命性創新完成全球首個無駕駛員汽車的交付是創新往車上塞滿冰箱踩電大沙發那不是創新 很多愛國人士喜歡自豪地說現在世界500強企業當中有100多家中國企業這難道不算是實力的體現嗎2024年世界500強名單當中確實有128家中國企業上榜 But if you look closely, you will find that out of 128 Chinese companies, only 29 are private companies Among these 29, there are also Li Ka-shing's Changjiang Co., Ltd., Hong Kong's Youbang Insurance and Yihe Group Since we are talking about system oil, these are all the heritage of the British era It really has nothing to do with China Strictly speaking, there are only 26 The other 99 companies are state-owned enterprises, such as Chinese oil, Chinese oil, national power, or state-owned banks, etc. What do these enterprises eat? They are all capital monopolies. They rely on the 1.4 billion people who have no other choice and can only choose the enterprises. The listed companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Venture, Samsung, Inveda, etc. are the money of the whole world But the so-called top 500 companies in the world are basically the money of the Chinese This is why, although in the 500th world list, Chinese companies seem to have the second most seats in terms of numbers But in terms of profit, it is far behind the average level of other countries in the list For example, in 2022, the average profit rate of American companies is 11.3% But the average profit rate of Chinese companies is only 4.4% 2.5 times lower than American companies 美國企業總資產收益率為6.7%中國企業只有2.2%比美國企業低2.7倍所以不管是利潤率總資產收益率和淨資產收益率中國企業在跟所有上榜國家對比的時候全部都是墊底的 You should know that these data of Chinese companies are still equal to the data of private companies If you only look at the data of state-owned enterprises, it will be more miserable Some people may say No matter what you say China has had more than 120 world-class 500 companies since the first poverty strike Only in the United States It's enough I never deny the economic achievements of China in the past 20 years But what we are discussing now is the bottleneck It is a middle-income trap If China wants to cross the threshold of high-income countries or developed countries In fact, the number of companies that China has the strength is not enough Far from enough Today we talk about the successful enterprises in China Huawei, Dajiang, Alie, Tencent, Nindertal etc. It seems that Chinese enterprises have gone to the world But if we compare the number of 500 companies and the proportion of the population of the country In fact, China is still very far from the developed countries This comparison is absolutely meaningful Because how powerful a country is is largely based on how powerful your company is Your population is large You need more companies to support such a huge market economic growth This point is meaningless to see the state-owned enterprises State-owned enterprises are for maintaining the reputation Not for the world to earn foreign exchange Let's take a look at this table It's the data I've sorted out myself 2024年,美国拥有136家世界500强企业,100%全部都是私营企业美国人口3.33亿,也就是说每1亿人就有40.8家世界500强企业日本40家500强企业,2家国企,东京电力公司和日本邮政控股那就是38家私企相对于1.25亿人口,平均每1亿人有30.4家世界500强私企 France 25+500 companies, 4 state-owned enterprises, 21 private enterprises Compared to 68.2 million people, each 100 million people have 30.79+500 private enterprises Korea 15+500 companies, only one Korean power company is a state-owned enterprise 14 private enterprises, 5,160 million people, each 100 million people have 27.13+500 private enterprises 台灣有5家500強企業扣除台灣總由4家500強私企相對於2337萬人口每1億人17.12+500強私企那中國呢26家私企相對於14.1億人口相當於每1億人只有1.86+500強私企就別說跟美國日本德國法國相比了就是比台灣都差了10倍以上 有些人可能要不服了說我們的體制就是國家主導的你別跟我說什麼私企好 就算我們把央企國企全都算上把香港公司全都算上128家世界500家企業相對於14.1億人每1億人也就9家500家企業 按人口比例來看如果中國要達到韓國的高度相當於需要392.5家世界500家民營企業如果要達到日本的高度需要429家500家民營企業要達到美國的高度則需要576家500家民營企業而現在只有26家距離還太過遙遠 26家當然已經是不錯的成績但遠遠不到天天吹噓自己遙遙領先的地步以上是關於模仿的路徑依賴導致企業創新不足的問題但對路徑依賴還只是個小問題真正困難的是後發劣勢的第二點制度轉型的困境 經濟政治社會是一體的如果只有表面上的所謂自由市場但沒有相應的政治社會變革比如在民主法治和產權保護體系上的改革那麼經濟不可能真正跨入發達國家的門檻 In fact, Asia's South Korea and Taiwan are the best examples They have all experienced a period of high-speed development under the dictatorship system Then after becoming a democratic system Only really entered the industry of high-income countries Of course, this is already a long talk I won't talk more And the CCP itself of course understands this principle Solve these problems Not only to carry out economic system reforms and also political reform, especially the reform of the party and the country's leadership system. Without the success of political reform, economic reform would not have been possible. The results we have achieved are not just for the sake of the people. 還有可能得爾復失在我看來這才是中國要跨出中等收入陷阱的最根本障礙因為如果你不知道一個問題的答案是什麼那你可以親近所能來尋找這個答案但最可怕的是你明明早就知道答案但你卻無論如何無法按照這個答案去執行 中共现在就是这个情况他们知道只有政治改革才能解决中国的经济问题但偏偏这是他们不可能去执行的因为这个答案违背了他们那个唯一不可动摇的底线保证红色江山永远不倒所以在我看来中国经济面对的不是周期而是瓶颈 如果你問我,那中國經濟見底了嗎?最壞的情況是什麼?那肯定是還沒有見底的事實上現在才剛剛開始如果你在一線城市很多人到現在都沒有感受到二三線城市的那種蕭條東北證券首席經濟學家傅鵬在去年11月底的一場內部演講就已經說過了經濟下行的時候一定是先衝擊底層人 當經濟增長消費升級的時候肯定是富人先買豪宅富人先開超跑富人先吃海鮮後面才到老百姓開始吃上海鮮老百姓開上汽車但是當經濟開始收縮的時候是倒過來的第一步先收縮的是底層 From 2019, the lower class people started to feel pain But the suffering of the lower class people is not affected by the macroeconomic data So many middle-class people who are in good age say No, I'm fine, everyone around me is good Actually you don't feel the problem just because it hasn't affected your class China's economy started to slide down since last March Why? Because the fire has been burning from the bottom to the middle class Then the middle class will feel more and more uncomfortable The company is not growing The annual bonus is reduced Which friend is fired again? The small boss thinks money is getting harder and harder to earn I can't predict the worst situation But the best situation is gradually returning to 2010-2012 You may think that this is no big deal It's okay to have a few decades ago Indeed, many overseas anti-communist people say that the Chinese economy is not good It's like the Chinese economy will collapse overnight People will not be able to survive I'm afraid this is also a wish But as a developing country, you are not allowed to decline You don't grow, but others will The standard line of the world bank high-income country will also grow year by year If you don't grow, you are actually retreating compared to the world Think about it, a decade ago Was it only a matter of time before going abroad? Going to Simatai is also worth showing off in the circle of friends But later, maybe going to Europe, America, Australia is a more luxurious trip Ten years ago, buying a Benz BMW was a big deal But later on, in the first-line city, BBA basically became a street car At least you have to open a jewelry store to be considered a small rich Ten years ago, is it worth showing off to buy an Apple phone? Otherwise, why did the iPhone 6 have a nickname called "Shen Liu" This is the young man who said that an Apple phone needs to sell "Shen" But after Apple's 10th anniversary, it was hardly heard of this kind of joke. Apple phones are now just a normal product. Why is that? In fact, it's because Chinese people's per capita national income has increased. From low-income countries to middle-income countries to high-income countries. The distance from the world has shrunk. 其实iPhone6是在2014年推出的也就11年前微信也就存在了15年所以你仔细想想中国人真的才富了没多久只不过中国是个爆发户在极短的时间内获得了极大的财富 When China stops growing, or the growth rate is lower than the global average level, and gradually return to the economic level 15 years ago, what kind of feeling will the people have? The top wealth and the core of the system, they will not be affected, but the number of rich people will be less and less. For Chinese, it's not cheap to go to Simatai It's not easy to buy luxury brand The business is getting harder and harder for the lower class It's hard to find a job Life is getting harder and harder We have to work hard for our livelihood In the end, the Chinese nation will not be able to make a great comeback, but will not return to liberation overnight. It can only be said that the economic achievements achieved in the past ten or twenty years will be lost as Wen Jiabao said. It's like doing nothing for these years. Japan has lost ten years, how many years will China lose? Some people may think that Don't worry, Japan has lost 10 years, isn't it good now? But don't forget, before the Japanese real estate bubble broke out In the late 80s to early 90s of the last century Japan's total income of the people's army and the people's economy has been the top three in the world for years Even surpassed the United States After 10 years, the Japanese GNI fell from the top 3 in the world to the 25th place But the average of the 3.9 million dollars per capita is still far above the average of the high-income countries 13800 dollars So the Japanese people have never suffered It's like from a top rich man to an ordinary rich man But the Chinese people's GNI has just reached the edge of the high-income country If it's lost for 10 or 20 years Suppose it's dropped to 22 like Japan Then it will fall from the 64th to the 86th Then you see who is the same level Libya, Albania, and what else Masul, Chindal, Tuvalu, these countries you have never heard of 那同樣是失去10年的話中國人的體感就要比日本人難受多了我講這些不是要製造焦慮更不是在幸災樂禍我有非常多的好朋友在上海我也希望他們可以過得很好 We say that people cannot change their luck, but they can do it in the right way Luck is a choice, whether you believe it or not But if we look at it scientifically, it is actually to improve your own cognition To make reasonable judgments on the future economic trend And then make the right decision in your personal life From the big picture, should I stay in this city or go back to my hometown? Should I buy a house now? Is it too risky to start a business? What skills should I have? And should my children go to college? What kind of profession should they choose? 再到日常生活当中我是否应该减少不必要的消费把更多钱留作应急储备社保应不应该交我爸妈的养老金够不够用我们家生个病有没有能力扛过去对一些有条件的人来说甚至是我该不该放弃现有的一切移民到国外去 These are the things that many people need to consider now. As a self-media person, what I can do is to provide you with the corresponding knowledge, data and judgment logic every week, and lead you to make the best choice according to your situation.