I think most people say that they want to put the customer front and center but it's not easy to go and do that. The initiative we have inside the company is entitled every customer has a name. It means we treat you as a person not as an account not as a line almost like you know if one of my family members had a problem how would I want the company uh to treat them? And so there are tons of small things that basically assure that we're putting a customer front and center. And my view is that customers fire companies all the time in quiet ways because they feel disrespected. [music]
>> So Dan, thanks for sitting down with HBR.
>> That's a pleasure, Audi.
>> All right, so I want to ask you, you're at Verizon. You you turned down the job, as I understand it, twice, maybe more than twice, before you agreed to take it. What made you want to get back in the game?
>> Well, I turned it down because I was very happily retired. I was uh living on our ranch in Montana with my beautiful wife, who I love very much.
>> Yeah. Notice the cowboy boots.
>> Yeah. Yep. Always with me. I wasn't looking to come back into uh corporate life. Um but, you know, I was on the board. as a lead director, we needed to make a change. I felt a keen sense of loyalty to the company and I felt like the company had a tremendous amount of assets that we could leverage and that there was a real opportunity to take a iconic American company and you know at least have the shot at turning it around. And so, you know, after a lot of discussions with my wife, you know, I I agreed uh reluctantly to go do it. But here I am, you know, 9 months into the job and I'm loving it.
>> But what was wrong? Like what at a high level, what was wrong with the company?
>> You know, we had been losing market share uh for 5 years. We went from having the largest market cap uh in the industry to having the lowest. We had the lowest PE multiple which you know is the market's way of saying that they don't really believe in your growth uh going forward. Our churn rates uh were going up, our customer satisfaction results were going down. So, you know, there's just a ton of things and I think inside the company really importantly, we were willing to be prey. Um, we were willing to gently seed market share to our competitors. We weren't playing to win. It was obvious we needed to make a change. I think the company for a long time had relied on its engineering prowess and it's not enough uh anymore and we had put the network at the center of everything that we do as opposed to the customer. And then I also think culturally, you know, it's a proud company. It has a lot to be proud of, but that also means that you're resistant to change. That you look back at what you did and you want to repeat it. And in the era that we live in right now where change is accelerating at an increasingly hard to imagine pace, you know, we were falling behind. I always say at almost every company meeting, when the pace of change external to a company is faster than the change of pace internal, you're falling behind. And we were falling behind because we were risk averse. Um, we were hierarchical. We love our process. Um, you know, we love to show our work, but really, you know, I'm very much like, I trust that you're doing good work, but I want to see the outcomes and I want to know when those outcomes are coming. I think we're not imagining enough like what kind of role can we play in the age of technology, in the age of AI. and looking backwards to previous success we had as opposed to what success we might have in the future.
>> So, you know, companies talk all the time about wanting to be customer obsessed. For Verizon in particular, which, you know, probably a lot of customers view as a utility. They just want it to work. You know, they're not sure they want a relationship with you, but they want it to work. What does customer obsession mean for you in this context? Yeah, I think most people say that they want to put the customer front and center, but it's not easy to go and do that. Um, inside the company right now, we don't say, you know, customer centricity or customer obsessed. The initiative we have inside the company is entitled every customer has a name. It means we treat you as a person, not as an account, not as a line. um almost like you know if one of my family members had a problem how would I want the company uh to treat them and that is hundreds of things is when you come into the store how quickly do we start to serve you do you understand the plans that we have in front of you are they too complex for you to understand are we trying to prey on complexity to drive profitability or can we make them simple and easy to understand when you call our customer service centers. Um, do we treat you with respect and empathy? Customers fire companies all the time in quiet ways because they feel disrespected. They feel like there's got to be a better way than this. You know, it's too hard to be a part of your company and we have to have a great network. I want us to have the best network uh in the country. We are part of the critical infrastructure uh for America and we take that very very seriously. But it's not enough to be fully differentiated. You know, we just launched a whole host of new things where we've simplified our pricing plans. We've put loyalty. So like if you've been a customer for a long time, we want to reward you for that. We want you to be excited about being a customer every day. We're moving into an AI world right now. And our service is going to be more important than ever in terms of connectivity, AI advancements, how you use AI, what's the right way for you to use AI, how you jin up agents, you know, in a safe way. we can be a part of that new infrastructure going forward and that's an exciting part and a different way of thinking about Verizon going forward and a place where I think we can add a lot more value to customers around security other things like that.
>> Are you essentially you know accepting lower revenue temporarily to kind of build longer term loyalty is that is that what that means with simplified plans that give people only what they what they want and need? No, I don't think that being customer centric means being less than fiscally responsible back to your shareholders. In fact, I think it can be the opposite. You know, what was happening to us before uh was our churn rate was going up because people were unhappy uh with us. We were raising prices. we weren't treating them with the respect they wanted. You know, plans were confusing to them. And you know, the first thing I did uh when I came in is I said, "We're not going to raise prices without real value, and we're going to invest in the customer experience, and we're going to create a war chest to go and do that. And we're going to start growing our customers because if you start to grow your customers because churn starts to come down, then actually your revenues start to increase. And if you can be efficient in the way that you do business, your top and bottom line and your customer satisfaction can all move in the same direction. Now, [clears throat] that's not an easy equation to go and do and you have to be willing to take difficult decisions early on to make that happen. So I think if you do the right things, make the difficult decisions, um, challenge the culture, um, inspire people to do great things that you can that you can satisfy customers, you can inspire employees, and you can inspire your shareholders at the same time.
>> So it's never easy to come in. And I mean, you were on the board, but you know, essentially came in as an outsider.
>> And even though you've had a great track record at PayPal and elsewhere,
>> you know, people were resistant to change, right? So, uh, it's never you just come in and say, "We're going to do this and everybody says, "Hooray." Talk about, you know, the the bumps along the way to to get the team, the staff, the company excited in these ideas or or willing to explore these ideas. You know, I'd love to hear what what's worked and what hasn't.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, you're exactly right. People are resistant to change. You know, it's ironic that the one constant in our universe is change, right? And uh and change is happening at an accelerating rate right now. But for whatever reason, humans hate change. You know, people who win the lottery, which you have to admit is a good change, right? you've just won the lottery often suffer divorces, lose friends because it's such a big change in their life. I think as a leader you need to do three things simultaneously and you need to do them particularly well. The first thing is you need to tell it like it is. I mean without sugar coating it at all. My view is every employee is an adult. They probably already know what's going on. They're just waiting for leadership to admit it. Um, and you know, my first all employee meeting, actually, every single all- employee meeting, I have no slides. I have no notes.
>> I want to come to those meetings.
>> Yeah, they're good. They're they're they're good. Um, yeah. I have a cup of coffee in my hand and I basically just talk from the heart like just like this is what I see. And you know, I said, "Look, I I know we have a lot to be proud of as a company, but the fact of the matter is we are losing. And I know that's actually really hard to hear that we're losing. And that just does not work for me." And it I know it does not work for you either, but we need to play to win like it. We need a full scale internal kind of revolution and cultural reshift where we play to win. And that's not a marketing slogan. That's that is a a way of life inside the company. And I talked about what's getting in the way of that. you know what's happening in our culture to get away from that like you know on a scale from one to 10 this company is traditionally like a two in terms of being risk averse like I'm a one when it comes to the integrity of our financial results cyber security I have no tolerance for any risk in that but trying new things failing learning from them moving forward I'm probably an eight or a nine on that And so the company just needs to it needs to feel like it can take risks, that it can fail, that it's okay to go do that. We're going to learn from it. Everybody wants to play for a winning team. Nobody wants to be on a losing team. So that's the first thing you need to do. We also need to invest in the customer. Like we need money to go and do that. Um, I talked about um the need to create that war chest and that was going to result in layoffs. I made the hard decision and it, you know, and it was my decision. Uh, you know, I worked with my team on it, but I take the responsibility for it. Um, you know, we laid off 13,000 people, you know, in like in month two and that was as and I was in front of the whole company talking about that saying that laying off even one person, one person because it affects their family, their friends, colleagues who have worked for them is painful. But our job is to make sure that we are as efficient as we can be, that we create this war chest. And I said, like, we're going to do this layoff, but we're going to take most of those dollars, and we talked about $5 billion of opex savings we're going to do and invest it back in the customer. Um, so that we could be a great company going forward, so that we could reclaim our market leadership, become one of the most trusted companies in the industry. And when we started going through that, that would feel great, you know, that it would feel difficult and disruptive at first, but like I'm playing for like what are we trying to accomplish? Like what is our vision going forward because people need to be inspired as well.
>> So, so what are they like like what are your employees thinking about? Yeah, I think what they are really motivated uh about right now is that we are playing to win, you know, that we are trying to be um a trusted company and that they see that we can do that. Like early successes are really important in these things because once people start to see success happening, they really rally around that. like the first quarter, you know, I came in in October. We had been losing subscribers uh for a long time. We put on something like 650,000 subscribers that first quarter because I was like, we are going to play to win. Like, we're going to do what we need to go do. We we'll be fiscally responsible, but we're going to win. And our stock went up, you know, that day by the most it had gone up in 18 years. And winning is contagious. You have to see that. And I think people also they were yearning to play for a winning team. They Nobody wants to be in a bureaucratic organization. Nobody wants to be in a hierarchical organization. They want to have permission to be their best selves uh going forward. And you know, we also push them hard. One of my sayings is that every single day matters here. I want to see improvement every single day. Uh and there's an intensity uh about that. There's a saying that heaven and hell are the same place. It's just heaven for some and hell for others. And you know, for me, like working hard, being disruptive in the market, putting customers at the center, being on a winning team, like being available any time to go make these decisions. To me, that's like heaven. I love that. Some people don't like that, and that's okay as well. Like, but that's that we are not the company for that right now. And so I think we're getting the people uh who are now inspired to be here, who want to make us better and better and better. Um and we have not just kind of defined what reality is and created the vision of where we want to go to, but we have a road map on exactly how we're going to get there. And I think everybody understands that. They're bought in. We have a ton to execute against still obviously Audi, but um but we're making good progress. I'm really proud of the team.
>> Yep. You talked about trying to be a truth teller and you've developed a reputation, maybe cultivated a reputation about being a trutht teller about AI. What is the truth about AI in business? Truth is a subjective thing. Often it's, you know, your set of circumstances, how you see things and uh and I may see them differently. Um so I don't think there's any absolutes in that and especially when you're thinking about the future um as well um because the future is an uncertain place and so what I do try to be is as authentic and honest as I can be about how I see the future uh playing out and what I've said is that AI is going to be a part of our future and that every single one of us needs to know how to use the tools [snorts] of our time. And you will be better at your job. You will be better in life if you understand how to use and capture the benefits of AI. So, we've put in place gigantic training programs, full week-long training programs on using AI for all employees. I've also put into place extensive kind of reskilling programs for employees who might be affected by AI going forward. In other words, you know, they're displaced uh by AI. I want to make sure that they um have all of the tool sets uh and access uh to be successful in whatever their next chapter uh might be. But I don't think we should um underestimate the impact of AI. And I want to be as honest about that as I possibly can. I don't know what the future is going to hold. I think we all need to be quite humble about that because things are changing so quickly. But I do know that technology and successive waves of technology, whether it be AI, then quantum, then robotics, are going to radically change the way we work and the way we live. And I want to have that conversation as transparently and as honestly as I possibly can. Obviously, we don't know the future, but you know what what m maybe what are some of the early use cases that tell you, yeah, we could accelerate here, here, here, and be a very different company.
>> Well, first of all, I think um the value that we offer to consumers is going to be radically shipped uh reshipped um by AI. I don't think we'll just be a connectivity company going forward offering wireless uh and broadband. I think will be a integral part of how consumers use AI. I think we can put a AI fabric uh over our network. I think we can do things that enable consumers and small businesses to take full advantage of AI in their lives. That could be things like token packages where you know people buy tokens from us and we're an orchestration layer on top of the network where we cost optimize the use of those tokens for you because as a consumer there's certain LLMs that are good for certain jobs but they may cost more and there's certain jobs that you may want to use where you can go to a different LLM that costs less. Um, but you as a consumer may not know that, but we as a network will know that. And so we could cost optimize the use of tokens. And I think that tokens are going to be the coin of the realm uh going forward. We could offer a safe place uh in our network because you know we have 95 million you know people in the country that use us where if you want to utilize an agent you can utilize it in the context of our network not get a Mac mini on the side to hook up to and we could provide that secure environment uh for that. So I think what we offer going forward could be very different than what we offer today. On top of the connectivity we'll also be a part of the AI infrastructure uh in the company. We'll connect these data centers through dark fiber and lit fiber. We have the capability by retrofitting all of our central offices into edge computing data centers uh to take inference out to the edge uh for applications that need low latency like remote surgery or autonomous uh uh driving you know vehicles. It's a radically different value proposition that adds much more richness to the depth of the relationship that we have with consumers and businesses. And so I think AI will enable us to be way more productive. We'll get more things done, but also really importantly increase our customer satisfaction levels dramatically. So what's what's the plausible sort of darker scenario? I mean I I I feel like you know tech CEOs all the time are saying things that alarm us about you know we have 500 days until AI will you know something bad sounds like it's coming and and you know obviously you know job losses are a certainty whether net job losses are I don't know but what's what's the plausible dark side and how do you how do you think about that? How do you lead um with that? If you think about the speed that AI is uh developing, there going to be all sorts of considerations uh to think about. I mean, three years ago when these models first came out, they were great, but they couldn't even do math, right? Remember, like they couldn't really multiply. The models that we're using today are the worst models that we will ever use. Open AAI is going to put out four iterations uh of their model between now and the end of the year. Every one of them will be substantially better. We are on the cusp of what's called recursive self-learning for these models which basically means that the models will write themselves. No human intervention. We're probably 6 to 12 months from that. You've got quantum coming. You know, we're preparing for quantum. And the way that I think about quantum is everything times 1,000. I mean, it's just like it is another step function change. And then several years later, you've got humanoid robotics um behind that. Um so obviously there are a lot of things that are going to change uh in our world. I think there is no question uh in my mind that there is going to be disruption. We don't know exactly what that's going to look like because it's the future. But the way that I think about life in general and the way that I think about things is it scenario planning like okay we don't know exactly but let's scenario plan like what could happen and so as I look function by function I can see disruption in various functions and the question really is how do we get ready for that how do we provide the right reskilling the right training like We when I when I did this initial layoff, we put in place a $20 million uh fund. We're the first company to go and do that for AI reskilling and training. I actually don't think that's enough going forward. I think you know we are going to double or maybe triple that amount uh over the next one to two years to make sure that not only are all employees inside Verizon prepared for future one however that future may play out but also the communities that we serve like we'll go into various cities various small businesses that may not be experts at how to use agentic forms of AI going forward and help them uh with that because I think as leaders we have a responsibility to go and do that like if there's going to be you know a two to five year trough you know where there's potentially more unemployment that's not good uh for our economy that's not good for our country. That's not good for any of our companies. And so I think all of us who have positions of responsibility um we all need to step up. We can do our part and will do our part, but I do think there's going to be disruption and we need to be ready for that.
>> So I want to talk about leadership sort of at a at a high high altitude. You know, you weren't looking for a CEO role. You took it. You know, there there must be some wisdom accumulated over the years. I'm interested. You know, you come into a CEO CEO role. It's different from your first many many years ago. You know, what what what did you learn in terms of, you know, CEO needs to do this, does not need to do this. You know, what was the wisdom that you accumulated?
>> Uh you're right. You know, you there's no substitute for uh a lot of years of of experience because you go through a lot. You go through ups and downs. What I tell people here I think for a leader is one you need to be humble. I mean and and what I mean by humble is you don't know it all. Like that is 100% an accurate statement. And if you do think you're the smartest person in the room, you're just in the wrong room. You know what I mean? Like it's just like get out there. There's too much going on. I mean it's just changing so rapidly. We need to be learning all the time. And that means that things that we thought were certain before are probably no longer certain. You know, you need to kind of challenge yourself continually. You know, I I have this saying that, you know, I never want to stand still because when you do, you start falling way behind on it. I also think um being authentic, you know, is is like there's a superpower in that, you know. I never want to talk in corporate speak. I never like I just want to be me because it's the easiest thing that that I can be. And people see that, you know, it's approachable. Um they know that they can talk to me about anything. They know I'm going to be as truthful as I can be about where we're going. And I'm also very honest to say like I don't know what that future is going to be. And I think people really respect that. I think leaders need to be very different than they used to be in a time of tremendous change. I think we need to inspire and I think we need to admit when we're wrong and course correct. So that can't be enough though to be humble. I mean, there are a lot of humble, authentic people out there.
>> Not that many,
>> but [snorts]
>> Well, [laughter] okay. I mean, no, I agree those are great attributes, but but there probably a lot of humble authentic guys out there. Uh, you know, the ability to to inspire, I get, but but there's got to be more than just,
>> okay, I I'm I'm just like this at home. You know, I what you see is what you get. I mean, there have to be other kind of skills, attributes, approaches that are key to doing this job successfully. Well, I mean, they're the basics, you know, like you've got to be able to work at a very intense level. You have to have extremely high expectations and insist upon them. You need to be able to make very difficult decisions and stand up to them. People need to know that you're going to lead. you're going to be uncompromising uh in that and um that you have an expectation that you're going to win in the market. And I think, you know, I'm a fighter. Um but I mean like a real fighter like I've done mixed martial arts for like 40 years. Um
>> thank you for the warning.
>> Yeah. You're welcome. And I've learned a ton uh from that. Be very cool, calm, collected, you know, in very high stress situations. I feel like as a leader, you can never be too up or too down either because good things are going to happen. That's great, but they're going to be followed by difficult things and that's also okay. You'll learn from those. I think those are kind of like just from my perspective, you know, the basics of of leadership. And then I do think those traits on top of those are really important, you know, the being humble, being authentic, not talking from notes, you know, like just and being willing to say the same thing that you say internally, publicly. Like there's no like it's great because there's no uh you don't really have to think that much story straight [laughter]
>> exactly what did I say over here or what did I say over here it's very consistent
>> so for Verizon so this is a turnaround you've used that term
>> when does it end you know when do you [laughter]
>> you know it it probably you know yeah you'd expect me to say this probably never friends. But I think but that's not really your question. So, um I think we have like in my view there's kind of a a three-year plan that we're under right now. The first year is about admitting the issues that we have, you know, confronting them headon. uh putting into place a fully comprehensive transformation program. We have like 10 work streams. We have like 400 initiatives in them. Like everyone in the company is engaged in those. I meet every single week on those. I spend hours on every single one of the uh 10 work streams. We have the leaders of the company involved in all of them. Year two is institutionalizing that like you know okay we're making that transformation right now like let's kind of like see the results course correct solidify and then year three we kind of turn into an AI native uh company we are part of the AI infrastructure um and we've transformed like who we are as a company
>> so I guess another way of saying it what would have to true for people to say Dan Chman fundamentally changed Verizon?
>> Well, I think you you'll see it um in all of our metrics. You know, you'll see it in our customer satisfaction results. You'll see it in our churn rate. You'll see it in our employee satisfaction results. You'll see it that we are truly AI native. I I I think to become AI native the technology is going to be there. Yeah. There's no question about it. I I mean I think in two years time we're approaching AGI if not at AGI. Two or three years you know we're at quantum by 2030 at the latest you know you're there. So I think the technology will be there. I think the most successful companies will have figured out culturally how to adapt to that. I think that is probably the biggest challenge for uh any company because people can be scared of all of the change. They can be scared of like what could AI do to my job, you know, that kind of thing. And so I think um the issue um that we will all face is how do we adopt it? Um and I think again there like in our network teams like when they see what we can do in terms of improving the network by running these things autonomously. when we look at our cyber security um and we see like how much better we can be than we've been uh in the past. And by the way, I think we've been amazing in the past, but we're living in the time of AI. It's not good enough uh for how we've been. I think people can get really excited about that. There's a lot to be very excited about on the AI front. You know, people talk about, okay, is there going to be disruption? there is going to be disruption, but we've had a lot of disruption in our lives. Um, and you know, humans are amazingly adept at moving through it. Um, people always have tragedy in their life. Somehow they bounce back uh from that. and and I feel like the utilization uh of AI, how AI native we are as a company, how we've been able to adapt it and what that's done for all of the constituencies that I serve will be the legacy that I hope to leave.
>> Dan, this is a great conversation. Thank you.
>> Yeah, thank you so much. I appreciate it.
>> [music]