[Music] Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Market Future Show. We are live and boy oh boy, what a Friday. This is about to become or actually it's not Friday. I've missed my uh I missed my job on Friday. It's about to become a pretty exciting Monday morning as we transition from Sunday night into into the market open. You know, obviously I can't wear a hat because, you know, there's no cap about the fact that we are going higher, folks. We are going higher, ladies and gentlemen. The futures, for those that haven't seen it, are green, green, green, green across the board. S&P 500 up 1%, the NASDAQ up 1%. Small caps up 1.13. The VIX down 7.8, which is great to see. The VIX was at 25 last week, now potentially going to open up uh below 18, potentially even below 17 where it was two weeks ago. And then you got the Dow Jones basically hitting a all-time high at 47,530, up almost a percent. This is because it likely is signaling that we have a trade deal with China. We got a lot to talk about when it comes to China. So, we'll talk about that. Um, but it's about to be an exciting exciting exciting uh overnight markets. That's to say the least. Dude, I just didn't feel like wearing a hat today. That's all. I didn't feel like wearing a hat. This is the first time I actually took my hat off in a while. So, it's not like the official hairstyle or anything. I just said, "You know what? Screw it. I don't care." So, we took the hat off and uh the hair is going all crazy, but there you go. I'm sorry I couldn't make it on Friday, guys. I just I don't know what happened on Friday, but after the close or after the open, I just didn't feel good, bro. Like, I didn't feel My voice was being weird. My like legs were shivering. Like, I I think it it's the the hot to cold weather. Something happened on Friday. I even called Steve. There he is right there in the chat. We'll uh we'll we'll be going over to his alternative assets weekly once we're done with the future show. But I even called him. I was like, "Bro, I don't think I can do the show." He was like, "What? You're going to miss the show?" I'm like, "You know, I I really don't like missing my show. You guys know me. I've I've only missed the show because of the dentist, which is a, you know, good reason to miss the show if if you have a dentist that looks as nice as mine." Um, and then and then I'm traveling. Otherwise, I don't miss the show. So, I don't know what happened on Friday. I just didn't feel good. But I'm back and uh and very excited to be here. Now, a couple things before we get into everything we got going on. We got 12 minutes until the overnight markets open and then after those overnight markets where these prices are about to be crazy. Bitcoin, Ethereum, everything's mooning. Then we'll get into the reasons for why all of this is happening along with obviously what's going on with China which is kind of creating this impact. Bitcoin got to 115.5. We're at 114 right now. And then Ethereum finally breaking over 4,4100 which is very nice to see from Ethereum. Um over the weekend over the weekend I read a book I and when I mean I actually read the book I mean I was up last night. I didn't read the entire thing. I'm still have a couple chapters left but I legit read a book. So there is a book coming out called the philosopher in the valley by Michael Steinberger. He is someone who basically this is basically an autobiography on Karp and before the market futures stream right now I um I interviewed him for the past two hours and it was fascinating to interview a guy who Karp had given a lot of access to over the past five years and that's why I think I read the book. You know there there's two takeaways from this. Number one I realized if I actually care about the subject I'm willing to read. Like I was up last night. I can barely watch a movie for five minutes before checking Twitter. I was reading through the book. I was like I was licking my finger to come to get to the next page. Like I just it's like if I'm interested in it, I'll read it. Number two, it taught me or it reminded me how much I love to read. And I think it's maybe because I've been writing more on the Substack and so obviously and I read every day. I read a lot of research and articles and stuff, but I don't read books anymore. I kind of want to get back to reading books. I mean, if it's a something that I actually care about, I feel like I can get through the book. And you know, it really felt good to not get distracted by notifications or YouTube or and just sit down and read. Like it just felt like peaceful. I don't know if it's because if I'm getting older or something, but as I'm I don't know, I want to get back to reading. So, the point is uh this is an amazing book. I think the interview will be really nice. A lot of you guys will get to hear parts about Karp that you've never heard about before. Um I got to the epilogue and I'm in the book. I'm in the book. My mom freaked out last night when she saw this, but I'm in the book and it's kind of crazy. It's it's a it's a it's a small mention, but I'll show you guys right here. I'll read it. In early December 2024, a few weeks after the presidential election, Pounder hosted an AIP event in the New York office. When I arrived that morning, Karp was deep in conversation with a Cookian, amateur stock commentator who was possibly Palanteers and Karp's biggest fan in the retail investor community. He was now regularly invited to the company's events and had become its deacto human mascot. As Karp chatted with Mr. Kraja, he noticed a woman approaching from across the room and exclaimed, "Oh, to what do we have this honor?" And then he he talks about who the woman was and why she was even meeting Karp. But that all happened. That all happened like Karp and I were speaking. We were having a conversation December of 2024. In fact, the conversation was about how much the institutional investors missed Palunteer and just like how excited he was. was right after they got into the NASDAQ and the S&P. So, this was two months after they got into those indices and Michael Steinberger was there. He was he was I guess he was observing everything that was happening and then he ended up putting it into the epilog. So, that was kind of crazy seeing this last night. I did not think I would get a spot in the book, but yeah, I'm in the book and so it's pretty cool stuff. Pretty I'm not I'm not getting paid. I I mean there's no copyright or use of my name or anything like I just I got to the epilog last and I was like, "Holy crap, I'm in the freaking book." So, it's pretty cool stuff. I think you guys will enjoy the book and uh yeah, I think you guys will enjoy the interview as well because there's a lot of parts about Karp that no one knows about, including the fact that Karp is half black. A lot of people don't know that he's biracial, you know, and so there's a lot of different elements of his identity, how he thinks about politics, the world, like why he never got married. It's it's a really good book on a lot of those subjects and um his dyslexia, you know, all that stuff. So, so I think when the interview comes out, you guys will like it and it should be pretty fun. Yeah, I got called the human mascot, dude. That was crazy. I'm not getting any royalties on this. I didn't I just I I I I got to the epilogue last night. I was like, "Holy crap, my name's there." I told my mom. She was like, "Why is your name there?" I was like, "I don't know, but my name's there. I'm there." And obviously, it was a metaphor for like the retail investor. So, pretty cool stuff. Yeah. Black and Jewish as well. Yeah. A lot of people still don't know that. There's a lot of parts of his to his identity that people don't know. But there you go. All right. So, we got eight minutes until the overnight markets open. Uh I am very excited. Why am I excited? Because we're going higher. It's that simple. We are going higher. And the reason we're going higher is because it looks like from everything I've seen in the past 24 hours, we are getting a deal with China. Now, I know that this entire year has basically been a metaphor uh uh embodied through this picture right here. As everyone can see right here on the screen, this picture is literally the basis for how this year has gone. But as Mr. Steven Fiorillo would said, higher. We are going higher. And we're going to get into the earnings conversation this week, guys. This week is going to be crazy. We're going to talk about the Fed because we got a Fed cut coming up this week. Not to mention we got forget SoFi earnings by which by the way I did buy another 500 shares of SoFi on Friday. So your boy's loaded up thousand shares. I didn't get to tell you guys because I didn't go live but uh my average is now like $295. Thousand shares I'm loaded up and hopefully not can take us to the promised land. But uh we got SoFi on f on Tuesday we have Meta, Google and Microsoft on Wednesday all at the same time. And then on top of that, you have the FOMC meeting right before all those companies report. I mean, this is going to be one of the most crazy weeks I think we've ever had in stock market history. I don't remember the last time we had Meta, Microsoft, and Alphabet happen at the same time. I I've seen Microsoft and Alphabet happen together. I've seen Meta and Apple happen together. But all three of them, I mean, that day Wednesday after close is going to be madness trying to cover everything. But it's going to be wild. And then you have SoFi and PayPal on Tuesday. You have Amazon and Apple on Thursday. we just have a lot of companies and then you have that Fed rate cut on Wednesday morning. So, this is going to be a wild week and the way to make this week even more special is if we can get some real negotiations done with China. We've been talking about this China story for the past basically call it nine days now. Ever since the whole kind of Trump is mad at China thing broke out which caused the S&P 500 to fall 3% for the first time in five months. And I think the kind of theme of this entire show has been they're negotiating. It's leverage. And at the end of the day, we've been through this playbook a billion times. I think a lot of us bought the dip back on October 10th. I mean, we know historically the stock market had the largest inflows it's seen in the past uh 15 years on that Friday. And I think a lot of us bought the dip last Friday, not this Friday because this Friday we closed at all time highs, but la or no it wasn't last Friday, it was last Wednesday when things got really rocky and um you had like poundry go to 169, Nvidia go to 177 like like people ended up buying the dip and I think those dip buyers are going to be rewarded because essentially based on what we've heard today, it looks like we got a deal. We'll talk more about the deal, but here's one video from Bent this morning highlighting that this deal uh might actually be happening. This was the fifth meeting that I've had with my Chinese counterpart, the vice premier Julie Fun, and we covered a wide range of issues and I think we've reached a substantial framework for the two leaders who will meet in Korea next Thursday. So, uh, you know, on the on the table, uh, the president had given me maximum leverage when he threatened 100% tariffs if the Chinese impose their rare earth uh, global export controls. So I think we have averted that. So the the tariffs will be averted and we have a regular meeting regular quarterly meeting uh with the Chinese. Uh it was scheduled for November 10th or before November 10th. I don't think we will have to have that. So uh we have been rolling the tariffs quarterly. So we agreed on that. We also agreed on substantial agriculture purchases for US farmers. We agreed that the Chinese would begin to help us uh with the precursor chemicals for this terrible fentanyl epidemic that's ravaging our country. So I would say that it was a very good meeting overall. Okay. So you got Bent saying it was a very good meeting overall. There's a bunch more clips and we'll talk about uh some of those clips from Bent and Greer and all those guys. But dude, even the Chinese and again we're going to go real deep into this story. We got three minutes until the overnight markets open. But the Chinese embassy tweeted that uh these three bullet points that they have agreed to make full use of the China US economic and trade consultation mechanism, maintain close communication on respective concerns in the economic and trade fields and promote the healthy, stable, sustainable uh healthy and stable development of economic and trade relations to benefit both countries and contribute to global prosperity. I mean that does not sound like a trade war. those three bullet points right there which is word for word what the Chinese embassy tweeted today uh does not feel like a trade war it does not feel like China hates the US or the US hates China it looks like and again we don't have a deal but Bent and Lee set up the negotiations for what a framework for a deal would look like and that framework for a deal is going to be established uh hopefully on November 1st when Trump meets with Xi or I think it's it's October 30th it's it's in that in that time frame October 30th to November 1st that they're meeting and look if we come to any reasonable conclusion and you've got the Fed rate cut and you've got earnings coming in in a you know a much better way than people have expected. I mean so far 80% of the companies that have reported in the S&P 500 have beat on earnings. We looked at on Thursday whether it was Intel or Deckers and maybe their stocks didn't cooperate because a lot of those stocks were already up a lot year to date but the companies beat by an average of like 15 to 25% on EPS on earnings which means margins are going up. I mean I think we're going higher. I think we are going higher and it is exciting to see. Now, here's the poll I'll put real quick in the chat. Higher or sell the news. Higher or sell the news. I mean, there's a world where it could be a sell the news. That could definitely happen. We did close at an all-time high uh on Friday. Uh S&P likely opens up, I think, closer to that 680 level in the next two minutes. But if it is a sell the news, dude, it's also going to be a buy the dip. like every single thing this year, every single opportunity that we've had has been a buy the dip. And I don't think that necessarily changes. Now, the the question around a lot of those momentum stocks that took a meaningful draw down over the past couple weeks, uh I don't know if they're going back to all-time highs. Maybe that's possible. But even if they don't, again, it's not the craziest idea, right? Because some of those stocks that did take a draw down, maybe that draw down is enough. And a lot of those stocks, you know, got hit 30, 40%. and now they can go higher even if they don't get back to all-time highs or they can stabilize in a range which is one of the best things you could ask for for stocks that are up five to 7x for the year even after that 40% decline. So I think there's a lot of healthy components to what has happened over the past couple weeks even though it was painful for all of us to deal with. But again, every time there's been any level of pain, what do we do? We bought the dip or at least the majority of retail bought the dip. And I think that has continued to play out. And again, it's not just buying the dip for the hell of buying the dip. It's because the earnings momentum that is out there continues to prove that buying the dip makes sense. And it feels like 7,000 S&P 500 might be in play because of that ability to buy the dip. Here we go. Overnight markets are open. Let's see what we've got. Hoodie 142. That's up 1.5% as we open the markets. Palenteer 186. That is green as we open the overnight markets. Tesla 438. That's up 1%. Nvidia 188 trying to get back to that 195 level that Nvidia was at a couple weeks ago. Uh AMD, wow, 257. AMD, oh my. AMD closed at 253 last week. 25. Google right there, 261. We saw Google get to 260 a while ago. So, I'm happy I bought another 500 shares on Friday. Let's see if we can get to 35 um on these earnings on Tuesday. SoFi right there 2963. Amazon up 1% 226. Meta 744. Haven't seen Meta at 740 since September. Reddit, that's up 1.4%. PayPal's up 1%. ELF is up 1%. Apple's up 1%. Where is BMR? I'm going to guess 54. I'm going to guess 54 if it loads up. Legends being slow. There it is. 54. 53. Okay, cool. 53. Still a 5% move. Not too bad. You got Bitcoin right there at 114. SMCI 4910. If you bought the dip at 4750, not too bad for SMCI. Nphase is up. Microsoft is up. PaloAlto is up. Nebia should be higher. Nebius is indeed higher. 94 to 120 on Nebus. Uh Irene, I imagine, is pushing 65. I ren 6675. Where is spy? Oh, we didn't even check spy. Where's spy? Where's spy? Oh my goodness. 680. Holy guacamole. 680. I mean, I think we all had a feeling it would open close to that there. It closed at what? 678 on Friday. Boom. SoFi 30. SoFi. There it is. SoFi 30. SoFi 297097. You got SoFi 30 right there. Palanteer 187. Boom. Bought the dip at 172 on Palanteer last week. Also bought the dip at 177 on Nvidia. I mean, if you bought the dip on pretty much everything, you're probably doing well. How about Dolingo? Dolingo up 1.6%. Uh TFC, that's up a little bit. I ran up 6.5. I think all the Bitcoin miners should be moving heavy. Look at that legend slowing down. That's how you know a bunch of people are checking. We're robbing it right now. Um, let's pull this up right here. SoFi right there. 29.97. There you go. Let's go back to these Bitcoin miners. I Ren's up. Cipher's up. Clean. Some of these don't trade overnight, but some of them do. Hive is up. Bit farms 486. Marathon 3.6. Riot's up 3.4. G is up 4.2. Does Oakllo trade overnight? I don't know. Legends down for you guys, too, right? Yeah, Oakllo is up another 4% overnight. So again, Oaklow was at 150 when it started the decline last week from 190. Fell all the way to 117. Now it's back to 140. Does it go back to 190? I don't know. But the fact that it had that kind of shakeout and it wasn't just Oakland, it was a lot of different companies. I think that just set up the move for the next leg higher. And whatever, you know, company you wanted to buy the dip on is the company that you got a choice to buy the dip on. But pretty much everything gave you an opportunity. Some of them better than others. Rocket Lab, how's that doing? Does that trade overnight? Rocket Lab, that doesn't trade on Legend overnight. It might trade on Weeble. Nebas 123. Rocket Lab on Weeble is at 65.96. No, never mind. That does trade overnight. Okay, so that's green. Roblox that's up 1%. Uber, that's up 1%. Coinbase 4%. That's a $15 move. Hoodie got to 120 last week. Anyone who bought that dip on Hoodie, you got some green. Uh, Nebius, again, that continues to go green as well. Open Door. Where's Open Door? I don't think they trade overnight. It's up a little bit. Did it close at these levels? Open Door. I don't know why that doesn't trade overnight. That should trade overnight. You know, it closed at 802. It's at 8:30. Whenever it trades on Legend, that's very low liquidity. It should be on the mobile app for it to have like a lot more buyers coming in. But you do have some people putting up uh orders and that's why the stock goes higher. Coreweave 135, that's up 2.3. Micro Strategy. What do we have there? Wow. The NIKK. The Nikkay is moving. MSTR, that's up 3.7%. Nikk right now. Oh my. Yeah, NK25 just crossed 50,000. Goodness gracious, bro. Guys, this might be a meltup. This might be a real serious meltup. Amcor, that stock. Wow. 3520. Shout out to Amcore. Look at that. Look at that. Again, this thing fell to 28 on uh on the Trump tweet back on October 10th. Nice move for Amcore. There you go. Nvidia pushing 190 18942. ASST, this one's going to get a lot of buzz. Uh 154 right here. Mike Alfred took a position in this of a million dollars and as a result of him taking that position. I I don't know enough about ASST to be honest. I It's like a Bitcoin treasury and there's maybe some other components to it. Um, but yeah, I mean, he bought it at 95 cents. It's at a$154. I mean, he has a pretty big retail audience, so you might get a lot of people that pile into this one. 154 in the overnight markets for ASST. S&P still at 681 and then AMD 260. AMD is at 260. Becker says, "Agreed. This feels like the start of another meltup." Yeah, and maybe it's a healthier start to another meltup because we already had a little bit of a draw down across the entire market, right? It's it's not like we're going from 673 to 680. We went from 673 to 647 and some names got hit worse than others, but pretty much everything took at least like minimum 5% hit. A lot of things took way worse than 5% of a hit. The market took a 3% hit and now it feels like a more healthier way to get to these levels. It really does, which is which is nice to see. BMR right there, 5321. How about Chinese stocks? BABA, that's up 2.9. That should be up. JD, I know a lot of people are in JD. That's up 2.74. K Webb in general, the Chinese internet tech ETF. Wow, that's up 2%. It's a big move for KB and that continues to go green. Yes, Amcor does have earnings tomorrow. So, that's going to be something that we look for or at least for anyone who cares about that stock. Um, but you know, this is a good backdrop to have a stronger earnings. ESTs, that's up 1.42%. Hims trying to get back into the 50s. How about Oscar? Oscar is up 2.64 64 by due is up 3.21. Let's check on quantum.io and NQ that's up 4 and a half%. Uber is up 1%. Micro strategies up 4%. I mean I don't see anything that's red. Does anyone see anything that's red? Like actually red I think everything. Oh, Beyond Meat. Does that trade overnight? Beyond Meat, I don't think it trades overnight, but it's down 3.89%. I mean, Beyond Meat took a pretty nasty dip from 850 down to two bucks. I saw a lot of Twitter screen posts of people that have like 500,000 shares, 800,000 shares. I mean, there is definitely an army that is forming for Beyond Meat. Uh I I don't know how many people are in that army, but there are people that have loaded up and they really do think it's coming back and they think, you know, this is GameStop 2.0. And the reason for that, by the way, is not just because of whatever uh fundamental thesis they have on Beyond Meat, but it's that the short float on Beyond Meat is 161%. And because of that short flow being literally, you know, the shorts are borrowing shares that don't exist. This is exactly what happened with GameStop. That's why you have a lot of people thinking beyond me can get squeezed. The rare earth stocks are red. That is fair. US AR, my goodness, down 13%. MP's down 5%. Okay, I guess. Oh, well obviously I mean if you have a trade deal with China for rare earth metals and minerals, a lot of the domestic manufacturers and miners for those stocks, they're not going to have that much demand, right? Or at least the perception is their demand is going to go down a little bit. So that's fair. Gold is also down 1.32. Gold is also down 1.32. Silver's down 1.29. I mean, if we have a meltup in assets, we might have a little bit of a meltdown. And I don't want to really say meltdown, but like a little bit of a stalling potentially. I don't think these things actually sell off to to the point where you could call it a meltdown in commodities because risk on might not mean gold and silver. I mean, objectively, risk on has always meant something besides gold for Google right there. 262. Maybe that's when we see that play out. Maybe when we see that play out. Sofax, uh, that is up 6% right here. I actually had dinner with Adam the other day. Uh Adam had a pretty big position on Sofax and uh in terms of selling puts, not actually buying the stock. So Sofi fell to 25, he just felt that it was stupid and so he used the 2x lever version of it to sell puts and um yeah, so I mean you have a lot of people that took advantage either through the leverage ETFs, through buying options, buying shares and on Tuesday we're going to hopefully get a report that is pretty bullish for SoFi. Bitcoin 11477 trying to get back to 115. Reddit's pumping up. I'm a decent chunk of momentum across the market. Is AMD price justified? I think AMD is going to have to put up an earnings that continues to justify the rerating, but overall, I mean, yeah, that OpenAI deal is $80 billion of revenue over the next five years. And again, next quarter, you're not going to see that revenue. You're probably not going to see it until closer to the second half of 2026. But if they can just give a good guide that, hey, like this revenue is baked in, you can definitely expect it. It's going to happen. And they can increase that fiscal year 2026 target and not grow 14%. I think the street's going to be really happy about it. I mean AMD is now a $400 billion company, folks. 418 billion. This was one of the most hated semiconductor stocks. Retail really did believe in it. Cory right there 135.88. So I mean, look, have a lot of these names run like crazy and they're going to need a phenomenal earnings to justify their multiple expansion. Yes, but that should be the burden. The burden should be for Hood and Palanteer and Nvidia and AMD to prove and SoFi that they deserve a multiple. And I have some confidence that some of these companies will be able to do it. Look at Amazon pushing 227. If anyone bought the dip at 214, 215, that was hopefully a nice time to get rewarded uh if Amazon doesn't revisit those lows. And then Circle, look at that, 4%. Circle was up 9% on Friday. Stable coin company Tether just raised at 500 billion. So, a lot of people are wondering what the valuation for a company like Circle should be given it's in the same niche of stable coins. One of, you know, the only publicly traded companies you can get exposure to for stable coins. That's up another 4% as well. The Q's all-time highs on the NASDAQ. There you go. 622. 622. What did you guys say in the chat? 85% say higher, 16% say sell the news. Okay. So, the majority of people here, majority of people here think we are going higher. I mean, look, I I'm looking for the bare case. I don't know if there's an easy bare case, and realistically, there hasn't been a bare case for the past five months, ever since the tariff stuff. There are bearish things to be concerned about and to not worry about. And I think the biggest bearish case was just like there was a lot of stocks running for like probably not the most fundamental reason, but all those took a draw down. And they all are probably not going to zero. Like they don't need to go to zero, and they have enough potential to justify why people would be excited to buy the dip on them. It's just they're also not going to the moon while the market was being flat, which was happening a month ago. And that as all I think pretty much all of it has been flushed out. There's probably still some pockets of it that feel toppy. But it's it's not as crazy as it was SoFi back above 30 when the meme stock ETF came out. When that ETF came out, I mean, a lot of people I remember the sentiment that they just felt like this was getting a bit ridiculous. I think a lot of that a lot of that has been flushed out and and given a lot of that flush out has happened and the market's been able to make a higher move and those stocks are now able to go higher in a more healthy way. I don't know what what has to be the what the Fed's going to hike. The Fed's not hiking. That's not happening. So, is Google going to mess up earnings? I mean, if Google, Meta, Microsoft, Amazon don't mess up earnings. I don't even think Apple look at Broadcom right. They're up almost 2%. I don't even think Apple's going to mess up earnings because Apple iPhone 17 demand has been incredible. Apple basically at all time highs right here at 265. I think we got a good shot. I think we got a good and then if we got the China deal and the Nvidia deal and all this other stuff or not the Nvidia deal, the the the well technically the Nvidia deal of Nvidia being able to sell chips to China, but the India deal which Trump said over the weekend they're closer to potentially getting into a conversation with that. I mean you just have a lot of stuff that can be baked. Also, we're near the end of the year. end of the year, markets are up on average 4.7%. And by the way, the reason the market tends to be good towards the end of the year is because September and August tend to suck. So the market kind of rallies towards the end of the year. September and August were really good. Guess what sucked? October to an extent, right? Now that we're recovering, but uh given October had that draw down that we were all anticipating where it was going to happen September, August, now that that's happened, you know, if the market needed some level of volatility, we got it over the past couple weeks. And maybe maybe that allows us to make that next leg up. I think earnings are going to hopefully justify that going into the end of the uh the end of the year. Yeah, maybe Santa Claus is coming to town. Maybe Santa Claus is coming to town. And 70% of fund managers are underperforming. That is correct. That is also correct. All right, cool. So, um let's talk about some headlines. Let's get into it. Let's talk about what we've got going on. October may be fully intact. Uh, tomorrow is my birthday, so it would be very nice to have a official all-time high across the board. I mean, dude, if Ballinger could give me alltime highs on my birthday, that would be pretty nice. But it looks like unless anything changes. Look at SoFi 316. Unless anything changes, maybe we stay with this alltime high going into Monday. I just looked at my portfolio, dude. This is what I'm saying. This is why you just buy the dip and you shut the hell up when it comes to buying the dip. I'm up 144. Last week, I think at the worst of it, it was down 170 and then by the market close, it was down like 118. So, we recovered like a little bit of that draw down and now it's just all back. I mean, this is why this is why sometimes you just got to buy, especially if it's companies that you know, you know, there's opportunities in Vine and you just keep going. I would imagine a lot of people are seeing that happen to their portfolios right now. We just got to see Trump doing the deal for a minute. 100%. Trump doing the deal for me. And now we just got to see if this continues. All right, let's get into it. Let's get into it and let's talk about what's going on. We'll keep an eye on the overnight markets. If there's any crazy price action, let me know. But overall, UNH, look at that, up 1%. You're already seeing a decent decent chunk of uh of excitement across the board. which is not too bad. Quarantine quartet said, "Dude, I lost like 70,000 like 20 times this month." Yeah, I mean the volatility of October has been gigantic. And I mean I we all knew October was one of the most volatile months of the year. I don't think a lot of us expected it just because of how good September October were. September and August were and you know it's a little bit of recency bias and not knowing how to expect a downturn. But it looks like uh it looks like as we've dealt with it, we have some fundamental catalyst to get this moving. And that's what we got. All right, so let's keep going and let's talk about what happened. Let's start off with uh let's start off with with China. Let's start off with China. Thank you to everyone saying happy birthday from across the pond because it is October 27th. What time is it in the UK? Time in the UK. Oh, it's 12 a.m. in the UK. Okay, cool. So, we turned 28 in the uh in the United Kingdom. deeply deeply appreciate you guys. Again, tomorrow on the close, we'll do a fun like birthday stream after the market close. Hopefully, we get an alltime high on the close and uh we're going to go through some pictures from like me when I was a kid, when I was in high school, all that stuff. So, we have some fun pictures that I'll show everybody to kind of celebrate uh turning a year older, but we'll do that on close tomorrow. All right, so China, let's get into it. What happened in China? It looks like we have a deal, and it looks like that deal might manifest itself in a pretty exciting way. So, I played the first clip of Bent talking about what's going on with China. Here's a couple more clips that are pretty important to take a look at and um this is ultimately what what he said. Well, first let's start off with Trump who is in Malaysia meeting with a bunch of different heads of state and then we'll get into some of the descent comments.
>> We're going to do well with China.
>> Let me share this real quick. Okay, here we go.
>> I think we're gonna have a deal with China. We meet as you know in South Korea with President Xi. I think we're going to have a a good deal with China and they want to make a deal and we want to make a deal. We've agreed to meet. We're going to meet then later in China and we're going to meet in uh in the US in either Washington or or at Mara Lago Palm Beach. So uh you know I think uh you know a lot of these talks when we meet we've done a lot of discussions before we meet we've done discussions with Brazil. So I think we're going to end up having a good deal for both countries. I think with China that's going to happen and we have other deal you know we have Japan we have South Korea we have a lot of lot of meetings but people seem to be very interested in China. I think we're going to have a a very fair meeting with China. You know we're going to do what
>> Okay. So you got Trump saying, "I think we're going to have a very fair meeting with China, which is important for Trump to say because it means that he's more likely to negotiate that we will indeed get a deal." And then this is what Bent had to say about the meetings that he had, which is the reason Trump is even confident about getting a deal done with China because Bent seemed to have some good negotiations over the weekend.
>> Framework that will avoid that and allow us to discuss many other things with the Chinese. I think we will be able to discuss uh them helping us get this terrible fentanyl crisis under control. I think we are going to be able to discuss substantial uh soybean and egg purchases for our American farmers. I think we are going to be able to discuss more balanced trade and and I'm not going to get ahead of the two leaders, but I think that they will also be discussing President Trump's uh global peace plan that he's been so success successful at both here in Asia, the Middle East, and now he's looking to Ukraine, Russia.
>> Mr. Secretary, you said a couple of significant things. It sounds like you're saying you are not anticipating a 100% tariff against China on November 1st and seems like you're saying that China is poised to purchase soybeans to open up those markets again. I I I believe that we have the framework for the two leaders to have a very productive meeting uh for both sides and I think it will be fantastic uh for US citizens, for US farmers and for our country in general.
>> Okay. But you're not anticipating the 100% tariffs?
>> Uh no, I'm not. And I'm also anticipating that we will get some kind of a deferral on on the rare earth uh export controls that the Chinese had discussed. Okay. But again, this will all be you know we the the my counterpart the vice premier and I have set the framework and it will be up to the two leaders uh to discuss the the final terms.
>> Okay. Okay. Well,
>> so Bent right there is not promising that a deal is officially done. He is saying though he has a lot of confidence that there's not going to be uh 100% tariffs, which is something that the market really cared about, right? Because that's why we had that draw down in the first place. And he's also saying the rare earth export controls, which kind of caused all this controversy in the first place, likely are not going to be as bad as what he said before, which again is why the rare earth stocks are getting hit right here because if there's a ton of Chinese rare earths coming in, then you don't need as much demand for some of the other names. Uh, but it also means that US manufacturing and supply chains might not be in that much trouble, which was the reason why the S&P took that hit on October 10th. S&P right there, very close to 682. We touched it for a little bit. Right now, it's 68194. Uh, and as a result, it's bullish. I mean, it's hard to say that it's completely bearish. So, I'm going to put a poll right here in the chat and ask here, do we finally get a China deal done? Let's call it by end of year. Remember back in July Trump tweeted or June that they had a deal done with China and he was talking about how they're going to let Chinese immigrants go to Harvard and stuff like it didn't really feel like a deal. It was just something they said. I think there is a question on hey will this actually result in something meaningful. But if it does I think we're going higher. And if we are going higher based on that then that is not going to be the worst thing in the world. Here's another part of Bent's interview where he talked about uh the pain that he understands the farmers feel like because he's also a soybean farmer.
>> I I did mean the second term. I know they have met before. The president has also said he does want our farmers to be taken care of. You did mention that China has been boycotting American soybeans and American farmers have really suffered. Do you see a real light at the end of the tunnel there? they make allow soybeans again.
>> Uh well Martha, in case you don't know it, I'm actually a soybean farmer. So uh I have I have felt this pain too. And there are a couple of things happening here. One, uh the Chinese have substantially dropped their purchases to almost zero. So they unfortunately have been using American farmers who are amongst President Trump's biggest supporters. I think he had more than 90% support and then this was one of the biggest crops in 20 or 30 years. So it was a perfect storm. But I think we have addressed the farmer's concerns. And I'm not going to get ahead of the president, but I I believe when the announcement of the deal with China I is made public that our soybean farmers will feel very good about what's going on both for this season and the coming seasons for several.
>> Okay. So, I don't know why Bass said he's a soybean farmer cuz I don't think the guy has ever farmed a day in his life. I don't know if that was meant to be a joke. If it was, it didn't really hit. But nonetheless, the the the takeaway from that clip is that he thinks there will be a conclusion to get the Chinese to buy our soybeans. I mean, I would imagine Trump's going to be using Nvidia chips as leverage or, you know, any level of uh cooperation with with continuing to be, you know, the largest consumer of Chinese goods to get them to just buy more soybeans, including us buying their cooking oil, which was one of the things that Trump threatened as well. And so, we're going to have to see. He owns farmland. Yeah, there you go. Maybe he owns a lot of farmland, but I don't know if he's necessarily a farmer. Now, here's another clip over the weekend. I mean, take a look at Trump dancing in Malaysia. I mean, he was greeted in a very nice way by the Malaysian people as he ended up having talks with a lot of their leaders uh in the region in Southeast Asia. And you got Trump dancing here. I mean like and the takeaway from him dancing is I think there's a bit more peace that is happening in other parts of the world which are really important because we kind of need that piece in order to continue this bull market. It's positive energy. You need a lot of that positive energy and if you know if we weren't having that stuff happen I think it would obviously be a bit net worse. And so as a result I think we're having some momentum there. You know we have those Brazilian tariffs not necessarily the best in the world. Here's what Trump has had to say after meeting with the Brazilian president over the weekend as well.
>> Well, first of all, let me just say it's a great honor to be with the president of Brazil. It's a great country. It's a big, beautiful country and I think they're doing well. I think they're doing very well from what I understand. And uh I think we should be able to make some pretty good deals for both countries. And I'm going to leave that a little bit to Jameson and Scott and Marco and different ways. Marco less on the economic side. You could you could do it very well, but I don't think you'll have to. But I think we'll have uh I think we'll be able to do some pretty good deals. We've been speaking
>> now. Again, that's really important because Trump just threatened 50% tariffs on Brazil. So, when he's saying, "I think we'll be able to make some deals with Brazil," that's the market kind of saying, "Okay, so you're not going to probably have this crazy Canada tariff. You're not going to have this crazy China tariff. you get rid of the Brazil tariffs or get to a deal, then if we can get more and more and more deals, you know, the market shouldn't be that upset. Here's Trump talking about the completion of a ton of other trade deals with Indopacific partners over the weekend as well.
>> Ties of commerce to strengthen our common security and to really promote strongly stability, prosperity, and peace for all of the countries in this room and long beyond this room. That's why I'm delighted that in addition to the agreement with Malaysia this week, we're also signing or nearing completion on trade deals with many other Indo-Pacific partners from Cambodia to Japan to South Korea. We're delighted to forge richer partnerships on energy, technology, artificial intelligence, critical minerals, and other industries. The United States is having its golden age last.
>> So, you kind of get the point. The point is a lot of deals are being signed and hopefully these deals manifest in like actual frameworks that are tangible. But as a market participant, whether you hate the deals, love the deals, you think Trump's a great dealmaker, you think he's a horrible dealmaker, the market, as we can see right now, is reacting in a positive way to these deals. And if this deal flow doesn't necessarily stop and you actually get some legitimacy behind the deals, like some real details on how the deals will be executed, I think we might get some great. I think we might end up getting some green. So it's not wearing the Knicks hat because they're losing to the Heat right now. Exactly. That's why. Dude, Curry over the weekend. This guy is crazy, bro. It both of those threes overtime. Absolutely incredible. So right there, that's at 30. There you go. 309. IN are we at 67? We are at 6680 on IEN. Continuing to get some of that momentum. AMD at 260. It was at 263 for a second. Nebas right there. Look at that. 123. This thing fell all the way to 94. Nvidia trying to push 190 again. I mean, again, it's hard as a market participant to look at what's happening and think, "Oh my goodness, I should be scared of everything that's taking place because again, we just had that draw down over the past couple weeks." And, you know, that was the quote unquote scary part, but it just seems like more and more people bought the dip. Here's the last clip on talking about what happened with Canada. So remember the Canada situation, which by the way on Saturday, and I don't even know if this is going to be fully true, but Canada ran that Reagan ad. Trump got pissed off about it. Trump tweeted yesterday that he is going to be increasing all the tariffs on Canada by 10% based on how mad he was about that Reagan ad. I mean, we'll see if that ends up playing out. Canada actually pulled down the ad. So they they stopped playing the ad on Friday. Uh here's what Bent had to say about it.
>> Major trade issue, which is Canada, of course. This week, President Trump abruptly broke off trade talks with uh Canada and put another 10% tariff on Canada in response to an ad that the government of Ontario ran. It features former President Ronald Reagan. Why is the president setting trade policy based on a television ad he doesn't like?
>> Uh well, Kristen, let's let's think about this. This this is a kind of propaganda against US citizens. You know, it it's it's scops. Why why would the government of Ontario I'm told that they've spent they have spent or were planning to spend up to $75 million on these ads to come across the US border. So what what was the purpose of that other other than to sway public opinion and you know it's some kind of propaganda that the premier of Ontario unilaterally launched.
>> Will will the 10% tariffs apply to all Canadian goods? Mr. Secretary,
>> uh Kristen, I I've been traveling since this unfortunate event happened. I know that the ad's been taken down. So, you know, we we'll have to see, but I I just think it was ter terrible terrible judgment by by this premier, you know, who has a bit of a reputation for being a hothead.
>> Does the president know if the tariffs will apply to 10% tariffs will apply to all Canadian goods? Has he made a determination about that? Well, uh, well, I I'm sure he I'm sure he knows and I'm sure the ambassador Greer uh, knows, but again, you know, we're we're here out in Asia and we're doing these big trade deals out in Asia that we just signed the Malaysian deal today, which was fantastic. And, you know, I've been spending the past two days negotiating with the Chinese. So, you know, what's whatever is going on back in North America, I think is the taking second fiddle to President Trump's leadership out here in the Pacific.
>> Okay.
>> So, you got this Canada thing that might turn into something, might not turn into something. You've got the China stuff that's hopefully going to turn into something more positive. Um, and then you've got this India deal along with other Indopacific uh partners that Trump might be able to meaningfully get some cooperation on. I mean, again, from from from a trade deal perspective, it looks like things are headed in the right direction. By the way, just to just to put some context to this, the reason why we took a breather over the past two weeks is because of trade. It's because of Trump and and China beefing. Now, granted, one could argue that we were bound for a breather because things were just running too hot. And I think all of us kind of felt it to an extent, right? things were just getting a bit too uh excited and and it's healthy to take a breather, but you needed a catalyst and that you know it was a $20 billion crypto liquidation on October 10th because of that Trump Truth Social China thing. So, the reason the market tanked over the past two weeks is because of China. And so, it makes sense that the market's hitting new alltime highs as we've absorbed all of that selling pressure and the China stuff might be resolved, which is why it seems like we might be in a much better spot. So there you go. How are we feeling? Are we feeling that this continues? That is my question. We got a couple other headlines that we'll talk about, but in general, I mean, once this China stuff came out, particularly over uh the the the the night in Malaysia morning in at least the United States, I mean, I I at that moment it kind of felt like we were off to the races. Look at Google right there. 26355. Google did hit 267 at one point. Uh AMD again still holding 260. Pounder at 190 was that alltime high. Maybe it cracks that. Do we think it continues or do we think there's still a little bit of selling pressure that needs to get worked out of the system before we can make that alltime high? I don't know. I think there's a shot. I think there's a shot. We we continue to keep this going. Tom Lee, he continues to be pretty excited uh about this market. in his Sunday note. Uh I'll read right here the specific quote that he said. Mark Newton, by the way, still think this technical analyst still thinks that there could be some November choppiness, which is fair, but overall they're pretty uh bullish on 7,000 by end of the year. Um you got Tom Lee basically saying, uh it could be argued that Friday's morning release of September CPI data removed much of that uncertainty, though it might must have helped that the numbers came in doubbish. I forgot to mention that. I mean Friday we had a really good CPI in the morning, which is important. lower than consensus expectations that bolstered expectations of another rate cut when the results could be seen in a range of indices, the S&P, the small caps, etc. All four posted positive weeks with the Russell 200 leading the way with a 2.5% weekly gain. Um, and then Mark Newton says, "I don't care if the market's been sort of choppy and rangebound. In my view, despite the choppy short-term trends, longerterm trends are intact. And with sentiment remaining subdued, it seems to be that the path of least resistance remains to the upside over the next couple of weeks. and earnings are going to really help paint that story if we end up getting some good earnings starting this week. Bit mine right there 5317 that is green as well. Are we pricing in the rate cuts? I definitely think the rate cuts are priced in. However, I don't think that means the market can't go higher simply put because you know when when rates come down the cost of capital becomes cheaper. people have to allocate money if they want to take, you know, some level of risk outside of the the safness of how they've been allocating capital and they want to put it somewhere. So, are the rate cuts priced in? Yeah, for sure. I mean, like, we're trading at a pretty uh historically expensive valuation for a lot of reasons. Part of the reason is because we're in an easing cycle, but that doesn't mean rate cuts can't get the market to continue to go higher when it's finally announced, which is really important. There's a 96.7% chance in October that we get that rate cut. And that meeting is going to be happening on Wednesday. This guy This guy's got a big week. This guy's got a big week. Shout out to Mr. Tanner. SoFi is going to be a big one. SoFi is going to be a big one. So, what do we have this week? Let's transition into some of the earnings we have. By the way, I want to show you guys this real quick. The Warren Buffett indicator is now at 200 um 23%. Which means if you use the Buffett indicator, um this is the most expensive stock market in history theoretically. And again, the Buffett indicator is basically something that looks at the total market capitalization of all traded publicly stocks relative to the nation's gross domestic product, aka GDP. Now, again, the Buffet indicator has been pretty much this high over the past couple years. uh not literally at this level but it's been you know getting to those all-time highs or close to those all-time highs and the reason for that is because our GDP as a our GDP relative to our stock market is is is in contrast right we are growing but we are not growing as fast as the stock market is growing but the reason the stock market is growing that much I mean there's a lot of reasons but one could definitely argue that AI and the margin expansion something that Birkshshire has not really been you know that fully invested in I think Bergkshire still has about 350 billion in cash so they are still waiting for an opportunity you know, UNH was like the the last big opportunity I think they took a lot of advantage of. Um, that is how you explain this market from a multiple perspective, even if on other indicators it could be a bit expensive. Goldman Sachs right here, what do we got? Goldman Sachs is green overnight as well. All the banks should be pumping, which is really good for SoFi. Bank of America, yep, that's up 1%. You got all the banks making a move. So, here is the earnings that we have going into next week. tomorrow. We have a bunch of companies. I mean, they're important. Amcor is one that I have a position in, but there's, you know, a bunch of names that are out there. Not the the biggest names in the world, but important names. You got Cadence, that's important for semiconductors. Whirlpool, important for the consumer. Then on Tuesday, you have SoFi, PayPal, those are big in the morning. You have Royal Caribbean consumer play, UPS consumer play. Nphase, solar energy, Visa, important for the street in terms of uh financial systems and those sort of financial metrics continuing to be good for the consumer. You got the Cheesecake Factory consumer Mandles, which by the way, Mandles, they're the parent company of Oreo. We had a headline this weekend, and I think this is just going to continue to take place. The makers of Oreo have trained their own video model for television advertising. They have invested 40 million in the models in AI and say it's cut production costs by 30 to 50%. Video models are continuing to advance at a rapid pace. By next year, it'll be difficult to tell if an ad is AI generated. This might actually be an interesting earning play for a lot of people to look at. Um, just based on the fact that this stock hasn't really moved that much this year, but they are, you know, 40 million investment cut ad uh production cost by 30 to 50%. Earnings is on Monday and then the stock is down 14% over the past three months. I mean, if they end up reporting some massive earnings beat or some guidance because their advertising costs, which are some of the biggest costs for a lot of these companies, go down, I mean, I think there's going to be a lot of other companies that replicate that. But that could also be another consistent trend we're seeing in some of these companies. They're using AI. That AI is reducing their cost. As a result of reducing that cost, they're able to put up more EPS. As a result of putting up more EPS, the stock market continues to expand its overall multiple because these companies are showing that they can deliver more value for shareholders. And you know, they probably also have Steve that is helping their earnings very very much as he is a avid enthusiast of Oreos. But look, it's just one of those things in terms of the trend that is not slowing down when it comes to earnings. So that's what we have on Tuesday. And then Wednesday is going to be crazy. So here's my question. Let's uh let's put this in the chat. Wednesday, we have Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon. Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon. By the way, 75% of you think that we're going to get that China deal done by end of year, which I would tend to agree with. I think we're in the closest level that we could possibly get that deal. Which one outperforms from these prices today, Meta, Google, or Microsoft on Wednesday? I don't even know how we're going to listen to the earnings calls that day. It's going to just be a wild day trying to get through all these stocks, but it's going to be exciting to see. Does Bitmine I don't even know when Bitmine has earnings to be honest. I don't is is like Tom Lee going to get up there and talk to analysts? Like do they even do something like that? I feel like they have to because they're a public company, but I mean we'll we'll listen to it if if it is happening. I think it happens. But also, he's not the CEO, so technically he doesn't need to. He's the chairman. Remember, it's different. So, Evan, do you know if if if BitMine's going to actually do an actual like earnings call? Sometimes these companies just don't do it. And again, like what are they going to say, right? There's I mean, it's a ETH treasury, so it's like is there that much to to say? Yeah, Wednesday is also FOMC. Wednesday is also FOMC. So, we're going to see as well. Okay, what did you guys say in the chat? Um, wow. 52% of people say the googs 52% of people think the googly googs is going to figure this out. You guys saying earnings are October 29th for BMR. All right. So that'll be a crazy day on Wednesday then. That'll be a crazy freaking day. Uh open door as well up in the overnight markets. Bitcoin right? Wow. 115. There you go. Back to 115. We got it like two hours ago then it went away. Let's see if we can hold on to it. Let's see if we can hold on. Um, yeah, you know, honestly, I think I would I would I would agree with you guys. I think it's I think it's Google. I think Microsoft's going to be great. Uh, I do think Microsoft in their cloud revenue, you know, they really blew away expectations last quarter. I don't know if they can do that twice. Google has a lot of different elements working for it that I could see that EPS beat being higher than expected. And then Meta, I think, is going to be fine. I just think there's been a little bit of internal chaos in meta from all the stuff we've been seeing. And I think Z is just going to have to, you know, clean all that up and he's going to have to show that they might be spending like crazy, but it's justified. I think Google is the clearest though to to not be too bad. So, it's going to be exciting. It's going to be exciting to see. And then you got Amazon and Apple that then report on Friday or on Thursday. And I mean, look, I I don't think they necessarily have to do bad either. The takeaway from all these earnings right here is as long as we get some meaningful numbers, and all of them are going to have their quirks, right? Amazon might have some AWS issues. Google might have some search issues. I mean, all these companies are not going to be perfect, but if they're close to perfect or if some of them actually do have perfect like Meta and and Microsoft had perfect earnings in Q2 for those that Meta got to 800, Microsoft got to 560 and then they they pull it back. But, um, if we can get those blockbuster quarters, first of all, it's going to be really good for Nvidia because we know what's going to happen with Nvidia if the hyperscalers are doing well. Also, it's going to be good for the Nebuses, the Iran. the hyperscalers can put up those big daddy numbers. You would imagine Iran, Bitfarm, CleanSpark. I mean, all those companies should be getting some of that residual demand as well. That's really good for them. And it's really good again for the AMDs, Nvidas and Broadcoms of the world that are facilitating all the chip and infrastructure to make this stuff happen. Or Oracle right there is also up 1% after hours or in the overnight. Yeah, maybe Grab I mean Grab has its earnings next week or in two weeks on November 3rd. Uh I mean again for Grab I've been pretty clear about it. I I think you're buying a company with seven billion in cash. At the end of the day I do think the shorts are a bit in control but that's why Grab has put up some good earnings. I mean a lot of these and and they you know they they should force the market to give them a premium if they continue to put up good earnings. Same thing with your like big bear AIs of the world right? Uh this stock I was looking at some of their numbers today just to give you guys some context on Big Bear AI. Uh they grew negative 32% last quarter. Their revenue guidance for fiscal year 2025 at the end of 2024 was 180 million. They took that down to 140 million and they had negative gross margins. So we're we're talking about a stock that again is up a lot year to date. Uh it was up more, but it's up 71% year-to date. And when you look at their earnings, and I was just curious today, so I went back into the earnings, I'm like, "Oh wow." Like in the age of AI, the company that has AI in their ticker is growing negative 32%. My question is on earnings, what do they say to kind of continue this run of being up 70% year-to- date. I mean, a company that's not growing at all 30, you know, negative. This is not Tesla, you know, Tesla's not growing, people can handle that. This is a random AI company that probably will be important in the long term if you believe in their fundamental thesis, but right now the numbers aren't there. What do they say to get the stock to go higher? And I think I'm going to be curious this earning cycle. A lot of these other names, what can they say to keep their momentum alive, to keep their narrative alive? Like Open Door, quite frankly, I don't think Open Door is gonna have a massive earnings because I think Cass just got in and he hasn't been able to implement all the stuff he wants. But, you know, Cass is going to talk like a rockstar CEO because I mean, in the interviews I've seen already, I mean, this guy really does know how to talk and he is going to convince the street that they are going to turn this thing around even if the numbers on this quarter might not show up. And so, I I think that's what this earning cycle is going to be about. Can grab prove to the street they deserve to get a premium? Can Dolingo prove to the street that Apple eating their lunch is stupid? You know, can Rocket Lab that trades at over 55 times price to sales prove to the street that hey, Neutron's the real deal? You you guys have treated us really well in terms of the stock price. Don't forget that when Neutron comes, that's when the real magic starts. And so, even if the numbers aren't amazing this quarter, keep in mind what's going into the future. I mean, this is going to be the story of earnings as we really get into it over the next two weeks and which companies can can uphold their narrative or change their narrative. I mean, PayPal, right? Can PayPal tell the street, guys? We're basically going to go private in five years if you don't buy the stock because we're going to buy back all the shares. Like, is there enough juice in a lot of these names? Same things with Salesforce. Same thing with Amazon in terms of AWS acceleration to get the market to recognize what's going on. Yes, Big Bear AI does have a lot in the pipeline. They have 380 million in the pipeline, which is why I'm confused why the revenue growth is negative 32%. But again, these are things that they're going to have to highlight on their earnings call. And if most companies can do a good job of this S&P 682, look at that. Breaking through 682, then hopefully we have a uh hopefully we have a good earning cycle. All right, it seems most people are excited. Seems most people most most people are excited with what we've got going on. The comments on the hair are great. They're really This is not the final hairstyle. I just said, "You know what? Screw it. I don't feel like wearing a hat today. I don't feel like wearing a hat." So, I haven't even got a haircut in like two weeks. This is just like whatever. But it's proving to you guys I do have hair. A lot of people didn't think I had hair. I think I'm bald. It's like no, I have hair. I just uh usually never show it. S&P7000 by turkey day. Dude, if we get S&P7000 by the end of the year or even by Thanksgiving, this would be fun. This would be very, very, very, very, very fun to end out the year in this manner. Again, I think it's very possible now. I mean, look, we're less than 2% away from 7,000. So all those 7,000 targets, which shout out to Steve, even when the S&P fell to 4,800, he was pretty adamant that we are going to see that 7,000 range, if that can continue, then uh this would be pretty exciting. This was Tom Lee on Friday on his thoughts for why crypto probably is going to rally towards the end of the year.
>> Uh still expecting explosive recovery in markets. Um, but we are above that level and you know, we're 10 weeks before the end of the year and the S&P is at 6,800. I think it's still a base case then for people to say that in just a typical year the S&P should gain another 4%. That would put us over 7,000 into the end of the year. And I think that that's sort of the minimum. But because we've got the Fed cutting um and and they started in September, they've been on pause all year. that only happened twice in the last 50 years, which is 1998 and 2024. I actually think the S&P, given the skepticism that's been plaguing this market all year, we could do far better than 4%. You know, maybe even 10% into year end.
>> Wow. Okay. So, where does crypto fit in? Especially when you're looking at how those currencies are moving uh versus what's happening with tariff concerns, global trade concerns, etc. Uh yeah, cry I mean crypto uh had a huge deleveraging event on October 10th and and part of that was triggered by the the escalating tensions with US and China on tariffs and trade. Um and that was the biggest liquidation event in in five years for crypto. So there is still and it looks like that got resolved over the weekend to an extent with these productive talks with Vent. So that's why you're probably seeing crypto get a rebound. Bitcoin just needs to stay above 115 by the end of October to have its like 10th green October in a row. If it's below 115, then we would have a uh downtober, not an October. But if China was the reason for the crypto liquidation, maybe China's the reason why crypto comes back to the moon.
>> Those ripple effects, you know, two weeks later that are plaguing the crypto market. But I think we're almost through that because a measure like something called open interest for both Ethereum and Bitcoin are at record lows at a time when the technicals for both Bitcoin and Ethereum are are flipping positive. So I think you're going to see a crypto rally into the end of the year. And it's it really does help to see JP Morgan say they're open to the idea of using crypto as collateral.
>> Yeah, I was actually going to get your thoughts on that, Tom, but in light of that and you and I have had these conversations uh over the months, over the years. I can think about the conversation we had in early early August uh where you talked about on the exchange where you talked about the fact that cryptocurrencies tend to be early indicators of where stocks are directionally headed as well as uh indicators of liquidity in the broader market. So given what we are seeing in Bitcoin and as that relates to the S&P 500 and arguably what we're seeing in Ethereum and what that says about the Russell 2000, want to get your thoughts.
>> Um yeah, I mean I think it's sending a pretty bullish signal. Um part of it is uh it's a counterfactual statement but crypto had the biggest liquidation event deleveraging event in in history. You know I mean the the number is is probably multiples of what happened during FTX and Bitcoin ends up down 3 or 4%. So I I think it shows you that it's Bitcoin itself is proving to be a pretty good store of value because if we had seen this happen with gold in the gold market if there was a huge leverage event and gold was only down a few percentage points we'd of course consider that a real validation and it's also true of Ethereum because Ethereum uh is is seeing so much activity growth I mean on the L1 and the L2 because of stable coins and it's not reflected in price. It does take time. So to me,
>> it's not reflected in the price. And going to Tom Lee's point, Zel, which a lot of us, at least in the United States, know about, uh, they said today they're planning to allow their users to start making international payments via stable coins. I mean, this is, bro, I mean, this I know Ethereum is not reflecting all the momentum we've seen in stable coins and tokenization, but you've got people like Vlad that think tokenization is literally going to eat the financial system. You got Larry Fink that thinks it's going to be a four and a half trillion dollar market. You got Bent who thinks stable coins is going to get up to the two to four trillion dollar range simply because of the demand for treasuries which the federal government really likes because there's a buyer for US debt. Um and then you've got the overall retail excitement because of people like Tom Lee. By the way, the Nikk, look at that. 50,000. That is an all-time high for Japan. That is an all-time high for Japan. Wow, dude. In 1991, it was at 40,000. Bottomed basically in 2008 at 8,000 and now we're at 50. Got a lot more people. They're getting excited about these different asset classes and obviously that's going to be really bullish for for uh for Bit Mine as well. So, I mean again the theme of the day and hopefully the theme of tonight's future show continues into tomorrow. Look at Robin Hood 14338 is bullish. And the reason I really think this is more bullish is because we went through a healthy two week draw down across the entire board and all of us probably needed to see a little bit of more pain before we get those gains. It's just natural. We were going on a hot streak. Literally from April till the end of September, we're on a hot streak. And granted, we had a 30% decline, but the point is it was just up and up and up and up. And I ran Israel didn't take us down. Moody's didn't take us down. Trump announced 50% tariffs on the EU that didn't do anything. And then a 3% down day because Trump says, "Oh, I'm tired of China's uh export controls." And then boom, everything goes to It's almost like the market just needed a catalyst. And most people just said, "Okay, if that's the catalyst for me to get SoFi at $25, then that's what I'm going to do or pick whatever stock at whatever level." And that's why this is also pretty exciting. So there you go. Hey, put in the chat what stock you really bought the dip on over the past two weeks. I think we're going to get some of the the main targets like the Bitmines, the Amazons of the world, but put in the chat. I mean, which one you really took advantage of? I think for me it would be a little bit of Bitmine, more Grab, bit of Palanteer, a bit of Nvidia, SoFi, usual Amazon for sure, usual candidates, but it ended up so far not being the worst. Yeah, I see a lot of Bitmine, a lot of Amazon, a lot of I mean, dude, Nabius, great buys for those who got the if you're super bullish on IEN, you got a chance to buy the dip, even if you know it was still elevated from where you bought it at. Cipher, pounder, Weeble, where's Weeble overnight? This thing got to freaking almost below $10. Weeble right here. There you go. 11.82. Dude, someone bought like a couple million bucks worth of freaking Weeble uh $35 November calls. I don't know what they think is going to happen to Weeble in November to get to 35, but doesn't literally have to get to 35 for them to sell, but like I mean, you got a lot of people that are bullish on this one going into the end of the end of the year. Richtech Robotics Assist again, Mike Alfred, he is a bigger figure in the Bitcoin community. He uh he he bought this on Friday. And look, I I don't know that much about Mike Alfred. We we've had a couple conversations here and there. We've we've talked I mean, I've know the guy for about two or three years now, and you know, we've DM'd back and forth, and he's a friendly guy, but this thing completely pumped the stock. I mean, this thing was trading at 95 cents, and he bought a million dollars worth of it. I did a little bit of digging into ASST. the I I did find some stuff that I think people just might have to watch out for. There is it's trading at 2.2x MNAV. There's a pipe coming up. There's uh warrants that are unlocking to the tune of 450 million. Company's only worth 800 million, so it might be diluted by 50%. I mean, there's a lot of different like internal dynamics of ASST that people have to watch out for, but it also might not matter because at the end of the day, rates are coming down. this is a Bitcoin associated asset class. And then you might just have retail wanting, you know, if they miss the open door run, they might say, "All right, this is my next thing to to ape into even if it's just for a flip. So I mean you might have a lot of things that could create that as well. Pipe is private investment and public equity. So you have more money potentially coming in and then some money actually leaving based on what price the warrants are exercised that." I don't know about the internal nuances to to like actually tell you a fundamental thesis around ASST. I would say if you're buying it and it goes higher, it is likely because of a lot of momentum. I don't I mean I don't think Mike highlighted in a fundamental thesis. He just said he really loves the team. And so I don't know if there is a fundamental thesis. All I know is that it could be a super big momentum play. I mean it would not surprise me if this this thing was at $10 a couple months ago. It would not surprise me if it gets back there just based on momentum. It's just a question of, you know, do you want to take the risk on if it does get there or if it doesn't? Kratos, EOS, Grab, VG, Next. I mean, yeah, pretty much all of us, dude, bought something. Pretty much all of us bought something, which is the exciting part over the past couple of weeks. Yeah, AS got hit as well, but you know, that one is something that people were able to buy the dip on. Joerger shots for the birthday. I I don't know, dude. It's Monday. Do we drink on a Monday? Feel like we can't drink on a Monday, dude. Feel like drinking on a Monday is too aggressive. But it'll be it'll be a fun market close. We'll uh we get to just chill and then talk and hopefully we end at all time highs and it'll be, you know, a fun way to end out Monday and nothing too crazy plays out. Jagger, when you ring the bell, where's VG overnight? Does that trade overnight? EG 949 and then next there you go 582. Oh wow. Next got below six. I have to buy next eventually. I believe in Matt's DD. I just haven't taken the position yet. But eventually I'm going to buy it and just hold it for the long term. Um do you think Okay, so this is this is interesting. Do you think All right. Do you think that the S&P could have a blowoff top tomorrow? I think there is enough good news baked in right now based on what we're seeing in the futures with, you know, 681 on the S&P where the blowoff top would happen if there's not another catalyst to kind of keep the market excited about what's going on. And all I see over the next couple of months are catalysts. You've got earnings this week, that's a catalyst. You've got rate cuts on Wednesday, that's a catalyst. And then you still have a lot of people that are pretty bearish on the overall market. They still think there's way too much froth, yada yada. like that's a catalyst because there's a bit of a wall of worry there. You've got Nvidia potentially signing a deal to finally sell their chips into China, which may be a culmination of the trade agreement with with the US and China. I mean, if we get their rare earths, maybe they get our chips. Trump's been on board to do that. Even Lisa Sue has offered 15% of revenues for AMD. That would be bullish for everyone. And then you've got the general AI tailwind that it doesn't seem like it's slowing down either. Oh, yeah. Possible government reopening. I mean, I don't know if that's ever going to happen at this point, but like I don't know, dude. I feel like it's it's a it's it's a little too like it's a little too easy to be like, well, it's topping out now because we just had a draw down and that draw down made sense for a lot of reasons and now you have healthy catalyst to get that draw down to not be as bad. Now, you do have this macro news that no one can ignore, right? auto loans and their delinquencies um 60 days or more past due have surged 51% over the past 15 years specifically on auto. And we we we looked at a chart similar to this last week. So like yeah, there's parts of the market that are not healthy because we have these, you know, credit delinquencies that are not doing the best. But then again, you look at every bank's earnings and SoFi will let us continue that trend hopefully on Tuesday. That said, delinquencies are fine. City Bank and JP Morgan literally said they're lower than expected. You know, this is not some random bank. This City Bank and JP Morgan saying the delinquency rates that we thought we were going to get were lower than expected. The credit provision losses for TFC and a bunch of the other regional banks on uh Monday came in way better than expected. And then at the same time, you still have 7.4 trillion on the sidelines with 30 billion that were added to money market funds last week. I mean, again, I'm trying to find the bare case. The only bare case I had over the past couple weeks was that, hey, maybe we're a little too frothy. We need a little bit of shakeddown. Well, we got that. We got the shakedown. It happened. So, it's like, you know, that shortterm, okay, this is going to be a little choppy ended up being a buy the dip, which I think, you know, most people agreed was a good buy the dip. And now potentially, we are back for this next leg higher. And this is a chart on November. That's also really important. Again, take a look at November right here. Over the past 10 years, S&P 500 average monthly return in November has been above 4.2%. Maybe that continues. the government is closed. Who even noticed? Yeah, I mean, look, but the people, by the way, the people not getting paid by the government obviously are noticing, but uh the market is not acting like they care that the government's closed. We found out the person, or at least I should say the New York Times found out the person who gave the $130 million uh soldier payment payroll. It's Timothy Melon. Timothy Melon. this guy uh he's he's uh he's part of a American banking family. I had no idea who this guy is, but he's the grandson of Andrew Melon, and that name should be, you know, similar to a lot of people. He was once the US Treasury Secretary. Um and Forbes puts the Melon family net worth at 14 billion. They put his net worth at four billion. Yeah. BNY Melon. Exact. Exactly. Now, I said last week, I think you need to be worth a lot more than four billion. I would say minimum 10 billion to give away 130 million. So maybe maybe Forbes has his net worth wrong, but if he if he's only I use quotes on only worth four billion and he gave away 130 million to pay for the troops, that's quite incredible. That's quite incredible. I feel like he's worth more than that. But like even the fact that you have this stuff happening kind of subdues some of the impact from the shutdown, at least in the eyes of the market, which again is bullish for for equities. Uh take a look at this. We got a couple more charts right here. Here is the NASDAQ's performance 720 days after Chat GBT's release on November 30th, 2022. compared to its performance 720 days after Netscape, which was one of the world's first browsers on the internet, released on December 19th, 1994. I mean, this chart is phenomenal. Chat GBT has grown 111% through the past 720 days. Netscape 123% through 720 days. So you're you're you're having the start of the literal internet be just slightly above the NASDAQ composite percentage change of chat GBT which might be the entire start to a to an industry that's much bigger than the internet and that doesn't look yeah some of you guys remember Netscape I mean that's Mark Andre so it doesn't look like that's slowing down anytime soon here's another chart on what's happening with ChatBT this is the projection from Adreen Horowitz which is one of the biggest investors in chat They're expecting in the next two years for OpenAI to make hundred billion dollars of revenue. For context, it took all the other tech companies a minimum of six years, most of them 10 years to get to hundred billion dollars of revenue. Now again, uh, OpenAI really has to do this because they're involved in every single freaking deal that's in that's on the planet in regards to AI. But like if they do, you've got that broader macro tailwind that is very important. And and and and to help them do this, SoftBank from Japan officially has initiated the remaining 22.5 billion of its $30 billion investment in OpenAI. There was a couple of disagreements between Soft Bank and OpenAI over the past couple months. This was supposed to happen back in July, and it took them a few months to figure out exactly how they were going to do it, how they're going to deal with the nonprofit stuff, the board, voting rights, all that stuff. They ended up investing 40 billion or sorry 30 billion in total. They did 8 billion last uh July and the other 22 billion over the weekend. I mean imagine the guy who's sending in the wire for that $22 billion investment. Got to make sure you don't mess up the uh mess up the name of the freaking of the bank. But like I think anytime we have a broader bearish argument for this stock market, which is, you know, we should all pay attention to and care about and understand and like deeply try to analyze because at the end of the day, this stuff does does matter for the day-to-day. The broader macro theme around AI is intact. At least I haven't seen a meaningful degragation of that theme. And if that theme continues to stay intact, I mean, you're going to continue to see earnings growth. You're going to continue to see margin expansion. You're going to continue to see capex. And as a result, you should continue to see potentially three and a half% to 4% GDP growth over the next over the next four or five years, which is the plan of this administration. And if that happens, that would not be the worst in the world. Uh Gotam, thank you for the $10 super shout admit thoughts on UiPath. Uh also, I've been watching since 2021. Appreciate it. Gotham. I have not really dug deep into UiPath. I do know it's I mean I I'm seeing through the stock it is breaking out. Uh robot robotic processing automation RPA is something I think AI should be a tailwind for. I just don't fully know if it's the most exciting AI story. Even though the valuation is a lot more compelling than some of the other AI names. So I have to look into it. I I will actually hit up Suchin. Suchin I think was in the stock a year ago. I don't know if he's still in it, but I'll ask him and I'll try to get you some thoughts from him and see if it's worth uh worth looking into the stock year to date on path. Yeah, it's up 27%. So, it has performed. QXO, Steve is getting pretty bullish on QXO. I was talking with him this morning and um you know, ironically, I did a deep not a deep dive, but we did a 30-minute audio show on uh on spaces of GXO, which was a subsidiary and a spin-off of the other company that Brad Jacob started. But both of them in the log logistics warehousing space. And so Steve is getting a lot more excited about QXO. So, I'll get him on the channel this week and he can kind of lay out his thesis for why he's excited about this one as well. Uh, Chris, thank you for the $10 super chat. Happy birthday, man. Thanks for all that you do. You've given me faith in investing into poundhood through your DD on them and helping me understand these companies more in depth. Chris, appreciate you. It has been a wild, wild journey with those two names and I think a lot of people have found their own journey on multiple names outside of pounder and hood. Um, but it's been incredible because those were the two OG names that kind of started everything for for this channel and for this community. So, super super exciting as we get into their earnings as well. K Roger, thanks for the super chat. Okay, this is important. I need to share this. Thank you for reminding me about this. So, your boy Jensen, look, Jensen has a lot more money than me. Jensen is obviously a lot more successful than me. That doesn't mean that Jensen doesn't jack my lines. Okay? That doesn't mean that Jensen doesn't jack my freaking line. So Jensen said in a interview over the weekend, "Very few people know this, but I don't wear a watch. And the reason I don't wear a watch is because now is the most important time. Just dedicate yourself to now." All I'm saying is if you go back to June 28th, I don't know if Jensen follows me on X. I don't know if he watches the streams. I don't I don't know. But I said, I don't wear a watch because the time is always now. So, you know, your boy might be getting some inspiration from retail investors, even if he's, you know, a big fancy CEO. Nebas right there up 5% in the overnight markets. But I think he stole my line. I think he stole my line. Okay, to be fully truthful, I kind of stole Jensen's line because Jensen has said this multiple times in the past. I don't even know if I stole it from him or if I heard from somewhere else, but yeah, he he he this is not the first time he said this, even though he said, "Most people have never heard me say this." He said this multiple times. So, yeah, I think I probably stole it from Jensen first. But it's nice to to think that he stole from you. He needs to steal his payroll. I would love to steal Jensen Hang's payroll. That would be nice. Mugabby, thanks for the super chat. IN moved their earnings closer about two weeks to 116. Uh that is usually great news. I'm anxious, excited along with what is currently happening. Yeah, I mean look, IN is one of the the stocks in this whole Bitcoin miner to GPU AI HPC revolution that has like really shown meaningful growth and obviously has the GPUs and the the licensing facilities based on the the amount of land that they have or the land that they're acquiring to execute. So I think for a lot of these names, it's also just a question of like look, if you're an Iran from $10 and it's at 70, do you expect it to go to 100? Maybe if it doesn't go to 100 and it stays stuck at like 50 to 70, are you that upset? Probably not. But it's also like, do you think the earnings are going to be that good? Because I mean, remember I ran was 15 last time on their earnings, got up to 28, sold off a bit, and then then it had this run to 67. You know, can that continue? I don't know. But, uh, if you are bullish on these names, whether it's an Iran, a cipher, a bit farms, a big bear AI, whatever it may be, you just have to be confident that the company can execute and that they deserve to hold their prem. Same thing with Hood, right? Hood's trading at a good premium. Am I confident they're going to exit in Q3? I believe so. And do I think that premium needs to expand? I think it can. If it doesn't, am I the angriest? Not really, but I would hope it does. And if you're in a bull market, you should imagine those things do expand because money's got to go somewhere and it might end up going into those. Yeah, Galaxy, I mean, they had a phenomenal earnings as well. Now, they sold off a bit from their earnings because again, the stock is still up more than 150% this year, but they had a great earnings. They crushed EPS by 200%. If an Iran or a cipher can do something like that, you're probably going to see additional premium getting onto those names, which is uh which is going to be fun for a lot of those as well. Uh online fitness coast, thank you for the super chat. Appreciate it. Happy early birthday, man. Thank you for all you do. The hair looks amazing. Thank you. I know the hair is very controversial. This is not my uh official haircut or hairstyle. I know this like looks like a mustache on my forehead. I get it. But it's just, you know, I said, "You know what? We're gonna take the hat off today. We're gonna take it off. So, appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for being part of the channel. TJ Hawkins, thank you for becoming a channel member as well. Uh, Terren, thank you for the $100 super chat. You did not need to do that, but deeply, deeply, deeply appreciate it. Thank you for the $100 super chat. Again, guys, I said this a couple of days ago, but can we just please not send a ton of super chats tomorrow saying happy birthday? Like, the fact that you guys are even here, it it really really means a lot. And I don't want people to spend their money just to say happy birthday. Like I appreciate so deeply that people care, they consume, they they watch the content. Uh we are going to do a giveaway on Market Close. We're going to give away some money. In Indian culture, it's always nice to to give when it's your birthday. So I do want to to do a giveaway. But please, please, please do not send money. Just say happy birthday. I just care that people are even here in the first place. Dude, on that post I made on on Friday that I couldn't make the show, I was reading the comments yesterday. First of all, the amount of comments that thought that my throat was not working correctly because of uh something else that had to do with the company that potentially went private or got an offer to go private last week. That was hilarious. Okay, number one, that was hilarious. But number two, the amount of love on that post of just like, "Hey, like, buddy, you're part of our routine. You can't just uh you know, Friday alltime highs. You can't just you can't just do that. You can't just like I felt legit bad, but I also slept through the market close because after I pressed post on that community post, I knocked out. I woke up at like six o'clock and that's when freaking I saw Steve and Matt and all these guys were live and I was like, "Oh, this is I was so happy they went live." So that there was some market close, but I woke up in the middle of them going live and I didn't even know what time it was. I was just so freaking tired. Um, but it was it dude, it's it's very very very very humbling. Uh, I was talking to someone else this weekend about it, but it really means a lot. um the fact that people, you know, feel so deeply about the content and um I am not perfect. I don't tr try to be perfect, but I try to give as many perspectives as I can to the show to make it engaging and entertaining and informative and obviously funny every single day. You know, that's that's that's that's that goes without saying anything. But yeah, I I I deeply appreciate how much people care about the content. And you know, as I'm getting older, as I as I as I turn into an uncle, an enk, as the kids say, uh, entering the 28th year, you start to sort of reflect on your life, right? And what you've done? And I honestly, dude, I don't think over the past three years, I've had a moment to just sit and reflect. A lot of people have asked these questions like, "Have you reflected on what's happened?" I mean, my mom asked that over the weekend. Have you just like sat down and thought about what's happened over the past three years? And uh honestly reading this book, reading this book, uh it really made me sit down and reflect because it's I really do think people will enjoy this book. It is a biography on Karp and his life and what he stands for and how he got to the point where he's at. And it kind of made me reflect on my own life, right? And uh you know, one of the things I reflected on was that I've been able to create this community via this show and it means a lot to people every single day. And I just want to be as consistent as possible and make sure that we take it to the next level, whatever that may mean, and we keep it going. That's really important. Aid says 6 28 is the new 68. Exactly. 28 is the new 68. But I'm very, very, very, very grateful every day for people that consume the content. I want to continue to get better, want to continue to get more guests, want to continue to just make the content more data driven. I think one of the reasons the show works is because there's a lot of charts, a lot of analysis. Shout out to our boy Cactus Jack. He is making it a lot more easier for me to do my job even though I just made a grammatical mistake because you can't say more and easier because more already represents the eer on the easy part. But nonetheless, I don't know how to talk in the first place anyway. But uh he's made it uh basically more productive for me to actually get the job done every day. And you know, I think we can do a lot more stuff over the coming years to keep making it good. So there we go. I'm excited. I am excited. Thank you everybody for being here. Means a lot. I did not add to Amcore. Last time I added to it was at 30.5. So I think my average on it is 30.7 something like that on Amcore. So we'll see what they show up for earnings tomorrow. But we got a lot of companies that are putting up earnings and it's gonna be a big week. It's going to be a big big big week. We all thought you were on a grinder day. Yeah, I just went with it. I just commented. I was like, "Yeah, the date was great." I just like There was like 15. There was like 80 comments and then 15 of them were like, "Oh, he was obviously on a grinder date." I was like, "You know what? Sure. Sure. That's what everyone thinks." I was sleeping, but everyone thinks I was on a grinder date. Then that's what it was. Let's wake up. Calling out his mistake before we do. He's evolving. Yes. Exactly. Exactly. Siege, thank you, man, for the super chat. I appreciate you, brother. You don't have to send this, but thank you. Thank you for the super chat. Means a lot. Um, and yeah, again, I I I just appreciate everyone being here. I appreciate everyone being here. So, uh, we'll be back tomorrow on the market open. We'll see what we can do. And I think it's going to be a fun market open. If this withstands, I don't think Trump says anything that derails it. Trump is going to be in South Korea, I think, in the next couple days anyway. So, hopefully we get some good negotiations with these trade talks. Maybe we get a bit of a sell-off tomorrow just because there's a lot of price action baked in. I think that's probably just eventually going to be interpreted as a buy the dip if the catalysts continue to remain how they remain. And then this week's going to be crazy, folks. We got a big show tomorrow to preview everything we got going on. Then Tuesday, we got SoFi. I think Steve will be live with me Tuesday. Oh, we have UNH on Tuesday as well. So SoFi, UNH, PayPal in the morning. Those are gonna be massive. And then Wednesday, I don't even know how Wednesday is going to play out, but you have the FOMC and you have Meta, Microsoft Alphabet. I think I might do a full day stream on Wednesday. I think we might go a full 10 hours on Wednesday. We haven't done that since May. I think we might do that and uh we'll keep going from there. So, very excited. Very, very, very excited. Are you going to cut a cake on live? I'm not getting a cake. I went home for the weekend, so I'm not even going to see my parents tomorrow. I saw them over the weekend. We had a dinner, so we uh we celebrated the birthday a day early and Yeah. Again, like I'm just not interested in doing anything crazy for my birthday, like going to Vegas. I thought I went, but like there was so much traveling for the first nine months of the year. I am just happy to be at home and chill. So yeah, I'm really happy to just spend the birthday at home, working, spending with you guys on the clothes and keep going from there. Keep going from there. Another year. Another year on planet Earth. Uh Nuta, thank you for the super chat. Watch your channel every day. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you for being here. Thank you all for being here again every single day. It truly truly means the world. It is the most blessed position I could ever imagine myself being in. Part of this book uh about Karp is just the the crazy parts of his life that got him to he joined Pounder at 34 years old. He had already lived 34 years doing tons and tons of crazy stuff. He you know there's a part of the book where it says he wanted to make $250,000 and then go to Germany and basically just live the rest of his life. thought he only needed 250,000 saved in a nest egg that and then he could just go off and you know go do whatever the hell he wanted and live his life and he ended up being the CEO of a company worth 400 billion. I mean it's just crazy where life goes sometimes but um just unbelievably grateful for the people that have chosen to be part of this journey and have been here for the past couple years. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. I will send you all if you would like to go to Steve's stream. He is live right now. Uh talking alternative assets. We already know what to do. CRN spam in the chat for those that want to be there. I'll be back on Monday morning. Got a lot to talk about tomorrow. A lot to get into. Hopefully we get some more updates on China. We got earnings this week. And let's see if we can keep going for these alltime highs and keep this going from here. Thank you everybody. Deeply appreciate you all. I will see you guys tomorrow morning, Monday, and then on the market close, we'll do the giveaway and we'll have a little bit of a fun birthday stream as well as uh as we get into year 28. So, thank you everybody. Good night. Love you all. I'll see you guys on Steve's stream in the chat. CRN, we already know what to do. Every time we come in, we come in like a mo dude, you know, Steve's part of the mafia, but we're like the real mob, bro. When we come into that stream, we come into that stream. We We let him know what's up. Thank you everybody. I'll see you guys Monday morning. Bye everyone. Have a good one.