[Music] [Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. It is the last day of October and we are ending out the month of October. Two months left of the year and it looks like folks we are going to get a green close to the end of the day. Thank you everybody for being here. We got a lot to talk about. Lots of headlines since we were live on the market open. If you take a look right here at the S&P 500 up about half a percent on the day which is not too bad. 68405. It looks like Palanteer will give us the $200 close. We got 13 minutes left. Hopefully we get that close above 200. We did dip all the way to 197. So the fact that it's coming back above 200 is very nice to see. Robin Hood dipped to 43, back to 147. Not too bad. Google relatively flat on the day at 281. AMD's up 1%. SoFi is up 1.5. I mean, it's been a pretty flat day since the market open. Amazon 246 did lose a little bit of love, but still holding that 10% move, which is incredible for a hyperscaler. Now, Meta, they are absolutely taking to town. I did not buy more Meta. 649 down 2.48% on the day. They put it at 645 at one point. I didn't think they would let it break 650. It seems like there is a deep structural concern about capex and we'll talk more about Meta and it has to go deeper than the surface level concerns if the street is this scared on a green day on the last day of the month for Meta. Now you probably have a lot of options that are expiring today as well. So it could just be ALOS but uh Meta right here 649 that one is down another 2% of the day. Bitcoin will end red for October. I mean we do have um what nine 10 more hours in the day. So maybe Bitcoin, if it gets a $5,000 candle, will be able to hold up, but if it does go red, it will be the first red October, not really October for Bitcoin, uh, for the first time in six years. So, it's one thing to look out for. We do have about nine more hours to see how Bitcoin closes. Ethereum right there at 3,800. And then you got BMR right now at 4667, up about 4.7% on the day. So, look, I mean, overall, it's been an incredible month. It's been a wild month. We had a lot of different things happen this month, this entire week with the Fed cuts, big tech earnings, etc. has been kind of crazy, but I do think it has been a strong month for the stock market, if we do end green today, which it looks like we will, it'll be six months of green in a row. The resiliency of the market is something to be commended. And those who bought the dip when it was time to buy the dip, whether it was October 10th or October 17th, variety of days this month that definitely test the conviction, uh, you are being rewarded. And we got an Elon and Rogan podcast for Halloween. Here's Elon talking about flying cars. of the the future was supposed to have flying cars, but we don't have flying cars.
>> So, you're going to be able to fly?
>> Well, I mean, uh, I think if Peter wants a flying car, we should should be able to buy one.
>> He's talking about Peter Teal.
>> So, you are you actively considering making an electric flying car? Is this like a real thing?
>> Well, I have to see in the
>> in the demo. So when you do this, like are are you going to have a retractable wing? Like what is the idea behind this?
>> Don't be sly. Come on.
>> I I I can't I can't uh do the unveil before the unveil. Um but um
>> tell me off air then. I I I it h look I I think it has a shot at being the most memorable um product unveil ever. It has a shot. So there you go. Some uh nice threeh hour Halloween action with Mr. Joe Rogan and Elon Musk. I mean there's been rumors of this flying car roadster collaboration for a long time. So Elon kind of just bringing those back and who knows maybe we get that going into the next five years. AMD right there up about 1.28%. Where is the lab of rockets? Rocket Lab right here 62.99 that's up about 3.37%. Coinbase 348. Coinbase had a great day as well. Wells was up 9% now up 6%. Cory up 2.5. Nebius are we still holding 130? We are 131. Not bad on Nebus. Congratulations. Nice to see that. Went all the way down to 94. Speaks to the resiliency of that data center play in particular. And that's why NeAs is getting some love right there. Delta at 57. You got DLO down about 2% on the day. And then Cisco basically flat. S&P 500 at 62. We did have Tom Leon. Uh he was in the Middle East traveling this entire week, which is why we didn't hear too much from him. But here is what he just said about 30 minutes ago on what is the state of this bull market and why he continues to be bullish on what we've got going on.
>> Great to see you, Scott. I'm going to take issue like I did last time with an a comment that you gave to our producers. Tom, you think it's still the quote most hated rally? I I just don't know how that still holds water given where we are. I mean, I I I interview people all day every day. I've got no bears around.
>> Well, um I mean, maybe some of the bears have gone to hiding, Scott, but because the last time we talked, I wanted to give you some quantitative stats. Um, if you take AAI, which I think is one of the best surveys of high netw worth retail investors, it's averaged - 11.7 this year, negative 11.7. There have only been three other times in that survey's 35-year history where the year-to- date average has been negative. It was 1990, 2002, and 2022. So um all those times have actually been associated with bare markets and so sentiment has averaged this year what's consistent with a bare market. So it is the most hated V-shaped rally. Now there may be some people who say they're no longer bearish but their P&L doesn't reflect that.
>> No, that that that that may be fair. Um, which leads us to the potential of a chase into year end when they realize that what's at stake for them if they're not engaged.
>> That's right. And we know 80% of fund managers are trailing their respective benchmark this year. It's the worst in almost 25 years. So, uh, and now they're given two things to work with. One is that seasonally November's a good month, so it should be a positive month. And as far as earnings go and and you guys had a conversation about it um earlier today, margins have been improving despite tariffs. And so it's showing you that companies, I think, using AI are able to expand profit margins. That's actually a a pretty good tailwind because the tariff headwinds are fading, but the benefits from AI margin benefits are still going to grow. Now, I'm a little surprised, maybe not much, but just because you have a history of of liking small caps o over the last year or so, but particularly coming off the Fed meeting where the Fed chair went out of his way to say that December is not a foregone conclusion and then underscored that with far from it, which obviously if rates aren't going to go down in the trajectory that you probably thought they would, then small caps probably not going to perform the way you thought they might.
>> Yeah. Um, one thing to keep in mind is that, you know, if you look at Fed fund futures, it's still projecting a cut in December. I think Fed Chair Powell in his statements did give you a window for why it's possible. One is he did acknowledge that inflation's effect from tariffs is less than they expected. And despite a lot of Fed governors talking about inflation widening, that's not the case. Um when you look at the the CPI report in September, it was the highest percentage of components, 54% that were in outright deflation. So it's it's in fact inflation is falling like a rock. And the second was he acknowledged that rates aren't accommodative. They're just less restrictive. And so in a case where there's falling inflation and if if jobs markets weakening, I think that that's a good reason for cuts to happen. And in a way that's good for equities.
>> Yeah. But I mean, we were talking about December probabilities, Tom, before the meeting at like 100%. Now they're down and some like, you know, Jeffrey Gunlock, who I interviewed the other day post Powell was like could be 50/50. So maybe the that particular trade gets paralyzed, if you will, between now and the next meeting because we just need to see what the Fed's going to do before we become big believers in the small caps.
>> Yeah. Well, I'm going to do something that the Fed won't will not want to do, which is be a little forward-looking. But we have a government shutdown that's continuing that is causing even things like air traffic to slow and inflation isn't going to be gaining strength in a period like that. So, if the Fed was acknowledging inflation's weakening now, I think it's even weaker in December at a time when the labor market is is suffering. So, I I I think if those if someone thinks the odds have dropped because of what the Fed said, I just think the data would support a very opposite picture.
>> And you still like 7,000 at least between now and the end of the year. I mean, we closed above 6,900 the other day. So, we're well on our way, it would appear.
>> Yeah, that's right. And uh but it probably makes sense for people to be aware that because October was so strong, we we have to consolidate some of those gains in the first half of the of November. And Mark Newton, our technician, does think it's it that we're going to be entering a period of chop. So 7,000, yes, makes sense. And it's just going to be bumpy in the next couple weeks.
>> Hey Tom, have a
>> So look, a lot of things Tom said right there I think make a lot of sense. We got four minutes until the market closes. Number one, I think the Fed is trying to just get the market to not be over excited for a December rate cut. But the number one reason, which I 1,000% agree with on Tom, on why we would get that rate cut, uh, is that we have a government shutdown and we have a weak labor market. And naturally, if the fear on a December rate cut is that we have inflation because of tariffs, well, if we have a labor market slowdown and we have a government shutdown in which people aren't getting paid, guess what? If people aren't getting paid as much, they're not going to be able to consume, which will naturally be deflationary. So from that perspective, I think it is very unlikely that we don't get a December cut. I mean, something would have to change in the macro in a meaningful way uh for that to take place. So I think we're going to get that rate cut, which is why he's bullish. And then number two, the AI investor survey that he talks about is legit. I mean, I looked at the stats he was looking at and the last three times we had uh the investor sentiment be as skewed as it is to the bearish side, we're in bare markets. We are obviously not in a bare market, but the fact that people are acting like we are through that investor survey and if you don't even want to look at that investor survey, just look at what Mr. Michael Bur posted yesterday essentially claiming that this is a bubble. And so when you've got that level of excitement on wanting to call that it's toppy, it's bubbish, etc. by ignoring the earnings growth that we have seen all week, Amazon just growing AWS at 20%. I think that's actually very productive for the bull case because it means there is enough healthy skepticism that's out there to go higher. And so I don't think anything Google, Microsoft Meta, Amazon or Apple said today was or said over the past week was bearish and as a result you likely have this bull market that has a chance to continue. Google right there at 281. BMR right here 4664. So that's up about 1.84%. Microsoft down 1.5. Microsoft did get hit today. Uh they did take that open AI $3 billion loss and the street likely is punishing them for that but the overall quarter was not that bad. Micro strategy right here up 5.86% as up 4.6. HIMS up 3.2 and then Uber basically up2% on the day. Uh we got about two minutes until this market closes. We're going to see if Palanteer can get that $200 close. We got a bunch of other headlines that we got to talk about. Grab earnings is on Monday. There's actually a new interview that came out with the COO of Grab. Uh, and I I just want to share one clip in a little bit where he talks about Grab as an AI company that I thought was a really important thing to think about. And so we'll take a look at that and then we'll preview what we've got going on into next week as we officially end out the month of October. Been a wild week. Nvidia going a little red. Nvidia crossed 200 for the first time. Got to a five trillion dollar company in the month of October. We had a lot of different headlines, a lot of different things that happened. We had a bunch of different China stuff. I mean, we kind of got a China deal. Kind of don't. Bassen did give some comments today to the Financial Times and said, "Hey, I think the Chinese were very alarmed by the global backlash to their export controls, which is why they were able to negotiate with us and create some type of meaningful deal. Hopefully by the end of the year, if we get China and India confirmed, uh, that would be very exciting. And maybe that allows us to end out this bull market with a pretty decent run." All right, folks. Here we go. Happy Halloween to everybody again. Thank you all for being here. Thank you all for being here this entire week. Uh it's been an incredible week. Turned 28 this week. Was happy to celebrate it with everyone here. Truly, truly, truly am blessed and honored and privileged to be in this position and grateful to be here every single day. And uh we're going to keep it going. So, thank you everybody. Here we go. It is Friday, October 31st. We are ending out the month of October and the stock market goes green for the sixth month in a row. The markets are officially closed. All right, we're done. We survived another month. We survived another month. S&P selling off a bit into the close. Palunteer does get for the first time in history the $200 close. Got the 204 at one point today. 200.5 on pound here. Grab got the six-star close. Google at 281. SoFi at 2963. Hoodie 14673 on the close. S&P 500 just above 680. AMD at 256. Salesforce up 1.4, PayPal got to 69 today, up 1.3, Bitcoin at 109, Ethereum at 38.884, BMR on the close, we are at 4668, uh, which is not too bad. It was pushing 44 last night. Circle up 3.4%. App loaning up 2.6%. Amazon got the 245, 244, just below 10%, but nice to see it make that move after AWS. Meta, we'll talk more about that. Unfortunately, Meta just really was not able to put up the numbers that or I shouldn't say put up the numbers, not able to put up the guidance that the street wanted to see because it was too aggressive on capex. And as a result, Meta got hit. Meta right there at 2 at 648 and then Apple at 271. Uh and then Microsoft also down. Actually, pretty much every big tech stock took a beating this week to the downside. Not a massive beating um outside of Amazon and Google. They were the ones that were actually able to hold on. Apple did get to those all-time highs, but gave it up earlier today. Cory right there 2%. Rocklab 3.2%. Dell up.58% on the day. Irene we got 60.99. That was up 4.6. Nebas did it get the 130 close. Nebas did get the 130.5 close. Not too bad. Corweed again right there at 13370 which is very nice to see. Archer right there up 2.3%. Verizon up 1.9. And then Dell 161. SMCI also great recovery. Anyone who bought that dip at 47.48. That one up 3% on the day. And that one right here at 5191. All right, let's do it. Tesla as well 3.5% 455 even after the earnings. Tesla was able to hold I mean Tesla fell to 418 on their earnings and it was able to keep moving. So Tesla right there with the 450 close for the month of October. All right, year to dates. Let's do it. Let's get it in the chat. I know we did a midweek, but we usually do it every Friday. And let's see what we've got on the year to dates. can put that in the chat and then we'll get into uh all the other headlines we have. I think we're gonna have a couple special guests join us today and we'll talk to them about their thoughts on October. Year to date 173.9 173.9 for me. 173.9 I think a couple weeks ago we were at 120. So decent recovery since the October 10th lows. Uh, but obviously this was also a pretty good week. I mean, if you were in some stocks like a Meta, that probably hurt your week. If you're in a pounder, that probably helped your week, but had a lot of different stocks recovered. So, definitely helping out the majority of portfolios. Jake at 294, Ikeep at 163, uh, Slayer at 31, Jason at 74, Oolie at 20, Lionus at 47, Chris at 45, Shane at 12, Leon at 130, Michael at 148, Shou at 500, uh, Final Version at 43, 023 at 91, pounder at 211. I mean, we are pretty much seeing above the board around that 40 to 50% move for most people. Oswald at 67. Johnny at 102. Bourbon time at 151. It's not too bad. Jonah at 60.3. Bro Hizzle. I love that name. Bro Hizzle 157.8. Chris Foreman at 40. Al Money at 129. Draco at 108. Callum at 56. Golf Garbage at 158. King at 150. I mean, dude, these are pretty incredible numbers and it's a pretty good week to end out for getting these numbers. By the way, S&P 500 for the month to end it out officially is 2.38%. 2.38% on the S&P 500. It's a really nice month. I mean, it's not easy to get a 2% month. It almost went, you know, to a negative 4% month at one point, but the resiliency of this market is quite remarkable to see. Year to date, we're up about 17% over the past 6 months, 23 and well over 30% from the lows in April when things hit the fan. Last says 182. Thank you to Amazon. Congratulations on that. Uh Zoho's 156, Hans at 300. Uh Abena at 710. I mean, again, these numbers are just just incredible. And you have a decent decent chunk of these numbers well over at least 17% which is the S&P 500. There you go. There you go. Not too bad. Yeah. AMD 58% this month alone. I mean when you have names like AMD I dude I forgot October AMD is when they signed the uh this is the month where they signed the opening eye deal, right? Like same thing with Broadcom. So you got a lot of these names if you're leveraged into them or if you're just you know heavily allocated to them. these were the names that really did outperform and that's where we're seeing some move. Now, having said that, Tom Lee did say at the end of that video that uh Mark Newton, which we talked about a couple days ago, the technical analyst said uh November's going to be choppy. And I kind of don't disagree with that. I mean, not even from a technical perspective, but just we've had a lot of gains. We got to digest them. And you know, we the fact that we gave up as many gains as we did back on October 10th and got them back and more, it would be healthy to digest them, which means a lot of these stocks probably consolidate. Now, some of these stocks have different catalyst like earnings that could get them into a new rerating of their narrative. But like in Nvidia at 202, I mean, does this go to 230 next month or does this consolidate maybe settle in around 205, 210? Is that healthy? I think that's going to be the question that we have to see even with that 7,000 target towards the end of the year. The one scary stat I told everyone yesterday on crypto is that the last time Bitcoin finished red in October, which if we don't get to 115, it will be a red October for Bitcoin, we ended at 32% in November. Now granted, that was 2018. That was in one of the years of the cycle. That was also or that was the last year of the cycle. And um you were also having uh a trade war happened with China. The Fed was hiking rates. I mean, you had a lot of different macro things to consider. So, I don't think that's necessarily going to happen in November, but those are things that we have to watch out for as we get into the end of the year. Yes, we looked at Elon and Rogan speaking about the flying car. Elon has talked about this before. I guess he wanted to publicly tell everyone again that there was a flying car coming, but he's got everyone thinking about that. One bullish stat for Bitcoin is this. US money supply rose 4.5% year-over-year in September 2025 to a record 22.2 trillion. This is a 19th consecutive monthly increase that happens in tandem with the United States likely um stopping quantitative tightening, which is what JPAL said a couple days ago. The long-term average growth has been about 6.3%. So, the fact that we're at 4.5% is pretty incredible. Adjusted for inflation, the M2 supply grew 1.2% year-over-year. What does this mean? This means you have to own assets. The more money that is out there, the less the dollar actually matters. Which means you have to own something that preserves the value of the dollar in the first place, which has to either be a stock, a piece of land, piece of property, uh, or a commodity. You know, that's kind of the buckets you can put it into, or a cryptocurrency, and that's likely what you're seeing across the entire equity markets. The dollar, by the way, actually ended green for the month. We read 97 for the majority of October, ended out at 9980, which is not too bad. 10-year was not able to close below 4% but we are just above that at 4.095 and that's what we have right here. Money market funds yesterday we took a look at it they increased by 20 billion 7.42 trillion still on the sidelines that money still has not really flooded into the asset market and if it chooses to flood into the asset market when we do get rates to come down significantly hopefully towards the latter half of 2026 that could also be an additional tailwind for the market. I think the broader argument for this bull market is not even rooted in macro, not even rooted in rates, money, market funds, money on the sidelines, inflation. I think it's really genuinely rooted in earnings. And again, I I think the number one thing that we focused on over the past month is earnings. Are the earnings good? Are we seeing earnings in a way that's positive? The more and more we look at it, the more and more it seems that earnings are continuing to propel. By the way, speaking of protecting your money, take a look at this. I didn't even see this this morning, but Coinbase on their earnings disclosed that they bought another 100 million of Ethereum. So, they now have 617 million of Ethereum on their treasury. They also bought more Bitcoin. The other thing that's really important about Ethereum is that they have base, which is their L2 underneath Ethereum. So, Coinbase is scaling their architecture on Ethereum's blockchain as well. And as a result, you know, to me, I think this is also very bullish Ethereum and BMR long term as the most important financial companies in the world. Whether it's Robin Hood or Coinbase are embracing that new financial system that is playing out which is also nice to see. SoFi is moving after hours. Is SoFi actually moving or are you guys just saying it's moving? How much of a percentage move is this? 29.90 SoFi. Okay, that's a 18 cent move. I I don't know if that's the biggest deal in the world, but someone's buying SoFi after hours to the tune of moving it up 18 cents. Dude, look, SoFi was the disappointment of this week. Obviously, people were super annoyed that it didn't really make the move even after it had a a blockbuster quarter. And look, that that that could happen to any stock. It might happen to Palantry next week, might happen to Grab, might happen to Robin. It might happen to any of these stocks. It's just the nature of investing. like you can't complain too much about its year-to-day return as SoFi has vastly outperformed the broader market. In terms of the options market today, take a look at the top 20 stocks that were traded. Nvidia 3.2 million options traded today. Tesla was at 3.2, Amazon 2.7, Apple at 1.6, Meta at 1.5, Pounder 1.1, IBIT, Micro Strategy, AMD, Microsoft Hood, SoFi at 500,000 contracts, Google, Coinbase, SMCI, Intel, Rocket, which had a great earnings, Beyond Meat, Open, and then Regetti. Unfortunately for Beyond Meat, that stock got clobbered again today. Um, again, there are people that are deeply in this name like this guy who has 927,900 shares of Beyond Meat, 62% of his portfolio, 1.5 million. He posted this publicly. And uh, you know, that's just a lot of money. I feel like there's a lot of places you could put that money, but nonetheless, it is uh in Beyond Meat. Now, again, I do think there might be a bigger story to Beyond Meat given that the uh given that the short float is 161% and so the shorts are literally borrowing shares that don't exist. I just feel like the riskreward on betting on some massive short squeeze, you know, might not be the most fun. But you got that part of the market and then you got a company like Amazon that's actually like putting up earnings that really matters. So there you go. Go all in on beyond and prove the haters wrong. You might have to. You might. You might have to. All right. So let's get into some of the headlines. We'll keep talking from there. I think Steve will be joining a little bit. We'll get his perspectives on what we got. But uh let's preview next week because obviously we got a lot to talk about. Pounder Weekly will be tonight 11 p.m. I know we haven't done it in a long time, but we will be live for Pounder Weekly and uh we'll go through earnings expectations and all that stuff. So, uh look, my simple preview right now is I think they're going to they guided for 50% growth, 1.09 billion. Last year, they did 700 25 million. So, they're going to need to come in at like 1.15 1.2 to really have an accelerated beat above the 50% guidance that they gave. That's what I'm expecting. I don't know if we're going to get it. Maybe we do, maybe we don't. If we don't, maybe the stock tanks. If we do, maybe the stock is flat. If we really beat it, maybe the stock gets to 220, 2 to 210. It's now that the move has already happened. Remember, pounder was at 170 last week. So my perspective was maybe it settles around 185 and then a really good quarter gets us to 200. That move's happened. And so now it complicates the earnings picture. That's why it's so hard to to bet on earnings. And same thing with Hood. I mean, Hood has kind of made a move back to alltime highs before earnings. So these companies are going to really have to put up amazing numbers. And if they can put up those numbers, then that's obviously going to help their share price as well. Twilio, wow, look at that. 19% day for Twilio. It was even higher at one point. It was at 138. So, some of these SAS companies really put up some good numbers. We talked about that yesterday. And Roku was up 7% as well on the day, which is not too bad. Yeah, Shift 4 is next week. AMD, SMCI, got a lot of companies next week that we are going to be going to be looking at. All right, so that's what we got with some of those earnings expectations. Let's get into a few more of these headlines. First of all, Trump was speaking with uh some reporters as he landed in Florida. A couple things he said he's willing to meet with the Democrats. All Democrats have to do is open the government as he was speaking to reporters when he arrived in Florida. So, you do have the president trying to get this shutdown to be done. Now, one thing that's really important about the shutdown and this is something that uh started getting alerted a couple of hours ago because we are getting to the point where you know it matters is uh SNAP benefits. So, we are getting to the point where the government's going to have to start tapping some emergency funds to to navigate benefits that the country is going to have to pay out to people that are on those benefits. There's an update on that
>> is Emily Wilkins does and she joins us now from DC.
>> Hey Brian. Well, we were waiting to see how federal courts would rule today on the Trump administration deciding to not be funding the SNAP program on November 1st. We now actually have two different judges making two different rulings. Let's start with the one in Rhode Island. That judge basically ruled from the bench telling the US government that they need to find funding for that SNAP program. They mentioned the contingency fund. This is the one that Brooke Rollins, a secretary, just told us a little bit ago they couldn't use. Now, a federal judge is saying, "You need to go ahead and use that." A Massachusetts judge, on the other hand, also seems to be leaning in the direction that the government will need to provide SNAP benefits somehow, that they cannot cut off the program, but they're saying that they need the White House to actually put in writing that they plan to not continue to fund that program or that they're not planning on finding a backup source of funding. So, two different judges there. Kind of in the same vein, though. It sounds like the overall takeaway from this is that the courts are telling uh the Trump administration that they are going to have to find a way to get funds into the SNAP program and they're not just going to be able to end it tomorrow as was fear.
>> Now, this is going to be really important because there are Americans that have those food benefits and the Trump administration by cutting off those food benefits obviously was going to get a lot of people angry at the Democrats, right? The whole point is like if you can get your constituents to get mad at the people that are shutting down the country from the Republicans's perspective, then you could possibly get them to come to the negotiating table. Well, you got federal judges saying you're not going to be allowed to do that because people need to eat and you have to find a way to fund the way for people to get the funding for them to eat via these SNAP benefits. And as a result, it continues to complicate the picture when it comes to the shutdown. So, I think that's another layer to November that we're going to have to navigate. And I'm I should do a poll right here given that November is uh upon us tomorrow. Uh and here's the question. Very simple question. Green or red November? Green or red November? I mean, look, I'm going to go green because seasonally it ends up usually being green by an average of 4%. So, I think that November is going to be fine. But I also do think there's some choppiness to expect in November given navigating the shutdown and all this earnings that has to be digested. Uh Fed Governor Waller says we have a lot of data despite the government shutdown. We did get a little bit more data today from the PMI which was important. And then Axio is reporting the US House will stay out of session next week under Speaker Mike Johnson's plan continuing the indefinite recess amid the 31-day shutdown. Wow, we are at day 31. Four more days and officially this is longest shutdown in history. No votes are expected per the current strategy.
>> Yeah, that is going to be another thing that we have to navigate going into November. Amazon right there down a little bit more after hours 244 as it has a little bit of a red candle. You know, my answer is orange. I mean, look, November tends to not be horrible for Bitcoin. So, we're going to have to see. October tends to be really good, but it is quite surprising. Even with rate cuts, even with M2 supply increasing, uh October just wasn't friendly enough for Bitcoin. Not this time. And it really begs the question, what exactly happened uh in October. Now, 2024 and 2023, November was great. So, we had an 8% 2023 and a 37% move in 2024. And then in 2020, you had a 42% move. So, 2021 and 2022 were not the best for Bitcoin, but 23 and 24 have been pretty good. Maybe some consolidation in October is not horrible as we uh as we get ready for November, which wouldn't be too bad. So, we're going to have to see how that one also ends up playing out. Um, all right. So, couple updates right there in terms of the Fed and in terms of what's going on with the White House. Let me pull up a couple other things right here and then we'll keep going from there. First of all, Coinbase uh they acquired a futures derivative firm called Derivit uh last what three months ago uh reportedly in stages to acquire another company called BBNK. And the idea here is to strengthen Coinbase's stablecoin and payments infrastructure. Once again, stable coins continuing to get more momentum. The move aligns with broader consolidation and strategic positioning in crypto finance. Coinbase is reportedly nearing a $2 billion acquisition. Again, they absolutely crushed earnings, but as they want to expand, they're going to have more and more acquisitions. Another piece of macro news that we have uh right here is that, let's pull this up. US bank deposits fell to 18.5 trillion from 18.508 trillion in the prior week. So, you have a little bit of a decline on bank deposits. Nothing too substantial, but nothing like the I forgot October was so crazy. We had this regional banking credit crisis that people were so scared about. And you know that ended up lasting for like a day and then no one cared. So the banks also started off October with a really strong earning session. I mean Jamie Diamond Tanner was on a couple days ago and he shared the clip of Jamie Diamond saying he's now embracing stable coins at the uh Middle Eastern conference and specifically he said that he was wrong on stable coins even after calling Bitcoin a fraud and all that stuff. This is the clip for those that didn't see that.
>> Skeptical of crypto at one point. I've gotten away with no damage so far. Crypto is real. If you mean blockchain, stable coins, you have a JP Morgan deposit coin. You can move stuff. Smart contracts are real. All that stuff is real. It will be used by all of us to facilitate, you know, better transactions and customer.
>> Anybody skeptical?
>> There you go. I mean, again, I know the price action is not the best on ETH and Bitcoin, but you do have a Jamie Diamond, Larry Frink, and a variety of these crypto CEOs that are obviously more friendly towards the state of what's going on in regards to blockchain. So, that's what we've got there. All right, Grab, let me play this video. Uh, this is I know a lot of people have been asking for this. Shout out to Mike for getting this clip. This was the CEO COO of the company, Chief Operating Officer, Alex Hungate. Here's what he had to say about how Grab is embracing AI. I think it's a really good 15-minute interview, but this two-minute clip kind of highlights the nature of Grab becoming more of an AI company as we get into earnings on Monday that we have. How are we going to do that? Uh the good news is that Grab is already quite a big AI player. We run about 10,000 AI models already. Uh which makes us probably one of the bigger ones in the region. Um, and a function that we already play is we bridge between the large foundation models which are being produced largely out of the US at the moment and then we make them more relevant for Southeast Asia. We're the only lighthouse partner for OpenAI in the region which means we get access to foundational models as soon as they're ready but before the official releases and then we fine-tune them. Um, and I give you example of how important that is. When we first got the um the 40 model, we tried to use it for speech recognition because we were targeting to help the visually impaired to be able to use the app better. It only worked 45% of the time for Southeast Asia and that was in English. That's in English. So 45% of the time an English speaker tried to use it in Southeast Asia and because of our different accents, different place names, etc., it didn't work. That makes it not fit for purpose. So we we've had about 120,000 Southeast Asians have given us voice samples. So now it's 92% accuracy, which is not too bad actually. Yeah. So that's one role that we can play. Another role is we're trying to improve the productivity of our drivers by giving them uh what we call co-pilot. It helps them to position themselves during the day, make sure that they get the the maximum possible earnings that they can get. Um it informs them of road closures. They themselves can report road closures, you know, using voice so it's not unsafe. Um for the merchants, we're trying to help them with a merchant chat, what we call merchant chatbot, which has been phenomenal. You know, not only they did they get the CFO and a CMO, but they also get like emotional support. A life coach, one of the merchants in Indonesia actually two weeks ago was showing me her chat with her her Grab chatbot and she'd been she'd been asking about, oh, you know, how do I get sales up, etc. And then it got to, oh, can you give me advice on different menu items? And the chatbot kind of looked at the different restaurants in the area, worked out what people were searching for, worked out what the gaps were and and suggested. And then she said, "Oh, I can't cook that. You know, how do you cook it?" Gives a cooking advice. Then says, "Oh, what shall I put in?" And given her advice for which orders to put in, um, how long the lead time should be based on the prediction and number of sales. And then that's not all. The last part which is absolutely the best part. The last part was she had actually said one of the chats she showed me said, "Oh, can you just give me some encouragement?" And the chat boys say, "Hey, don't worry sis, you're doing well. Keep it up." It was so endearing. It's like it's like AI with heart, you know. So, I think that's the way that uh you know, we can really help. And of course our lending um and insurance type products that we can provide also should get better and better with AI.
>> Is anyone else kind?
>> So I think there's a lot to unpack there but at its core you know there are a variety of different AI verticals that grab is stepping into particularly from the use cases of people that quite frankly depend on a platform like that. They don't have a CMO or a CFO or a entire team to help them grow a business. And from that perspective, when you take a large language model and fine-tune it to the context specific arenas of what Grab should be making it useful for, which is the whole point, right? How can we get a use case for these models that make sense? By the way, QuantumCape 16% day. So pretty incredible for QS for anyone who's in that. There's a battery company really big move today is that one's up 16%. Uh that's what I think is the broader network effect that the company is developing over the long term. I don't know what's going to happen on Monday. I don't know if the stock's going to go up or down. All I know is that the reason they're getting the market share of almost 75% of the entire region is because they're embracing and they're investing in R&D to be able to build products and suites and tools of products that essentially are going to make lives much better for a lot of people in the region. And with that over time comes profitability, comes earnings growth, etc. along with 8 billion cash. So we're going to see how it ultimately plays out. But I thought that was a good interview. If anyone wants to watch it, I'll put the link right here in the chat. And you know, Alex is a phenomenal COO. I mean, listening to him on the earnings calls as well gives me a lot of conviction in just their broader platform approach and how they think of technology as a way to unlock a lot of the goods for people that are in the region. Alex Hungate is his name as well. Um, Nebia still moving a bit after hours. Nebius right there six or 130.1313 that's up 5% of the day. Nvidia did close red. didn't get that green close, but we did get a $200 uh close overall for the week, which is nice. And then Palunteer is still 200 as well, 200.85. Uh Butterfly Network, this one is a small cap. This one also had a big move today, 24%. So yeah, this one medical imaging device company making that 24.5% move. Volume was pretty high today. Average volume is 3 million. This was at 20.8 million. some of these companies that uh you know are smaller companies in regards to the coverage on their earnings, but overall again putting up decent growth. Reddit right here as well 7% move that was up almost 20% at one day. A lot of these stocks got faded after 12 p.m. like they really peaked at around that time and then you know the market ended up selling them off but not the worst thing in the world for some of these names. Um Cheyion, thanks for the super chat. AMD is up 58% this month. second best month ever after 25 years in 2000. What do you think this fundamentally means since 58% on a $400 billion company's a lot? Yeah, I mean this is similar to what Sutin said a couple days ago. I think AMD is really going to have to gear up their remaining performance obligations guidance to be substantial. And if they don't, I mean that 400 billion market cap is going to be a bit hard to sustain until the growth estimates come in. Now again, I think if Lisa Sue is smart, which she is, they're going to increase guidance dramatically, which is going to justify why it had that 58% move. At the end of the day, if opening eye is going to pay you 80 to 100 billion over the next five years, if you can just factor that into the guidance, if you're confident enough to believe that that is going to manifest itself, then I think the street's going to be fine with it. I mean, who knows? They might have ended up growing Q3 way faster than expected without OpenAI, and that in and of itself helps the stock. So, I don't think AMD has to collapse. I think there'll be a lot of dip buyers if it does have a 10-15% dip. But, they've got to give us a good guidance number. And it should be like that, right? If you have a 58% move in your stock, you should have to put up some really good numbers. But I think AMD will uh will have a chance to do it.
>> Um, okay, Meta. Let's talk a little bit more about Meta. So, let's do a poll right here in the chat and let's kind of get some sentiment on what people are thinking on Meta. I guess here's the question. How many people think this Meta dip is justified based on the earnings? 78% of you said we will have a green November. 22% said red. Is the Meta dip justified? Aka, should Meta be getting punished the way that it's getting punished? Because in my opinion, I think the answer is no. I think it's very, very hard to say that this company deserves to get the type of hit that it's getting. Again, this was kind of the theme of what we were talking about in the morning. these companies, the hyperscalers, and in fact, I'm thinking of uh writing out a Substack post around this entire thesis, which is that the hyperscalers should be the best and easiest investments of our lifetime. If we're all going to live for the next 50 to 100 years, the Max 7 should be the most important companies in the world that we deserve to benefit from because we're using their products and services every day if we choose to invest in them. So I like I'm gonna go deeper into Meta's numbers, but the given they said they're probably going to spend close to hundred billion dollars in fiscal year 2026. By the way, Amazon's going to spend more than$125 billion. Google's spending 93 billion, Microsoft's spending closer to 150 billion. So if all these companies are spending these massive amounts of capex, it's not that the street is upset that Meta is spending more because they expect them to spend more. It's that they don't think there's an ROI on that spend, which is kind of laughable given ad impressions are up 14%, average price per ad is up 10%, and revenue growth is up 26%. So it it really is incredible to see. I I I'm trying to rationalize why the street is so upset. But nonetheless, they are upset. And you know, if if if Meta enters into an Amazon or Google phase in 2026 where the narrative sucks, whether it's AWS or the narrative sucks on Google, whether it's DOJ concerns, who knows? Maybe the stock is flat in 26. You know, it was it was a big mover in 24 and 25. Maybe it's flat in 26. Maybe that's a consolidation year which ended up proving to be healthy for Google and Amazon after their recent runs. But that is something that we have to think about in regards to what would happen for metaverse to for meta. Did he finish the metaverse? I I he actually lost another four billion in the past 90 days under the for the metaverse. So yeah, I do think the street has a point where they can say, "Hey Zucks, like no one's using that [ __ ] You can cut it out." Like it's not that serious. But we're going to have to find out if that actually happens. Meta is indeed under the 200 day, which is why it gets scary here. Now, if it loses support right here, this is where you can see a little bit more of a dip if that ends up happening. Zuck sounded bearish on the call. Yeah, I don't think he sounded bearish. I think he just sounded like annoyed with questions, which is yeah, it's bearish because like that's not what you want to sound like when you're talking to analysts. But nonetheless, pretty much all the analysts upgraded the stock. So, it's not like they were that upset about it. But I agree, he did not sound the best. Why are you guys calling Tanner Tannerella? Do we have another nickname for Tanner? Goodness, dude. This guy has more nicknames than me. You guys have figured out more nicknames for Mr. Tanner than for myself. Lori Tannerella. He brings it on himself though. He absolutely brings it on himself. Um, poll right here says 64 64% no. 64% no. All right, folks. Let's bring someone on to the market close on this Friday and get their thoughts on what's been going on over the past week in the global capital equity markets. Um, I mean, he has two words to his name, but to be honest, we should just call him the second word because there's no reason to even say the first word. It's Matt money, but we should just call him money. Ladies and gentlemen,
>> Matt, what's up,
>> sir? Mr. Thank you for having me on. Happy to be here.
>> Thank you for coming on, man. How are you? Did you work from home today or are you just back?
>> Uh, I did. I didn't. Uh, to be very fair, hopefully nobody from work is watching. I don't do too much work but uh but uh but it is what it is.
>> All right. Well, I think I'll get started with uh my first question right here which is a journey we have been part of for a long time. Palunteer at 200o. I mean just how are you thinking of uh of this stock at this level?
>> Uh I either bought more today or yesterday I think. Um
>> yeah. So, I mean, not buying a lot, right? Just the monthly buys that I always have. Every time I get a paycheck, I just
>> just get your mic down a little bit on the gain.
>> Uh, is it is it a little little crazy?
>> Little hot.
>> Little hot. I think it's all the way down. Maybe I'll just move it away a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Uh, let me know if that's a little bit.
>> That's perfect. I think that's way
>> Okay, perfect. Perfect. Um, yeah, I'm trying to adjust the mic to make it a little bit more full sounding. So, maybe I made it too full. Um, but yeah, uh, I just think that there's a lot to to be released still, like AI, FTE, a lot of a lot of great products that I don't think have been fully rolled out as of yet. And when that does actually come through, I think we're going to see a lot of efficiency gains in a lot of different companies. Um, I mean, the the ops margins for Palanteer are continuing to do well. I anticipate and and I think Arie had a really good post earlier talking about how he thinks that that's going to be a good story coming up this this uh this quarter as well, but I'm more so concerned about how many more small contracts we can get, right? I think a lot of people have been very I think the only thing they're complaining about now is oh well they only have a thousand customers or whatever. It's like, well, I think with what they come out with in the near future will allow them to attack some of those smaller customers uh that could actually add a lot to the bottom line as well, but they don't have necessarily the the operational footprint, meaning the floor deployment engineers to be able to actually go to every single company, right? And I think that
>> uh this this will really help. Um, so I'm very happy to see uh the progress of the company and I'm also anticipating a 50% growth handle uh year-over-year. So it'll be it'll be fun to watch. It'll be fun to watch.
>> I think the cool thing about it is you and I both as the company started rising and its price felt the valuation was getting aggressive and we were pretty transparent about that similar you know to Arie and Amir as well. But it's it's almost all of us have been humbled by the fact that the execution is so strong and now it's like oh at some point you got to buy if you want more of it, right? And to your philosophy of just continuing to get more of it. You kind of say screw the the beautiful 10 $15 average and you just get more.
>> Yeah. I mean I look at it in a different way, right? I was talking to somebody about this yesterday. They're like are you like what do you think? Like should I sell here? Whatever. And first and foremost I think when people think about this, right? If they've been in it like you and I have and they have shares, let's say at the $67 8 range and then they sell here at 200, they're going to have to pay, you know, pretty much uh 15 to 20% depending on what tax bracket uh for federal tax um on long-term capital gains. So before they enter even back in, the stock is going to have to go down to uh to at least $160 before they even make an entry back in. And so um before they break even, right? Unless it's in a tax advantage account, then you could play a little bit more games with that. But I don't think people think about that a lot. I think they say, "Oh, I got 5% more shares." It's like, "Well, you also just locked in a 20% or in short-term capital gains a 30%, you know, the tax rate that you had to pay."
>> But so anyway, going back into the real the real aspect of it, I I just the the the execution that I continue to see out of the company, you know, five years ago, I thought it was going to be 150 to20 billion dollar company. And since then, and it's documented literally almost every week when when I had the opportunity to come on Palunteer weekly was like, "Nope, it it moved right to the point where, you know, it got to a trillion dollar valuation and and and more recently I've moved it to a trillion and a half." And some people might say that that's that's still bearish and I I can agree with that. Like I think that that's still potentially undervaluing the potential, but I just don't want to get too far ahead of myself. Um, but if you think about in that respect, it's like we're only at a 500 billion compared to that 1.5. Yeah.
>> And then there's going to be buybacks and and so many other things along the way, it's like when you have opportunities like this of certainty, right? Why bet against certainty?
>> Yep.
>> Um, and I understand that you're like, "Oh, well that money could have used elsewhere. I can make a 5 10x elsewhere." But Palanteer to me is certain, right? If you look at those things that might get you 5 to 10x, they might not be certain. And so to me, you know, I'm not looking for when I have those things of certainty. Palunteer was a certainty for me. Rocket Lab was a certainty for me. I like to bet on certainty. And so, um, why like same thing with Amazon, right? We'll get into that, I'm sure. So, it's like, why bet against it, you know? Um, and that's kind of where I was just like, why have I not been averaging up? And that's why I restarted my buys.
>> I agree. Sometimes your best ideas are your original ideas, your first ideas, you know, and like as there's plenty of opportunities in the market, owning more of something definitely is uh in the long term, especially if you're, as you said, you're so confident that you know it's a winner and they've proven they're a winner, even if they are expensive. You're not having to buy at this price for the first time. So,
>> averaging up is not the worst thing in the world. Um, so before we get into Amazon, I just want to ask you more broadly about big tech earnings. Obviously, pretty much all of them crushed it across the board, even if some of their stock prices didn't reflect that. Are you kind of on the same page as a lot of other people, which is that and and I know you've you've been buying most of these for a long time, but big tech is just going to get bigger and 26 people should be thinking about just continuing to DCA into the best companies in the world.
>> I think that 26 will be a good year, but I think it'll be I think we're entering the the latter half of the this very extreme bullish easy money stage. Now, it could run into 27. You know, I what I don't think is, you know, maybe I'll be humbled and I' I've been humbled before by because you think about it. Amazon's investing over 100 billion. They're going to invest over 125 billion before the year end. And and Meta is investing a lot of money as well. So, all these companies, but they keep talking about expanding the amount of capital that they're going to plow in. And the really the only ones that have excess capital that they can without dipping into their coffers is Microsoft and and Amazon. And everybody else is having to dip into their cash pile. And so I think a lot of people or Yeah. Or or or issue debt in the case of Oracle, right? So, you know, I don't think that we're in this, you know, unless that the income really starts to come through and the cash flow really starts to come through, I think we're going to start hitting a wall a bit. And I'm not, when I say wall, it makes it seem more extreme. I'm not bearish by any means. I'm not saying sell these things, but I'm just saying there's going to be some backlash associated with when we actually hit and we can't grow capital expenditure, you know, from 50 billion to 100 billion like we have been able to in the case of Amazon or even 125 billion in the case of Amazon in in as rapid of a pace because you think about how much of a a valuation that Nvidia has been able to get and how much people continue to price that in. you know, if you start to have pullbacks, you're going to either have to pull back on buybacks, dividends, or capex, right? And and get a little bit more balanced in terms of that. And so, I feel like the ones that are going to do well are the ones that are going to be able to invest through the cycle and navigate that to the best of their ability. I think that we're going to see who has the best management in the next two to three years and and who to really stick to. Uh because I think times will get Did I lose you?
>> Yeah. No, you're good. You're good.
>> Okay, good.
>> You got me. Yeah. You said times will get a little bit more choppy and like the best management teams ultimately are the ones you want to bet on.
>> Yeah. Yeah. 100%.
>> Yeah. Look, I think that's fair. I I I think these these max seven companies, not all of them are turning at the most attractive multiples, but nonetheless, these are the most important companies in the world, and the modes that they have are just unbelievably strong. And so I've been thinking a lot about what 2026 looks like and I'm getting closer and closer to the conclusion that yes, there are some plays you want to get into that are high risk, high reward, which you know, Rock Lab Houndry Hood have been for for us. But to sleep better at night DCing into Microsoft, even if it doesn't move like crazy, is just not horrible. And as a result, that's not the worst thing to uh to think about more deeply. Uh Amazon, so I want to give you your flowers here. you have been preaching the Amazon thesis for a long time even though no one has listened as much as uh as recently now that you got the results. Google you were preaching as well. I think a lot more people took advantage of that. Why do you think Amazon was able to surprise the street as well as they did? Well, I think the the ease of Amazon was kind of easy to tell because, you know, I think first and foremost, I think some people are saying they're pointing to the anthropic net gain on paper and they're saying, "Oh, you know, they shouldn't have been warded." And but you're seeing an acceleration AWS and I think it was inevitable, right? You're increasing capital expenditure to over hundred billion dollars in the trailing 12 months. So that obviously should flow through a little bit considering I think they were only spending 50 billion you know just a few years ago. So in terms of capital expenditure that should hopefully increase the the acceleration of of AWS um revenue growth on a topline basis. So, but I think in other pieces is that the valuation for Amazon has continued to contract for quite some time. Like it's trading at a a price to earnings multiple similar to uh or less than Google and and so in that respect I think there there is no forward growth assumed for Amazon in my opinion. If they if you were to look at a quality business like Amazon, even if it's just growing at a at a decent pace of 5 to 10% a year, you should be giving it a uh you know, easily at 20x to 25x multiple because of the premium number one business. You're number one in e-commerce, you're number one in in cloud, you're growing advertising business. What else aren't they doing that's you know they have a premier uh video on demand platform. So to me that's a premium business, right? if if Coca-Cola can trade at 22x on a on a historical basis, why shouldn't Amazon? And so, you kind of have this floor and and to me it was just like, well, eventually they're going to break out from that floor because of the great cash flow and and the uh the great opportunity that they still have with AWS. And to me, it's a margin story. And you heard Andy Jasse talk about it uh on the call himself. He was like, look, because of culture, we're making sure that we're making things the most efficient as possible, right? and that's why they're laying off the employees that they are. And that just goes to show like that margins are a big important piece to them. And so you start doing some mathematics and you say, well, they're not done growing. They're going to be at a trillion and a half dollars of revenue here pretty soon. If they get that to a 25% operating margin, I mean, the ops cash that's going to be flown off on that is is going to be monumental. And uh that'll be, you know, close to to $400 billion. you throw a 25x multiple on that, there's no reason why this company should be trading at $6 trillion in the next couple years. Yeah.
>> So, um, and then you give it a little bit more runway. There's no reason why it shouldn't be at a $10 trillion market cap valuation.
>> So, to me, it it was just kind of a no-brainer. Um, that whole time it was oscillating between 2022 and now.
>> Yeah. You were buying at like 85 basically 859.
>> Yeah. unfor you know fortunately unfortunately during that dip um that we had in late 22 when everyone else bought Meta I bought I bought Amazon
>> so um you know I bought Amazon and Google and Google turned out a good decent run for me but Amazon not as much but you know it's not that I lost money or anything but you know I could have made a lot more investing in something like Meta but to me you know I just think that Amazon's just a no-brainer of a stock going into into 2030 and beyond.
>> Are you at all interested in Meta now with a 15% dip?
>> I am now a shareholder of one share. Um, you inspired me. I saw you buy your I don't know how many shares you bought. Not important, but I was like, you know what? I need to be involved. And I always do that.
>> You put you bought it on Robin Hood. Yeah, I remember.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um I I've started to do that more recently. Stocks that intrigue me that I want to keep following out of this buy a share of.
>> Yeah. And so I'm excited to see it continue to drop because my fear was that it was just going to go back above 700 and I will never get an opportunity. And so I think I actually might start a small, you know, couple hundred bucks every paycheck sort of thing um on it.
>> Get rich, get rich or die trying. Get rich or die trying.
>> No, but that I mean that is the motto of uh definitely your life. Get rich or die trying. Is it more so because of the drop or is it because it's a hyperscaler and you know that no one's replicating meta?
>> The thing that I'm actually most bullish about and it's actually a video I made. I don't know if it was I think it was when I was still in my old apartment so it must have been in 2022. I was very bullish when the company changed from Facebook to Meta.
>> And I don't think that we fully grasp even though it's still losing a crap ton of money. I don't think that we fully grasp what Reality Labs will do in the future. And I um I think that that will play a huge piece into how things operate. And I think you're starting to see it come through. I think people originally were saying that Google Glass was too ahead of its time. But now you look at metag glasses and and people are a little bit more receptive to it, even though some people still poke fun. But I think that they're on to something. And I think that, you know, uh it hopefully it'll be able to um flow through and it'll work out for them. For now, Reality Labs has kind of just been a a dumpster fire of innovation and eventually something will stick in my thoughts. But overall, um I don't know. I'm I'm cautiously optimistic. It's a great business. It'll continue to do well. Threads has caught on more than I thought. Uh you know, it died out for a little bit. It got really hyped up initially and then it kind of died out and
>> it kind of found its wave again. So, um you know, and I think Mark, I don't think people give him enough credit. He is a he's a wartime CEO. You know, as much hate as he gets, he just shrugs it off and keeps building. Love him or hate him, you have to admit. I mean, he's built a phenomenal company in the last 20 years. The fact that Met is only up 8% now year to date, I'm just seeing that is crazy because I mean, this is why a lot of people bought Amazon, right? It was barely up year to date and they thought that didn't make sense. So, uh the market giveth, the market taketh away, but as we get in towards the end of the year, it looks like the market definitely taking away some of those gains from Meta. Yes, monetization coming as well, which I mean I use WhatsApp. Do you use WhatsApp every day?
>> Every day. Yeah. I mean I I never really used WhatsApp before I moved internationally and then when I moved internationally obviously um you know you don't have the normal US um sort of towers and everything and they charge you extra to text and stuff like that. So, I just always started doing texting and everything off Wi-Fi from from WhatsApp. And then it just kind of stuck like to keep in touch with some of my international friends. And um now that my life and business is slightly more international, it just makes sense. Like I'm texting with people from Australia, New Zealand, London, you know, Trinidad still, uh you know, so it just doesn't make sense to use typical typical means of of text messaging. Are you happy that Rock Lab is consolidating? I mean, I know people want to see this go to 100, but I feel like it's pretty healthy for it to pull back from 70 and make room in the 60s. Do you think that makes sense? And do you think it can get back above alltime highs on earnings?
>> I think so. And, you know, I'm going to make a wild prediction um because I think earnings is next week. Uh I got to figure out my earnings times because I'll be in the UK, so I might be doing some of this stuff like late at night. Um, but uh the I'm okay with it. I I'm okay. Um, I actually just rolled I had some $85 covered calls. I moved them to the end of next month at $100 and I made like a $60 or 60 cent spread and as you guys can assume, I have some decent shares, right? So, it ended up being a lot of money. Um, so I'm just pocketing that. I'm not buying more shares, but I think I'll have a buy set for Monday or something because I have my normal, you know, buy, but like you stated, I I think we're a little bit rich in terms of where we are today, right? In terms of what the company is valued at today versus what they're delivering today is obviously overvalued, but it goes back to kind of like how we look at Palanteer, right? If you look at the potential Rocket Lab could be, you know, my thought process is is it'll eventually be a hundred billion dollar company. I don't think that we've heard enough about constellation that they're going to be releasing. So you have Amazon Kyper releasing a constellation. You have a releasing constellation. You have um Starlink obviously which has done extremely well. So you start to think how much revenue per satellite those things are bringing in. If Rocket Lab is able to replicate something like that and distribute their own satellites, then they're going to be in a phenomenal position to be able to make a lot of gross margin off of that. Um, so I don't think you've heard heard the end of that. But I personally would love the stock to consolidate. Um, even further back into the 40s, 50s, but I know unfortunately people think like, oh, Matt's got covered calls and he needs are underwater or something. It's like, no, this is like I want to own as much of this company as I can, and I don't own enough. So in that respect, I just, you know, I think that this is a great company and and buying it at a $20 billion market cap valuation allows me to buy much more percentage of the the company on a on a buy basis.
>> Well, that's the beautiful thing about conviction. Beautiful thing about conviction is that when you actually know what you're holding, which I'm not saying every stock I get into I like fully have the type of conviction that is necessary for like a a Rocket Lab situation like you, but once you do, you just don't care. You just don't because unless the thesis breaks which again if these are phenomenal companies they will have bad quarters they might even have bad years but for them to have a thesis breaking moment is is going to be tough and it's possible but if that doesn't happen then you buy the dip and you know you tend to be rewarded if you are able to do that. Um how do you feel the year has gone for you in general? Not just stock market portfolio performance but I mean it's been a hell of a year. Obviously the stock market going up definitely helps, but how do you feel 2025 is wrapping up for you as a person?
>> Uh it's gone so well that I'm actually having growing pains, you know. Um it's like uh I didn't think I would get to this level of monetary uh success as fast as I have. And so I'm trying to figure out like, okay, say half of it goes away tomorrow, which is always possible, right? You could always have a market retracement. And um I'm wondering it's like well what what is my next path? Um and you know I'm trying to figure out what do I do next? I like working but at the same time it seems like I could be doing more to help people in the community. We have a beautiful community here. Um and and I feel like you know Miami really opened my eyes to that to see how many people have really been benefiting by us contributing and feeding that community you know on a on a on a daily basis. So, it's like I'm stuck between a rock and a hard place, man. I really am. Like, and it's and it's not a bad thing. I'm not depressed by it in any means, but it it messes with your brain a little bit. It's like I'm doing so well in my career and I have such a great career ahead of me. I look up and I'm like, I could continue. Um, and then at the other end, you're just like, well, I have this also thing like you could see the end of that, right? You can kind of quantify. Sorry, this is getting super like existential, but it's the truth. It's like you can see where that ends, right? And and where I could potentially go and then you see this other side where it's like I see you ex excelling so much and Tanner excelling so much. And I don't want to say living on your own time because you still have a market and market close, market open and close every day, but in between those times, you can read or do whatever. It's it's just an interesting different lifestyle that I've never thought I could live. And I see myself potentially getting closer and closer to something like that and seeing Steve start, you know, it's really inspiring me. But overall, man, the the market is been really good for me. It's allowed me to focus a little bit more on my health. So, I'm trying to get that in order. Um, obviously, it's going to be a long journey um that I have to have to to face on that end, but um things are going in the right direction with that. Um, but yeah, the to me it's more about optimization of figuring out what what the next steps are because in order to break through the numbers show up after you've gotten to a certain mindset, right? So, and this is for anybody listening and you can shut me off and redirect me if you want, but I often tell people they're like, "Ah, I want to be a millionaire." And I'm like, "Well, are you are you acting like a millionaire?" Like, you have to act like a millionaire and think like a millionaire before the numbers show up,
>> right? You have to make millionaire decisions. Like you can't be managing money like you have a hundred bucks. You have to be managing money or thinking in in a way that allows you to get to that point. Um just like you know to get better at baseball, right? Or like better at at at uh anything like you can't just put in baby amounts of time. Like you have to put in real effort, real time, make the right decisions, and eventually your skills will will catch up. And so I'm trying to think like in order to get to that next level, which is, you know, eight figures beyond, it's like, am I making the right decisions? Am I going in the right direction? Am I holding myself back? Um, so anyway, that might be too much of a philosophical.
>> Well, no, that that's why look, it's the last day of October. That's why I asked the question. I mean, like it's important and I think a lot of people look, the good thing about a bull market year is it gives you the the privilege to even think like that, right? because you obviously need to have that level of financial independence and freedom or at least being close to it to get you to think of like what is on the other side of life. Um, and living on your own terms and all that stuff and like it's not easy to do stock market going up and being invested in the best companies in the world really helps which goes back to this bifurcation of the economy argument. Um, but it's also like you only have one life, right? So why wouldn't you why wouldn't you start having those thoughts especially as you get into your 30s and just start thinking of like and I'm getting into my 30s soon. So it's like these are things that are really really important I think to deeply think about and it makes sense that you're about them.
>> Someone says never get married.
>> Yeah. We're going to see if if you do get married I'm I'm I'm need to be at the wedding. That's for sure.
>> You'll probably officiate it. You're very you're very articulate. So
>> there you go. Dude, I definitely Dude, I I should look into that business of officiating weddings. Like
>> I think you got enough on your plate. But I I'm sure some people in the audience would love you to officiate their wedding.
>> There's no way I wouldn't crush being an MC at a wedding. Dude, like that would be elite elite elite to that. All right, so um I think let's end it out with just some Q&A for the past 10 minutes. I don't know if Steve will be able to be on. He's in a work call. He might be able to make it, might not. But uh we got 10 15 more minutes left. If anyone has any questions for Matty Money, put them in the chat. Yes,
>> Tanner. I will definitely be mcing your wedding if you ever get married, Tanner. Um, but yes. So, any questions in the chat, put them here. Stock market related, could be life related, whatever it is. It could be for me, Matt, as well. And
>> damn, 100K wedding. Yeah, I didn't think about that. You probably could make 100K wedding. Like, here's my YouTube channel. And be like, I I charge a lot, you know? And they'd be like, whatever. It's okay,
>> dude. There's no way they pay the MC a h 100,000. That's like if they did. I mean, look, maybe if someone's funny, that one that one plays out. Um,
>> jokes are good. Your jokes are good.
>> Broad 2026 strategies. Is it just big tech or is there anything specific you're thinking of?
>> Um, oil and gas. I know that's your expertise.
>> Yeah, I mean, I'm I'm I'm still dabbling in that. Uh, I think I have some buys. Uh just because the I don't know why it's the 31st, so I don't know why all my buys aren't going in today. Um yeah, so I've have some normal buys that I have on a bi-weekly basis every time I get paid that go into some oil and gas. Um some sharebased compensation that's coming in today, which it hasn't in my account yet, so I'm pretty flustered with that, but hopefully by Monday it'll come in. Um I don't know. I I'm trying to understand exactly the same. Right. I don't I don't think that 26 will be a bad year in the first half. I think second half it might see some some turmoil just because I think that we'll start to see the runway end slightly for for big tech in terms of capex growth and everything like that. But with that's going to come a lot of income because everybody's been throwing so much money. So I'm like stuck between a rock and a hard place. is like, okay, yes, they might get their hand slapped for having to reset their capital expenditure, etc., but at the same time, they're going to be generating so much more income. It's I'm curious to see how it pans out, but to me, um, just continuing to buy every every other week, every time I get a paycheck, and um I don't know, looking to see what happens with next decade in Venture Global going into 26. I think that that'll be an interesting one. Um, I'm continuing to buy. Next decade, I bought some more yesterday. I bought some more Venture Global yesterday. Um, or maybe it was today. Either one. Um, I just woke up and I was just double-checking my spreadsheets and my accounts and cross-checking everything and I saw that I had more. Um, yeah, I don't I'm not 100% certain for 26 yet. That's tough. Um,
>> yeah,
>> I think that's fair. I think that I think a lot of the best ideas could still continue to do well, but there's gonna have to be a lot more understanding of how this year ends to figure out what happens in 26.
>> I will say uh the the one thing that I did start to do in the background and it's it goes back to the conversation I had about Amazon and maybe I encourage people to do this as well.
>> Things have moved such a in such a good direction for me over the past few years that a lot of my targets have been hit faster. And so one of the things right before I was listening to you and I was being inspired as I always am when I listen to you, I went into my spreadsheet and I said, "Okay, how many shares of each of these companies do I need to get to to get to my next goal?" And so I did it for Amazon, but I have all these, you know, these other six or seven positions that I have that I'm adding to. You know, what what number do I need to get for that? Rocket Lab's relatively filled out if it gets to my uh um to my uh where I think it'll get to, but maybe I should build in a margin of safety. Like, oh, what if it only gets to 80 billion instead of 100? You know, do I still get to that X number of, you know, dollar value? But I went through and I was like, man, like so for example, um, prime example, because it's literally just filling this out, is for Palunteer, I'm only 76% filled on my total allocation for that. Amazon, I'm only 63% filled. Uh, so I have 633 shares of that. I would like to get um close to a thousand. We talked about next decade, I'm a little bit less than half. Uh, Venture Global, I'm a little less than or I'm I'm at like 33%. Google, I'm at like 33%, Rocket Lab, I'm at like 82%. Um, and I might do that for some of my other stocks, but it's like I basically have where I think the stocks will get to in terms of valuation and what I want to get to. So, for example, Amazon, I said 10 trillion is where I want to get to. I want it to be a million dollar position. You know, I needed to get to $1,000 a share pretty much. Yeah. So I was like, "Okay, well I have 633. Divide that by a th00and that's 63%. I want to get to 100%." And that's kind of how I'm looking at things. Like I would like to get my stocks up to So if they do hit that, like I think Next is going to hit 20 billion. Let's say I want, you know, a million dollars worth of Next or something like that. I need this many shares to get to that. Um that's that's how I'm evaluating it. So once it's fully valued at a million dollars, I need this many shares. Otherwise, I'll I'll miss it. And it it's going to be wrong, right? People are going to dilute share count. They'll buy back shares, so maybe it'll even be easier. But the hope is is at least you have some sort of goal that you can achieve and and look after.
>> I think that's a great way to think about it. We were talking about this in the morning, but just having your own mental framework on how you navigate position building, position sizing. I mean, someone asked like, "Hey, I feel like we're getting toppy. What should I It's like, well, if you feel that way, then mentally, how can you come to a sense of peace? One of the easiest ways is take some profits. You know, there there's a lot of different ways to navigate how you think about the current state of the markets and the economy. But having your own subjective view of the world and then taking from other people, but having conviction in your opinion, which is that Amazon will get to a thousand bucks, so you need those thousand shares, it makes it easier to just continue buying and holding. Um, someone said you said you have to think like a millionaire before you are a millionaire. any I guess quick ideas on how you manifested that idea?
>> Yeah, I mean listen to a lot of smart people, man. Like a lot of motivational speeches. Mostly you. No, I'm just kidding. Uh but no, but um in all seriousness,
>> it's usually Steve.
>> Yeah, usually Steve. But no, I mean in all seriousness, it's like it's just through learning things, right? Like just having experience in the market. like you can't expect to become a master at something if you don't start to move in a certain direction, right? Um you really have to put yourself in the opportunities to to have those things open up and you can get lucky, right? So there is an opportunity where you get lucky and and you find a train and and it's able to literally siphon through and and make things five times easier for you. But I think so many times people don't think of their lives like a business. And you know, I think it's pretty funny. Like I quote Jay-Z a lot. Like I'm a businessman. Like it's the truth, right? Like so I think so many people are like, "I have this thousand. How do I get this thousand dollars to be a million?" It's like that's not the right question, right? Like you need to be feeding your portfolio every single month, right? I always talk about it. Every every other paycheck or like every paycheck that I get, I'm investing in the market. I'm not like waiting till I get to 10,000 or anything else. Like I have my buys. Luckily, Robin Hood makes it so much easier. Fidelity makes it so much easier than it did when I first started. It's like I literally know how much of my paycheck is going where and by the end of it, my paycheck is literally just enough or the remainder in my checking account is just enough to pay my credit card and my mortgage.
>> And so like that's the goal is like I never I never want to have more than $500 to $1,000 in my checking because I don't get paid in my checking account.
>> So why why have why have money in my checking account? So, I have, you know, Robert Kiyosaki, you know, all these smart people. Uh, Jim Rome, you know, it doesn't always have to be about money. Sometimes it's about life and and just listen to everything and formulate your own opinion. Understand your goals and objectives where you want to go. And so, like, that's just how I've worked it. And I've learned a lot along the way. Um, thinking that I was smarter than I am. And um I'm sure somebody sorry my washer and dryer are going off, but I'm sure somebody out there is like that has way much more money than I do that way more experience on hand manage money is um like Matt's an idiot. And they're probably right, but for me it's worked out and it's gotten me to a place where I feel like I can start to play, you know, the game where the high net worth individual game. Right now I just have a decent net worth, right? and and I want to get to that place where it's like if I want to take off and go to Monaco for Monaco F1 race, like I can do that, you know, and not worry about it.
>> Yeah. And I that that is the privilege of what financial freedom affords you. And uh I think that the motivational stuff you're saying makes a lot of sense. I mean, everyone has their own phases of what they listen to and how they navigate motivation, how they think about it. But like I I do think it's important at some point in your life if you want to have like a growth mindset or a transformational journey. Feeding your own content diet, I think is what it's been called, is really important because if you feed it with just horrible forms of nonsense and brain rot, it really is hard to to to be sane, especially with all the different thousands of things that are coming at you every single day in regards to content. But feeding it with this stuff that helps you understand how to move forward in life, which is what we're all trying to do, move forward, grow, you know, that stuff matters and it matters a lot. Um, I saw you posting about Micro Strategies earnings yesterday. 17 years ago on Today, the Bitcoin white paper came out. I guess just in general, do you truly believe in Bitcoin? Uh, to the extent that you would call yourself a Bitcoin maxi?
>> I wouldn't say maxi. I don't know. If I was a Maxi, I feel like I wouldn't have any stocks. Um, maybe that's not the way it is. I don't know. I don't know if I'm Is it really to the day?
>> Yeah. 17 years ago, October 30th.
>> Well, I can't be a maxi. I don't even know. Um, so
>> but uh
>> but you like Micro Strategy. You like it.
>> I think it's an interesting one, right? And I think it's a proxy for what's going to happen with BMR. And I originally thought they were a little bit crazy. I had Bitcoin back in 2020, but I thought, okay, the whole company being kind of formulated around because it wasn't really a company before then. Yes, they had some software sales and they still have revenue sales and everything like that, but now the majority of their income is operated off of the delta that they get between what they buy Bitcoin at and what it's valued at today. And so, um, I think their average is like 47,000 or something like that. So, now they're actually able to kind of write up the the amount of value that they have. Maybe it's 70,000. I don't remember per Bitcoin. But I mean, I like it. It's something where I say it's going to be a decent store of value throughout time. And to me now, I think a lot of people have seen me get into this world where originally I was like, you know what, I need to sell these things, put them into the S&P 500, super secure, and it's like at this point I'm looking for things that I know will be good stewards of growth in the future like Palanteer, Rocket Lab, Bitcoin that I could just borrow against it. Like Robin Hood makes it so easy comparatively to a bank. Like no, I have zero will to go to a bank and be like, "Please underwrite me." So like like now I'm just gonna be like, "Let me just borrow from Robin Hood." Like they make it so easy. Um so I'm just looking for things like Bitcoin that I think will be a great store.
>> And um to me, I think it's going to be interesting. Like I can see the cycles. I can see the supply demand. It's it's very intriguing to me. And so 2% or 3%, I forget what it is. If every paycheck I get goes into buying more Bitcoin and my thought process with that is like, well, if it does eventually 10x, then technically I save 30% of my paycheck. Um, if you think about it in that respect.
>> Yeah.
>> But but, uh, but I don't know, the way I look at it is is like I I could leverage against it in the future. Same thing with Palunteer, same thing with Rocket Lab. Um, eventually those things will pay dividends. So, I'm trying to figure out a way that I can make money off of my Bitcoin as well. Um, I mean, I uh I wish I could write covered calls on my Bitcoin. I I can on some of it because some of it I used I bought GBTC, Grayscale Bitcoin Trust back in the day. Um, and then that split off into just the mini trust, which is a lot cheaper. And so, I do write covered calls on that and then generate some income off of that. But, um, the actual physical Bitcoin I hold, uh, I don't know how to make money off of that. That's something I'm still uh trying to figure out.
>> Brendan says, "Thank you for talking about borrowing against your portfolio. Everyone I talk to in real life is so worried about it. It's a game changer when done right." Yeah, I agree. And what Matt's saying right there is like if he wants to get liquidity to do something, maybe buy his like 85th house, uh, and you have a multi-million dollar stock portfolio and margin rates are at, at least on Robin Hood, four and a half%, Fidelity maybe it's like 6%, whatever it is. Like you don't need to go to a bank and they have to evaluate your entire financial profile to say hey this is the money we're going to give you and this is the rate we're going to give you. Your assets whether it's Apple or Amazon or Google or Tesla are going to be deemed worthy enough to give a margin loan against aka they're going to use the stock as collateral to give you loans or they're not going to be if you have 100% and beyond meat you're not going to get that much margin. But if you're in the greatest companies in the world like a Google and Amazon that are continuing to execute, Robinet's probably going to lend you uh a lot more money. And so from that perspective, you can leverage your own portfolio, your own decision- making that you've had for the past few years effectively allocating into these companies to then borrow money against it, which can be dangerous if you take that money and you go put it into zero DTE and then you're wrong and then you have to pay back the money and sell all your stock to pay it back. But if you're doing it productively, then it's not the worst thing in the world.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I I think where where it doesn't make sense to a lot of people is when they're trying to borrow like 20% of their portfolio in a year. It's like that's not where I'm at, right? Like I'm at and I'm trying to get to a better place where it's, you know, I can
>> get almost like a floor, right? Like you should never borrow more than 3 to 4% of your entire portfolio. The 3 to 4% rule, if you've heard of it, maybe if you haven't, you know, look into it. But basically the thought process is is on an average after inflation everything like that your portfolio goes up at a rate where even if it does this right generally speaking over and it's been back tested if you pull out 4% you have like an 80% likelihood of never running out of money. So, if you have a million- dollar portfolio and you pull out 40 grand a year, it'll yeah, there'll be ups and downs, but eventually, you know, over time it generally goes up and to the right if you're invested in the right things. Um, so for me, it's like, you know, um, where I was two or three years ago, I was like, oh yeah, I still have to work or do something like that. Now, it's getting to the point where the portfolio is to an extent where it's like, okay, that makes more sense. like why would I sell and pay have to pay the government you know the taxes associated with it and I was like why would I want to sell Rocket Lab it's like if I could just borrow against it then I still get to own it and not sell it nor do I have to pay the capital gains tax you think about it it's like if I were to sell my Rocket Lab it's all it's all capital gains so everything that I sell off of it is going to be 15 and actually more like 20% to the government so
>> it's like why why do that immediately I almost like a I can use part of that and um think about it that that plays into the factor as well. It's like I no longer have to worry about that aspect of it. Now, of course, if Rocket Lab switches directions, different story. I would sell it and but for right now, I just think they're moving in the right direction and firing on all cylinders. So, same thing with Palanteer. Like, why would I sell Pounder when it's still churning out? So,
>> and quite frankly, this is like this is the the secret. I don't know if it's too much of a secret anymore, but like most people in the in the in the investing community understand this is what wealthy people do. They I mean like Larry Ellison has I think sold less than 1% of his entire stake of Oracle for the past 50 years. Like you borrow against the assets and you get I mean look Larry Ellson's in a different league, multiund billionaire, but you get very cheap loans from private lending companies when you're in that league because uh they want to do business with you and you don't need to be able to sell when you have access to that much capital. So we're people can do it on a much smaller stage at these levels if you do it productively. But it is something as you get wealthier. You know that is I guess the trick of not having to sell your assets ever. And you know this goes back to that bifurcation of the economy bargain. If you have been borrowing against Nvidia for you know there's people in the chat that have like 100,000 Nvidia shares. Like why would you sell
>> right? Like why would you sell that? It's like no you can borrow again like unless Nvidia goes to zero or Nvidia substantially goes down which it did with the deepseek moment. So those risks are there. But if it doesn't, then you can pay off a lot of your bills without having to sell all the stock.
>> Yeah. I mean, unless you think it's truly fully valued and it's at risk. Like say I thought Palanteer was only supposed to be $250 billion company and I think what they're doing right now they're they're running like a $250 billion company and I think their terminal market cap should be $250 billion. It's like, well, why am I holding it, right? It doesn't make sense. But to me, I still think it's going to grow to one and a half$2 trillion dollar market cap. So
>> yeah,
>> why why sell it? Pay the capital gains. I don't think it'll go back to 160 very easily. And if it does, will I have the money on hand to be able to buy back in? You know what I mean? That that's always you're playing so many ifs. You're stacking assumptions on top of each other, and it just doesn't work. Um, so I, you know, I'm not very smart either, so I try to make things as simple as possible. But yeah, I mean, somebody asked in the chat, will I ever disclose? I mean, it doesn't really matter what the number is that I say that comes out of my mouth. is more important is what I'm saying and how it pertains to you because what I'm saying is versus what your what your life is or whatever can be completely different. Um, and so does
>> I I think I think people get too obsessed about someone's net worth or how many shares do they have in this or position size or all that stuff like
>> the the question is about the analysis around a position, not exactly how many shares or how big someone's portfolio is because at that point like you're you're looking for validation from a number, not from the actual person and and and what they're saying. And I think that's really important because there's a lot of people on Twitter that are young and you know I'm seeing them fresh out of college and I'm I'm seeing their analysis on stuff. They don't have $100,000 to put into a Nebus but the analysis they're putting out even if they only have $10,000 which is a lot when you're 20 years old to put into Nebas that stuff matters and to discount it. I mean when I was starting out on YouTube my first video was I put $25,000 into Palunteer and I think that was pretty much my net worth at the time. I mean like maybe I had like 35 maybe I had 10,000 in some other bank account but that was it. The analysis is what really mattered. Not like I put 250,000 because I didn't have 250,000. I couldn't have put that into right.
>> No, I think I think it's the right way. I mean maybe maybe you're in a situation like Amit was, right? That you only you have one shot and and that's the only money you'll ever have. Your great aunt Sue unfortunately passed away and then maybe that's it. You you pile it all into one thing. But to me, I think there's more to be said about making prudent investment decisions, running your life like a business, trying to understand that every paycheck you should go reinvest it in yourself in some sort of way, shape, or form. And I think so many people think I could turn this $1,000 into a million. And it's like that's a thousandx, man. Like that's a lot.
>> You know, you know how you know how to have the amount of difficulty. It's literally add another thousand portfolio. Now you only have to 500x. And if you do that every month, you know, and I know $1,000 is a lot. say it's a hundred, right? You want to turn a 100 to a million, right? It's it's the same sort of principle. It's about principles in my opinion and how it pertains to your goals, objectives, etc. And not Bill next door, right? So, it really just depends upon how you can apply things to yourself and you know, what does my net worth have anything to do with you?
>> Nothing.
>> And and and what and what you're listening to. And so, you know, I stopped sharing it back in 2021 2022. If you're really curious about where I was back then, go check out the channel. But, you know, I haven't really disclosed it. Um, I've disclosed it to people personally, like, you know, but not on X or anything like that. And, um, I just don't think it's important, you know. Um, yeah. Also, there's a level of privacy that people want to keep, you know, like it's it's okay to not tell everyone how much money you have because like you kind of don't want to tell the world sometimes how much money you have.
>> That is okay to do. People thought I was lying back then, so I mean, what's the point of me saying it now?
>> Matt Money's YouTube is right there. By the way, Matt, our our boy who's been turning into the new Pelosi, he bought some more Palunteer in October.
>> I saw that. That was so funny.
>> Our boy Cleo Fields, baby. Half a million in Palanteer. Now he has to disclose cuz he is an elected official so he doesn't get to get away with it even though they always disclose like 45 days late. But
>> yeah,
>> I mean
>> I thought it was so funny.
>> Our boy Cleo, he continues to buy.
>> He knows I mean he probably sees the amount of contracts that they're bidding on and you know he knows the he knows for a fact that NATO is going to be running entirely off of Pal. We will talk about it tonight but like so shout out to the people that are going to watch tonight. Uh but it's you think about it, you start to see it and it's my thought process back when I started using the software 2015 2016 is like every company should be running off this. Every process should be running off this. The government should be running off this and it's it's slowly what's the word per not perforating partic
>> permeating. Thank you. Um throughout the entire economy and it's insane.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And
>> somebody asked, sorry, somebody asked if I do 401k. I do, uh, but I don't contribute. I do the match, but I don't do I don't max it out because I like to have the ability to flexibly move my money around and have access to it to buy real estate or invest in other things or um, so in my opinion, it like I said, depends if you're going to be working your job for the next 30 years. If you're going to retire at say 60 and you need that job, then do the match. like max it out, right? Like get it that as much of that tax advantage as you can. But for me, I always wanted that ability to to to switch careers if I if I wanted to. And if you're not selling a lot, you're not going to pay a lot of taxes anyway. Like for me, like I haven't paid a single tax dollar on on Palunteer other than the covered calls that I've sold. So, and same thing with Rocket Lab. I haven't paid a single dollar on tax other than the covered calls that I've sold. So,
>> I agree. And uh the flexibility of that stuff is really important, especially if you're managing a retirement account. We were about to leave. I was about to end it, but then this guy wants to join. Steve, you're kind of late, buddy.
>> Look, daddy.
>> He's probably not even there. Look at that. You're muted if you are there. It's also not his fault because he had Look, he text me two minutes. Dude, this guy, he loves streaming so much. He's just like getting into it.
>> He's married to the game. He's married to the game and I love it.
>> He's married to the game. All right, we'll get him on in a second. Uh, Matt, did you see the Kramer clip on Palunteer?
>> No, the one nobody was on stage or
>> Yeah.
>> No, I didn't end up getting to that.
>> Okay, so for those that didn't see it, here's uh here's the clip because this was pretty incredible as well to see. By the way, Elon just did Olin. So, he did Rogan and Olen. So, for those who are Elon fans, you've got like five hours of Elon content over the weekend to uh to be able to consume. Okay, this is this is what Mr. Kramer had to say about Palunteer.
>> Palanteer, are you as impressed with Alex Karp as he is with himself?
>> All right. So,
>> I find him to be really interesting. I'm not long the stock. I'm curious books who come out. Axio says some stuff about it. Uh I I don't like him. Uh
>> isn't he a Philly? He's a Philly guy, too.
>> Yeah. Oh, I I told him that. I said, "Listen, like you're like a more repulsive Philly guy than I am." I gave him a note once. I said, "I'm not your enemy." And he goes, "Yeah." I said, "No, that's a peace offering." Yeah. It was like horrible. He's like a horrible guy, but I think he's real. I think that and I say that because like like all the companies that have hired him, the big ones, I've called them and I said, "How is it?" And they all to a person say, "Listen, it's pretty good."
>> I mean, he's on fire. That business is on fire.
>> It's on fire,
>> but is it too expensive even given how on fire they are?
>> Um,
>> it seems crazy to me.
>> It is rule of 80. Uh, I think I'm going to end up It's gonna go
>> They're killing rule of 80.
>> They're they're they're killing it. And the you know look Boeing just went with them and Ortberg was a very serious guy. When I say the serious guys it's like the uh scene in in Succession when right yeah right Brian you you are not serious people. Well it's like a great line because I'm talking about people who are serious like Orber would not be going to him. I know a kid who who went there from uh from Wharton and I know his mom and his mom was saying you know they work 247. Uh they're all Karp to them is a hero because he's really not imperious at all to them and that's what makes me like him. Now I sent that guy Shyam the number two guy. He had a really good piece about the military last week. I sent him an email and I and I knew he wasn't going to return but I said look that you know I know you guys despise me whatever. But then I meet this woman Wendy who's in charge of defense. She's
>> So if anyone wants to keep watching that you can keep you can uh hear it. I'll put the link in the in the channel. But I mean, look, Karp uh Kramer said that Karp was not a real businessman and that Paliner was not a real business. And so obviously, you know, that's why Karp is not the biggest fan of it.
>> Dude, those guys run on something different. They run on like I I I've seen people work, but that's been the reason why I bought them on direct listing day. Like they are on something else. Like I don't know if they say, "Hey, you realize when we give you this offer, like you you're going to be a completely different kind of human being than everybody else on the goddamn planet." They they have to like you've met so many of their employees. They're just they're all so unique and so different in a good way, right?
>> Yeah.
>> In a good way. All right, Steve. I think he's here. I just saw him and then he disappeared. Milkman,
>> I'm here.
>> Did you go and get your milk?
>> No. There he is. You
>> get them fresh milk for like, is that what you're
>> No, I'm freaking starving. Sorry to do this to you guys, but I I haven't even had lunch yet. Like,
>> dude, why are you complaining? You're You're a full-time streamer now. This is I don't eat for seven hours. That's how it is. Like,
>> I ordered diner in the car on the way home
>> and you just muted yourself. Are you with Steve? Are you an amateur today? What's going on?
>> No, I just got home. I ordered diner from the car. He met me at the door. It was freaking perfect timing. Got a nice burger. Medium.
>> That red meat, baby.
>> That red meat.
>> All right. So, look, I'll ask you one question, then we'll end it out for for the day and you can get to eat your food. But just like and we kind of talk about
>> No, it's fine.
>> No, no, we gotta end it. We gotta let Matt go. I gotta go as well. But I mean, overall thoughts on uh this week, sixth month in a row green for the S&P 500.
>> I mean, I don't think there's any way we're not getting to 7,000 at this point.
>> I agree.
>> Unless something happens with China. I mean, I just I don't see that we're going to get a big retracement or anything. And Nvidia is likely going to have great numbers. I I didn't really see anything that happened today other than Chevron Exon. Chevron had a pretty good quarter and the H deal seems like it's going to be amazing. So, I'm really happy with where things are right now. I think Meta, look, if you looked at my article, it's more of what I said last night. I think it's a huge opportunity right now. I think Amazon's a huge
>> 648 today.
>> Yeah, it's crazy. These people are crazy. It's crazy.
>> I want to see that chart to the right. I want to see that chart to the right. How many times has this guy covered this?
>> What chart?
>> The chart to the right that shows like how many buy recommendations
>> all the way.
>> We did this last night. Go on my profile and look, Matt. I've done like 30 articles on Meta. All buys.
>> Champion.
>> Champion. Yeah.
>> All buys for like five years. since 2018.
>> Yeah.
>> When did you start writing?
>> 2018.
>> Okay, there you go.
>> I think that we're in an opportunity cycle and I think it's going to keep going up. I don't see any headwinds at the moment. I hate saying that, but maybe a recession is in the bingo card to the back half of 26. If unemployment keeps going like this, who knows? But right now, corporate earnings are really strong and the companies that are not producing revenue are not going to impact the S&P or the NASDAQ. So, I'm just I'm not worried about it.
>> The thing I'm the thing that still concerns me, Steve, is exactly what I was telling you the other day is is that that remaining free cash flow after after dividends and and share buybacks, I don't think it's going to rear its head at all this year. I think everyone's going to be able to power through it. But the second half of next year, I think it's going to start to to come to fruition. I think you already started to see people on CNBC talk about it. Um, so if I'm talking about it and then they start talking about it, I feel like it's eventually going to perforate through permeate as a kindly corrected me. The
>> Sorry, go ahead.
>> I just don't know that we can go against the most brilliant minds in the country.
>> I'm with you.
>> That's Oh no. buyback slow down for a little bit. who freaking like in the grand scheme of things if this was shortterm money I would be like you know what maybe this isn't such a great idea but over the next f they're they're building this out for the next 5 10 15 years and when you think about how they're deploying capex if they fall behind and they're wrong you're their profitability is off the table in the future so I would rather them spend the capex and cut the buybacks by 20% or so because this is the next leg of future profitability and I would be willing to take that as a shareholder. So I'm just not willing to go against big tech right now. That's to be fair that that's one of the problems that I have with some oil companies is they focused too much on buybacks and dividends and in reality if they just focused on acquiring more and investing through the cycle then their buybacks and dividends would eventually catch up in a couple years. So to me I'm I'm hoping that they manage it well. I was telling a bit earlier that somebody will fail a couple like somebody will not do well. They'll be too focused like oh we can't do the buy we can't cut on buybacks or anything like that. I would actually welcome it. In fact, I welcomed it when a lot of oil companies cut their dividends back in 2020. And I was like, this is a good resetting point because at the time, Shell was paying 15 a year and however many other companies were paying 20 billion a year in dividends. So, I was like, this is a good reset. But, yeah, I'm kind of curious to see how they navigate it. You're right. Maybe it's only a 5 10% impact if they cut share buybacks versus where they'll end up being, which is 20 30% 40% higher because of the net income growth. ground.
>> [ __ ] Sorry. Alphabet buying back 70 billion in shares. Oh no, we're only going to buy back 55 billion now. Like, is it that big of a deal? That's more cash than companies generate in a 5 to 10 year cycle. Like, I just don't know if that's something I'm going to really get up in arms about when we see the backlog numbers on cloud and AI is still in its infancy. So to me, that cash is better used being deployed into what's going to be the growth engine of the company going forward and what's going to propel the S&P higher.
>> I agree.
>> I would agree. Matt Money's YouTube, I'm putting that in the chat. Steve, are you going to stream anytime soon?
>> Yeah, I'm actually probably gonna do a do something at 6:30 for a while. Get caught up on a few things. probably going to do something and then uh probably going to do something tonight too around 9 9:30. But um admit I wanted to ask you something. How you feeling for Monday?
>> Well, real quick, Steve's YouTube is right there. So for those that want to subscribe to him, he'll be streaming in like an hour, so you can check him out on his stream. And um yeah, the rest of us will be back on Pounder Weekly at 11. No, I'm feeling good for Monday. I didn't expect the stock to move before the earnings, although that happens. It's happened a couple times. So yeah, Matt, me and Amir will get deeper into it tonight on the weekly, but I agree with Matt. Margins are what I care about more. Topline revenue growth, I think it'll break 50%. I think guidance for 26 right now is at 45. That might bump up to like 4850, but the stocks already made a move. So it's kind of like I have no idea how the market's going to react, but the numbers I think are going to be pretty damn good.
>> What's Monday, Steve? [Laughter] Super Bowl, dude. Super Bowl.
>> Super Bowl hat, baby.
>> What is it?
>> It's
>> You're wearing the hat.
>> Thought it was Tuesday. Isn't it on Tuesdays?
>> No, it's on Monday. Am I Am I wrong? No, it's on Monday.
>> I thought it was on Monday. I could be wrong. I thought it was Monday.
>> It's definitely November 3rd. Yeah, dude. It's Monday.
>> Okay, good. Yeah, I ain't
>> doing nothing Monday night. There you go. That'll be Monday
>> at 3:30.
>> Yeah. Live.
>> I am hoping that they have a five in front of the number for revenue growth. I don't know how they go.
>> That's going to happen. It is because they they guided for 50%. So there's no way they don't.
>> I'm just saying I I hope that they have a five. If they if they come out with a six
>> Oh, that then we are gonna have some fun, bro. Like all I'm saying is if they come out with a six, all hell is breaking loose.
>> If they show 60% revenue, not even inviding loose.
>> Yeah, there's no other software name close. Nvidia is not growing 60% anymore. And if they guide upwards of 60%. I mean, dude,
>> the rule of
>> Yeah. I was going to say we're going to talk about the rule of 80 instead of the rule of 40, but you know.
>> Yeah. I mean, that would be quite incredible. They already have rule of 81. So,
>> I should be able to Yeah, I should be able to stream that. Uh cuz it'll be what? I don't remember. Was it five hours ahead, so that'll be
>> Oh, you're the UK on Monday.
>> Yeah, Monday I'll be
>> So, you're flying out tomorrow?
>> Flying out tomorrow night. Yeah.
>> Matt's gonna have some tea and crumpets. Oh, some biscuits.
>> I mean, listen, English breakfast tea is the only good tea. So,
>> I had some yesterday.
>> Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Steve's YouTube in the chat. He's going to stream in about an hour. Matt,
>> I'll be on around 600, guys.
>> I might have to go get some cookies to watch that. Steve,
>> I mean, why don't you just come on?
>> Maybe I will. Maybe I'll have to go get some cookies to come on. You both of you have an open invite. I mean, I'm sure Mid has. What's your favorite cookie?
>> Chocolate chip. It's always chocolate chip.
>> Although Oreo is up there, but it's chocolate chip.
>> I do have to get candy for the little ones coming tonight, so
>> Oh, yeah. Well, I'm in an apartment complex, so it's not really
>> Yeah, Houston's a little weird. They normally go to the rich neighborhoods, and I'm not in there. So,
>> that makes sense. That makes sense. All right. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it. Congrats on a great week. Uh, sixth month in the row. Green for the S&P. Pounder above 200. Fed cut rates. Big tech crushed it. Amazon crushed it. Google amazing. So, pretty strong week for everybody. We are entering November tomorrow. Me and Matt will be live at 11 PM for Pounder Weekly. I'll be live Sunday for the future show at 7:45 and we'll keep going from there. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you everybody. Have a good one. We'll see you guys later tonight. See you everybody soon. See you later. Bye everyone.