(Music) Everyone should have this feeling China will appear in almost every few years Such a case that causes a fierce discussion in the whole society From Zhang Yuhuan case, Peng Yu case, Jin Hua Ying Wu case To the iron chain case in 2022 Of course, there are also this year's Datong engagement and rape case, etc. Zhang Yuhuan was in prison for 27 years Peng Yu is the one who was tortured by the old man The judge of Nanjing, Wang Hao asked him "You didn't hit him, why did you torture him?" These cases always make many people feel suspicious Either suspect that there is a black hole inside Or feel that the judicial system is unfair Last week I talked about the case of the "Datong Soul" rape case. But at that time, my focus was on the conflict between traditional customs and modern law in Chinese society. But in fact, in addition to the controversial points that everyone already knows, the Datong case also exposed some common problems in Chinese judicial system. This episode is not to discuss the case of Datong Dinghun again. I just want to use this case as a cover story to tell you about some issues that often lead to judicial injustice in the Chinese judicial system. First question In the Datong case, whether you support the South or the female party Whether you think the evidence chain is enough to sentence the South to the conviction There is one of the most absurd places in this case No one can deny it That is when the second trial was judged Xi was detained for 712 days 這麼長的羈押期,這本身就是一件違法的事根據中華人民共和國刑事訴訟法規定公安機關對犯罪嫌疑人逮捕後的偵查羈押期限不得超過兩個月這是適用於絕大多數普通刑事案件的如果案情特別複雜,兩個月內無法終結審理經上一級人民檢察院批准可延長一個月,總共三個月 Can it be delayed? Yes, but it must be a case that fits the four special cases. The criminal justice law clearly states that 1. The traffic is very inconvenient, the border area is very complicated. 2. A major criminal group case. 3. A major complicated case of smuggling cases. 4. A major case of criminal cases involving the face of the victim. 根本連Beer都沾不上而且就算是以上四種這麼龐大和複雜的案件也就是最多在延期兩個月總共羈押時長不得超過五個月還能再延長嗎?可以如果是可能判處十年以上刑罰的案件五個月還是審理不完經省級人民檢察院批准可再延長兩個月 7 months, this is the final deadline of the criminal law No matter how big, how wide, how complicated the case is The maximum is to press you for 7 months Either the trial is over or the trial is guaranteed And the case of Datong is not particularly complicated Ordinary rape crimes will not exceed 10 years So if the judicial institution cannot be finished in 3 months It should be allowed to be guaranteed by Xi I found that many people do not know the difference between detention and prison. They do not understand the difference between the detention and prison. The detention is the criminal suspect who has not been convicted in the case. For example, the person who is investigating and suing. Only when the case is finished, the person will be sentenced to prison. 看守所跟拘留所比較像都是屬於公安機關管理的而監獄是屬於司法機關管理的這裡我必須要跟大家科普一點很多人都不知道看守所的條件是比監獄差很多的在看守所待久了那是生不如死比監獄難受多了 Because many films are related to prisons So the public knows the environment and life of prisons But it is not worth it to the prison Let's compare the difference between prison and prison life and management mode Just like what you see in the movies, in the prison, everyone has a fixed bed and space, and a fixed sitting time. But in the detention center, there are more than 10 people, even 20 or 30 people, in a large hall. There are many white lights that are very bright. They don't turn off for almost 24 hours. The squatting toilet is also inside. Many people who just entered the toilet will be bullied and sleep on the side of the squatting toilet. In the prison, there are fixed times for outdoor activities, such as labor, study, physical activity, etc. But in the detention center, almost all days are locked in the detention center. The shower and bathroom conditions in the detention center are very simple. More than 20 people share a squatting toilet in a large store. 监狱里的饮食条件也比较好有一定的营养搭配有时还能按积分购买额外物品但是多数看守所的食物都是清水白菜萝卜汤、咸菜馒头为主长期食用营养不良你可能要觉得奇怪了为什么看守所要设计的条件如此之差呢就是因为看守所本来就只是一个临时候审的场所根本就不是以长期居住为目的的呀 Besides the poor living conditions, the most painful place to be locked in the detention center is actually the psychological pressure. When a person is sent to prison, although he is in prison, the judgment is already set. He knows how long he will stay here. He has a relatively stable expectation and management mechanism. But the people in the detention center don't know how long he will stay here. This kind of unbearable torture is the most terrible. Moreover, the information in the detention center is very closed Family members can also come to visit in the prison But being detained in the detention center is not allowed to see family members Only occasionally see a lawyer Can you imagine this kind of torture? So the detention center is a place where people's spirit and body are tortured 這恰恰就是為什麼任何國家的法律都必定會嚴格規定一個人可以被羈押在看守所裡的最長期限因為沒有人能夠長期待在這樣的地方而不落下永久性的生理問題和精神疾病 But China has its own laws, but did not follow the rules in the actual execution. Look at the case of the "Datong Soul" case, a case that has the attention of the whole country, they can break the rules so boldly. You know how many people in the country have not been convicted, are being overstated in these horrible detention centers. 可能有些人會說了這些都是罪犯啊都不是什麼好東西是他們活該能說這話的人我不客氣的說都是法盲我在重申看守所裡的人都是那些還沒有被定罪的嫌疑人 一罪从无 明白吗?Innocent until proven guilty任何人在被证明有罪之前皆为无罪之人这是所有现代人都应该具备的最基本的法治精神 中国为什么有那么多超期关押呢?因为这是另一种形式的可以说是最有效的刑讯逼供手段了地方公安想要尽快结案啊想要业绩啊但是传统的刑讯逼供现在大多不敢了因为殴打和折磨嫌疑人会留下疤痕啊留下证据啊一不小心还把人打死了那就谈上事了 But as I described above, the suspects who were locked in the detention center were the weakest in their hearts. They were tortured every day. If the law does not strictly implement the termination of the release, their psychological pressure is extremely great. How many people in the world can endure being locked in a place like this for 1-200 days, and then don't know when it will be the end? So in the end, facing this kind of invisible abyss, many people gave up I just admit my guilt, you quickly sentence me, then I will be released So super suppression is the most likely cause of false charges It is a law that must be banned But obviously, there is no time in Chinese judicial system 就像大同這個案子,一對訂了婚的夫婦一起回婚房休息的時候,男的侯吉拉在沒得到未婚期同意的情況下跟他發生了性行為。就算是堅定認為男的應該背叛強姦的人,也必須同意,他不是那種會對廣大社會造成危害的危險人物吧。為什麼就不能取保候審呢? According to the media, before the arrest of Xi, the police wanted to make an adjustment Later, the court wanted Xi to confess, so they could sentence him to a sentence of release What does this mean? It means that even if the police and the court think Xi is illegal, they know that he is not a criminal He is not harmful to society at all But in this simple case, such a normal person, you have to give him 712 days before he is convicted. 23 months, 12 times more than the normal limit of the law. This man who is confused at the moment, mixed up modern law and traditional customs, even if he has broken the law, he will be punished as he should be. However, before he was convicted, the time he was taken to court was much more than those of the most vast, complex, and unrepentant China, like cross-strait criminal cases of unification, serial murder cases, and many years of inter-criminal collusion. He was taken to court for the longest period of seven months than those of the law. He was also taken to court for 16 months. What is this non-violence? 即便我們不算上訴後等待二審的時間從他2023年5月5日被拘留到當年12月25日一審判決也已經拘留了235天,接近8個月這肯定是違法的一審之後上訴,那就等於判決尚未發生法律效力所以是不送到監獄的,依然還是在看守所結果二審又一再延期,又把人給羈押了477天 In fact, this is another problem Let's think about it When you put a suspect in a certain time that is illegal for a long time For example, when he is in jail for more than 300 days Do these legal officials still dare to judge him for not committing a crime? Then your illegal suppression will really become illegal People will definitely be prosecuted "I am now convicted of innocence." "Then tell me, why did you put me under illegal detention for so long?" "You demand compensation from the state!" "Maybe these people are still investigating whether they have committed illegal detention or death-prone criminal offences." "Do these people dare to take such a risk?" So did you see that when things developed to this point, it was already hard for you to believe the fairness of these judges' judgments. 我這裡不是在替習某某翻案也不是在討論他的行為到底是不是構成強姦我是在指出這個案子確實存在程序不正義的地方中國的很多案子都存在程序不正義的地方所以判決結果才會引起這麼大的爭議 在西方和现代司法当中,程序正义是一条铁律。我举个例子,比方说在美国的一个警察接到线报,说有人杀了他老婆,他把尸体和凶器都藏在家里的地窖里。按照程序,警察需要先获得法院批准的搜查令,然后才能进屋搜查取证。 But this police officer is a very quick-witted person He has been suspecting this person for a long time But he still can't find any evidence At this time, he was so angry that he didn't want to wait for the court's search order He just broke in and found the body and murder weapon in the basement All the weapons are fingerprints of the suspect They also found the clothes that the suspect wore when he was in the case The victim's blood, the suspect's DNA is on the clothes In short, there's no doubt that there are no evidences But I'm sorry All these evidence won't be accepted by the court The jury didn't even look at these evidence The suspect will definitely be acquitted Because without the search warrant, they broke in These evidence were obtained through illegal means Therefore, it is called "the country of poison" Fruit of the poisonous tree It can't be considered as a court of justice Yes, you may think that since the evidence is so solid Why do you want to be obsessed with these details And let a murderer to be exiled? This idea is a big mistake 程序正義是現代法治的基石因為程序正義是對權力的約束如果說只要結果是對的程序就無所謂那麼國家機器就可以隨意碾壓任何人今天我們可以為了打擊壞人而破壞程序那麼明天就可能會有人為了打擊異見人士而繞開法律 我们允许因为程序不合法而撤销起诉坏人其实是在告诉所有的执法者你不是正义本身你只能在法律允许的框架内追求正义 这是一种深层次的制度前悲我们宁可放过十个坏人也不能冤枉一个好人因为放过十个人只是代价但冤错一人撼动的是整个社会对法治的信仰 以上是第一點接下來我要給大家講講中國司法當中的第二個常見問題那就是刑事案件當中二審的改判率過低大同強檢案一審結果出來時全國熱議很多人都在期望二審會改判但當時我就說根本不可能 首先,中國的刑事案件定罪率長年超過99%也就是說只要檢察院提起公訴被告人99%以上的概率會被判罪名成立這本身在全球範圍內就是極高的特例 但更大的问题是二审改判的百分比更是低得惊人按照中国的司法制度刑事案件实行两审中审制第二审的目的就是为了纠正一审错误防止冤假错案的重要集支但其实在中国这个二审等于是形同虚设 根據最高人民法院發布的數據2023年上半年刑事案件當中一審判決被二審改判或發回重審的比例僅有1.65%民事案件稍微好一點但改判率也僅有3.35% Some people may be familiar with this. This means that all the doctors and judges in China are Bao Qingtian. Never make mistakes. Isn't that good? Of course not. The judge is also a human being. If you are a human being, you will make mistakes. Such a reform law is completely against the law of law. 要了解這麼低的二審改判率是否合理最好的辦法就是放到國際上去比較根據美國司法部的數據美國聯邦刑事案件的上訴成功率約為7%在各州的終極上訴法院就更高刑事案件的平均改判率約為14%也就是說美國刑事案件的上訴成功率是中國的4到8.5倍 但即便這樣,美國的法律界對這個數據普遍上還是認為太低的並認為司法體系需要做出一定的改變來提高這個數字今年,美國律師網有一篇文章說道正義需要精準,當司法系統出現偏差無論是程序錯誤,法律適用不當,還是事實上的清白上訴庭便成為了憲法賦予的最後一道防線以抵禦無法挽回的不公 根據德國聯邦統計局的數據德國刑事案件的二審改判率約為15%至20%日本的一審定罪率跟中國一樣也是超過99%但是二審改判率為10%是中國的6倍 Why is China's second trial rate so low? It's still a matter of the system. Among the assessment indicators of the judicial system in China, in addition to the settlement rate, judgment rate, adjustment rate, and trial documents, it also includes the return on trial rate and second trial rate. In other words, if a court-ordinated case has a high return on trial rate and second trial rate, it will affect its promotion, reward and professional development. 你的制度既然这么定所以中国司法实践当中各级法院在内部就形成了一种维持原判率高才是稳定有序的默契官官相护是中国千年来的文化在这种二审改判等同于一审法官犯错的默认思维之下二审法官改判有可能会被认为是在跟一审法院过不去 Although the second court is the superior department, but in China's officialdom, you never know which senior official you offended. So no one wants to easily fight the enemy in the workplace. Therefore, the entire Chinese judicial system is in the form of a case with a steady attitude. If you can't change, you don't change. In such a judicial system and officialdom culture, how can we expect the fairness and accountability of the second court? 以上是第二点而中国司法的第三个问题就是长期以来都有重口供轻证据的问题意思就是过于看重犯罪嫌疑人的口头供述特别是认罪口供而忽视客观证据的搜集与核实 This is related to a kind of old-fashioned concept of "claiming the confession" which is the wrong concept of "claiming the confession" For some grassroots people as long as the suspect confesses even if there is not enough evidence the case is broken If the suspect doesn't confess, it's a trouble The so-called "claiming the confession" is to ask the person to confess Do you remember the Zhang Yuhuan case? He was a poor man who had been in prison for 27 years for the case of injustice In the year, Nanchang Central Hospital was only charged with two charges against Zhang Yuhuan The charge was that he killed two boys from his neighbor's house He was sentenced to death without any other physical evidence But when Zhang Yuhuan was in the 4th court, he had already declared that he was wronged. He was convicted of being tortured by the Public Security Bureau and sentenced to life imprisonment. In addition to the criminal record, the case also has the same problem that I just mentioned. The second trial was basically a trial. When the Jiangxi High Court was in the middle trial, it even did not even open the court. He directly declared that he would return to the appeal and continue the original judgment. 但他的家人沒有放棄四處奔走 持續申訴張玉環在獄中每週都會手寫一封申訴信向各級司法部門講述遠情最終成功寄出的信有上千封最終在2019年8月4日江西高院已原審判決事實不清證據不足宣告張玉環無罪 做了27年冤獄的張玉環26歲進去53歲出來最終也只獲得國家賠償476萬元 [Crying]  張玉環騎馬還有餘生另一位冤假錯案的受害人聶樹斌卻連這個機會都沒有21歲的聶樹斌於1995年被槍斃罪名是監殺了一名女性21年後真凶被發現最高院裁宣布聶樹斌無罪 此案同樣是僅憑認罪書就判決同樣是屈打成招這樣的例子還有很多河南造作海岸湖北蛇翔林岸內蒙古呼革極樂圖案等等 這些冤案都是與非法取供有關嫌疑人在高壓之下認罪法院缺乏其他有力證據的情況下卻倉促定案最終鑄成大錯當然以上這些案件都年代久遠中國司法比起30年前已經有了很大的進步但眾口供清證據的現象依然沒有完全根除 最後說一些我的感想中國司法制度從改革開放以來確實是有逐步在改善和進步的有很多法律規定都已經在跟發達國家接軌這一點是我們必須要急於肯定和認可的 But what is regrettable is that in the past few years, there seems to be a sign of a fallback. We all know that "public transparency" is one of the most important important factors in the fairness of a national judicial system. In order to make the judicial system run under the sun, China has established the Chinese Judicial Library since 2013 and concentrated on publishing the judge's documents that have been effective in all courts across the country. According to the rules of the Supreme People's Court In addition to the special cases involving national confidentiality, minors' crimes, The court's court decision and settlement should be publicized on the Internet It is convenient for public inquiry This is a milestone that was considered publicized by the Chinese judicial system Until August 2020, the number of documents published by the National Court of Justice on the Judicial Book Network is more than 100 million. The number of visits is 4.8 billion times. Many lawyers, scholars and ordinary citizens can understand the case through the Book Network. More importantly, let the public supervise the judicial system. However, in recent years, we have found that the Judicial Book Network has appeared to have a reverse trend. 首先是公開的裁判文書數量大量減少官方數據顯示2020年全國法院公開了1920萬份裁判書到了2022年下降到了1040萬份到了2023年更進一步下降到511萬份短短幾年間年度公開量下降了將近四分之三這代表了什麼呢 In fact, at the end of 2023, the CCP released a signal to close the Judicial Booking Network At that time, it caused panic and strict criticism of the general public The Chinese legal world also warned that this is the absolute fallout of the Chinese rule Maybe it's because the public's reaction was too big So the Booking Network was not closed later But it doesn't make sense at all Because we see that the number of public judgment books is decreasing every year And a lot of historical documents have been deleted 更令人擔憂的是被隱藏的往往是一些重大或敏感案件的文書這2021年以來但凡涉及到死刑、尋釁滋事一些政治敏感的罪名或引起群眾爭議的判決大部分都已經被刪除比如2023年許州鐵鏈女案轟動全國以後很多人就發現大量涉及拐賣婦女的判決書已經從文書網消失 縱觀人類歷史對於任何的公權力公開的結果就是越來越文明不公開的結果就是越來越野蠻這是更古不變的真理我曾經在一起關於中國防火牆的視頻裡講過有很多時候選擇性透明比完全不透明還來的可怕現在中國的司法正在走向這條道路 他们如果是直接关闭了裁判文书网人民还能直接给他订个信哦 他们不敢公开但是中共现在的做法是给你留着但他只公开他想让你看到的静悄悄的删掉了大量他不想让你看到的这才是最可怕的因为这世上啊 往往不是你知道什么而是你不知道什么更能影响你对一个人或一个政府的看法 所以,综上所述,只有当司法真正做到,嫌疑人不被违法集压,有罪判决建立在扎实的证据之上,法院的错误能被上诉庭纠正,以及法院的判决公开透明,经得起社会检视和历史考验。 只有這樣司法才能做到讓人民群眾在每一個案件中感受到公平正義這才是任何法治國家的應有之一也是我們共同追求的目標