This is a tiny piece of metal 
just three millimeters across.
And here's what happens if 
you just keep zooming in:
1,000 times,
100,000 times,
50 million times.
Each of these blobs is an actual atom.
I saw this the other day at 
the University of Sydney,
and it kind of blew my mind 
because up until just 30 years ago,  
directly seeing atoms like this 
was thought to be impossible.
The rooms that you're going to see here are 
perhaps the most shielded rooms on campus,
or even in the whole of Sydney, I would say.
And perhaps also the most expensive.
That's wild.
So why is it so hard to see atoms?
Well, you can't actually see 
atoms with visible light.
That's because while light has wavelengths 
between 380 and 750 nanometers,
an atom is still over 3000 times 
smaller, just 0.1 nanometers.
And if the wavelength of light is much 
bigger than the thing you're trying to see,
the light will just diffract or bend 
around it so you won't be able to see it.
So if you want to see atoms, you need 
something with a much, much smaller wavelength.
The best candidate isn't even light.
It's electrons.
In 1924, a French physicist named Louis de Broglie 
worked out that everything was sort of wavelike.
Not just light, but matter too.
Atoms, molecules, even you 
yourself have a wavelength.
And the formula for this 
wavelength is Planck's constant,  
divided by the object's momentum, 
that is, mass times velocity.
So here what you actually see,  
that's the column of the microscope where 
we accelerate the 300 kV electrons down.
300 kilovolts, these electrons?
So they are relativistic particles.
How fast are they moving? 
99% of the speed of light?
Around 80.
80% the speed of light?
Yeah.
So what would be their wavelength?
The wavelength is the Planck 
constant over the momentum, right?
So if we calculate that, we come to 
around between 2 to 3 picometers.
Whoa!
That's over 100,000 times 
smaller than visible light.
So theoretically, you get 
100,000 times more resolution.
Shortly after de Broglie's discovery, a 
group of scientists in Germany started  
working on a microscope that would 
use these high-speed electrons.
The only problem is you can't 
bend electrons using glass lenses.
So how do you focus them?
Hans Busch, a German physicist, suggested that 
an electromagnetic lens might do the trick.
He published his results in 1926, 
but never actually built one.
Fortunately, a copy of his paper fell into the 
hands of an eager young PhD student, Ernst Ruska.
Ruska built his first prototype by coiling up  
some wire and surrounding it with iron — 
taking care to leave a gap in the middle.
Then, when he passed a current through the coil,  
it induced a donut-shaped magnetic field 
through the metal and across this gap.
This was his lens.
To test it, Ruska first boiled 
electrons off a tungsten filament,  
the same kind of filament you'd 
find in an incandescent light bulb.
He accelerated these free electrons through a  
positively charged anode down 
to his electromagnetic lens.
As an electron approaches the lens, the 
magnetic field exerts a force on it.
So if an electron is traveling in the y direction 
and the magnetic fields are in the x direction,
this force, called the Lorentz 
force, pushes it in the z direction.
But as the electron moves this way, it encounters 
other magnetic field lines along the donut shape,
which constantly point its motion in a circle.
But then this circular motion means 
the Lorentz force starts pushing the  
electron inwards as well, spiraling 
it into the center of the lens.
Now, if you trace the path of 
the whole beam of electrons,  
you'll see they all get steered 
into the center, focusing the beam.
By 1931, Ruska and his colleague,
Max Knoll, used this kind of design  
to build the first working electron microscope.
It was pretty basic, made of brass 
roughly bolted together, but it worked.
The image itself was created once the focused  
electron beam hit a sample 
sitting at the focal point.
The sample needed to be incredibly 
thin, only around 100 nanometers thick.
More electrons would make it through 
the thinner parts of the sample than  
the thicker parts, creating an 
electron imprint of the sample.
Then a second electromagnetic lens magnified this  
imprint down onto a fluorescent 
detector, producing the final image.
This was known as a transmission 
electron microscope or TEM.
Now, early versions of the 
microscope barely magnified at all.
In fact, it wasn't even better 
than an optical microscope.
But Ruska was determined.
Over the next few years, he experimented with  
adding more lenses onto the microscope 
to create bigger and bigger images.
By the mid-1930s, Ruska had gotten the 
TEM way past 10,000 times magnification.
It could produce close-ups of insects, bacteria,  
and even viruses at a level far 
surpassing the optical microscope.
But right as Ruska's TEM was taking 
off, a German physicist named Otto Scherzer  
published a paper claiming that the 
microscope was about to hit a brick wall.
There was a flaw in the electromagnetic lens, 
he wrote, that was completely unavoidable.
For an electron to make it 
to the focus of the lens,  
it needs to be deflected by a specific amount.
If you simplify its trajectory, you can define 
that ideal deflection with this angle theta.
This angle depends on the horizontal distance  
of the electron from the optical 
axis, and how far down the axis the focus is,
also known as the focal 
length.
The shorter the focal length, the stronger the magnification.
If you graph this angle as a function 
of distance to the optical axis,  
you'll see that it can be approximated as linear.
The problem is that the magnetic 
field doesn't scale linearly.
It's much stronger near the edges of the magnet.
So if you plot the curve for the 
actual deflection of the electrons,  
you'll see that the magnetic field 
overdeflects the electrons further out.
Their angles are bigger than they should be,  
so they end up focusing 
before the rays in the middle.
And as a result, the focus is spread across the  
optical axis instead of being 
contained in a single point.
The blur starts out around the edges of the image, 
but it gets worse the higher the magnification.
This is called spherical aberration, and it 
distorts every radially symmetric magnetic lens.
In fact, it doesn't just affect magnetic lenses.
Every spherical lens, from a camera to a telescope 
to a magnifying glass also suffers from it.
But there is a surprisingly simple way to 
minimize spherical aberration. Just add  
a second lens, one that diverges 
light instead of converging it.
Now, a diverging lens also 
suffers from spherical aberration.
But if it has the same amount of aberration 
as your converging lens just in reverse,
you can stack the two to essentially 
cancel out their effects.
And that removes the aberrations almost entirely.
Almost all modern lens systems in cameras  
and microscopes use some sort 
of correcting divergent lens.
So you might imagine that the TEM 
simply needs its own version of a  
diverging spherical lens to magnify further.
But with magnets, this is physically impossible.
Every magnet has two poles, a North and a 
South. It's impossible to just have one.
Even if you split a magnet down the middle,  
it creates two smaller magnets, 
both with a North and South.
And all magnetic field lines have to start at one 
pole and end at the other, forming a closed loop.
It's a direct result of the second 
Maxwell equation because the field  
that you create has field lines that 
start and end at the same magnet.
So the electrons will always 
cross through two lines.
The first time it passes through, by the Lorentz 
force, it's brought into the spiraling motion.
And then the second time 
from that spiraling motion,  
which has then a slightly different 
direction, it's pushed towards the axis.
That's why all electromagnetic lenses by default 
will converge that beam, and never diverge it.
Even if you shot electrons in from the other 
side of the lens, they would still get focused.
This is what Otto Scherzer's paper proved 
in 1936, stopping progress on the TEM.
It is impossible to produce a radially 
symmetric magnetic lens that diverges.
And this was, of course, a big roadblock 
for the development of electron microscopy,
because people saw, okay, we can 
accelerate electrons as much as we want,
the presence of spherical aberration 
will always be in the way.
Because of this roadblock, advancements in the 
microscope's resolution slowed significantly.
By 1955, another microscope 
beat the TEM to the punch and  
took the first generally accepted image of atoms.
This was called the field ion microscope,  
and it worked by shooting helium or neon 
atoms at an atomically sharp needle tip.
The tip was positively charged. So 
when the gas atoms hit the needle,  
they got ionized and were ejected 
off perpendicular to the surface.
And that could form an impression 
of the atomic structure of the tip.
But this method was limited.
You could only get a sense of the atomic 
structure of the very tip of the needle.
And the images weren't all that impressive.
Luckily, Ruska's electron microscope  
wouldn't stay stuck in the realm 
of insects and bacteria forever.
Now, you might not be an insect getting 
bombarded with relativistic electrons,
but it can sometimes feel 
like it when you're getting  
bombarded with spam calls and targeted ads.
It's a real problem when we're 
researching for our videos.
I was reading up on lenses and optics,  
and a few days later I started getting 
targeted ads for glasses and eye surgery.
So someone out there is probably 
selling my browsing data.
But this is where today's 
sponsor, Incogni, comes in.
With your permission, Incogni will fight the data  
brokers on your behalf by finding out 
who has your data, which laws apply,  
and then they request, with the appropriate 
legal language, your information be deleted.
You just sign up and they'll give you a list of 
all the companies that have your information,  
how severe each claim is, and 
the status of all your requests.
Now, I signed up last April, and since 
then they filed 317 requests for me,  
281 of which have been completed, 
saving me over 210 hours of work.
And now I'm no longer getting 
ads for glasses I don't need.
So to try it Incogni and fight against the 
data brokers, visit Incogni.com/Veritasium.
You can also click the link in the 
description or scan this QR code.
Make sure to use the code Veritasium to get 60%  
off your annual subscription to 
take control of your data today.
That's Incogni.com/Veritasium.
And now back to the electron microscope.
Despite Scherzer's aberration limit 
work on the transmission electron microscope continued.
During the next four decades.
People tried boosting the resolution with 
clever workarounds, and perhaps none more  
so than British-American physicist Albert Crewe.
His idea was to replace the tungsten filament,  
which fired off electrons at 
random, with a more directed source.
So instead of boiling electrons off the surface,  
he tried pulling them off with 
a stronger electric field.
And, by sharpening the tungsten into a fine tip,  
he was able to create a narrow beam which was 
over a thousand times brighter than before.
He paired his new narrow beam 
with an unlikely technology.
The cathode ray tube TV.
These TVs worked by scanning an 
electron beam across a screen. The  
screen was coated in a phosphor that 
produced light when hit by electrons.
And by varying the intensity of the electron beam,  
you could vary the brightness of the 
screen, giving you a black-and-white image.
Crewe was inspired to design a 
similar electron beam for the TEM
that would scan across the nanoscopic sample.
So instead of creating an imprint 
of the whole sample at once,
Crewe's electron beam made smaller imprints, 
mapping the sample out bit by bit.
This wasn't the first time someone had 
tried to make a scanning version of the TEM.
German researcher Manfred von Ardenne 
built an early prototype in the 1930s,  
but it was destroyed during WWII.
When Crewe revived Ardenne's design, 
he made several drastic improvements,  
and by 1970 he had this.
The first image of single atoms 
taken with the electron microscope.
Researchers quickly jumped to employ his 
tech, producing countless images of atoms.
After nearly a century of improvements 
from Ruska, Crewe, and many others,  
the magnification upgrades on 
the TEM had reached their peak.
But Scherzer's problem persisted.
Spherical aberration set a hard 
limit on how small you could see.
Even Crewe himself gave up on trying to 
get around it after over ten years of work.
"Unfortunately, we could never make it 
work. After many heartbreaking attempts,  
we were forced to admit defeat."
Around this time, other microscopes 
emerged that could also image atoms.
These probe microscopes work by gliding an 
incredibly small stylus across the sample.
The stylus detects variations in quantum effects  
or nanoscale forces to then map the 
surface structure of the sample.
These were easier to build, and 
because they didn't use any lenses,  
they weren't limited by spherical aberration.
Their images were even 3D.
But the looming issue was that 
these probes weren't really  
seeing atoms. It was more like feeling atoms.
Throughout the 80s and 90s, this was all we had.
But what if there was another way?
Scherzer's theorem proof that a diverging, 
radially symmetric lens isn't possible.
But if you're willing to give up on that 
symmetry, well, the theorem no longer applies.
The problem is that radial symmetry is 
arguably the most important property of  
any lens, because if you break the 
symmetry, you also break the image.
But three maverick scientists 
thought there might be a way.
Knut Urban, Max Haider, and Harold Rose were known  
in the electron microscope 
community as troublemakers,
and for years barely anyone had been 
interested in their research or,  
more importantly, in funding it.
And for a good reason too. 
Their idea was kind of crazy.
I mean, they purposely wanted to break the 
image using a lens that wasn't symmetric.
Their hope was that there would be a small part  
of this distorted image that 
would be slightly diverging.
And maybe, just maybe, this 
small part could correct the  
spherical aberration of the original lens.
So they got to work
To distort the image, they used a massive nest 
of electromagnets with six,  
eight, or even ten separate coils and 
magnets with bumpy magnetic fields.
These were known as the hexapole, 
octopole, and decapole magnets.
So as the electron beam passed through a hexapole,  
it would twist and squeeze the flat 
2D image into a triangular saddle.
And the circumference of the original beam 
would be pushed into the three corners,  
with the rest of the interior stretched out.
But now the middle of the image 
would have a slight concave bow,  
giving the effect of a small divergence.
Then Rose, Haider, and Urban forced the 
beam through a second hexapole , one that worked  
the opposite way, so it would unbend the 
distorted image back into a circular shape.
But now they, calculated this 
new image might have the remnants  
of that tiny divergence still in its center, with 
spherical aberration pointing in the opposite way.
So if they got their maths and engineering 
exactly right, they could feed an image with  
spherical aberration through these two lenses 
to almost completely counteract the effect.
And I imagine a lot of people in the field thought 
it was a crazy idea when it was proposed, right?
Not only the concept, but, that this is, 
like, technically feasible, I believe. 
It was thought that this is not possible.
By May 1997, the group had just two months of  
development time left before their 
last sponsor withdrew their backing.
And to make matters worse, their latest lens 
iteration was still just on the drawing board.
But somehow, by the 23rd of July,  
just a week before their funding ran 
out, the new lens was ready to test.
They gingerly placed it into the microscope,  
but like every time before it, 
the lens was unstable and failed.
So they decided to switch off the equipment 
for 24 hours to allow the magnets to settle.
And then at 2 a.m. on the 
24th, they turned it on again,  
and almost magically, the 
picture started to stabilize.
Suddenly, there was no aberration. 
Only beautiful, clear images of atoms.
After more than 60 years of failed attempts,  
Urban, Rose, and Haider pulled 
off the seemingly impossible.
With this method, they cut the resolution 
of the TEM down to only 0.13 nanometers.
An average TEM image went from 
looking like this to this.
A few months after the group's breakthrough,  
Knut Urban attended a microscopy 
conference to share these results.
But because of the group's reputation,  
he was relegated to a small back 
room that barely anyone noticed.
Soon, however, word spread that against all odds,  
his pictures seemed real. Then 
a crowd of hundreds formed.
People were lining up outside, hoping to get 
a glimpse of their stunningly sharp images.
So we're going to get a sample holder.
Yeah, so we got a sample holder out.
We put that under the optical microscope.
So the sample itself is a small lamella that 
you can't see without the optical microscope.
Yeah.
Have a look through that.
Beautiful. On top of the B there's 
a prong. Yeah. And on the very top  
of that on the left-hand side, 
looks like a little bit of dust.
That's our actual sample.
Okay, now I simply go up with the magnification 
and I do a very few, like, more basic alignments.  
In this electron microscope because it's 
called transmission electron microscope,
the electrons always transmit the sample.
Here we  look through our entire sample at the same time.
 And that's why it's so important 
that we align the sample.
If you imagine atoms in a high-symmetry 
direction are lined up like pearls on a string.
When we look down it, well, we can see an image.
But if we are in, like, some random direction 
that everything would be just blurred.
So that's why we have to do 
some tilting in the edge.
And this is where the actual sample 
starts — the strontium titanate.
And this is a thin region where we 
hope to get atomic resolution.
So this is 5000 times? Yes
Wow.
And we see strontium, titanium. We see 
oxygen. We see carbon. That's contamination.
So most likely what we're looking 
at is carbon contamination.
When you do this focus, what 
are you really looking for?
I look for this edge to become sharp.
See atoms.
What? Just like that. That's wild.  
Shortly after, the group successfully corrected 
 
Orndrej Krivanek independently achieved  
the same for Crewe’s version of 
the microscope, the scanning TEM.
And in 2020, all four were awarded 
the prestigious Kavli Prize in  
Nanoscience for accomplishing what 
so many others thought impossible.
Through their persistence and ingenuity, 
seeing atoms like this is, well, normal.
How big of a difference does 
aberration correction make?
If you want to see atoms and if you want to, 
for example, measure in atomic distances,  
and if you want to learn what type of atoms 
you have, you need aberration correction.
Any research that's material science. 
Materials engineering, chemical engineering...
You need to see what's happening at the atomic  level
because you want to relate 
the properties to the structure.
If you can't see the structure at the atomic 
level, you only have half of the information.
So that was a game changer.
That's why nowadays every university in 
principle needs a microscope like that.