懷疑過藥是假的 懷疑過設備失靈 也懷疑過自己身體不行沒想到原來醫生是假的這是最近幾天中國網友的新生大家好 我是老周 Miss Dong is popular I am not talking about the one who is afraid of the spy in the sea but the 27-year-old medical doctor who has become popular in China these days Miss Dong Xiyin Although this thing is very popular but I was not really concerned about it because this was originally a peach-colored news a gossip I have never been interested in this kind of news 但經過了這兩天的發酵這件桃色新聞已經變成了一件真正跟老百姓生活相關的公共事件董小姐硬生生的從蕭菲、鄒醫生眾多情婦當中的一個小配角一躍成為大女主這件事硬生生的從下半身的褲帶關係牽扯出了裙帶關係 The news of the Taoshe is everywhere But this is particularly moving to the hearts of Chinese people Mainly because of the very rare One person covered the most important issues of Chinese people Education is fair, medical safety and class-based education Then it just happened to be a topic that attracted the most attention in gossip news Yuan Pei's first thought, the third So the news exploded The audience in the old state should know that I have never been interested in gossip news Today I want to talk about the most controversial topic in this incident That is the issue of the 4+4 study system of the Xiehe Medical College The so-called 4+4 refers to the top few medical schools in China Including a pilot project launched by the Xiehe Medical College in Beijing a few years ago 意思是說醫生前面四年本科不需要是醫學專業讀什麼都可以比如這位董小姐本科是在美國讀的經濟學然後到協和醫學院再讀四年就取得了醫學博士學位到中日友好醫院當醫生了 So many people doubt that this 4+4 model obviously opened a special channel for those powerful children The so-called trial project is You open a window for my daughter, I open a door for your son This Miss Dong was exposed, the family is indeed a bit of a head Father is a certain Yangqi senior, mother is the vice president of the Beijing Institute of Technology Engineering and Technology 有人還把所有4+4的學生名單都列出來了讓大家以後看病都要避開4+4的醫生但也有人指出4+4制度沒有問題美國醫療教育體系是世界公認最頂尖的人家也是4+4同樣沒有規定本科必須是醫學專業那麼這兩種對4+4制度的說法究竟哪個是正確的呢 應該說都不全對首先確實美國的制度也是4+4本科沒有限制必須是醫學也不只是美國很多西方國家的醫學院本來就沒有設置本科所以我必須要說設置4+4這個制度用來吸引不同領域裡的人才成為醫生本身是沒有問題的 但問題是你要學人家的指度你得學全套啊人家可以4+4那是因為前後端都有一個非常完整的體系在支撐的首先啊人家的本科四年雖然不是純醫學但絕大多數想當醫生的人本科學的是pre-med可以翻譯成醫學育科 Pre-med is not a formal profession But the main goal of students is For example, biological, chemistry, and neurology These are related to medical profession No matter how far away, it is still a psychology Then in order to meet the requirements of pre-med No matter what your profession is In your major It must include for example Biological, chemistry, physics, crisis score, analysis These natural science projects 但學什麼只是一方面當你本科畢業的時候你還必須成績非常頂尖再加上豐富的課外經歷比如相關的科研經歷啦志願服務啊臨床飲食實習等等只有這一些都具備了你才有可能在本科畢業後被醫學院所錄取 美國有沒有跨學科當醫生的呢?其實也是有的比如說本科學的是計算機能不能考醫學院呢?其實是可以的或者你是學數學的、學物理的這一些去考醫學院真的沒什麼問題因為這一些都是需要展現出強大科學素養和邏輯思維的學科 西方的这些专业学院包括医学院、法学院、工程学院等等非常看重的是一个学生对自己人生的规划和展现出来的兴趣所以你申请医学院的时候有一个非常重要的环节就是Personal Statement你的自荐信这是一篇你的自我介绍其中最重要的内容就是你为什么要申请医学院 比如你一個學計算機的,你為什麼要考醫學院呢?可能你的目標是搞影像醫學你是學機械工程的,幹嘛要考醫學院呢?我的目標是做醫療設備的設計等等 甚至說美國醫學院裡有沒有本科學文科的呢?其實也是有的很少但還是有的本科學政治的跟董小姐一樣學經濟的最後進了醫學院的並非沒有發生過只要這些人可以在自薦信裡說服醫學院為什麼? 比如你學政治的學經濟的你的人生目標是做公共醫療醫院管理醫療政策研究的那都是合理的當然了你要跨學科你必定是需要展現出你是極其極其優秀的你在自己的領域裡已經學習到頂尖了4.0的GPA你做過跨學科的醫學相關的科研經歷去醫院裡當過志願者等等吧 以上我舉的這些跨學科的例子都是說的過去的而且是少數案例但是你去看看最近中國被爆出來的這些四甲式當中還有學西班牙語的學園林的甚至是學表演的這些學科跟科學以及邏輯思維完全不沾邊更像是權貴後代喜歡的那種容易混個學位出來的學科 而且在美國所有要進醫學院的人在滿足了一切條件之後還要參加一個統一的考試M-CATM-CAT的困難是人盡皆知的考試時長七個半小時涵蓋生物、化學、物理、閱讀理解甚至是心理學和社會學並且這並不只是一個記憶型的考試而是綜合推理型的考試 除了專業知識以外,要能通過 MCAT專注力、答題策略、身體耐力都缺一不可美國主流醫學院的錄取率基本上都在10%以下最頂尖的醫學院比如哈佛、斯坦福、約翰霍普金斯等等那都是在3%以下的錄取率 中上所述在西方國家能考進醫學院的都是頂尖人才董小姐的問題就出在這裡她明顯並不是一個頂尖人才所以在我看來4+4並不是問題學經濟的轉成學醫也不是問題她的問題在於她本身明顯並不具備這樣的實力而是靠關係進去的 In fact, the 4+4 system is also stipulated in the QS is not a reliable ranking Many of them are obviously giving money to make you rank close to money But in China, they like to see this ranking Because QS ranks China University very high But even so, this Miss Dong graduated from the United States of Canada Still not a big deal Some people say that Canada is a "wild chicken university" Actually not really But there is still a big difference between the world top 50 Barnard is actually a good school of literature It ranks in the top 20 in the US literature school If it is a university, it can only be the top 100 in the US Probably the top 60-70 It's a little bit different from the top 50 in the world In addition to the school ranking, the researches of Ms. Dong are very suspicious. 11 researches were published in 3 years, and the number of researches is extremely large. From ancient science to secondary science, from放射科 to secret urine science, from high-level physics to biology, there is nothing she doesn't understand. It's a miracle. But after the issue was over, many of her papers were rejected by the paper industry. The author himself could not reject his own paper. Who was helping him to reject his own paper? The latest evidence also shows that Ms. Dong's graduation paper "Cross-Mathematical Image Fusion Technology in Medical Image Analysis" copied an article of a North Korea graduate student Zhao Ji Huai to apply for a patent. Zhao Ji Huai's article was published in 2022 Ms. Dong's thesis was published in 2023 Apart from the content of the two articles There are many similarities There are still some doubts First, Ms. Dong has no background in computer science Choosing this topic as a doctoral graduation thesis It's very unique Second, the pictures used in the two articles It's exactly the same But the most critical point is here Zhao Ji Huai's mentor in North Korea is Ban Xiao Juan He is the joint applicant for this patent However, Ban Xiao Juan is also Miss Dong's aunt If there is such a coincidence in the world, I would have won the lottery long ago The most annoying thing is that Zhao Ji Huai is a disabled person Hearing impairment and disability But Zhao's classmates are able to get into the North Korea computer and read the speech And also get the title of "China University students' self-reliant" Zhao Ji Huai entered school in 2020 According to the normal situation He should have graduated in 2023 But from the news, it can be seen He became a doctoral student in the 2024 episode In other words The probability that his mentor is blind And let Zhao Ji Huai graduate a year late This is really a sight to see You want to pay for yourself Even if you hire a gunman to write a paper for yourself Forget it When you steal an article of a disabled student And make people graduate one year late This is really inhuman For example Doctors who are still in training That must be all in good spirits Small and mighty But Ms. Dong, because she was caught by a nurse in the operating room, she had a fight with someone. The person who was the victim was the operating doctor. She left a patient who was already numb on the operating table, and left with her hand in hand. Where did this new employee come from? After this incident, why didn't she get any punishment? So, in all, even though we are willing to believe that the original intention of the 4+4 trial project was good, but just like all the things that involves power in China, when it was implemented, it did not follow the rules at all, but opened a special passage for the powerful children. Don't say "Oh, what is Miss Dong's special ability?" We all know that when you find a cockroach in the kitchen it means that there are already many cockroaches in your kitchen Miss Dong was discovered completely because of a very random escape news If it wasn't for Dr. Xiao Gang's wife's husband and his lover the public would not have found Miss Dong's academic problem So when you find out about Miss Dong, you will know that there are already many cockroaches in the kitchen of Chinese medical care. Originally, opening a special channel for the權貴 in China is a common practice. Who doesn't know? But if you open a channel in the bank and leave the best position to your children People will tolerate You give all the waste to the red three generations People will also tolerate But please Don't put your special rights claws in the hospital and operating room Don't use your public property to the school Because the education of children and medical care is the most basic human rights It's too big a deal On May 1st, Wei Jianwei said he would check on Xiao Mo, Dong Mo and other related institutions I can only do that after reading it Every time I see similar news, a bunch of people in the Douyin comment section are saying "The country should be thoroughly investigated, the country will give us an explanation." I find it particularly funny. Especially this kind of organization that is originally managed by the country itself. What bank deposits disappear, schools cover students from jumping off buildings, hospitals corrupt, etc. In a country of totalitarianism, you let the government investigate these cases. Investigate what? Investigate yourself? The Xiehe Hospital was originally managed by Wei Jianwei. What do you want him to investigate? The Xiehe Hospital as Beijing is the top hospital in the country. How many officials and nobles are involved in the corruption in this? Maybe there are senior officials of Wei Jianwei involved. So what people say is that Miss Dong's biggest contribution is to to make 4+4 and medical and academic corruption a reality But even if it is a reality Don't expect that it will lead to a real reform 就跟过去的很多事一样什么食用油混煤油压薄薯头甚至是很多中国医院被发现肢解和倒卖尸体这种害人听闻的事不都是闹轰轰个一两周以后然后一切恢复原样吗 就别说这些了那位用毒奶粉弄死弄残30万英额的三路集团董事长田文华原本是判无期的对吧你以为真的牢底坐船啊别天真啊我悄悄告诉你人家已经5年内减刑3次2027年就要放出来了人家家大业大出来之后依然还有荣华富贵搞不好到最后比你我都要长寿 我知道大家经常都说老周的视频看了心情沉重我也很无奈这样啊今天在视频的最后我来说一个或许能够让我们略微感到一丝欣慰的话吧 Some people say that this incident Let us see China's class old-age again But in fact, I think I saw something different What I see is Such a dangerous family Will also be very anxious about the future of the child Used all relationships Even without breaking the law To pave the way for the future generation This is not class old-age Instead, it is a fear of class degeneration Because they are too clear In China, no power is safe on this land No matter how high you are, you may fall into the abyss overnight No matter how stable you are, you may become a victim tomorrow So they climb up desperately Tried to grab all the resources to control When they can't climb up, they try to drag the back to climb up Not because they are greedy But because they are too afraid 說真的,挺可悲的難怪中國歷史上從來就不缺那些想當皇帝的人但即便當上皇帝了真的就能睡個安穩覺了嗎?恐怕是月到高處,夜晚越長,夢魘越深 全力的尽头也许不是荣耀而是永无止境的焦虑与恐惧