Hello everyone, I'm Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today we continue to talk
The Deeper Psychology of NTR and Cuckoldry
In the previous video
We explored NTR fantasies
The origins of thought in Chinese society
This sexual fantasy
Although it seems to be influenced by Japanese adult movies
But it is actually related to Chinese nationalism
This larger narrative structure is closely connected to
We also specifically analyzed
China's nationalist propaganda
How is it that by sexualizing the motherland
Eroticizing national conflict
Symbolizing women as a symbol of national chastity
Thus, the national
Especially male citizens
Placed in a naturally castrated
The position of the powerless voyeur
When a male
The earliest and most profound impressions of sex and passion
Not from healthy love
But it comes from the violation of wives and mothers
As a member of this nation
But the grand narrative is powerless
His desire structure was distorted from the beginning
He will unconsciously think
The strongest emotional experience
Inevitably, there is power imbalance, violence,
Humiliation, sacrifice and other heavy things are linked together
Despite the official ideology
is trying to experience through trauma and humiliation
To inspire the people's fighting spirit
To strive for the rejuvenation of the country and nation
However, in reality
This path is of course very difficult.
The parties involved cannot become the mainstream ideology
The successful person you are looking for
in this case
NTR Fantasy
It becomes an alternative compensation strategy
So why this seemingly humiliating fantasy
Will it bring pleasure?
This seemingly masochistic sexual fantasy
What kind of desire of the subject is satisfied?
This video
Let's break down the logic behind this in detail.
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topics you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
We talk about the characteristics of NTR fantasy
It is pleasure gained from self-abuse and humiliation
In this sense
It can be regarded as a special form of sadomasochism
Shares a common psychological structure with BDSM
So when we analyze a fantasy mechanism
We can also learn from the endless variety of subcultures
See similar background
But before discussing
I still want to emphasize
Our video is not about sadomasochism,
NTR and other sexual fantasies are morally criticized
Although such fantasies may be pathological
It may stem from some kind of trauma and deprivation.
However, our analysis
It's not about making a final diagnosis of a person.
Because the human spiritual world has a characteristic
That's when you become aware of your fantasy mechanism
The nature of your fantasy changes
This is different from the laws of the physical world.
Without considering quantum mechanics
and the case of microphysics
Our observation and awareness of a phenomenon
It will not affect the nature of the observed
However, people’s spiritual world is different
When a person is unconsciously driven by a fantasy
His experiences are often extremely contradictory and painful.
Illegal pleasure and real guilt,
Anxiety and self-loathing are intertwined
He didn't understand why he was attracted to such a morbid scene.
He didn't dare to think about it
I dare not tell others
Falling into inner confusion and torment
However
Once the subject understands this fantasy mechanism
Understanding my own trauma
He will realize
I don't really want to be destroyed.
I'm just playing a loser.
Then the nature of fantasy changes completely
Pain and humiliation are no longer pure torture
It becomes a controllable ritual element in the script.
The subject is a slave to fantasy and trauma
Active management
and the master who organizes his own enjoyment
Therefore, in the spiritual realm
I think in principle everything is understandable.
The reason why a person is obsessed with a certain kind of humiliating happiness
Because
People are not just pursuing happiness.
Dislike of pain
In Lacan's view
The subject is not an inherently complete entity
But in a series of alienated processes
Constructed
This process
can be understood as moving from the real through the imaginary
The triple movement that ultimately enters the symbolic realm
At the beginning of life
The baby is in a chaotic, undifferentiated state
There is no clear boundary between him, his mother and the world
All symbols, languages ​​and laws
None of this exists here
The baby experiences a magical feeling
He has achieved his goals in this field.
Unhindered
This is the Real
A pre-linguistic and pre-symbolic chaotic realm
The individual is filled with intense energy and pleasure
As children learn language
He entered the symbolic realm
This is a language, symbol,
The network of the big Other constituted by law and social rules
For individuals
It also means a deeper alienation and trauma
The so-called symbol
Using symbols and concepts
To replace and substitute real things
As Lacan said
Language is the murder of things
The subject from the beginning
is thrown into the world of language
Even a person's name
Often before he was born
Named by parents
Individuals are endowed with various signifiers
For example, "son", "student", "Chinese", etc.
Our identities are defined and supported by these external symbols
He also shapes the subject's desire
These desires are no longer purely biological instincts
It becomes the "desire of the other"
It is the Other who tells us what is desirable
About this
We have analyzed it in the video discussing fetish and soft pornography
At that time we said
In the edge culture of the Internet
Individual desires
On the surface
It is a physiological desire directed towards the body of the opposite sex
But in fact
This desire is not simply sexual desire
Or biological instinct
But for the recognition and attention
social desire
This desire
Even in many cases, it is directed towards the same sex
That is, through group chats or comment areas
A carnival with people of the same kind
Thus confirming that one's sexual desire is sociable and legitimate
The desire for recognition
This is the deeper desire of the person involved.
This example illustrates
The desire of many people
It is actually the result of symbolic order and symbol manipulation.
Rather than some kind of biological instinct that you are born with
From Lacan's statement
We can feel
He is rather pessimistic about language and symbols.
He believed that the establishment of the symbolic order
It must be based on the premise of "murdering" the real world
When we use the word "tree" to refer to a real
Living tree
This tree is unique
The reality of full branches and leaves
Killed and cleared
Instead, a universal abstract symbol
therefore
The price of one's entry into language and the symbolic order
It means forever losing the most direct connection with the world.
The most original connection
This original loss
This lack caused by the language itself
This is what the symbolic order brings to each subject.
The most fundamental trauma
That's it
I have to emphasize
Although Lacan
Or many French philosophers
Both see symbols and language as alienation and trauma
But is this alienation and trauma necessarily a bad thing?
Obviously not.
It is better to say
He is the price a person must pay for growth.
If a person does not experience the alienation brought by language
So
He actually fell into a state of mental illness.
He is unable to form relationships with others
Unable to communicate
Can't distinguish between fantasy and reality
The symbolic order is like a dam
It brought the original, chaotic, destructive flood
Successfully converted into electricity,
Irrigation, useful water flow
A precise, positive, and inclusive symbolic order
Able to guide people's original energy to the path of sublimation
Sublimation is not repression
But this original energy
Transform into socially acceptable and appreciated goals
Such as creation, love, career achievements
Or other social contributions, etc.
A well-functioning symbolic order
Like a rich and flexible vocabulary
It can provide individuals with rich and inclusive identity labels,
Values ​​and success criteria
Make a person feel
There are many ways to realize your own value
So the individual feels
Your energy can be gained through learning,
Work and creation and other real actions gradually unfold
and gain social recognition
Of course we have to admit
Even in this most ideal situation
The symbolic order itself
It is also a domestication and compensation for a more primitive kind of pleasure.
In this sense
It is indeed a trauma
The reason why we pursue real achievements
To learn concepts and to think
It is because of the most original
Absolute bliss of becoming one with one's mother
Lost forever
The establishment of the symbolic order itself is based on the castration of this primitive enjoyment.
A sensitive person will cherish the lost
Primitive pleasure
And feel a sense of sadness
But he also clearly realized
It's impossible to go back to that state.
Just because a dam works well doesn't mean floods won't occur.
Quite the opposite
It is because the threat of floods is always there
The dam must be in operation at all times
The happiness we get
Always just for the lost
A substitute satisfaction for an impossible pleasure
Of course all this
All of this is done when the symbolic order is functioning well.
However
If the symbolic order is brutal, authoritarian, and rigid
So
It will block most of the roads to sublimation
Make the individual feel
It's too difficult to get pleasure from reality
A bad symbolic order has several characteristics:
First is
It only provides a very small number of recognized identities
And the definition is very narrow
You either become one of the few who succeed
Or become the majority loser
at the same time
He is also harsh and cruel.
He's like a sadist.
Constantly mocking the subject's incompetence
Increase his anxiety
When the normal path of "sublimation" is blocked
When the reality of "happiness" becomes out of reach
That raw, untamed energy
It cannot flow to external social goals
Of course it won't just disappear.
It will regress to an earlier stage
and more primitive ways of satisfaction
It is in this context that NTR Fantasy
Become an extremely attractive secret passage
In reality
The individual is required to be an active,
Responsible, goal-oriented subject
This is a high-level and sophisticated symbolic identity
And in NTR fantasy
Since we have obtained the reality
Stable happiness is so difficult
at the same time
It is also difficult to resist the symbolic order
Then the individual simply gives up this identity
He no longer pursues the happiness brought by "success"
But choose to fail completely and utterly
He through fantasy
To stage the complete destruction of male identity
My identity was destroyed, my partner was taken away,
Dignity trampled upon
He regressed himself into a
Passive, powerless gazer
He no longer needs to act
Just look
He went from a failed "subject"
Regression to become an object of "failure to watch"
I remembered a netizen I saw on a forum
I can't find the original post now
This netizen
In every case involving foreign students
On the topic of dating Chinese girls
Crazy messages
The content is
Rendering foreign students
Posing a huge threat to Chinese men
Return to each message
With a photo of hugging a girl
There was a certain anger in his tone.
There is a kind of weird feeling
But his crazy message behavior
It actually brought him some happiness.
But he didn't realize it
If he suddenly realized one day
Own
In fact, he is not a patriot who cares about his country and people.
But because
I like to experience this repeatedly
The shame of being green
Make yourself excited
So this cycle of pleasure
I will be overwhelmed by a huge sense of shame
This is similar to our previous video discussing the method of mental failure.
There are similarities
That is, through self-deprecation
Or destroy your own identity
Exposing the absurdity of ideology
Thus temporarily escaping the call of ideology
Since I can't succeed
Then I will fail.
Even more failed than you thought
This makes the success narrative ridiculous.
Another key to the mental failure method is to turn passivity into initiative
This reduces the shame of being humiliated and judged.
This means that the person feels that he or she is in a relationship with the opposite sex.
There is no confidence
So instead of waiting for a sudden blow in the future
How about I humiliate myself in my fantasy?
That way I have nothing to lose
No more anxiety
This is similar to the SM game
Abuse itself is painful
However, when the masochist actively chooses to be masochistic
Turning passivity into initiative
On the contrary, psychologically
Gained a subtle sense of control
As if I could control the pain
On what occasion and when did it happen?
A victory over pain
This way the parties can feel
Pain doesn't come suddenly
I arranged it in advance.
It happened according to my plan
It's the result of my choice
This is how I eliminated passivity.
and anxiety caused by uncertainty
Experience a primitive joy
Of course, original doesn't necessarily mean bad.
As we said at the beginning
Conscious and unconscious
Is it to distinguish whether a behavior is a symptom?
Or the dividing line of self-exploration?
When a person is unconsciously controlled by this drive
He doesn't understand why he is like this
He experienced pleasure
Experiencing confusion and compulsive pain again
So that's a symptom.
In establishing informed consent
and rational sexual exploration activities
The person may still be replaying the traumatic scene
However
Since this is a proactive and safe ritual
Therefore, the toxicity of the trauma itself
It has been largely eliminated
Let’s stop here for today
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary.
Send me the relevant text in advance
I will read it before the formal communication
or
You want to discuss your life experiences with me,
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please also contact me
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!