Hello, Odd Lots listeners ! The Odd Lots tour is continuing, and the next destination is Chicago. you're right. Joe and I are planning to do a live recording of Odd Lots at Chicago City Winery on October 15th . Tickets are available for purchase now at bloomberg.com/odd lots. We would like to extend special thanks to Barclays for sponsoring the Odd Lots live recording . See you at Chicago City Winery on October 15th! Purchase your tickets right now. Bloomberg Audio Studios Podcast Radio News Hello, welcome to another episode of the Odd Lots podcast . I am Tracy Alloway, and I am Joe Weisenthal. Joe, there is a topic we have wanted to cover for a long time . Yes, that is correct. It might look simple, but actually, I had a really hard time finding a guest who was the perfect fit for the topic . This is because it is a story about a specific airline strategy related to airlines. When I worked as a transportation reporter for a few years, I realized that airlines have many peculiar aspects . He has a lot of secretive sides and is reluctant to share details . Actually, I was unaware of this industry practice . I didn't know that airlines tend to keep secrets in this way. There are two things I have always been curious about regarding the aviation industry, and today I would like to talk about one of them . It is the internal details regarding fuel hedging and its operation methods . Second, I wanted to see the aircraft order contract that included the discounts the airlines actually receive . Whenever Virgin Atlantic announces that it is ordering a specific quantity of aircraft from Boeing or Airbus, the prices are always listed at the regular price. So, you can't really know how much airlines are actually paying . So I've always wanted to see that, but I never saw it even once while working in the transportation industry. However, at least for now, I have been able to resolve my curiosity about fuel hedging. The reason I am really looking forward to this episode is because of the story about airline fuel hedging . As you know, whenever oil prices rise significantly or skyrocket, stories about airlines come up . We've all had that experience, haven't we ? Right? This is exactly what interests me. You know, things like the ones we always talk about . "Ah, did the airline hedge its fuel?" And then the conversation ends right there. Ah, it should be fine since I hedged. Or, "Since I didn't hedge, the stock price will probably fall." Something like this . We all talk about fuel hedging, but often we don't really know what it actually means. And I also find it interesting that there are traders at airlines. When you hear the word " trader," you usually think of places like exchanges, right? However, capital transaction activities actively carried out by companies are receiving almost no attention. To add one more point regarding fuel and airline costs, fuel is the second largest cost item for airlines, after labor costs. That's obvious. However, fuel is also the most volatile cost item. When people hear the term hedging, they usually think that airlines are worried about rising oil prices, especially jet fuel prices . you're right. So, airlines try to fix prices at a specific level to avoid getting caught up in sudden price fluctuations, such as the recent surge in jet fuel prices . However, at the same time, airlines use another means of raising airfares or increasing fuel surcharges when oil prices rise. In other words, a situation may arise where a fixed price falls below the fixed price due to a surge in oil prices , and an additional fuel surcharge may be imposed . This is because, just as we have experienced inflation , we could suffer a major blow if an oil shortage occurs . With all sorts of news pouring in these days, including the aviation fuel shortage, customers probably won't complain much even if a large fuel surcharge is added to their airfare . Airfare is really expensive these days . Yes, that is correct. However, the reservation rate is also very high. People are flying around , and we keep hearing news like TSA records being broken and global air traffic records being broken . People all over the world fly a lot . Of course, as you know, if you hedge against oil price fluctuations while your competitors do not, you will have to raise prices or suffer a loss. Then you would think, 'Okay, this is my chance. ' So I am really curious about how all of this works and what kind of impact it has . And to give you some background, you are currently recording on September 29th. Around February or March, when the war with Iran broke out, we were all keeping an eye on the trends in Singapore aviation fuel prices . Well, one of us did . One of us was looking at the European jet fuel and Brent crude crack spread, and I was staring at it intently. That's good. As you know, that is the difference. sorry . No, but it is true. It was even featured in the news, and as oil prices surged again due to the diesel shortage, it suddenly became a very important topic . And I fully agree with your point that a wise hedging strategy can be a competitive advantage for airlines . For reference , my father worked as a pilot for Southwest Airlines for a long time . Unfortunately, a significant portion of my estate is still invested in Southwest stocks . Do you see the Southwest stock code? Please show me. I do n't want to see it. However, Southwest pioneered a specific hedging strategy , and it became famous as that strategy was imitated by other airlines with varying success rates . So it can be an incredibly important factor for airlines , and I... Jo, please don't show it. I do n't want to see it. Do not reduce. It has looked pretty good over the past few years. Do not reduce. Wait a moment. It's not that bad . look. look. Actually, I expected it to be worse . For those of you listening right now , I tilted the computer screen so that Tracy could see the chart . It's not as bad as I expected. Because of the way Tracy started the story . yes . I am really glad to finally find the perfect guest to talk to about all of this . He is someone who actually implemented a fuel hedging strategy at a major airline, and did it in a very interesting way. I will speak with Mr. David King . He is a former Group Finance Officer at Qatar Airways and an expert across the oil market. David, thank you so much for appearing on All Sots . I am glad to meet you. I am so glad to finally meet you. Thank you for staying with us until late in Singapore . Could you briefly introduce yourself and explain why I just referred to you as both the former Group Finance Officer at Qatar Airways and an oil market expert ? It's a long story. I will briefly tell you about my experience trading in Toronto . I did interest rate trading in New York . I worked at a Canadian bank at 425 Lexington Avenue , which is not far from your house . yes . I returned to Singapore and joined National Westminster Bank (NatWest) , and was dispatched to London to sell government bonds. After that, I worked as a bond trader at a Japanese trading company, but I lost my job during the Asian financial crisis in 1998 . So I switched to being an oil broker and worked for about 6 to 7 years . In 2006, a friend who was the head of the product division at JP Morgan Asia suggested that we work together. So, I moved from being an oil broker to a structured oil specialist . Then I went to Sumitomo, a Japanese trading company, and became the head of Asian commodity trading, and I have been working in this field ever since. Since I have also worked in the coal and LNG industries , I suppose you could say I am an expert in the energy sector . I am telling you this on the line . While working at Qatar Airways, I learned a lot about the aviation industry, especially the technical aspects and interesting things . It's a really interesting field . You know that both we and our listeners enjoy aviation-related episodes . So I am really looking forward to this as well. Wait, when did you work at Qatar Airways? From 2011 to 2013. Hmm, it 's about two and a half to three years. All right. So, as a Group Finance Officer, what were the basic expectations for that role at the airline ? What responsibilities does a finance officer bear for the company ? My title was Vice President of Finance and Risk Management. yes. Basically, I was responsible for the financial and risk management of all financial products for the airline . In other words, it is the role of the finance manager to financially protect the airline. Then, which airlines actually hedge? As far as I know, it seems that some U.S. airlines are not hedging as actively as they used to . I think it is because it took a big hit in 2014 and 2015 . Delta Airlines suffered a loss of nearly $1 billion in 2020 . Although Delta Airlines was still hedging , most U.S. airlines, especially smaller ones, include all costs in surcharges and pass them on to customers . This surcharge is included in the ticket price . The surcharge rate is not displayed on the ticket. It will probably just be displayed as "Fuel Surcharge ." And some airlines are eliminating surcharges altogether , allowing passengers to board for a price included in the ticket price . It means you do n't have to worry about fuel costs . If you want to go somewhere, an airline has to take you there . In that regard, one of the reasons some U.S. airlines have actually withdrawn from this business is that their hedge portfolios are not large enough, or their financial condition is not strong enough to handle the hedging risk . On the other hand, international airlines have sufficient financial strength and hedge portfolios . Furthermore, we have secured sufficient profits as well. So, you can hedge in terms of fuel consumption while simultaneously charging an additional fee . Compare airlines to oil refineries. Oil refineries input crude oil and send it to a Crude Distillation Unit (CDU), where it undergoes a refining process to produce products. So, at the very top is LPG, then gasoline and naphtha , then the middle fractions are jet kerosene and diesel, and at the very bottom is fuel residue . All of these are products derived from crude oil . Then what does the oil refinery do ? The refinery sells crack. "Crack" refers to the difference between the product price and the crude oil price, in other words, the spread. The refinery sells cracks and sells products . Basically, it can be called producer hedging, but it is also referred to as profit hedging. Oil refineries generate profit by selling products . However, since you have to buy crude oil, there is also risk involved . The same goes for airlines . In the case of airlines, I had to resort to creative methods for various reasons , but I will not go into detail about the specific reasons . However, for those reasons, we had to sit down and seriously consider how to hedge . This is because it had a balance sheet worth $6.6 billion , and consumption in the first year was about 24 million to 27 million barrels, with an additional 3 million barrels added in the following year and continued to increase thereafter . So we hedged and predicted up to 3 years in advance . One of the reasons for doing so was that we were introducing 1.5 aircraft every month . Basically, we were planning a new route almost every two months . Therefore, we were able to plan everything and knew exactly which aircraft would come in . In other words, we knew that consumption was steadily increasing , and we had a clear understanding of what we were doing. Furthermore, the global economy was improving , and people were trying to fly again . So we started hedging by buying crude oil when prices were at their lowest point . However, sometimes you need to actually look at the price and give it careful consideration . Consider the probability of what happens when oil prices skyrocket to triple digits . Because the jet fuel market is too small, Brent crude is used as a proxy indicator. U.S. airlines use heating oil as a proxy indicator instead of jet fuel . The jet fuel market is too small. Jet fuel is sold only in Northwestern Europe , and the market size is very small . Therefore, you cannot hedge with these financial products . You should use Brent crude, which has high liquidity and both buyers and sellers, as a proxy indicator . Consider the market in which airlines participate . Only airlines purchase jet fuel. Therefore, numerous oil companies can "supply jet fuel ." will say that . Numerous oil companies, such as Glencore, Curia, and Vitol, sell jet fuel to airlines. The same goes for Morgan Stanley . I have experience trading with Morgan Stanley . Goldman Sachs has also purchased actual jets in specific regions around the world . Now, you can trade with various institutions like this . Shall we start with the most basic transaction, that is, the most common one ? Of course, there may be complex methods or various variables, but what is the most basic type of transaction? I will explain the process step by step . It is a swap. A swap is a derivative product of the futures market. You can find out swap rates in the futures market. For example, looking at the interest rate two months from now, the April swap rate is obtained by considering the May and June futures prices . This is how you buy the swap . A swap is a symmetric transaction. So, oil prices can go up or down . If oil prices rise, you can minimize losses, so it is advantageous, but if they fall, you will suffer a loss. In my opinion, it is best to conduct swap transactions when oil prices are low in the low double digits, that is, around $25 to $35. With this amount, there should n't be any problems with the swap transaction. However, when oil prices rise to $70 to $80 , people start to worry about how long they will maintain high levels and engage in option trading. You are buying a call option . However, the problem is that you have to pay the cost for it . You have to pay a fee, or a premium . In some cases, investment limits are too low to cover the cost of buying call options . So, we sell put options to cover that cost . In the end, there is no choice but to use a zero-cost collar strategy . You can buy options, use zero-cost call options, and perform swaps . These are very basic trading methods. However, what I structured at JP Morgan was a Target Redemption Note. There are general methods and more complex methods in the options. The key point is that banks sell target repayment bills to airlines for the purpose of fuel hedging . In the general method, assuming I am a bank, I enter into a zero-cost call option with an airline. However, behind that, we structure target repayment bills . In other words, it is to be repaid after 5 months, 1 year, or 2 years . By doing this, you can buy crude oil on more favorable terms in a complex manner , and also buy call options on more favorable terms . In other words, you sell a call option , but in reality, you are selling an at-the-money call option. However, there is a unique strategy hidden behind it. These unique strategies are also called extension products. There are also cases where you use a strangle strategy, as I did. In other words, you are selling both options . You sell call options at the highest price of around $120 and sell put options below $80 . I was able to make a profit because if oil prices stayed in that range, banks would pay a premium . What's really interesting is that I thought these kinds of bonds or structured products in Asia were mainly used by individual investors to bet on large fluctuations . They expect oil prices to rise significantly, just like in the Cosby case . I never imagined that these products could be related to fuel hedging, that is, legitimate trading . David, what you said earlier is quite interesting. You mentioned that because the jet fuel trading market itself is so small, fuel hedging is mostly done through Brent crude trading . In that case, does this mean that airlines could be significantly affected due to the large fluctuations in jet fuel and Brent crude oil prices ? As you know , that difference can change very quickly, as we saw earlier this year . You're right, aren't you? I think that it is both true and not true. It is true that as an airline, we are inevitably exposed to the volatility of the jet fuel market depending on what fuel we use . A hedging strategy using jet fuel is necessary, but the jet fuel market is short on supply. That is why we use the Brent oil market . I will say it again: it is better to hedge than not to hedge at all . If hedging using jet fuel is impossible, then you are completely exposed to risk . So, I can't think of a better way to put it, but the reason people use Brent crude is because it is the internationally accepted price. In the United States, some airlines use WTI ( West Texas Intermediate) crude oil , and there are also airlines that use heating oil, which has high price volatility. So, the price difference between jet fuel and heating oil in the U.S. is much narrower than expected. Just recently, the crack margins for heating oil and TI exceeded $100 per barrel . It went up to $107. It is a huge difference . It is $230 per barrel, but crude oil is trading at $110 . Brent crude is around $120. In Europe, the crack margin for diesel is around $74 to $75 . The European jet fuel market is difficult to grasp accurately . It is because there is no open market. There are only figures released by institutions like Argus or Platts . However, as you know, the figures they announce sometimes have no bid prices and only buy orders . Then they just raise the price and assume there is a buy bid. Alternatively, even when there are only bid prices in the market and no buy orders, a value is simply set arbitrarily. So it is very arbitrary. This is exactly why most people do not trust these institutions . Especially when predicting jet fuel prices. They adjust prices based on commodities they understand better and have high liquidity, such as London gas oil or U.S. heating oil . It is true. I just saw a chart in the terminal, and it is very interesting. If we go back to early February, that is, before the war started in March , Brent crude had risen by 50%, and Singapore jet fuel had risen by more than 100%, that is, more than doubled . In my opinion, even airlines that had well hedged against Brent crude price fluctuations would have suffered significant losses if they purchased Singapore aviation fuel during the period from at least March to mid-May . That is correct , but I purchase Singapore aviation fuel except from existing suppliers . Wait, could you explain this chart that I always look at once ? Isn't that important information? Ah, do n't say 'we,' Jo. sorry. When I said 'we,' I was n't referring to me and Tracy, but to everyone I talk to on the internet . Now, regarding this chart that I was looking at without knowing much about it, Singapore aviation fuel is a bit different. This is because certain trading companies affiliated with specific oil majors have completely dominated the market . They know that airlines are the only buyers in this market . That's right . And how should I put this in a good way? Well, sometimes people talk to each other . And if they agree to something, things proceed according to that agreement . This is because everyone is looking in the same direction and trading in the same way . So, it is a subjective market rather than an objective one . yes . So, as I mentioned, only Singapore's existing airlines actually hedge jet fuel . Other airlines do n't do it. How much money can airlines make just by raising fares and fuel surcharges? Theoretically , you have undoubtedly considered the price elasticity of air travel, but if you can pass on the additional fuel costs entirely to the customer, is there really a need to hedge ? Hedging is helpful when oil prices are low . This is because fuel surcharges have no effect when oil prices are low. We can't pass on fuel costs to the customers, can we ? Since oil prices are low, airline ticket prices must also be lowered . And usually, when oil prices are low, it is a time when the global economy is not doing well . While this was not the case in 2014 and 2015, in situations such as the war between Iran, the United States, and Israel in 2026—which we are witnessing now, and in 1998, 2008, and 2020— most of the factors are global economic and geopolitical. Therefore, hedging is useful because it can prevent downside risk and lock in the price when it falls . Swaps, call options, zero-cost call options, etc., play this role. In addition, as oil prices are rising and account for a significant portion of airline revenue, airlines may impose additional fees due to the increase in fuel costs . Airlines aiming to make a profit do not reflect these additional charges on their income statement, but hedging is reflected on the income statement. Therefore, the profit from hedging increases. No one expects additional charges to come in. No one can predict the profits generated there, but they do predict the profits generated from the hedge . Therefore, if you handle it well and buy it cheaply, and the market continues to rise and the economy improves, everyone wants to travel and people are willing to pay, so they do not care how much the additional fee is right now . In this situation, you can double your profit . However, at the same time, you must have a very good grasp of the situation . As I mentioned, it is just like an oil refinery . An airline ticket is a product , and that product has the price of the airline ticket . No one tells you how much the airfare is, but if I may tell you now , due to the fuel surcharge, the airfare is probably about 25% of the total airfare . And this is a fact that applies generally worldwide . Currently, everyone purchasing airline tickets pays an average of 25% . Actually, you just mentioned a little about the cost. So, when talking about overall flight costs or airline operating expenses , does fuel cost basically account for 25% of the total cost ? Tracy mentioned that it was the second-largest cost after labor; how important was this factor in the case of Qatar Airways? 44%? You're saying 44%? Yes, it is 44%. That is why I had to express it this way . and. It was a huge deal for us. If you think about other airlines , you can see that jet fuel costs account for 25 to 30 percent of the expenses . And labor costs also account for a large portion. yes . However, labor costs for us were very low. We were able to secure a large number of flight attendants and paid them decent wages . Of course, the cost of living in Doha was cheaper than in the crew's home country . yes . So we hired many crew members from Eastern Europe and Asia, especially cabin crew and cockpit crew . Although labor costs were kept low, exposure to fluctuations in crude oil prices, particularly jet fuel prices, reached 44%. It was nearly half the cost. It is truly amazing. You mentioned that you had to find a creative way, and said that is exactly why you decided to participate in this program. You published a paper on a specific hedging strategy you implemented during your time at Qatar Airways . First, could you briefly explain what problem you were trying to solve for your employer at the time ? Let me tell you a short anecdote . Very simply . The losses on our hedge portfolio amounted to $280 million. So when I joined, I was in charge of the hedge portfolio , and at the time, the company was reporting a loss of $280 million . I have trading experience, so it took me some time to learn about airlines. As you know, I wasn't familiar with corporate management. So I had to learn how to become an entrepreneur, what a finance department is, what a hedge portfolio is, and how to add value . While trying to learn and add value, the company once suffered a loss of up to $360 million . So the CEO called the CFO and me into the office to talk. The CEO asked CFO Daniel Ho, "Dan, why are we losing as much as $360 million ?" I asked. I was a group finance manager who had just joined the company at the time , and I remember what I was in charge of back then . Do you know what a "hospital pass" is? When you pass the ball, everyone runs towards it , but it gets kicked away in a situation where no one knows who will receive it . That was me. I received sick leave from Daniel . And I said this while talking to the CEO. "You know, Mr. President, when oil prices rise, you make money through swap transactions, right? You lose money in physical trading because you have to buy at a higher price. But since it's a variable interest rate, the risk is low. And when oil prices fall, you lose money in hedging transactions, but jet fuel prices drop, too. If jet fuel prices fall, you make a profit in physical trading." He said this. " David, you are seeing losses in your hedge portfolio . You are also seeing losses in revenue management. When oil prices fell, there was a high probability that the global economy would be weak back when I was at Qatar Airways . If the economy is bad, you cannot take passengers, and you cannot fill the planes . Eventually, flights cannot take off, and unused fuel remains. Then, you incur losses. You are facing a double burden, losing money in ticket sales revenue and in the hedge portfolio . It was a very difficult situation for the CEO. He said, ' David, you are the Group's Chief Financial Officer. I do not want to see deficits on the financial statements anymore. Do you understand ?'" He said. "So, what I realized after that meeting was that I had to do something that would generate a profit without incurring losses, or even surpass the break-even point. That is one of the reasons I started doing what I had to do and finding creative ways to do it. This story reminds me of one of the first things I learned as an aviation journalist. A long-time aviation consultant told me that the airline industry is similar to running a grocery store . There are fixed costs, and those costs have an expiration date . Yes. If you can't sell all the products on time or fill the aircraft seats, you end up bearing all those costs . For example, let's assume you have 10 bags of lettuce or cauliflower. If they aren't all sold that day, you lose all that money . So, I viewed the airline industry and air travel as industries with such long expiration dates. Of course, the items that account for a large portion of the costs have short expiration dates, though." There is a fixed cost called the aircraft. However, I have to pick up passengers on a specific date at a specific price . Otherwise, you will only suffer a loss . that's right. The point is that aircraft operational capability cannot be maintained through inventory. Yes, that is exactly right. That 's really interesting. I've never thought about it that way before . Now, imagine your boss comes over and says, " Stop taking such a loss ." It is something every trader's boss wants to say at least once . In this situation, I suddenly received instructions not to suffer any losses . What should I do next ? I sat down with the deputy finance manager and discussed and reviewed this issue from various angles. I have experience in oil trading, so when I look at an oil refinery, I know that it is both a place of consumption and a place of production. So I said, "As an airline, we have to produce something ." We are making a chair that you can sit on so that you can move from point A to point B. So, I'm making a chair . But what is inside that chair ? What will happen? "So, we kept making estimates until we obtained the tickets . The tickets include a fuel surcharge . We analyzed the correlation between the fuel surcharge and the price of Brent crude . The result showed a correlation of approximately 75% , which is a significantly meaningful figure . Yes. Of course, we purchased swaps for hedging . We were hedged by 88% and showed an 88% correlation with jet fuel. In other words, the fuel surcharge has a 75% correlation with jet fuel , while Brent crude has an 87% or 85% correlation with Brent crude . Therefore, we use Brent crude as a proxy indicator. We also discovered that there is a correlation in the surcharges . Thus, hedging is possible . This is a commodity, and it is a commodity that we sell . The ticket includes both the commodity and the profit. This is where we hedge the profit . There is both consumption hedging and profit hedging. In this way, we derived the curve. We sat and analyzed it for several days ." I came up with so many ideas over the past few weeks , and this is the result. Then I went to the revenue management department and spoke with Anko van der Werf, who was the senior vice president of revenue management at the time, and his right-hand man, Sven Lawson . Even they did n't realize that they were actually taking a long position on oil. I said, "Actually, you are taking a long position on oil . That is exactly how you make a profit, isn't it? You have been building long positions on oil through additional fees ." He said. Yes, that is correct. So, the basic idea behind airlines taking a long position on oil is that if oil prices rise, they can set higher prices, allowing them to invest the additional operating profit in riskier option strategies . Am I right ? Yes, that is correct. great. Now, a fuel long position is created on one side of the ticket , and a fuel short position is created on the other side. Because you need jet fuel to take off an airplane . So we took a short position on one side and a long position on the other. Now, what should we think about ? We need to consider a producer hedging strategy . This is one of the reasons why we used the strangle strategy of selling call options. When we sold a call option, that call option was not an unsecured sell . This is because the fee protecting that call option was included . you're right. Therefore, even if the call option we sold is exercised , the commission will compensate for the loss on that call option . In other words, we are being protected in that aspect . Conversely, we sold put options. If oil prices fall, selling put options is advantageous to us . Of course, there will be some losses on the put option, but because the price of jet fuel is falling, you will be able to purchase jet fuel at a lower price. In other words, this strangle strategy had no unsecured selling at all . There were no exposed parts at all . I considered all possibilities . We only looked at the direction. hmm. That isn't necessarily the case. I did not predict where oil prices would go. What we did was , yes, understand that prices will revert to the mean . I expected it to stay at $100 for 5 months . Then we thought we would either break even, incur a slight loss, or make a substantial profit . I was lucky . You had to stay within a certain range, right? you're right. yes . yes. That's very interesting. I think that when anyone hears the word 'trader,' they picture someone sitting in front of a computer trying to make money . I mean someone who tries to secure more cash every day. Then, what is the role of a trader working for a company—that is, someone who utilizes the market according to their own business needs rather than a speculator ? In that case, how important is the task of identifying a company's natural business direction ? What you have discovered or clearly stated is that Cathay Pacific has structurally maintained its brand image for a long time due to ticket prices . That is why they were able to establish such a position without a specific perspective . If so, whether you are in your position today , or dealing with other airlines or even other companies with whom you have business relationships, how important is the job to truly understand a company's business and identify its natural direction of exposure or business strategy in a specific market ? Since I have only worked for airline companies, I can only speak about that aspect . However, I think the word 'hedging' is somewhat misleading . It is actually a perspective. It is a transaction. And as you pointed out, in-company traders do not call themselves traders. That is because calling it that causes problems for the compliance department . This is because they believe that hedging is advantageous to them . So the compliance department went into a frenzy and said, " No, no, we are n't trading; we are hedging ." I will say that. Then what are you hedging? If a consumer buys the goods they consume , then the price becomes fixed. Producers have to sell the ramen, and that is the only way to secure the profits obtained at the peak . Therefore, companies do not readily accept the word 'transaction' . I understand . The audit department doesn't like it either . However, I believe we can find a way to link a product to a specific risk. For example, like jet fuel. You will be able to find similar connections at other companies as well . Then, if you hedge, you can be protected . Just like the food market . Because it is a product with an expiration date. It must be resolved within one day. I am confident that someone will find a way to extend that period using specific technology . If they do that, they will now gain long-term benefits rather than short-term gains . Well, that is the context . I would like to hear how much money you made with this specific hedging strategy, and what happened at Qatar Airways when this strategy was disclosed to management . Yes, it was $130 million. In fact, our company's sales that year recorded a loss of $65 million . hmm. If it weren't for my hedging strategy, we would have suffered a loss. Furthermore, thanks to my hedging strategy, although I could have incurred a loss at the time , the revenue department was able to lower freight rates because I made a profit through the hedging strategy . Ah, so Qatar Airways used to be a latecomer. Emirates and even economy class followed along . So, EK stands for Emirates, and EY stands for Etihad Airways. I was always in a position of following other airlines. It was a system where if Emirates lowered fares, we lowered them too, and if Emirates raised fares, we raised them too . However, while working with my uncle, I gave him the advantage of being a frontrunner, and he made good use of that advantage. We were able to lead the market by lowering prices by 20% . And the seat occupancy rate was also tremendous. Almost all the planes were 80 to 90% full. So, in a sense, I created that opportunity for my uncle , and he made good use of it . I think that, like everything you do in life , you should always try to add value to the food chain . Since you brought up other Middle Eastern airlines, this might be a somewhat sensitive question, but I’m going to ask because I think many people would be curious . There are many sensitive questions I could ask about Middle Eastern airlines , but I would like to ask more specifically about countries like the UAE and Qatar . These regions are known to have abundant oil reserves , so why would they go out of their way to import jet fuel from abroad ? Why don't these countries provide subsidies to their domestic airlines ? For example, by exchanging Brent crude with refineries in other regions to obtain cheaper jet fuel . The aviation industry has a structure where various routes extend outward from a hub airport, doesn't it? It operates flights all over the world , but most of the time it passes through the Middle East . However, there is a limit to the amount of jet fuel that can be carried on an aircraft, and to fly long distances, you must refuel at the destination . Ultimately, it is the Middle East that dictates the prices. It is not us, but the other side. Right? All right. Yes, I mean, I'm talking about Qatar Oil Corporation (QP). Trading with QP was n't a very pleasant experience. Because QP had a subsidiary called Woqod, and that company sold us jet fuel for $3.65 per gallon . However, when we went to Dubai to get jet fuel, Chevron was selling it for $2.95 per gallon. It was ridiculous. So, we suffered a loss of 70% to their state-owned oil company . It's really ridiculous . And when we took delivery of the 787 Dreamliner, you announced that we would go to Dubai and use it for crew training . But actually, I went with the fuel almost completely depleted . It probably wasn't even 5 tons. 4 tons or about 4 tons? With the fuel almost completely depleted, I could n't even circle Dubai Airport. We had to land right away. It can carry 100 tons of fuel when landing . So, you tanked fuel in Dubai ? yes . you're right. We refueled our own storage tank at Doha International Airport . The storage capacity is approximately 9 million to 10 million gallons . It's a pretty decent amount . Even if they cannot get jet fuel from elsewhere, airlines will be able to operate for a day . Right? You can fly for a day . That 's interesting. Would you please tell me your thoughts on the current situation ? As of September 29 , I am curious about the situation facing those in your position in the industry , particularly regarding the situation airlines are in—considering that ticket sales are expected to be booming, plus the skyrocketing oil and refined oil prices—and how they are responding in terms of fuel supply . I think they are worried about spending hedging and don't know what to do, so it seems they are currently passing the burden on to the customers. As you know, many airlines suffered huge losses in 2020. yes . Because of fuel hedging. Delta Airlines suffered a loss of over $1 billion , and it can be said that a very famous airline in Asia also suffered a loss of nearly $2 billion . Yes, so it is not easy to figure out how the geopolitical situation is unfolding, but ultimately, it is passed on to the customers . That is why they use airline tickets as a weapon . I did that too. The pricing method I devised weaponized profit. I'm not sure if anyone else has used that structure since then . I planned to attend a finance conference in Singapore and present my work, but the CEO said no. You won't bring up this topic at the finance meeting, right? It is because we do not want to reveal our secret . No one else is doing this work. And one of the reasons they don't do it is because of the auditing body . Sovereign wealth funds that own some airlines believe that it is not right for consumers to sell oil . I think most people and finance managers do not properly understand this issue. You must not think of them as blindfolded horses. They think that hedging to keep the airline safe is simply seen as purchasing fuel. However, there is another aspect to airlines . You must consider everything, formulate your own strategy , and generate profit. Strictly speaking, this question is not about airlines , but it is a topic related to refined products that are appearing in the news . As the diesel crisis hits the U.S., diesel prices are skyrocketing, and there is a lot of talk that the U.S. may implement a ban on diesel exports . What do you think when you hear something like this ? Hmm, it might be a bit random, but it reminds me of tacos. Trump likes tacos, you know . So, if a country bans the export of refined oil, what kind of ripple effects will occur in the market ? Russia was like that, and China was like that to some extent as well. But Russia is the world's second-largest diesel exporter, isn't it? So, the diesel supply has decreased significantly. To be honest, the diesel shortage in Europe is serious right now . It is also one of the reasons why London gas and oil prices have skyrocketed . And I think this export ban was actually closer to a public declaration. So, due to such investigations, diesel and heating oil prices in the U.S. fell instead of rising. This is because the Gulf of Mexico or the PAD 3 region are major oil production areas in the United States . All the oil refineries are located there . yes . So, all petroleum products come from there. The same goes for the Port of New York. As you know, the US East Coast is not easily accessible. There may be small-scale pipelines, but that is all . For them, maritime trade selling jet fuel, diesel, and heating oil from the Gulf of Mexico to New York is everything. So the East Coast often imports diesel from Europe . It is to ensure that a shortage does not occur at any time. Therefore, as the US East Coast began importing diesel, London Gas Oil naturally benefited, while heating oil took a hit. And most of the heating oil is already heading to South America . So, the amount going to Europe isn't that large. Probably about 500,000 barrels a day will go to South America (ARA), 100,000 barrels to the UK, and the remaining 150,000 barrels to Europe. Oh, I'm sorry . So ARA is Europe. So, the volume going from the Gulf of Mexico to Europe is not very large . However, it seems there is trade in transporting Aframax, long-distance Class II, or even Panamax ships from the US Gulf Coast to Asia via the Panama Canal . So, it is imported from Japan to the U.S. Gulf Coast, all the way to Chubu Port in Tokyo . I'm already looking forward to warming up my house in Connecticut this winter . Mr. David King, thank you very much for appearing on Odd Lots . For those who would like more details , you can find the paper at SSRN . The title is "21st Century Fuel Hedging: How All Airlines Preemptively Adjust Revenue." David, thank you very much. I sincerely thank you for the invitation. Joe, I am really glad to finally have someone to talk to about fuel hedging in detail . The story of Qatar Airways transporting crude oil from Dubai to Doha by tanker is one of my favorite stories related to aviation fuel . I mentioned this on a podcast a while ago , probably a few years ago. When the luxury airline Silver Jet was on the verge of bankruptcy, creditors reduced the credit limit for fuel expenses. So the company CEO paid the entire fuel cost with his personal credit card . You have probably heard a story like this . Wait, the points on that personal credit card were British Airways miles . So he ended up earning a huge amount of British Airways miles. That's really amazing. You look full of fighting spirit . FedEx also started with its founder accumulating debt using personal credit cards, didn't it? Come to think of it, it's really amazing . It was a really wonderful story . What I found most interesting in this episode is that while I understand they don't like the term 'trader' in a corporate environment, that is actually exactly what they do . Because it involves selling call options and buying put options . Typical traders focus solely on maximizing profits, but if you properly understand the company's core market conditions, there is no need to provide direction. The important thing is to strike that balance. Of course, sales can increase when oil prices are high, but you can see how complicated it is to calculate how much of that volatility can be reflected. When you think of airlines, naturally there are concerns about oil shortages, right? Although there are implicit concerns about oil shortages , in certain situations, one might actually take an implicit long position on oil . It is important to accurately identify these risk exposures . I think that is a really interesting part. Yes, I completely agree. There is an aspect often overlooked in the aviation industry: the existence of another factor that can influence price fluctuations . Just like the story of a bakery . Just as a bakery owner in Chicago raises prices when people learn about it through the news when egg prices rise, it seems that significant elasticity is at play in airline ticket prices in situations like soaring oil prices . However, conversely, there is also a possibility that an oil supply shortage could actually occur. We'll have to wait and see what happens then . Looking at the aviation industry right now, it seems to accurately reflect the economic situation. Because while all prices are rising, people are flying like crazy . It's a really massive scale. If you look at the aviation industry alone , you can see that the global economy is booming . People look at airline ticket prices and complain about the rising costs , but overall travel demand continues to increase. It doesn't seem to have affected travel activities at all . It is a really booming economy. Okay, shall we wrap it up here? This concludes another episode of the Odd Lots podcast . I am Tracy Alloway. You can follow me on Tracy Alloway . I am Joe and Ijen Tal. Follow me at The Stalwart . Please also follow producers Carmen Rodriguez (Carmen Arman), Dashbot Bennett, Caleb Brooks , and Kevin Lloyd Lozano . For more Odd Lots content, check out the daily newsletter and all episodes at bloomberg.com/oddlots. You can also talk about all these topics anytime, 24 hours a day, on Discord (discord.gg/oddlots) . If you enjoyed this conversation and would like Joe and I to produce more episodes about airlines, please leave a positive review on your favorite podcast platform . If you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to all episodes without ads. You can find the Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the instructions . Thank you for listening.