[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live. We've got Amazon, Apple, Coinbase, Micro Strategy, Roku. We've got a lot of companies to talk about. Obviously, Amazon and Apple are the big ones that we will be taking a look at in the next 15 minutes, and we're going to be getting their results. Uh, besides those companies, you do have a bit of red as we get into the market close. As you can see right here, S&P 500 actually violating that intraday low that it had at 940, uh, that we bounced off of for the majority of the day, right back down 680. You know, I've been trying to think for the past hour. I've been doing some research trying to see what is the reason for why uh we are getting this red and I I'm open to hearing theories in the chat. I have not found a definitive headline that you could chalk up for a explicit reason for why the market is upset. Uh you know I can give you the excuse that we were at all-time highs, people are taking profits, yada yada alos, you could say all those things, but I don't know if any of that does it justice to be honest. Uh which might quite frankly mean there's not really reason. Bitcoin and Ethereum. Uh, not pretty. Obviously, BMR not pretty either. 40. It was at 46 last time I checked it. Well, it's, you know, another two bucks. Not a big deal, right? 44.86. That one's down 10% on the day. Uh, Bitcoin right below 107. I'm about to give you guys a stat about Bitcoin. That's not going to be pretty. So, just realize when you hear it, you're not going to hear it. Uh, you're not going to be able to forget it. But, nonetheless, it is true. Last time we had a red October for a Bitcoin that was negative3% or more. November ended up being negative 36%. Now that happened that happened back in um that happened back in 2018 and 2018 was a whole different cycle. You had the Fed hiking rates. You had a bare market. You had a China trade war. All that all that stuff. It's just one of those things that makes you think, all right, if Bitcoin is red 3% for the month, which it looks like we're about to be. I mean, we're down 3% for the day on Bitcoin 106.5, then we're going to have to see what happens in November. AMD right there down 2.86%. S&P 500 680, Nvidia down 2.362. I did buy a little bit of the Meta Dip. I put out a post on Twitter at the exact time that I bought it. 659 was the price that I got. We did get a bounce all the way up to 679. This was the post I put out at around 11:37. So, this was probably like 20 minutes after the market open and I bought a little bit more at 659. Got the bounce still above uh the lows of the day, but nonetheless, even Meta obviously struggling to maintain all of its momentum. 665 right here. Still down about 11.45% on the day. Santa Claus needs to visit this year. Yes, we are going to need Santa Claus to give us a bit of a visit this year. Reddit down 7.7%. Google's holding on a little bit at 283. Google should be closer to 300 right now, but obviously Google got hit right here uh from its highs at 295 down to 283. So, that is my question everybody. Why do we think we're uh we're dealing with some of the red? I mean, what is the reason that you have if you've been thinking about it? Also, did anyone buy the dip? What do we get? Did we buy? Did we buy? BMR is officially below my cost basis. I did not buy more today. Again, I have a sizable position. I have 6,000 shares. So to me it's like for me to add I it really does need to be juicy for me to add. It's it's pretty much a builtout position which is why I'm not super super and I did buy the dip three weeks ago back at 47. So I mean at this point for me to buy I would need to see low 40s for it to actually get there and I've been buying more Amazon over the past month. So that is the one that I'm more interested about going into earnings. But nonetheless I would imagine people would take advantage of this dip. I would imagine people probably bought Meta today. AMD down 2.62 62 pounder basically flat on the day 197. Then hood obviously getting hit because Bitcoin and Ethereum also getting hit as well. Where is Rocket Lab? Did that get hit? Down 5%. Rocket Lab. Wow. Down 7.3. I see a bunch of Dolingo. Meta. Novo Nordisk. Is Duolingo actually doing okay? No, it's not. 260s for Dolingo. Let's check the stock draft real quick. Wow. I'm actually beating Matt. How the hell am I beating Matt today? Matt's at 40. I'm at 44. What? What? What did Matt I guess Dutch Bros collapse today from Matt? Okay, we're back in first place even with a 44% negative move on Duolingo. There you go. Steve's at 7.8, Tanner's at 26.5, Chris is at 11, Matt's at 40, and then I'm at 44.05. As for the stock draft, yeah, Chipotle got wrecked today as well. I mean, maybe you could make the argument that the that the Chipotle dip along with some of these other consumer companies signaling some issues around the the state of the consumer is causing some pain. Um, again, I don't want to say this is the reason, but I just feel like after hitting an all-time high yesterday, Nvidia getting to that five trillion level, everything kind of pumping, you know, markets have taken a breather. Even though they took a breather over the past couple weeks, this has not been the best October for the crypto assets in particular, but nonetheless, this is what we're dealing with. The crypto accounts on Twitter are freaking out. There's like these crypto media accounts that are like, you know, we Trump and G is resolved. You got the rate cuts, you got the staking, you got all the ETFs approved, you got Trump in office, you got all the legislation that's needed. Why isn't it moving? And I'm curious for the answer as well. Like, why isn't it? Someone either is getting liquidated or the market is just not thinking of Bitcoin as a hedge to inflation. They're not thinking of it as an asset they want to get exposure to. Gold is actually up on the day, which is quite telling, right? S&P 500 down, Bitcoin down, gold's up 1% back above 4,000. Silver at 48.91. Yeah, you could say it's priced in. All the restaurants are down because of Chipotle, but I'm not exactly sure what caused the move to the downside today. Let's look at the heat map and then we'll talk about Amazon, Apple, because we got that going up. Yeah, Google's the only one holding on. Google, healthcare, and financial issues doing okay. Everything else, consumer defensives, all right, even Amazon getting hit right before earnings, too, which I actually like. Uh, versus gapping up, but Amazon right there down about 2.49%. You got less soybeans than needed. Exactly. You got less soybeans than needed. Cheesecake did take a hit a couple days ago when they had their earnings. Cheesecake down another 2.75. Quantum's holding up today. I know Oakl was a bit red. Quantum's holding up. Quantum D. Wow. Dwave's up seven, NQ is flat, and Regetti is up 8%. All right, so Quantum is the hedge, folks. Quantum is the hedge. The 10-year as well has not really been cooperating today. The 10ear, look at that, back up above 4%. Bitcoin's down, S&P's down, 10 years up. Big tech earnings yesterday were good, but I guess not great. Particularly in the case of Meta, which kind of really threw everything off. I think if Meta didn't have that massive EPS miss, maybe it wouldn't have been as bad as uh the street had priced it in today. But nonetheless, you got Meta getting ahead. Grab, you know, not really tanking today, which is good. Acting as a little bit of a hedge as well, still holding. I mean, it's very impressive. It's holding above six on a on a 1% down day on the S&P, which is basically where we're at. The fact that Grab's holding six, I mean, that is a bit impressive to me today. We have earnings on Monday, so we're going to see. But, uh, nonetheless, you have some pockets of the market holding up S&P 500. They're 680.5 50 cents away from going below 680. Fear agreed. Yeah, where are we right now on that? We are at fear. Back to fear. We ran neutral yesterday. We were at 47 yesterday and now we are at 38 on fear. Roadblocks also still haven't gone through the earnings enough to understand what's the issue. They beat on the top and the bottom. That stock down 14.5% on the day. Is this ALOS? I don't want to say that's the reason, but it largely does feel like that that's the reason. I mean, again, if I had to paint together a story, the story is two parts. Number one, we read alltime highs yesterday. Market's a little upset. Uh not not upset that we're at alltime highs, but in general, you know, you get to alltime highs, need to take a little bit of a breather, take some profits. It seems like that could be what's happening right here. And then the second part of the story is that Meta just didn't have the best earnings. And although Google and Microsoft executed, Meta didn't. Now, again, Meta right there 670. I am a bit confused on Meta. talked about this in the morning, but I don't understand how the market can give Nvidia a $5 trillion market cap and then give Meta a 10% hit because Meta is spending too much on capex. And the reason this doesn't make sense to me again, you can't say the company that's selling the product that is pushing it to a $5 trillion valuation should go up, but the company that's buying the product, which is the reason for why that other company is getting to five trillion, should go down because they're spending too much. Because then you're assuming that the reason they're spending too much or that the implication of them spending too much is that there's not going to be an ROI. Well, if that's the case, if there's not going to be an ROI for all this capex spend for Meta, they're going to stop spending at some point. And if they're going to stop spending, that's going to hurt Nvidia, which means theoretically you should be concerned about Nvidia and the overall capex ecosystem if you're so concerned about Meta. Now, granted, Microsoft and Google are not facing that same type of pain, which means the street is more heavily focused on Meta in particular, wasting money. Uh, but then you look at their revenue growth, you're like, well, what do you mean wasting money? like they're up 26% year-over-year. That's faster than every other big tech company outside of Nvidia. So, it's like it is a bit perplexing what's going on with Meta today. But, nonetheless, that one is getting hit. Amazon right there 223 down 3% as we get into the close. Let's do a pump or dump right here and see what we're thinking on Amazon. And I know this is the one that most people own in the chat out of the names that we have. Triple V, thank you for being here. Thank you for the ch super chat. Uh TripleV is long Amazon. I'm not sure how many shares. I I do believe it's over 100,000, but he's had Amazon for a while. He's been successfully selling calls on Amazon. I mean, it's one it's been one of the best max stocks to sell calls on. Doesn't have the best premiums, but uh it's very hard to get called away if Amazon's flat. So, this one will be an earnings that is going to be important for his portfolio. So, we have Amazon today, we have Apple today, we have Micro Strategy, we have Roku, we have Coinbase. Um, I'll pull up the other companies that we have. Reddit, Cloudflare, let me know if you know own any of these in the chat. We're going to put them on the screen. Cloudflare, Reddit, a lot of different consumer companies, tech companies, all different parts of the economy that we'll be looking at. Uh, Atlassen, Twilio. You got some software names in here. Atlassen, Twilio. Um, and then you have other few sectors like Lumen, Lumen, and First Solar. So, we also have some energy right there as well. Yeah, BMR. Again, Ethereum getting hit today is obviously why that one's getting hit. And so we're going to have to see how this one ends up playing out for Ethereum as we get into November. We only have one more day left of October. What did most of you guys say in the chat? 60% of people saying pump. Okay, 60% of people saying pump. Amazon should be at 405. So, we're going to get the results relatively soon and we're going to see what ends up playing out. Pounder right there. 194 getting a red candle right into the close. We got 3 minutes left. 197 to 194 on pounder. You definitely have some selling that's happening right there. S&P is about to lose 680. It looks like it's about to potentially lose 680 after a day like today. We got a pump, right? Well, I think that's what people are expecting, but I don't know. We got to see. Again, I don't want to be the guy who says this, but we were at 647 two weeks ago. So at 680 like it's it's one of those things where obviously a lot of investors are impatient and you know they were just at 690 so now the 680 feels like a whiplash which it is 1% down does feel like a whiplash from yesterday but it's way better than where we were 3 weeks ago. The other reason the markets might be down today is because we don't have an official China deal. So again we got the China negotiation framework that was established yesterday by Trump and descent but there is not a specific deal officially that has been signed. That could be another reason that the market's upset. Um, and I guess, you know, that's why they're saying we're not going to move higher until we figure out what's going on with China. But, nonetheless, this is what we've got going on. We got two minutes left. Let me do this final poll in the chat. So, which one outperforms today, Apple or Amazon? Now, Amazon or Apple doesn't report until 420. So, technically, you're going to have some time before we see Apple. The rest of these companies should be reporting pretty soon as as soon as the market closes and we're going to see what they say and we're going to see results that they can put up. Amazon three down 3% today is kind of sketchy. Yeah, I mean look my my thoughts and we said this in the morning that I think Amazon can get below 200 or close to 200 if AWS acceleration is not good. I think I think it can blast through the uh the 230s. The implied move is 6.7%. So you're looking at 212 or 241 based on what they do with AWS guidance. I think it all rests on AWS, but obviously the other parts of the business are going to be relevant here. And we're going to see, look at that. Yeah, dumping fully dumping into the close, losing pretty much all of its moves. It's getting closer to my average that it had over the past week. And so we're going to see how this ends playing out. We have Rocket today as well. We got Rocket. So, we'll put that on the list and we will take a look at all these companies as we get into the close. All right, folks. Here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. This is the last day until Nvidia, which is going to be a month away from now for earnings. So, Amazon and Apple is going to be wrapping up big tech earnings for Q3. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Thursday, October 30th. The stock market is now closed. All right. Here we go. Here we go. We're gonna see what happens. Mr. Sam is here to join me.
>> Sam, you ready?
>> Let's go. Amazon is Sam's biggest position if I'm not wrong. So,
>> might not be after this.
>> Might not be after this. We're gonna see.
>> We are going to see.
>> All right. So, we'll get the results in a second. Hood ends 4.7% down in the day. Pounder down 2%. Tesla down 4.6. Nvidia down 2.08. Nvidia is now no longer a $5 trillion company as of today's move. S&P down 1%. AMD down 3.4. SoFi down 6%. Google's held on in a sea of red with some of the green. Grab down 1%, Reddit down 7%, Amazon again down 3%, Meta down 11%, Meta with those $2 billion of bonds today. By the way, we got an update an hour ago. There was 125 billion of demand for the 25 billion of bonds, which is quite incredible. But there was demand for those Metabonds that came out this morning. Apple right there closes at 271. All right, do we have earnings? Let's see. Do we have something? Amazon goes, oh my goodness, we're green. We're green. Green. Green, baby. We are green. 237. Wow, that dump was such a head fake. That dump was such a head fake into the close. 240. Can we get 240? 239 on Amazon. Let me get the numbers in a second. Amazon up 8%. 241. Let's go. Let's freaking go. I will get the numbers in a second. This is a big move. Let's see if it can hold it. Let's see if it can actually hold it. That's the most important thing. Can we hold these numbers on Amazon? Wow. 24% beat. 24% beat. 195 versus 157 on EPS. Revenue 180 versus 177. That's a $3 billion beat and a 40 cent beat on EPS. EPS is up 36% year-over-year. Revenue is up 13% year-over-year. Amazon 242, baby.
>> We needed that one. We really needed that stuff, dude. I needed that. I needed that. Um, it looked pretty scary coming to close. I was like, "Oh, shoot. Oh, shoot. Hold on." AWS revenue beat on the top line. Hold on. I'm trying to pull up AWS growth.
>> I'm trying to get the numbers as well. I'll get in a second. But boy, did we need that one. 245. It's pushing.
>> Wow.
>> It's actually doing doing the thing. Let me uh let me try to get
>> Yes.
>> Uh let me get the actual numbers on their website for a second. Let me pull this up. I hope it doesn't pull a PayPal. That would really suck.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like, so we got to see how good these numbers are to really see if it could pull a PayPal. I don't have the official numbers yet. 246. Wow. Market loves it. Okay, let me get I think I have some coverage right here. Let me get it.
>> Let's just go. All right, here we go. We'll get deeper into the numbers
>> on Amazon
>> for revenue. another beat of 180.17 billion versus 177.8 billion expected. But AWS, it's cloud business, it's profitability engine, that's where everybody was looking. We're looking at a beat there of 33 billion versus 32.42 billion expected. What's really key there, John, is that it's a growth figure of 20% year-over-year. That's higher than even the Whisper estimates from the street, which were in the range of 18 and a half to 19.
>> That's the number, baby. That is the number. AWS delivered. AWS delivered. Street thought it would come in at 18.5. We came in at 20%. That's the number.
>> Yes. There you go. There you go, Amazon. There you go. Jeff Bezos coming through.
>> They came through.
>> It's still Jeff Bezos. It's still Jeff Bezos. It's still Jeff Bezos.
>> That's the number. That's what we needed.
>> Those shares 10% higher. Investors are liking what they're seeing at the print. I'll get you more. I'm digging into this now.
>> All right, Mackenzie Sagalas. Thanks.
>> Wow,
>> this sucker 250.
>> No, I just spent the past hour and a half saying that Meta is misunderstood. This market's stupid and Amazon was going to crush. So,
>> wow.
>> Did you read through the press release?
>> No, I did. I still can't. Is it up yet? I can't
>> freaking out. The whole press release is up. Give me a second. Let me
>> Net sales increased 13% year-over-year. AWS 20% year-over-year to 33 billion. North America 11% year-over-year. International 14%. Operating income 17.4 billion. I mean, this just goes back to what I was saying last night and earlier. I mean, they're on their way to getting a 20% operating margin in the next several years. I think they're going to do it by the time 2029 is over and this will be a 200 billion operating income company off of a trillion revenue. I mean, this was a freaking smash. Absolute smash.
>> Okay, so a couple of uh quotes right here. Yeah, let me let me pull this up. Um really important quotes from this perspective. Jasse says AWS growing at a pace we haven't seen. And guys, we'll get to all the other earnings in a second. Let me just get through this and then we'll get to the other one. Uh Jack says AWS reacelerating to 20.2% year-over-year. He also says we are growing at a pace we haven't seen since 2022, which is music to the streets ears, especially when it comes to AWS. So that's really important. And then to get into some specific numbers right here, let me pull this up. Uh revenue 180 versus 177, AWS 33 versus 32. Operating income 17.4. Net income 21.2 that's up almost 40% year-over-year. Cash flows up 16%. free cash flows almost 15 billion and then guidance 206 to 213 that is ahead of the street expectation as well and that is why aid Amazon is green. All right, we'll get back to Amazon in a second. Let me get some of these other numbers but Amazon right there not too bad. Nice 8% move after hours. All right, so Micro Strategy that's down 8%. I think that's more because of Bitcoin. We'll get their numbers in a second. Roku nasty hit down 6%. Coinbase down four. Cloudflare down two. Reddit down one. Atlassen's up 12. Twilio's up five for Solar is down seven. Let me get these numbers in a second on these. Again, Amazon with a beat on the top and the bottom. 24% beat. Coinbase 28% beast. 150 versus 117. That's a a pretty nice beat by almost 33 cents. 18.6 versus 1.8 billion on revenue. So, you've got Coinbase beating on the top and the bottom line. Stocks still down. Crypto having a little bit of an ugly day. So, you're getting some pain. Reddit, wow, 54% beat on EPS. 80 cents versus 52 cents expected. Reddit just went green. 222. There you go. EPS is now up 400% year-over-year. Revenue is up 68% year-over-year. 5.84 versus 549. You got a double beat and a hell of a beat on EPS for Reddit, which has only been public for a year now. So, pretty incredible for them. Twilio 125 versus 107. That's a beat by 17% on EPS. 1.3 versus 1.25 billion. That's beat by 4% on revenue. Revenue is up 15% year-over-year. EPS is up 23% year-over-year. Twilio's up 6% after hours. Again, a lot of these companies beating on the top and the bottom, which is very nice to see. Amazon right there still holding 245, not really giving that up as AWS accelerates. At lasten, another doubledigit beat on EPS 24% 104 versus 84 cents, 1.43 versus 1.4 on revenue. EPS is up 35% year-over-year. revenue was up 21% yearover-year. Coinbase is down, Roku is down, but these other ones are up. Let me get some coverage right here on Roku and then we will keep going from there. Reddit is making the move about 5% right now after hours.
>> Roku shares plummeting. This despite earnings beating 16 cents per share versus the 9 cent per share analyst consensus EPS revenues of 1.21 21 billion were right in line with estimates. But if you want to look at the cause or one of the causes of the drop in the stock, the company's streaming hours 36.5 billion. That's over a billion short of analyst estimates. The company saying, "We are confident in our ability to deliver double-digit platform revenue growth while increasing operating margins in 2026 and beyond." The company did to guide to Q4 revenues of 1.35 billion. is just a hair ahead of the 1.32 billion estimated and also guiding to Q4 just E I E I E I E I E I E I E I E I E I E I EDIDA of 145 million ahead of 131 million estimated but it looks like there are those concerns um about the streaming hours coming in short that's really weighing on the stock here John.
>> All right yeah stock bouncing off those initial lows but still down more than 7 and a half%. I think we got more on Amazon from Mackenzie Sagalos including the guidance. Mackenzie
>> let's start there on guidance. So with Q4 revenue, it's in the range of 206 billion to 213 billion, putting that mid-range at 209.5 uh versus the 28.12 billion expected. And John, this would be their first $200 billion revenue quarter coming just 5 years after it crossed the 100 billion threshold. Uh moving on to Q4 operating income, it's also uh a little light there actually in the range of 21 to 26 billion. So that's 23.5 billion at the midpoint versus 23.8 8 billion.
>> All right, so AWS still doing pretty well. Reddit looks like we got a reversal, folks. I don't know what just happened there on Reddit. It was just at 225. That is a little weird. That's a little weird. You got a big dump right there. Something has to have been said on the earnings or either uh on a different part of their guidance. Western Digital, by the way, that one's running. That's up 4%. We have those earnings. I'll get that in a second. Reddit, not sure what happened. First, Solar, they are down by about 6.2%. Amazon still holding the 240s right here. Netflix announces a split. Really like, okay, cool. Thanks, Netflix. Uh, that was kind of random. Netflix up 2%. Huh. I guess they wanted to wait till after earnings. 10 for one. Maybe Meta needs to do that to save the day. Netflix right there. All right, a 10 for one split. Congrats if you own Netflix. Not too bad for the split. Reddit, I'm still trying to figure out why they took that dump. They were just at 230. Wow. 185. What is going on with Reddit? Let me see if I can find any information on this. Uh uh Intel, by the way, is acquiring an AI chip company called Sambanova. Netflix announces 10 for one split. Rocket uh mortgage company they beat wow by 40% 7 cents versus 5 cents expected 1.783 billion versus 1.65. Pretty much every company so far today has beat on the top and the bottom and they beat aggressively. Rocket right there after hours that's also moving. Not sure what the heck just happened to Reddit 184. We haven't seen that in a couple weeks. That price something they've had to said on their earnings is creating a hit. Let me see if I can pull up their investor relations. Amazon I still don't have the press release. should begin in a second. Something is uh getting hit. Uh Sam, any thoughts on something you've seen from Amazon so far?
>> Uh haven't AWS.
>> Well, AWS was the one I was looking for. I'm actually basing off posted I'm seeing online because I don't see it in the um in their press release on the website. So, trying to look for that right now. Maybe it's on
>> Stock Titan. Okay, we'll check that in a second. Um, let me pull this up. Do we have Okay, we got some coverage on Reddit. Give me one second. Let's pull this up, guys.
>> The 51 cents per share, revenues of $585 million ahead of estimates of 546 million. The company also guiding to Q4 revenue and Ibida in ranges ahead of analyst expectations. I just spoke with CEO Steve Huffman, who told me that Reddit's ad business continues to outpace its peers with 74% year-over-year growth and 75% growth in total advertiser count. He said AI is helping across the board to make better recommendations and do more efficient moderation. And when it comes to licensing to AI companies, Huffman said Reddit can be a big w AI winner without all the typical AI costs. Now, John, pivoting away from Reddit, shares down about 3%. Now, I just want to hit some news on Netflix. Netflix just announcing a 10 for one stock split. Um that will be affected through an amendment to the company's um certificate of incorporation and that is uh set to be as of the close of trading on Monday, November 10th. We see Netflix shares up about two and a half% on this news. Back over to you, John.
>> All right, Ladon. Thank you, Julia.
>> Okay. Still not sure why Reddit's getting hit. Amazon still holding the 240s. Uh BMR, I don't know why that's up after hours. Is Ethereum moving at all? ETH is it's up a little bit from 3650. Maybe that's why BMR is moving. Yeah, you got a little bit of a red candle right there or a green candle, but not sure why. Reddit, I mean, everything. I'm looking at their website right here. I don't see anything crazy. Uh Steve Huffman, Reddit provides something rare on the internet. 444 million people come here each week for authentic conversations. they can't find anywhere else and increasingly engagement with the brands. Revenue is up 68%, ad revenue is up 74%. They're profitable. Net income 163 million. That's up triple digits. Gross margin 91%. Free cash flow 183. Got to be something in the guidance that could be causing some pain right here. Uh but Reddit, that was a pretty big move to the upside and now got the reverse. Coinbase is getting a little bit of a move after going red. Coinbase now up 4% 3.28%. 28%. Coinbase did beat on the top and the bottom. We'll see if there's anything specific right there on Coinbase. Uh, but you do have a 28% beat and then a beat by 4% right here. Micro Strategy, I don't see their earnings yet. Let me see if I can pull this up. Um, Micro Strategy, do I have it? I don't have it yet. Let's do a couple others before we do micro strategy. Also, we got Apple in about 5 minutes. Or is it at 4:30? Might be at 4:30. We'll have Apple soon. First Solar, they beat on the top 424 versus 422. Beat by 2% on the bottom. Revenues up 80% year-over-year. EPS up 46% year-over-year. Got Coinbase now getting more into the green. Uh but First Solar did get a beat. And then you had uh Zillow with a 100% beat. 4 cents versus two cents expected on EPS. 676 million versus 670. EPS up 150% year-over-year. Revenues up 16% year-over-year. Again, the rate cuts should be rather bullish for Zillow. Zillow going green after hours as well. Cloudflare is pumping. Okay, Cloudflare. There you go. You got a move. Let's see if I have those numbers. Don't have those numbers yet, but the street obviously likes it.
>> Reddit just went green.
>> Reddit just went green.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's weird, right? Like can do you have any logic for why?
>> No. I mean, it's alos, but Reddit does this all the time. So, after earnings makes some crazy moves. Cloudflare is up 7%. Wow. Must have been really good earnings. Okay. Cloudflare revenue 562 versus 544. EPS 27 cents versus 23 cents. There you go. There you go. For Cloudflare, that is what's causing your move right there. And that's why that one is getting green. cloud for 238. That's up 4.7%. I still don't have the Amazon press release, so we can't go deeper into the numbers. Oh, now now we got it. No, now we don't because the site map is not working.
>> It's on Seeking Alpha. I told you that.
>> No, but is that Amazon's press release or is that Seeking Alpha summary of Amazon's?
>> Um,
>> yeah. I don't I all I see is the
>> it's got to be the press release because if go to the link I'm sending you in private there's no way that they made this a freaking there's no way it has to be the original one because it's so in-depth.
>> Yeah. Well
>> oh yeah you're right. You're right. You're right.
>> Yeah. Stock Titan too. So that one has
>> it's been out for like 20 minutes.
>> Yeah. Okay. Got it. Cool. All right. Cool. So net sales increased 13% 180 billion. North America up 11% international segment up 14%. AWS again 20%. That was the real number that we needed to see. Reddit going back green. I don't know what the heck's happening with Reddit, guys. Back above 200. It went from 230 to 185, back to 203. Something's going on with that one. Operating income 17.4 billion. Uh, that's flat year-over-year. North America 4.8 billion. Jasse, we continue to see strong momentum and growth across Amazon as AI drives meaningful improvements in every corner of our business. AWS is growing at a pace we haven't seen since 2022. That's really why I think the street's excited. We accelerate to 20.2%. We continue to see strong demand in AI and core infrastructure. And we've been focused on accelerating capacity, adding more than 3.8 gawatts in the past 12 months. In stores, we continue to realize the benefits of innovating in our fulfillment network, and we're on track to deliver to prime members at the fastest speeds ever again this year. Expand same day delivery of perishable groceries to over 2,300 communities. And then they talk more about their tranium 2 chip. I mean, we'll dig into the numbers, but on the top line, this is what you needed to see, and that's why Amazon is holding this 240 level. Yes, Netflix did have that stock split, and that's why that's helping Netflix right here. Um, Micro Strategy. Okay, let me see if we can pull up MSTR. I don't officially have it yet. Let's pull this up. Again, Micro Strategy, they they they have Fazby accounting now. So, it's a it's a it's kind of a different way to think of their earnings. Amazon, wow, 250. By the way, there is Cloudflare 17% beat on EPS. These companies on EPS are just like unbelievably outperforming. and then 3% on your revenue. Well, we didn't hit 250 yet, but we got close to it. 24475 still right there on Amazon. Coinbase down 2%. Roku is getting dumped. Micro Strategy is Wow, Micros down. And that's not just because of Bitcoin. Feels like that's because of something else. Still waiting on Apple. Robin Hood making a little That's weird. Robin Hood and BMR. Wow. Robin Hood 137 to 140 after hours. BMR almost 43 back up to almost 46. Both crypto derivative plays, but Micro Strategy not really getting a I mean it got 254 to 260, so I guess there is a bounce there, but it was at 280 at 4 p.m. on MSTR. Coinbase just bought 300 million worth of Bitcoin. Wow. Okay, I guess they're putting Bitcoin on the balance sheet. Yeah, that is that is confirmed. Coinbase buying 300 million of Bitcoin. Okay, that's Wow. Coinbase buys 300 million. Okay, so Coinbase is now officially I mean I think it's been on their balance sheet to an extent, but not at the level that we're seeing it right there. That's a third of a billion dollars for Coinbase. There's that green candle right there. Coinbase. There you go. That's getting the move right here. Apple's at 4:30, guys. So, we got 10 minutes for Apple. We're going to see what Apple says, but Coinbase still making the moves. Amazon right there at 244. Apple's up 1%. Twilio got a 5% move. All these companies have that pretty much beat. First, Solar had a me missing a beat in the solar space. That one's down 5%. Netflix pumping off of that 10 for one split and that's why that's getting a little bit more of a move. Let's get a little bit more coverage right on Amazon and then we'll keep going from there.
>> You're not They seem to be hanging in there quite well. Yeah, I think for you know any company um especially in in that space whether you want to think about it as tech or tech adjacent uh because consumer discretionary at least with Amazon and Tesla they get sort of you know woven in with with the broader tech space but any anything regarding the focus the sharp focus on capex I mean clearly that's been the story so far this year that's where you know this narrower base of US growth that we have and the driver of growth it's clearly been confined to that and I think that's why capex has been so much under the lens you know so so far this earning season so to point about what is the stability um and in the report that Mackenzie was just talking about what are the stable growers for companies and revenue you know what's that revenue generator that's not going to be maybe as cyclical or as in focus as as capex because you almost think of it as a double-edged sword a little bit where if they continue to raise their estimate for what capex is going to look like there are concerns and we've we've seen a lot of these blips in the market and corrections over the past couple of years driven by some of the concerns about that upping of of the number of the forecast for capex but on the flip side if they do start to pull back a little bit. There's maybe a little bit of a concern of what do they know that we don't or what do they see in terms of some of the concern about that spending. So that's why I think to the point around what is the stability in terms of revenue generation and overall profit margin generation. I think that becomes more of a focus for for earnings. Sure.
>> All right. You have trade representative Greer who's speaking right now. We got some quotes from him. Uh not the most bullish quotes for Nvidia. Greer says, "We spoke about chips with President Xi broadly. Blackwell is not on the table for China right now. Blackwell not on the table for China right now. We spoke with China. Where is Nvidia? Um got a bit of a red candle after hours. Streets not loving that news. Still holding above 200. But I mean then again the $500 billion guidance didn't include China in the first place. So that's okay. Micro Strategy. All right. Missed by 13% on EPS842 versus 967. uh beat by 10% of revenue 128 versus 116. Micro Strategy got a miss on EPS based on what the street expected. This stock not really moving that much after hours. Again, Micro Strategy to me is more so just a it's like BMR, right? Like Bitcoin goes up, Micro Strategy goes up. If it doesn't, it doesn't. So, I don't know how much the earnings actually matter for MSTR. It's up 2.2 3% after hours. The reason it was down 7.5% is because Bitcoin took a three and a half% hit today. Uh, Bitcoin recovering a little bit after hours. Bitcoin right there at 1069. It did get all the way down to 1062, but Amazon really the story of the day at 245. Microsoft up just a little bit after hours. The under 128 million of revenue is coming from their software business, which I still don't understand how they sell business analytics tools, but nonetheless, they do, and that's why they have that revenue. Apple is going to be in six minutes. All right, so we did the Amazon pump or dump poll. Let's do the Apple poll and see what people think. Um, 77% of you said Amazon outperforms. So, we're going to see. Apple's got some uh work to do if it wants to beat Amazon's performance today. But Apple, what are we thinking, folks? Pump or dump. Let me know in the chat if you own Apple. First of all, congrats. Everyone owns Amazon. We've been talking about this one for a while. Sam, this is his biggest position. Steve, I think you and I have had what, three or four streams dedicated talking to Amazon. So, I'm a long-term shareholder. I mean, I I have owned this since before the split. Okay. Like long-term Amazon bull here.
>> You've owned it more than half the people watching probably.
>> Dude, I I I've owned Meta since 2012.
>> Actually, hold on a second. Wait, they just had they just had this played a few years ago.
>> Well, the the thing about the thing about these big
>> Oh, wow. The thing about these big tech companies is that, you know, I think a lot of us are aligned on the fact and people in the chat as well that 2026 these companies are probably going to keep getting bigger. And so when you get an Amazon that hasn't moved all year, I mean I mean that's really why I got interested outside of the fact that it's Amazon. I was like, "Wait, this is flat all year." And then when you look into it, you're like, "Oh, they have a couple issues with their march." Stuff that can be fixed, stuff that is not
>> Amazon, Meta, Alphabet, they're deploying the amount of capital that 99% of companies will never see in their lives or their existence. Okay?
>> Who is going to compete with them in three or four years from now? Nobody.
>> They are going to be the nuts and bolts of everything technology. They're going to be the backbone infrastructure. Nobody can compete with them. They're just going to get bigger. And to think that three months matters with something selling off with one of these companies is crazy to have that mindset. And last night was a disgrace for anybody that uh thought Meta deserved to be down where it was.
>> No, I agree. And the other thing about Amazon, we keep talking about this robotics revolution and so does so does Jensen. I mean, I don't know what other company is more infiltrated with robotics other than Amazon. If that increases their operating margins by even a couple percentage points, that's tens of billions of dollars of net income every quarter that they're adding to the bottom line.
>> So, Sam and Amit, did you see the special on Amazon last night with the uh Tridium chips and their new data center?
>> I watched a little bit of the interview. Yeah.
>> Crazy.
>> Yeah. And that's the other thing. They've got Anthropic and a lot of these other foundation model companies buying their chips. So, I think that's also important.
>> Where's Marll after ours?
>> Where is Marll? They work with Amazon a lot, right? Marll, it's got a bit of a pop.
>> Yeah, that's nice.
>> All right,
>> sign the chip. So,
>> Steve, what do you think about Apple? Pump or dump? I think it's going to pump. Why? is I think that the iPhone cycle was dismissed as a nothing ber and I think that it's going to come out that it was better than expected I think on a year basis because this is their fiscal year they end this their Q4 think it's going to be good numbers and I think they're going to be bullish going into the Q what we consider Q4 and next year I think that everybody's all they have to say is they're doing something with AI and the street's going to eat it up because nobody expects anything from them with AI.
>> I think that's very fair. I think that's very fair. And I also think that if Siri is going to be that agentic tool that all of us use and uh Tim Cook can every can give any guidance on how big that can scale in 2026. That would be very exciting for Apple. Sam, you're you agree with Steve? You think we're pumping on Apple? Oh,
>> you're muted. I would argue that that might be priced in. I think that's the assumption that they are going to accelerate phone sales. I mean, it might go up, but you know, I I don't know how much it'll go up listed. They seriously surprise people, but I I think analysts have already baked that in that you're going to have that reaceleration. I mean, that's why I'm in Amcore. That's part of the reason why I'm in Amcore is is because it's mostly the mobile device expanding. So, I think if it's anything, Amcore is probably going to benefit off of that more than Amazon. I'm sorry, Than Apple itself, especially since Apple is a customer. So, you know, we'll see what happens with that one.
>> My mic,
>> maybe pump or dump is the wrong terminology. Maybe up or down is better terminology.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah, just increase your volume a little bit, Sam. That sh
>> It should be fixed now.
>> That That's a That's a little That's That's a lot. Got to just get near the middle. Uh the reason Micro Strategy is moving, guys, is because they just said that they are assuming Bitcoin will be 150 by end of year. They are assuming Bitcoin will be 150 by end of year $150,000 a coin. So I think that guidance is getting the street to say all right if Micro Strategy is assuming that uh and they continue to acquire you know when you work out the MNAV maybe that gets to a more attractive price still down a lot for the day because Bitcoin took a hit but they are still assuming you know how companies have to give guidance for like how much capex they're going to spend micro strategies they give guidance for like where they think Bitcoin is going. So, I think that's why it's running or that's why it's made its little Vshape, but uh there could be another reason, but that seems to be the reason that I'm looking at right here. 270 on Micro Strategy up from 254. That means ETH at least 6K. Yeah, I mean, you would imagine that would be very good for Ethereum, but we have to see if that can end.
>> Bitcoin bounced like a thousand bucks though, so maybe Bitcoin. Yeah. Well, that's true. 107. No, you're right. 107. Yep. You're right. That is fair. All right, Apple. We should be getting results. We're down. We're down. She's going red kind of. 270 to 265. That's not that crazy. Let's see if it gets worse or if it reverses. Apple's implied move is 3%. So, it should not be as volatile as an Amazon. I don't have the numbers yet. We should be getting it any second. Uh, Apple, are we still red? We're still red 264. Again, this was Apple all of last week, so it's not really a dramatic decline. Oh, we got it. All right, here we go.
>> Beats on the top and bottom lines here. Let me go through. There's a lot to unpack here as we see the stock down about 3% on first blush. EPS was a beat. A$185 compared to A$1.77 expected. Revenue, a small beat here, 102.47 billion. Street wanted to see 102.24. Now, iPhone revenues, it was a miss. That might be why we're seeing some negative reaction here, but sales were still up 6% year-on-year. They came,
>> this is the first quarter in about three quarters that they missed on iPhone revenues, even if sales are up overall.
>> At 49.03 billion, Street was looking for a little over 50 billion. Now, services, this is of course the big growth engine for Apple. It was up 15% year-on-year to 28.75 billion. That's a slight beat here. Uh Street wanted to see 28.17 billion. And by the way, this is the end of the fiscal year. This is the first time the services business booked over hundred billion in a year. China sales, they were down about three 12%. However, we did get some guidance this time ahead of the earnings call. I was just back there in Apple Park talking to Tim Cook about this. He was literally beaming about this guidance. Uh December quarter revenue, they are saying it's going to be up 10 to 12% yearonear. And iPhone revenue for the December quarter. They're now predicting up double digits yearon year and saying this is going to be the best ever sales.
>> Guys, that's a big deal. Apple grows like four to 5%. So a 10 to 12% quarter is a literal double of the last two years of their growth rates. you can understand why he was beaming if they're guiding for 10% growth
>> for the iPhone in the December quarter. So, really strong guidance here uh despite maybe little pockets of weakness in the September quarter um results. And then as far as uh some other uh data here, I did talk to Tim Cook about those results and talking about the demand uh for the iPhone 17. I know Dan Eis was just talking about this. Uh he even said there was demand for the iPhone 16 at the tail end of that life cycle. Uh here's what he said. On the 16 and 17 for Q4, several models were supply constrained and currently were supply constrained on several models of the iPhone 17. That is again why we're seeing such strength there in the guidance numbers that they gave us. Um as far as China, Tim Cook telling me, quote, "We expect China to return to growth this quarter because of the reception of the iPhone there or the iPhone 17 family." And then of course we had to catch up on artificial intelligence. Tim Cook telling us that big AI update to Siri is still on track to launch next year and also uh we talked a little bit about integrating some other AI models in there. There have been so many talks about whether that's Google or what have you. Um he told us quote in terms of the integration we've integrated with chat GBT and our intention is to integrate with more people over time. Not no specific partnership to announce today but you can think of it as more coming. So, a lot.
>> Okay. So, the street pretty excited about those numbers. Steve, any raw reaction to hearing that?
>> Yeah, I need to go through the quarter. The press release isn't actually out on Amazon's website. There's a lot to um need to unpack with it, but I think Amazon just gets bigger. I mean,
>> you mean Apple.
>> Is anybody I'm sorry, Apple. Is anybody getting rid of an iPhone?
>> Is anybody not used paying for storage? I mean, I'm doing both.
>> Yeah, but I'm sure those analyst projections or estimates for iPhones like they went up. So, if they were flat, then it would be just fine. But, I mean, what is this 1% move on?
>> You're saying it's priced in basically, Sam?
>> Yeah, I think it was priced in.
>> Well, I I I agree. It probably is priced in. I am really happy to see that 10% growth guidance for Q4. So EPS 185, revenue 102, services revenue 28.7, China revenue 14. There was a miss on China and a miss on iPhone, which is not great, but the guidance for Q4 seems to be way better than expected. Uh stock, you know, stocks basically at all time highs. So as you said, Sam, it's not that big a deal.
>> And you know what? This is bullish for the market because ultimately they're going to generate more profits and this is not going to be a drag on the S&P. Apple is 7% of the S&P. So, it is very important to make sure Apple does very well. Uh, we'll get some more coverage on Apple, but let me see some of these other stocks. Roku still dumping. We'll go deeper into their numbers. Not the best. Coinbase down five. Cloudflare was up a little bit more. That one's taking a bit of a hit. Reddit, I don't understand what happened today. 230, 185, now back to 200. Still was a good quarter. At Lassen, software company, that's up 7%. Lumen's down 2%. Twilio's up 7. rocket doubledigit EPS beat which was good. Uh Netflix again there's the split. Everyone's been waiting for it. I mean how much easier is it going to be to buy a 100 shares of Netflix now? Instead of having to pay $111,000 you can pay $11,000. Sell some covered calls on it. So that's going to be nice. Uh but you got Netflix up 2% and then Zillow up 2% as well. Amazon's still moving folks. She's got a date with 250.
>> Here's a question. Did anybody buy anything today?
>> I took advantage of the meta dip a little, but outside of that house,
>> I bought a little bit of iron. That was really it. I I didn't I didn't really do anything. I bought meta last night. So,
>> I love that you guys are in meta. I love it.
>> Yeah. Well, I 400.
>> Yeah. Love it.
>> Riot's got a beat EPS 26 cents versus 13 180 versus 172. So you have a double digit I mean 100% beat. So triple digit beat on EPS for Riot. This is another Bitcoin miner turn data center company. Riot stock after hours up 5%. So you got to move on Riot. Let's hear from Dan Ies on this Apple move.
>> Hearing from Tim Cook about the holiday quarter in the iPhone.
>> This stock's going to be green. I mean ultimately if you look at that guidance what you're seeing in China. Remember this there was only one week of iPhone 17 the quarter. Everyone's focused on December and that that's very robust in terms of what we're seeing on iPhone demand specifically out of China and then you look at what I believe services you know massive doubledigit growth look go back to the last 6 n months company back against the wall now you have this number and then look what I believe everyone's playing for AI you look what look at Amazon look at the hyperscalers you see what's happening on authentication you we see on orbs you know I think you also see on crowd strike and some of these cyber security names. Apple's going to get into the AI party and that I believe is worth $75 to $100 a share. If you're an investor right now, I think it's a pound the table moment for the stock. Pat Morehead, uh, Steve Kovak reporting there that Tim Cook says Apple Intelligence is on track to for them to deliver as they promised next year. You combine that with the holiday season that they're projecting for the iPhone. How does this set Apple up, do you think? So, John, it's really going to depend on the installed base that uh can't run Apple intelligence. And as we progress, uh every every slip of Apple intelligence, more of these iPhones can support it. A year ago, uh had we been in the same place, I would have said it would make a I think I was talking along with Dan Ives about a super cycle, and it just didn't happen. So, I don't
>> to Sam's point, it looks like that super cycle might finally start to get priced in and that's why Apple is making a move. Apple right there goes green. 273 from 263 to 273. Apple, even if you don't own it, very important for this company to do well as we want to keep this bull market alive. Dexcom, this is down 5%. Uh, this is a company I believe that helps with glucose monitoring. Uh they have a beat on the top and the bottom 7% and 2% 7% EPS 61 cents versus 57 2% revenue 1.2 versus 1.18 EPS up 40% revenues up uh a decent chunk it looks like 120%. That stock however is flat or sorry is down.
>> Can you zoom out on that chart? Go five years real quick. Wasn't Dexcom up like a lot more?
>> Yeah, in summer of 24 they got schmacked pretty bad. They do the glucose monitoring for diabetes, right?
>> Correct. Correct. They do.
>> Wow. Amazon. She wants 250. She wants 250. How about this? 20. At some point in 2029, Amazon's going to be back to 550 or 600.
>> And that's assuming what? A trillion in revenue.
>> Trillion revenue, 20% operating margin. 200% operating income, more than double Nvidia's current operating income. Amazon was 2.4 trillion earlier. Nvidia was over five trillion. There's no reason to think this can't become $5 trillion company in the next four years.
>> And I may be conservative with that.
>> I agree with you. You know what? I'm happy about Amazon. This was another collective win for all of us. About a month ago, all of us, you, me, Tanner, Chris, Sam, all of us were like, "This is stupid. This is one of the most important companies on the planet, and it's down 3% year to date." Like, this doesn't make sense. And I think pretty, this was a pretty collective effort. It wasn't the hardest in the world, but still to get through, you know, the nuts and bolts of it. All of us came to the conclusion this is a buy.
>> You know, it's not often where all of us are all on the same side of something. And this may be the universal one. I can't think of anything else that's universal.
>> No, there's one more. We might all get a lot of [__] for it.
>> No, BMR.
>> No, no, no, no, no, no.
>> Like, don't put me in that bucket.
>> Don't put me in that. That was always a trade for me.
>> I I stopped myself out of my position.
>> Like, no. That's you guys. Not today. Not
>> I I even I even said it on stream yesterday, like, look, the the real trade when it comes to crypto are the hard coins. Like that is the real you're supposed to you're supposed to get run over under the bus with your friends, not throw them under the bus.
>> I'm sorry. I like money more. Like I don't want to lose my money.
>> I bought more Ethereum and more BMR today.
>> All right, there you go. No, but in all seriousness, BMR, we'll see what happens with that. That's, you know, more crypto leverage. This is like a fundamental company and I think we did some work over the past month and we kind of came to the conclusion this makes sense. Wow. Apple alltime highs, folks. 275.
>> Let's go. Looks like you may be right.
>> I thought Apple was going I thought Amazon was going to 250. Come on.
>> This is bullish the stock market because think about what I've been saying and what everybody else has been saying. If big tech continues to get bigger, it's going to drive the market higher, which is beneficial everything. And if their product offerings get better, that's going to create productivity and efficiency gains for the broader market. And you could have a scenario in 26 where big tech goes higher, but you also get a broad market rally at the same time. So, I'm starting to really think S&P 8000 next year is not crazy.
>> Apple 276, folks. I mean, I don't own it. Let me know in the chat if you own it. I think Steve is actually the only one of us that owns this one.
>> I'm probably the only one that owns it.
>> You're probably the only one.
>> I technically own some. I own a lot of SP500. So,
>> Oh, Sam. Dude, Sam's just weasling out of everything today. I don't know BMR. I have exposure to Apple. He's just
>> I I got I got exposure to a lot of stuff through the SB5.
>> Oh, but I mean act you actually own
>> No, but owning it directly?
>> No, I don't own the stock.
>> Okay, there you go.
>> I I used to I used to, but I don't own anymore.
>> What do you say, Steve?
>> I'm in all of it. I own every one of the Mag 7 directly.
>> Yeah. Well, that's fair. Apple right there just hit 277. Let's get a little bit more of an update on the gross margins and then we'll we'll keep going from there. Folks, we got the call in 15 minutes for Amazon
>> assertions there. How much, Steve, do you expect to hear Tim Cook talk about that on the call, where in your view does that factor into Q4?
>> Yeah, that that is going to be a big thing on the call. So, while we did get guidance, uh we still don't know what the tariff impact was for the September quarter. We'll get that on the call. They had estimated a bit over a billion dollars. Um so, we'll see where that actually fell in. And then yes, some guidance in towards the impact that they're expecting uh for the December quarter. Presumably, it would be higher just because it's a higher volume and a bigger quarter. I did want to go back to something uh that Patrick and Dan were talking about though about the super cycle and whether this is AIdriven. One of one of the questions I asked uh Cook uh about the 17 cycle was, you know, what's different this time? What what drove what do you see the momentum uh drivers as? Um and he did mention Apple Intelligence as one of them because uh to their earlier point uh you do need one of those newer devices um in order to do this. So if the Siri uh upgrade does live up to the expectations and it does uh finally play out the way Apple has promised uh we could see some uh more positive momentum behind there. Uh but he also did credit things like design and new form factors and things like that as as also behind this as well. Guys,
>> I already kind of forgot what it was supposed to do. Steve, thank you. Patrick, thank you as well. Dan, stick with me for a bit. Up next, we're going to dive deeper.
>> All right, so those gross margins not doing the worst either. Uh, real quick, let's get this Roku update because I know a lot of people are still wondering what's going on with Roku. Here's some coverage on that.
>> Roku moving in opposite directions over time. Let's get back to Julia Bon. Julia.
>> Yeah, Roku,
>> wait a second. Is Apple at 280? Oh my goodness. The market's basically making a new alltime high after close.
>> Wait, where's the S&P?
>> I got to say, are you ready?
>> Not.
>> Go ahead.
>> Higher.
>> Higher.
>> It is higher. 68. So the S&P closed at 680. Apple alone is bumping it up $4. Apple and Amazon. But Apple, my goodness. 281. Dude, I think it's that Q4 guidance. I think it is that Q4 guidance.
>> And think about this. What if Meta rebounds next week?
>> Oh,
>> think about where the S&P goes then,
>> that would be beautiful.
>> You know what I mean? Like Microsoft sold off, Meta sold off. If they rebound next week and these companies just stay where they are, keep going, and you get a little pump on Nvidia, market's going to be at 7,000 next week. If so, then this was a bear trap throughout the entire day. I mean, if if we actually get a meta rebound as well. iPhone 49, Mac 8.7, iPad 6.95, other products 9, services 28.7. I mean, the only thing that missed was iPhone and guidance. I guess the street didn't have it priced in 282.
>> Bring that back up. What was services?
>> 27.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah. 28.7.
>> Amazing. I mean, really think about this. And this has been really the crux of my Apple thesis for a while. services came out of nowhere and they basically built what is now in excess of a hundred billion revenue run rate business inside of their company over the past seven eight years
>> out of nowhere.
>> Yes. Because they
>> and that's without anything with genative generative AI or cloud offerings for businesses.
>> Yeah. they when you have the distrib and look if they if they start charging 10 bucks a month or 20 bucks a month for some AI add-on I don't know what it's going to look like but if they can get you know a couple percentage points of their two billion in uh install base to convert I mean
>> or if they just increase their current services package by four or five bucks
>> yeah perfect there you go yeah a five bucks extra for more AI services yeah
>> yeah and and and Rudy in the chat high margins on services as well and then Oh, new uh I mean do you guys know how much cash they have now? Have the new number. Do you guys want to guess?
>> Is the new stack out from them? Hold on,
>> Sam. You want to guess how much cash do you think Apple has now?
>> I don't know, man. I'm waiting for 250 right now. I'm like looking at the candle. I'm waiting.
>> 132 billion in cash for Apple.
>> They haven't updated the return of capital yet. I'm I'm seeing it on one of the reports that just came out. 100 there Bloomberg was reporting it.
>> Did they Did they say what they did on buybacks this quarter?
>> Uh if they put out the press release, let me check. We don't have it yet. Amazon is Did we hit 250 yet? No, we're still trying to hit it. Didn't hit it yet.
>> Yeah. And Amazon right now is a thing of beauty. Sam, how happy are you?
>> I I I'm ecstatic. We can see it all over your face.
>> I can't I can't like I I can't I'm not even doing anything right now. Just in my head I'm like just celebrating like it's
>> Bro, what what what percentage of your port is Amazon?
>> I don't know. I have to calculate right now. But I think it was like 16%.
>> Wow.
>> Today. So
>> nice.
>> It's going to be a great day. But also if you look at all the data center stocks out there like Nebius is at 127 bucks after hours. Iron's at almost 60. Like this is great news for the data center companies too. So this is lifting all ships for me. All ships. I was actually telling people like I was like look if Amazon misses this quarter. I'm going to crawl into a hole tomorrow. Like they're just I'm not going to be alive.
>> Well to be honest if they missed I thought it would go below 200 and I would be like that's a buying garbage. I the conviction
>> I think most of us have such conviction on this story that I think a lot of us would have salivated for an under 200 dip but
>> they delivered.
>> I would be very surprised if they went under 200 considering the marks at alltime highs like that. That would be insane if that happened.
>> No. Did someone just say Apple's dumping and it's down from 280 to 278?
>> We are so spoiled, bro. We are so spoiled. Apple is not dumping. I wouldn't say that's a dump. You guys are saying there's Grab news. I don't see any Grab headlines. So, if you guys put in the chat,
>> but I don't see any Grab headlines, but Monday we will have Grab earnings as well. Um, okay. So, we got 10 minutes until the call. Apple, I mean, I didn't expect 280. I'll say that. I there I really did not expect 280, but there you go. That one's going green. Uh we do have a head headline from OpenAI and Oracle Star Oh, this is why the data centers are pumping, Sam. OpenAI, Oracle, and related digital announced Stargate data center in Michigan.
>> There you go. There's new stuff every day. There you go. That's what's helping your Nebus and your core. We have more and more data center sites continuing to expand. Apple 281, Amazon 249. Uh Rockets's up three. Western Digital that's up 10.3. That one's doing well. And then Cloudflare, that's still up five. Micro Strategy at 260. Meta's moving. Are we at 680 on Meta? Okay, it's up from 662. It's not moving crazy, but 672 is nice to see this after hours as well. Meta like completely rejected the 200 day moving average when it bounced. Like I thought that was it. But anyways, not
>> Meta is too strong of a company. I mean, this is the big Can I curse on this a?
>> Yeah, you're good.
>> This was the biggest [__] move down. Like the biggest one. This was worse than last quarter when I flipped out about Amazon going down off of AWS. Any like, and here's where I get really pissed off about this. Everybody sold Meta off on the headline numbers in a millisecond without actually hearing the earnings call or reading through the report. The cash flow statement showed a thing of beauty. It was a one-time tax charge of 16 billion non-cash and the CEO CFO Susan Lee actually said on the earnings call this is going to help them in Q4 and for years to come. So it was the biggest [__] move down. Yeah, I agree with you. I don't understand why the street's punching Meta for all this, but nonetheless,
>> because they look at they missed on EPS by $5.50 instead of reading a cash flow statement and showing that even though capex increased by three billion, cash from operations and free cash flow increased by a billion. So,
>> agreed. And and also, I mean, Meadow was up 35% year to date. I mean the street probably wanted a reason to take it down but every price target I saw this morning got an upgrade. I mean there were a couple downgrades but pretty much everyone has them at 1100 you know 900 to 1100. So
>> I think we're going to laugh at Meta in a year from now. I don't think Meta is going to be stuck at 670. They're just grow again. These companies, their free cash flows, their net income, their margin, their ability to I mean there's 125 billion of demand for 25 billion of bonds that Meta offer today.
>> Like 5x more the demand for for corporate debt is incred and that means investors think there's not a lot of other places to put their cash in a safer way than into Meta that's investing into data centers. So I think this dip gets bought. I
>> mean, think about it. If you want yield, are you not buying metabonds?
>> Agreed. And are you really afraid?
>> I mean, what's more secure than that?
>> Subscribe.
>> Yeah. For the rate of return you're going to get, I mean, obviously a money market fund is safer, but the rate of return on those metabonds is not as unsafe. By the way, speaking of money market funds, uh, record high 7.42 trillion. Last week, they increased by another 20.6 billion. 20.6 billion. Apple 284. Oh my. Oh my. Back to Dan Ies here, but goodness gracious. 284 on Apple.
>> Uh came in strong particularly for the cloud business. Apple moving well into positive territory as well. Now up 4.5% after it was initially down three strength overall for big tech the way these two have performed or was the bar just so low that hey they did okay? I think it's really it shows the big tech if you look demand it's spreading. I mean for Apple the China story especially in terms of what the forecast that's extremely bullish in terms of that China piece and then you look at the Amazon they're on the outside looking in relative to what Redmond's doing what Google's doing hypers scale I mean look at those AWS numbers I mean that shows anyone that had doubts in terms of AI is it a bubble look at the spending look at that capbacks and this is enough to erase the doubt I mean it's 20% not not to you know look down down the nose 20%. But some of the smaller players have been up more than that. 20% is enough at AWS's scale to answer doubters.
>> Well, it's my view like Jasse is an AWS guy and I think everyone counted them out. I think this is them showing, hey, don't count us out. You look at demand, you have trillions that's going to be spent over the coming years. They do have the biggest when you look at AWS from a customer base perspective. And then you actually start to look at what Microsoft, what Google, what what we're seeing across the board. This shows that that AI revolution theme, it's spreading, you know, and I think what that's going to mean authentication, that's going to mean cyber security. That's going to mean the use cases. And I think as a tech bull, you go into this weekend more bullish on AI rather than less bullish relative to these techn despite Meta selling off which I view as a table bounder.
>> Bit of a day tant between Trump and she the US and China today. What does that mean for Apple?
>> I mean to me like look, Cook's on the right side of it, right? I mean playing nice in the sandbox in the beltway. I think that's very bullish relative to any worries about supply chain issues, relative to to Apple in China, some of the stuff they're doing from an India perspective. Look, comes down to Cook 10% politician, 90% CEO. And you and you start to think about what's happening on the China story. That to me is a green light because now the runways there, rare earththing kicked down, you have the trade framework out there. It's very strong for big tech, strong for names like Apple with the exposure of China, names like Tesla as well. And I think that's that's the overall theme here is that now you're starting to see Amazon, Apple get into I think second, third, fourth derivative starting to play out. It's my view that's why this tech bull market, two, three more years left relative to this AI revolution trade.
>> It is not 96, it's 89. It's 89. Dan,
>> I was just about to say. So Dan says two, three years. Steve says 10 years last
>> 89, we haven't even got a happy hour at 4 PM yet.
>> Well, we're going to see. We're going to see if that officially uh ends up playing out right here. So, Apple and Amazon still moving. Apple 28364 and uh Amazon's didn't hit 250 yet, but trying to trying to get there. Uh Apple 2834.
>> Yeah, we got
>> Waiting for it. I want my screenshot.
>> Yeah, by by the way guys, that wasn't Steve's audio. That was there. I don't know why there's been so many police around today, but that was me. I forgot to mute and you guys can hear all the police outside.
>> Popo's coming after you.
>> No, it's raining heavy. So, I think there's probably a bunch of accidents and like like I saw some cars that were legit like almost underwater as there was like some pretty heavy rain.
>> I can't believe how much it was raining today.
>> Yeah, that's what I'm saying. It was It was pretty aggressive and that's why you're seeing it.
>> That's Amazon making it rain. Sorry, I had to do it. I had to do it. There you go. Uh, all right. Amazon 248. Uh, we got the call in two minutes, I guess. Last thing before the call and then we'll keep updating in the chat for whatever else happens throughout the day. Uh, Sam, what are you expecting Jasse to say? Do you think he needs to say anything specific? Um, I think he's probably gonna start talking about um about AI growth in terms of their uh AWS products and also I don't believe they gave they give I think they give capex guidance on the call. So that's going to be important. Um I want to hear maybe there's a deal with the data with one of these mining companies or one of the neoclouds. That would be pretty interesting to hear.
>> You think they announce a deal like that? They they never announced like a specific deal with anyone, but like three gigawatt capacity growth is pretty extreme. Are you guys doing your own? Like I don't know who's helping you. Like that's what I want to know. But I feel like something's going to happen at some point when it comes to that. That's what Amazon is like one of the few companies that Mega never really announced a particular partnership with one of these miners. So we'll see, man. We will see. That that would be crazy if they announce Iron. That would be insane. Um we'll see. I I don't know. I don't want to get my hopes up, but you know, you never know. You never know.
>> Okay, Steve, anything you think Jasse has to say on this call?
>> I don't know. Um, I think a big thing is just going to be data centers, what they do in advertising and robotics. I think that's going to be really what I want to see. So, we'll see. And I hope, look, for Sam, I hope they announce something with Iron.
>> Yeah. No, that'd be dope. Actually, you mentioned robotics. I'm sure they're going to talk about that one. If he gives positive commentary in terms of efficiency uh in addressing like the layoffs they had with like replacing them with possible robots or
>> they're already deploying them, but like if they start talking about that, then that could be pretty interesting for some of the robotic plays. Actually, Stock Talk is in um GXO. um that one isn't directly uh partnered with Amazon, but that is a warehouse company that basically builds robots or uses robots in terms of their uh warehouse pipeline. So, I don't know. This is also bullish for that stock, too. So, that that this is a pretty interesting game to be in. Dude, Iron's back above 60 bucks right now. It's insane.
>> I mean, I hope I hope they say a Nebus or an IRA. I mean, dude, people would go crazy. That would be that would be insane. I I have some I have a little bit of cover call as a part of my position. So, I'm kind of secretly hoping they don't do that, but we'll see. Whatever. It is what it is. All right, Amazon call. Let's get into it. Uh I'll be in the chat if we get any other updates. We'll keep an eye on Apple, but let's get into Amazon. Hello and welcome to our Q3 2025 financial results conference call. Joining us today to answer your questions is Andy Jasse, our CEO, and Brian Oski, our CFO. As you listen to today's conference call, we encourage you to have our press release in front of you, which includes our financial results, as well as metrics and commentary on the quarter. Please note, unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2024. Our comments and responses to your questions reflect management's views as of today, October 30th, 2025 only, and will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially. Additional information about factors that could potentially impact our financial results is included in today's press release and our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on form 10K and subsequent filings. During this call, we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. In our press release, slides accompanying this webcast and our filings with the SEC, each of which is posted on our IR website, you will find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations of these measures with comparable gap measures. Our guidance incorporates the order trends that we've seen to date and what we believe today to be appropriate assumptions. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic and geopolitical conditions, tariff and trade policies and customer demand and spending including the impact of recessionary fears, inflation, interest rates, regional labor market constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the internet, online commerce, cloud services, and new and emerging technologies, and the various factors detailed in our filings at the SEC. Our guidance assumes, among other things, that we don't conclude any additional business acquisitions, restructurings, or legal settlements. It's not possible to accurately predict demand for our goods and services, and therefore our actual results could differ materially from our guidance. And now, I'll turn the call over to Andy. Thanks, Dave. We saw strong growth across our business in Q3, and we're reporting 180.2 billion in revenue, up 12% year-over-year, excluding the impact from foreign exchange rates. Operating income was $17.4 4 billion, but would have been over $21 billion if not for two special Q3 expenses. $2.5 billion for an FTC settlement and $1.8 billion for estimated severance costs. Trailing 12-month free cash flow was $14.8 billion. I'll start with AWS. AWS is growing at a pace we haven't seen since 2022, reacelerating to 20.2% year-over-year, our largest growth rate in 11 quarters. It's worth remembering that year-over-year percentage growth is a relative term. It's very different having 20% year-over-year growth on a $132 billion annualized run rate than to have a higher percentage growth rate on a meaningfully smaller annual revenue, which is the case with our competitors. Backlog grew to $200 billion by Q3 quarter end and doesn't include several unannounced new deals in October, which together are more than our total deal volume for all of Q3. AWS is gaining momentum. Customers want to be running their core and AI workloads in AWS given its stronger functionalities. Want to be running their core and AI workloads in AWS given its stronger functionality, security and operational performance. And the scale I see in front of us gives me significant confidence in what lies ahead. I'll share a little more detail on why. It starts with AWS having much broader infrastructure functionality. Startups, enterprises, and governments want to move their production workloads to the place that has the broadest and deepest array of capabilities. AWS has more services and deeper features within those services than anybody else and continues to innovate at a rapid clip. These are key building blocks for anything that customers want to create, and they're a big part of why Gardner has named AWS leader in its strategic cloud platform services magic quadrant for 15 consecutive years. We're bringing this same building block approach to AI. SageMaker makes it much simpler for companies to build and deploy their own foundation models. Bedrock gives customers leading selection of foundation models and superior price performance to deploy inference into their next generation applications. A lot of the future value companies will get from AI will be in the form of agents. AWS is heavily investing in this area and well positioned to be a leader. Companies will both create their own agents and use agents from other companies. For those building their own, it's been harder to build than it should be. It's why we launched Strands to make it much easier to create agents from any foundation model that builders desire. For companies who successfully built agents, they've hesitated putting them into production because they lack secure, scalable runtime services or memory or observability built specifically for agents. It's why we launched Agent Core, a set of infrastructure building blocks that allowed builders to deploy secure, scalable agents. Ericson used Agent Core to deliver AI agents across their workforce. Sony used it to build an Agentic AI platform with enterprise level security, observability, and scalability. And Coher Health is using Agent Core to deploy agents that will reduce medical review times by up to 30 to 40%. Agent Core's SDK has already been downloaded over a million times and our builders are excited about it. It's an enabler. Companies will also use others agents and AWS continues to build many of the agents we believe builders will use in the future. For coding, we've recently opened up our agentic coding IDE called Curo. More than a 100,000 developers jumped into Curo in just the first few days of preview and that number has more than doubled since. It's processed trillions of tokens thus far. Weekly activives are growing fast and developers love its unique spec and tool calling capabilities. For migration and transformation, we offer an agent called transform. Year to date, customers have already used it to save 700,000 hours of manual effort, the equivalent of 335 developer years of work. For example, Thompson Reuters used it to transform 1.5 million lines of code per month, moving from Windows to open source alternatives and completing tasks four times faster than with other migration tools. Customers have also already used transform to analyze nearly a billion lines of mainframe code as they move mainframe applications to the cloud. For business customers, we've recently launched QuickSlee to bring a consumer AI like experience to work, making it easy to find insights, conduct deep research, automate tasks, visualize data, and take actions. We've already seen users turn monthsl long projects into days, get 80% plus time savings on complex tasks, and realize 90% plus cost savings. And for contact centers, we offer Amazon Connect, which creates a more personalized and efficient experience for contact center agents, managers, and their customers. Connect has recently crested a billion dollar annualized revenue run rate with 12 billion minutes of customer interactions being handled by AI in the last year and is being used by large enterprises like Capital 1, Toyota, American Airlines, and Ryan Air. These are real practical results for customers and there are many more examples like them. Because of its advanced capabilities, security, operational performance, and customer focus, AWS continues to earn most of the big enterprise and government transformations to the cloud. As a result, AWS is where the preponderance of company's data and workloads reside and part of why most companies want to run AI in AWS. To enable customers to do so, we need to have the requisite capacity. And we've been focused on accelerating capacity the last several months, adding more than 3.8 gawatts of power in the past 12 months, more than any other cloud provider. To put that into perspective, we're now double the power capacity that AWS was in 2022, and we're on track to double again by 2027. In the last quarter of this year alone, we expect to add at least another 1 gawatt of power. This capacity consists of power data center and chips primarily our custom silicon tranium and NVIDIA. We've recently brought project Rainineer online our massive AI compute cluster spanning multiple US data centers and containing nearly 500,000 of our tranium 2 chips. Anthropic is using it now to build and deploy its industryleading AI model claude which we expect to be on more than 1 million tranium 2 chips by year end. Tranium 2 continues to see strong adoption, is fully subscribed, and is now a multi-billion dollar business that grew 150% quarter-over-arter. Today, Tranium is being used by a small number of very large customers, but we expect to accommodate more customers starting with Tranium 3. We're building Bedrock to be the biggest inference engine in the world and in the long run believe Bedrock could be as big a business for AWS as EC2. And the majority of token usage in Amazon Bedrock is already running on Tranium. We're also continuing to work closely with chip partners like Nvidia with whom we continue to order very significant amounts as well as with AMD and Intel. These are very important partners with whom we expect to keep growing our relationships over time. You're going to see us continue to be very aggressive investing in capacity because we see the demand. As fast as we're adding capacity right now, we're monetizing it. is still quite early and represents an unusual opportunity for customers in AWS. I'll now turn to stores where the team continues to deliver and innovate for customers across our key priorities, selection, low prices, and convenience, particularly fast delivery. We're offering 14% more selection since last quarter from popular brands like the North Face and Charlotte Tilbury. And we've added hundreds of thousands of items from popular brands this year. Everyday Essentials continues to grow quickly and year-to- date is growing nearly twice as fast as the rest of the business. We continue to make it easier for customers to order lowpriced perishable groceries from Amazon. And customers in more than 1,000 cities and towns now can shop fresh groceries alongside millions of Amazon.com products with free sameday delivery. This is a gamecher for customers who can now order milk alongside electronics, check out with one cart, and have everything delivered to their doorstep within hours. The team also invented a new add to delivery button that lets customers add items to previously scheduled orders and has been used more than 80 million times since launch and it just launched. It's an example of one of those seemingly simple but powerful innovations that make customers lives easier. We remain committed to staying sharp on price and meeting or beating prices of other major retailers. In July, we had our biggest Prime Day event ever with customers saving billions of dollars across more than 35 categories. We continue to break records on speed. We're on track to deliver at our fastest speeds ever for Prime members globally once again this year. And we've started rolling out three-hour delivery in select US cities. We're also continuing to invest in infrastructure to speed up rural deliveries and serve more customers in more communities. That includes committing over $4 billion to expand our rural delivery network across the US. These are small towns where people want fast delivery, but where other companies have been backing out and reducing service. In contrast, we've already increased the number of rural communities with access to our same day and next day delivery by 60%. reaching roughly half of the total communities we plan to expand to by the end of the year. The stores team is also innovating rapidly with AI. For example, Rufus, our AI powered shopping assistant, has had 250 million active customers this year with monthly users up 140% year-over-year, interactions up 210% year-over-year, and customers using Rufus during a shopping trip being 60% more likely to complete a purchase. Rufus is on track to deliver over 10 billion in incremental annualized sales. Here are the highlights. Our generative AI powered audio feature that combines product summaries and reviews to make shopping easier has expanded from hundreds of products at launch to millions of products and millions of customers have used it streaming almost 3 million minutes. And Amazon Lens, an AI powered visual search tool that lets customers find products with their phone's camera, a screenshot, or a barcode, now includes Lens Live, which instantly scans products and shows realtime matches in a swipeable carousel. Tens of millions of customers are using Amazon Lens each month. Moving on to Amazon Ads, we're pleased with the continued strong growth, generating 17.6 billion of revenue in the quarter. and growing 22% year-over-year. We see strength across our broad portfolio of full funnel advertising offerings that helps advertisers reach an average adup supported audience of more than 300 million in the US alone. We also continue to be excited about our demand side platform Amazon DSP which lets advertisers plan, activate, and measure fullfunnel investments. Last quarter, I mentioned our partnership with Roku, and we've built on that with a partnership with Netflix, providing advertisers using Amazon DSP with direct access to Netflix's premium ad inventory. We announced integrations with Spotify and Sirius XM. With Spotify, we provide advertisers with direct programmatic access to a global audience of more than 400 million monthly adup supported listeners. And with SiriusXM, brands can reach 160 million monthly digital listeners across services like Pandora and SoundCloud. And we're excited about the advertising opportunity around Prime Video Live Sports. Live Sports got a lot of interest from advertisers in upfront negotiations for 2025 26 and we exceeded our own expectations for upfront commitments with significant growth across the board. Finally, we're continuing to innovate for advertisers with AI. For example, in September, we announced an agentic AI tool in Creative Studio that plans and executes the entire creative process in a matter of hours instead of weeks. We're also inventing and seeing strong momentum in several other areas, and I'll mention just a few. In Prime Video Live Sports, NBA on Prime tipped off last week, and our opening night double header averaged 1.25 million viewers in the US, a double-digit increase over last season on cable. You'll see us bring the same constant innovation here that we brought to our NFL broadcasts. We're adding golf with the Masters in 2026 and a new skins competition with the PGA Tour on Black Friday this year. And we've added Peacock and Fox One to Prime Video's add-on subscription offering of over a 100 channels in the US. We continue to be energized by the response to Alexa Plus. Compared to what we call the classic Alexa experience, Alexa Plus customers are talking to Alexa two times more. Those interactions are much longer, and they're covering a broader range of topics. They're using Alexa Plus on Fire TV at 2.5 times the rate of classic, using natural conversation to discover audio content, four times more, engaging with photos, four times more, and customers are completing four times more shopping conversations that end in a purchase. We've expanded the number of Project Kyper satellites in space to more than 150 and delivered over 1 Gbit per second speeds and tests with our enterprisegrade customer terminal, the first commercial phased array we know of to clear that threshold. Finally, Zuk's robo taxis are available to riders in Las Vegas, and we've announced Washington DC is the eighth testing location. We're excited for these to continue rolling out to more riders. Q4 is one of our busiest and most energizing times of the year and we're excited about the continued demand for AWS, the innovations we'll announce at reinvent in December, the positive customer response to our AI powered experiences, all the gifts we'll be delivering throughout the holiday season, and a lot more. Thanks in advance to our teammates around the world who are gearing up to deliver for customers once again. With that, I'll turn it over to Brian for a financial update.
>> 255, baby. Starting with our topline financial results, the worldwide revenue was 180.2 billion, a 12% increase year-over-year, excluding a 90 basis point favorable impact of foreign exchange. In Q3, we reported worldwide operating income of 17.4 billion. This operating income includes two special charges which reduced operating income by $4.3 billion. The first charge of $2.5 billion is related to a legal settlement with the Federal Trade Commission, which impacts the North America segment and is recorded in the other operating expense line. The second charge of $1.8 billion relates to severance costs for RO eliminations and impacts all three of our segments. The severance charge is recorded primarily in the technology and infrastructure, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense line items. Excluding these two charges, worldwide operating income would have been $21.7 billion or $1.2 billion above the high end of our guidance range. Moving to our segment results, we remain encouraged by the innovation our teams are delivering for customers across all three segments. In the North America segment, third quarter revenue is 106.3 billion, an increase of 11% year-over-year. International segment revenue was $40.9 billion, an increase of 10% year-over-year, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Worldwide paid units grew 11% year-over-year. We continue to prioritize the inputs that matter most to our customers. In the third quarter, our sharp pricing, broad selection, and fast delivery speeds continue to resonate with customers. Customers appreciate the ability to quickly receive items essential for their daily needs. including perishable groceries and have them delivered in the same day. Our millions of global thirdparty sellers continue to be important contributors to our vast selection, which helps customers find the items they need at competitive prices. We're committed to building innovative services and features for our sellers, including our ongoing advancements in generative AI. Today, more than 1.3 million sellers have used our generative AI capabilities to more quickly launch high-quality listings. Better listings translate into better traction with customers. And in Q3, worldwide thirdparty seller unit mix was 62%. Up 200 basis points from Q3 of last year. Shifting to profitability, North America segment operating income was $4.8 8 billion with an operating margin of 4.5%. Excluding the $2.5 billion charge related to the legal settlement with the FTC, North America segment operating income would have been 7.3 billion with an operating margin of 6.9%. North America segment operating margin also includes a portion of the severance charge. International segment operating income was $1.2 $2 billion with an operating margin of 2.9%. Excluding the impact of the severance charge international segment operating margins expanded year-over-year. Globally, our progress on key inputs is delivering a better customer experience while driving a more efficient cost structure. For example, we're making notable strides in improving inventory placement to speed up delivery to customers. And as a result, for the third year in a row, we are on track to deliver our fastest speeds ever for Prime members in 2025. We continue to tune and improve our fulfillment operations, and our regionalized network is operating at scale. We see many benefits from our inbound process improvements, including a reduction of US inbound lead time by nearly 4 days compared to last year. This allows us to be more efficient with our inventory purchasing, which benefits working capital. We're also placing inventory more strategically throughout the network. And by leveraging our existing infrastructure, we're now offering US customers the ability to order perishable groceries and receive them the same day in as little as 5 hours. We're seeing positive early results. Since launching in January, when customers start shopping fresh groceries on Amazon, they are visiting the site more often and returning twice as often as non-p perishable shoppers. Looking ahead, we see further opportunity to improve productivity in our global fulfillment and transportation network. We will continue to improve inventory placement to drive down distance traveled and touches per package. We will also build on the gains from our regionalized network through algorithmic improvements as well as launching robotics and automation. While operating margin may fluctuate quarterto quarter, we have a deliberate approach to achieve sustained progress over the long term. Shifting to advertising, advertising revenue was 17.7 billion and growth accelerated for the third consecutive quarter. We continue to see strong growth on an increasingly large base as our fullfunnel advertising approach of connecting brands with customers is resonating. Moving next to our AWS segment, revenue was 33 billion, up 20.2% year-over-year. This is an acceleration of 270 basis points compared to last quarter, driven by strong growth across both our AI and core services and more capacity which has come online to support customer demand. AWS revenue increased $2.1 billion quarter-over-arter and now has an annualized revenue run rate of $132 billion. AWS operating income is 11.4 billion and reflects our continued growth coupled with our focus on driving efficiencies across the business. We are expanding our data center footprint largely to accommodate Gen AI and to the extent those assets were placed into service, the related depreciation does impact our margins. As we've long said, we expect AWS operating margins to fluctuate over time, driven in part by the level of investments we're making at any point in time. Now, turning to our cash capex, which was $ 34.2 billion in Q3, we've now spent $89.9 billion so far this year. This primarily relates to AWS as we invest to support demand for AI and core services and in custom silicon like tranium as well as tech infrastructure to support our North America and international segments. We'll continue to make significant investments especially in AI as we believe it to be a massive opportunity with the potential for strong returns on invested capital over the long term. Additionally, we continue to invest in our fulfillment and transportation network to support the growth of the business, improve delivery speeds, and lower our cost to serve. These investments will support growth for many years to come. Looking ahead, we expect our fullear cash capex to be approximately $125 billion in 2025, and we expect that amount will increase in 2026. I'll finish up my remarks with net income. While we primarily focus our comments on operating income, our third quarter net income of $21.2 billion includes a pre-tax gain of $9.5 billion related to our investment in Anthropic. This investment activity is not related to Amazon's ongoing operations and is included in non-operating income. We're encouraged by the start of the peak season and we are ready to serve customers in the coming months. I want to thank our teams across Amazon for their hard work as we get ready to delight customers during the holiday season. Our commitment to elevating the customer experience is the only reliable way to drive sustainable value for our shareholders. With that, let's move on to your questions.
>> Thank you. At this time, we will now open the call up for questions. We ask each caller to please limit yourself to one question.
>> If you would like to ask a
>> All right. Q&A 253 on the stock. Q&A tends to move the stock. I mean, this is already a pretty big big move, but we're going to see what questions we get for Amazon.
>> Question. Please press star then one on your touchtone telephone at this time. Please hold while we pull for questions. And our first question comes from the line of Justin Post with Bank of America. Please proceed. Great. Thank you. I'll ask on AWS. Could you just re uh kind of go through how you're feeling about your capacity levels and how capacity constrained you are right now? And then in your prepared remarks, you mentioned Trainium 3 demand and and maybe broadening out your customer base. Can you talk about uh the demand you're seeing, you know, outside of your your major customers for Tranium? Thank you.
>> Yeah. Uh on the capacity side, uh we brought in quite a bit of capacity as I mentioned in my opening comments. uh 3.8 gawatts of capacity in the last year with another um gigawatt plus coming in in the fourth quarter. Um and we expect to double our overall capacity by the end of 2027. So we're bringing in quite a bit of capacity. Um you know today overall in the industry maybe the um bottleneck is power. I think at some point it may move to chips, but we're bringing in quite a bit of capacity and and as fast as we're bringing it in right now, we are monetizing it. And then on the tranium demand uh outside of our major customers. So first of all, as I mentioned on Tranium 2, it's it's it's really doing well. Um it's fully subscribed on Tranium 2. Uh we have, you know, it's it's a multi-billion dollar business at this point. Uh it grew um 150% quarter over-arter in revenue. And you see really big projects at scale now like our project Rineer that we're doing with Anthropic where they're running uh their next version of they're trading the next version of Claude on top of Tranium 2 on 500,000 tranium 2 chips going to a million tranium 2 chips by the end of the year. Uh as I mentioned we have um today with Tranium 2 we have a small number of very large customers on it. uh but because tranium is 30 to 40% more price performant than other options out there and because as customers as they start to contemplate broader scale of their production workloads moving to being AI focused and using inference they badly care about price performance and so we have a lot of demand for tranium tranium 3 should preview at the end of this year with um much fuller volumes coming in in uh the beginning of 26. We have a lot of customers both very large and I'll call it mediumsiz who are quite interested in training 3.
>> And the next question comes from the line of Brian Noak with Morgan Stanley.
>> Thanks for taking my questions. Uh congrats on the quarter guys. So maybe maybe two. Um one Andy sort of a a philosophical chip question. You know, there's there there's a lot of questions in the market about Tranium and sort of its positioning versus other thirdparty chips. So, h how do you think about the the key hurdles with Tranium 3 need to overcome to really make Tranium adoption broader to your point on the last question and continue to to drive Tranium as opposed to satisfying what could be broader demand with third-party chips in the in the near term? Yeah. Well, first of all, we're we're always going to have multiple chip options for our customers. It's, you know, it it's been true in every major technology building block or component that we've had in AWS really in the history of AWS. It's never just one player that over a long period of time has the entire market segment and it can satisfy everybody's needs on every dimension. And so, we have a very deep relationship with Nvidia. um we have for a very long time and we will for as long as I can foresee the future. We buy a lot of Nvidia. We are not constrained in any way in buying Nvidia and I expect that we'll continue to buy more Nvidia um both next year and in the future. But we're different from most technology companies in that we have our own very strong chip team. Um and this is our Annaperna team. And you saw it first on the CPU side with what we built with Graviton, which is about 40% better price performance than the other x86 processors. And you're seeing it again on the custom silicon on the AI side with Tranium, which is about the same amount of price performance benefit for customers relative to other GPU options. And you know, our our customers to be able to use AI as expansively as they want. And remember, it's still relatively early days at this point. They they're going to need better price performance and they care about it deeply. And so, uh, you know, I mentioned earlier the momentum that tranium 2 has. And I think that for us as we think about tranium 3, I expect tranium 3 will be about 40% better than tranium 2. And trrenium 2 is already very uh advantaged on price performance. So, we have to of course deliver the chip. We have to deliver it in volumes and deliver it quickly. And we have to you know continue to work on the software ecosystem which gets better all the time. And as we have more proof points like we have with project rainer with with what anthropics is doing on tranium 2 it builds increasing credibility for tranium and I think customers are very bullish about it. I'm bullish about it as well. Guys, Amazon capex guide is 125.
>> And our next question comes from the line of
>> 125 billion for next year. That's what the CFO just said.
>> Question.
>> Thanks for taking the question. Um, I'll stick with uh basically the same topic, Andy. Um but can you just talk a little bit about the architecture of project reneer and how it's differentiated um and you know what that means for customers and for AWS and do you expect Reneer to expand beyond anthropic and how do you replicate Reneer with uh tranium 3 chips? Thanks. Yeah, I think uh what is compelling for anthropic around uh project rainer is you know really is the the tranium 2 chip which um you know we built a very first of all we built a very large cluster that they can use in a very expansive way and it's not simple to be able to build a cluster that has 500,000 plus chips going to a million that's that's an infrastructure uh feat that that's hard to do at scale and So you know some piece of it is the infrastructure capabilities that we've built over a long period of time in AWS that is you know unusual in the in the industry but it's just also the performance of the chip and uh and the price performance which both of which matter and you know I think that um you know project reineer is something that um is specific for anthropic but we have a lot of other customers who are interested in employing large cluster ers of tranium chips that we're going to hopefully give them a chance to do so with tranium 3.
>> And the next question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney with Evercore ISI. Please proceed with your question.
>> Thanks. I want to ask about two topics, groceries and then how to think about headcount in the future. And on groceries, I want to the the perishables. I think last quarter you talked about 70% or something of users had never purchased from par perishables from Amazon before. Just talk about whether you you know I think you used the term gamecher before. Does this mean that maybe we don't not you no longer need to do Amazon fresh stores? you always had this DVD delivery van density advantage and um have you kind of reached a point you think of scale and speed that you really can change people uh habit and really have them consider Amazon as one of their first grocery options do you really feel like you're at that point and then secondly just on the headcount given some of the recent news just talk to us about um how you think about headcount going forwards are you seeing uh the is the level of efficiencies that you're getting from AI such that uh you can keep headcount relatively flattish for the foreseeable future. Just talk about the um the the the pros and cons or the wins and losses in terms of that that headcount going forwards. Thank you.
>> Yeah. So, I I'll start with grocery. Mark, you know, we have a very large grocery business. You know, if if you look at our entire grocery business, if I don't even count Whole Foods Market and Fresh in the last 12 months, it's over a hundred billion dollars of gross merchandising sales, which would make us a top three grocery in the US. A a good chunk of it is a lot of the items that you'd find in the middle aisles. So, consumables and canned goods and pet food and health and beauty. Uh very significant that continues to grow at a very good clip. But then you know we also have Whole Foods Market which is the pioneer in organic foods which is also growing at a faster clip than most grocery companies and with an attractive trajectory on profitability. And we'll expand our Whole Foods physical presence um over the coming years here. And I'm also very excited about this new concept daily shop that we have which is a smaller version of Whole Foods in urban settings which um we have three that we've launched that are off to very good starts that you should expect to see more of as well. Now, we have always been, you know, as as you referenced, we've talked a lot about having a a a larger mass physical presence, and we continue to experiment with various formats, but the one that we are most excited about is is what you referenced, which is the ability to provide perishable groceries with same day deliveries. And if you think about how many of our customers are buying from us multiple times a week and um who are buying things like shampoo or detergent or paper cups or water where the ability to add milk and eggs and yogurt and other perishables to their order and have it show have it live in the same shopping cart then show up a few hours later is very compelling. And we started with a few markets about a year ago and we were really taken aback at the adoption. Not just the number of people that started buying perishables from us very quickly, but how often they came back downstream to buy perishables and groceries from us in the future. And so we've now expanded that to a thousand cities around the US. Um we'll be in 2,300 by the end of the year. And it's really changing the trajectory and the size of our grocery business. And I I also believe that this many years tradition of the weekly stock up uh grocery stock up is changing and I think we're a big part of that and and and I I think there's a lot of potential there for the grocery side. It doesn't mean that we won't continue to experiment with with other physical formats, but we're on to something very significant with what we're doing with perishables from our same day facilities. And then on your headcount question, you know what I would tell you is, you know, the um the announcement that we made a few days ago was not really financially driven and it's not even really AI driven. Um not not right now at least. It's it it really it's culture and if you grow uh as fast as we did for several years, you know, the size of businesses, the number of people, the number of locations, the types of businesses you're in, you end up with a lot more people than what you had before and you end up with a lot more layers. And when that happens, you know, sometimes without realizing it, you can weaken the ownership of the people that you have who are doing the actual work and who own most of the two-way door decisions, the ones that should be be made quickly and right at the front line. And it and it can lead to slowing you down. And as a leadership team, we are committed to operating like the world's largest startup. And we're that means removing layers. It means increasing the amount of ownership that people have. And it means inventing and moving quickly. And I don't know if there's ever been a time in the history of of Amazon or or maybe business in general with the the technology transformation have happening right now where it's important to be lean, it's important to be flat, and it's important to move fast. And that's what we're going to do.
>> And the next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question. Thanks so much for taking the question. Wanted to know Andy if you could reflect on the opportunity that's continuing to present itself in terms of rolling out more robotics and automation and the broader theme of physical AI across your operations and how you should be thinking about that as a driver of potential efficiencies but also as a driver of the ability to possibly reinvest back in the business over the long term. Thanks so much. Robotics is a a very substantial area of investment for us. Um we have over a million robots in our fulfillment network at this point. Uh and I would say that um while that's significant, we have a lot of invention in flight. Um so I expect that we'll have more over a period of time. Uh you know robotics are very important for us and for our customers and for our our teammates because they improve safety. um they boost productivity, they um increase speed and they and they let our our human teammates focus on problem solving and what they do best. And we expect that our our people remain at the heart and the center of our fulfillment network as they have from when we first started working on robotics. And we expect that over time we will have a fulfillment network where robots and humans complement each other and work together. But I I think you're going to continue to see us invest uh invest very significantly in robotics. It's going to help on the safety, the productivity, the speed, and ultimately some of the cost pieces which will allow us to continue to improve the customer experience.
>> And the next question comes from the line of John Blackedledge with TD Cowan. Please proceed with your question.
>> Uh great. Uh thank you. uh how does Amazon think about agentic commerce going forward and how do you think uh Amazon will serve customers using agents to purchase goods on Amazon in the future? Thank you.
>> I'm very excited about uh and and as a business we're very excited about in the long term the prospect of Aante Commerce and it has a chance to be good for customers. has a chance to be really good for e-commerce and you know I think if you're if you know what you want to buy there are few experiences that are better than coming to Amazon but if you don't know what you want it's you know a physical store with a physical salesperson still has some advantages obviously lots of people do it on Amazon all the time but you very often want to ask questions and help you know get help narrowing what you're going to look for and as you keep asking new questions having a whole bunch of different options presented to you. And I think AI and agentic commerce are are going to change the experience online where that experience where you're narrowing what you want when you don't know is going to get better online than it even is um in physical uh um environments. Now we obviously have our own efforts here in Agentic Commerce. We have Rufus, which I talked about in my opening comments, which is continuing to get better and better and used more broadly. And we have features like buy for me where we will surface uh on Amazon even items that we don't stock that other merchants have and then if customers want us to go and buy it for them on those um merchants websites we will do that. Um and both of those have been successful for us. But we're also um you know having conversations with and expect over time to partner with thirdparty a uh um agents. And you know I think that um it reminds me in some ways of the beginning of uh search engines many years ago being sources of discovery for commerce. And uh you know you had to kind of figure out the right way to work together. And today, search engines are a very small part of um our referral traffic and third party agents are a very small subset of that. But I I I do think that we will find ways to partner. We have to find a way though that makes the the customer experience um good. You know, right now I would say the customer experience is not good. There's there's no personalization. There's no shopping history. The delivery estimates are frequently wrong. The prices are often wrong. So, we we've got to find a way to to make the customer experience better and have the right exchange of value. But, I do think that um the exciting part of this and the promise is that AI and Aentic um commerce solutions are going to expand the amount of shopping that happens online. And I think that's really good for customers and I think it's really good for Amazon because at the end of the day, you're going to buy from the outfit that allows you to have the broadest selection, great value, and continues to deliver for you very quickly and reliably. And and I think that bodess well for us.
>> And our final question comes from the line of Colin Sebastian with Baird. Please proceed with your question. Uh thanks uh good afternoon. I guess first on AWS um following up there um how much of this acceleration is is driven by core infrastructure versus AI workload monetization and I I think part of it is trying to understand how important newer services like agent core are becoming in in bringing enterprises to AWS to build agents. Um and then I guess secondly regarding the acceleration in advertising um if you could potentially disagregate the core advertising um contribution versus DSPM prime video that would be helpful as well. Thank you.
>> Yeah, I'll start on the AWS side. Uh you know we are seeing you know uh it you know we're really pleased with the results from this quarter. um 20% year-over-year on a annualized run rate of $132 billion is is unusual and uh we we we have momentum uh and you can see it uh and we we see the growth in um you know both our our um our AI area where um we see it in a in uh inference, we see it in training, we see it in um the use of um our uh trainium custom silicon um you know bedrock continues to grow really quickly. Um Sage Maker continues to grow quickly and you know I think that the um the number of companies who are working on building agents is very significant. I do believe that a lot of the value that companies will realize over time and AI will come from agents. And I I I think that building agents today is still harder than it should be. Um you you need tools to make it easier, which is why we built Strands, which which is a an open- source capability that lets people build agents from any model that they can imagine. But even more so when you talk to enterprises or companies that care a lot about security uh and scale, they they're starting to build agents and and they don't really feel like they've got they've had building blocks that allow them to have the type of secure scalable agents that they need to bet their businesses and their customer experiences and their data on. And that's why that was really the inspiration behind agent core was to build another set of primitive building blocks like we built in the early days of AWS where it was compute and storage and database. We we defined a set of building blocks that you needed to be able to deploy agents securely and scalably um that we provide in agent core and when we talk to our customers it really resonates. There is not anything else like it. is changing their time frame and their receptivity to building agents and um it's it's very compelling for them. So I do think you know the combination of what we're doing to enable agents to be built and run securely and scalably as well as some of the agents that we're building ourselves that our customers are excited about are compelling for them. And you know I think the other place we see a lot of growth in AWS also you know is just the number of enterprises who are going who've gotten back to moving from on premises infrastructure to the cloud and we continue to earn the lion share of those transformations and uh you know I I look at the momentum we have right now and I I believe that we can continue to grow at a clip like this for a while. Um you know I think on the uh advertising side uh you know that is also an area where I where I think collectively we feel very pleased about the progress. Every single one of our advertising offerings this quarter grew in a meaningful way. I think there's a few things going on for us. Um we have what I think of as a as a pretty unusual fullfunnel offering. And if you look at the top of the funnel, which typically tends to be awareness building and broadscale to be able to um to use our our own, you know, Prime Video and our live sports capabilities um as well as going all the way down to the bottom of the funnel at point of sale being able to use sponsored products. Um that's, you know, most people don't have a fullfunnel offering as robust as that. And then when you layer on top of it the combination of the audience curation and development we can do along with the advantage measurement it just all leads to a return on advertising spend that's very unusual and I I think there are multiple places where we can expect to continue to grow you know one is in our stores business I I still think you know if you look at the worldwide market segment share of of retail still 80 to 85% % of it lives in physical stores and that equation is going to flip over time and I think AI is going to only accelerate that. So I think we have an opportunity a significant opportunity still in our existing stores and then I think video you know we've only been at this for a little bit of time but it's already a very large amount of advertising revenue and we're still relatively early stage. I think that will continue to be a big area of growth. And then as as you referenced the uh the amount the DS their demand side platform or Amazon DSP that is growing really quickly as well. Some of it have to had to do with the fact that we had some features. We always had a number of the core components people wanted around some of our properties, uh the the measurement capabilities, um Amazon marketing cloud, but we lacked some features for a while as we were building out our DSP that customers told us mattered. And the team over the last 20 months have, you know, closed those gaps in a very significant way so that now people feel like our DSP is fully featured. And then you look at some of the partnerships that we've done. You know, the Roku partnership gives us the largest connected TV footprint in the US. And you layer on top of that what we've recently done in providing our DSP customers the opportunity to integrate with the ad inventory in Netflix and in Spotify and SiriusXM. You know, it's uh it's it's powerful. And so we are we are growing very quickly on the demand side platform. So very optimistic about what we're doing there. Um we have, you know, we have continued work to do obviously, but I I don't think we're close to being able to grow there.
>> Thanks for joining us on the call today and for your questions. A replay will be available on our investor relations website for at least three months. We appreciate your interest in Amazon and look forward to speaking with you again next quarter. All right, folks. There we go. holding the gains through the call. We got to 255. We are at 253. Sam, I'll give it to you. What are your thoughts on that call?
>> Straight up execution. OG Andy Jasse, I want all those Amazon bears to shut your damn mouths. All right. I don't want to hear it anymore. All right. This is the same thing that happened with Google. You don't hear a single peep on Twitter anymore. I don't want to hear with Amazon. And on top of that, that old capex argument with Meta is so dumb because you have had every single other mega cap increase their capex. And now that becomes an argument for Meta, man. Get get the hell out of here. That it's just ridiculous. The the the street sold off Meta because next quarter's guide for revenue growth was not nearly as much as the previous quarter. But anyways, dude, it's it's a great day. It's a great day. So, let's hope that no one tweets tonight some crazy news and we don't uh go limit down overnight.
>> What were your thoughts on the Tranium stuff, which I felt like was bullish?
>> Uh, good question. I actually have a Twitter thread where I was just writing up the commentary. So, Tranium is actually pretty interesting because they were saying that uh that grew 150% quarter over quarter for Trrenium 2, which is now a multi-billion dollar business. And he was also saying that Tranium 3 is 40% faster than Tranium 2. Yeah.
>> And he's also saying that these large clients, including Anthropic, are like ready to sign up and overs subscribe for Tranium 3. So, they're going to release Tranium 3 in preview by the end of the year and they're going to ramp up by next year. Dude, this is bullish for AS6. And and he was also saying like this is also bullish for Nvidia too. Like it doesn't mean that Nvidia is going to go downhill or anything. It's just the demand is so strong that people are looking for a specific type of compute for their own applications, right? So if you stack up TPUs versus Nvidia GPUs, Nvidia GPUs are general processing for uh graphical units, right? TPUs are designed specifically for searches for Google. So it's going to offer better performance and much higher margins. So when you think about tranium, it depends on which company it is, but specifically for Anthropic, which is one of their largest customers, they're buying tranium 2 and want to buy tranium 3, and that's a much higher margin for Amazon, which is going to ultimately help their operating income. And the last thing too, I've been saying this since last week, Amazon laying off 14,000 to 30,000 workers is not because of AI. It's just it's just efficiency. And Andy Jasse confirmed it. It's more of a cultural shift. He wants to downsize a little bit to kind of keep the ownership in there because dude, they they like they increased their workforce and so did the entire country in 2020 and 2021. It all needs to normalize, right? So, dude, such a bullish call, man. I think damn, that what a fake out today. What a complete fake out.
>> I mean, fake out feels like an understatement. The the the meta PTSD
>> and then you see Amazon fall 3%. Everyone was feeling all right, what are we getting ready to hear? And then completely opposite direction.
>> Some someone said there uh who makes tranium 3. So they never actually confirmed that Marll designs trrenium 3. That that was like never confirmed anywhere. We I expected to hear that on um Marvel's investor AI investor day. What was it last June? They didn't say anything about that. So Marvel helps design tranium 2. Do they design tranium 3? I think if no news is good news. So we're going to assume that they still are. Uh, but we'll see. I mean, Marvel is definitely has been on a crazy run lately. And also, when you think about these ASIC chips, dude, a lot of high bandwidth memory is used for that. Look at Micron, one of the largest high bandwidth memory providers in the entire world. They basically doubled in the last few months. And a lot of people were able to ride that ride, including myself, right? But every single thing in the fabrication pipeline for chips is going to continue riding because of all because of all this demand. And I think the biggest thing in this call that I heard was the fact that not only did they basically double or add 3.8 gawatts of capacity in the last 12 months, but they expect to add another 1 gawatt of capacity by the end of the year, so this quarter. And on top of that, they expect to double total capacity by 2027. Like holy cow, that that's insane. All right, they just added 3.8 gawatts. They're going to add about 5 gawatts just this year alone and maybe have more than double that by 2027 and that number is going to be way more than 10 gigawatts. Like, I don't know. I don't know. It's so hard to be bearish other than the fact that S&P is totally extended right now. But, you know, from a long-term point of view, like I don't know. I don't know what the bears want. I don't know what they want. I would agree with you. I think this was one of those quarters that could be a narrative rerating for Amazon. Real quick, just on Apple, uh they're assuming 1.1 billion in tariff costs uh next quarter. Company significantly increasing investments in AI. Expects 1.4 billion in tariff related impact in December. Seeing gross margin between 47 and 48. Apple very little uh decline from 284 to 279. The fact that it even got to 280 is incredible to see. But Apple looks like those tariff related costs for the Q4 is why you're seeing a little bit of weakness right there. I did not expect Apple to get anywhere near your 280. But uh a 10 to 12% revenue gut for Q4 is what gets the street excited on that one. In terms of Amazon, my takeaway from the call as well was that Jasse, his first statement on the press release and on the call was that we have not seen this type of demand for AWS since 2022. He was very obviously talking to all the people on Wall Street and the broader investing community that said AWS is hitting a wall and not able to grow. Every other cloud provider in terms of Microsoft and Google is above 20%, Google at 30%. Uh Microsoft at 40% for Azure. So, you know, Amazon stuck at 17.5 18% just wasn't cutting it. Well, he got to 20%. And as a result, I think that kind of calmed down a lot of worries from the street. Advertising continues to do well. their e-commerce business is not going anywhere. I mean, everything that you wanted to see from Amazon pretty much did what they had to do. Austin right here, who is a big fan of Amazon as well. I'm going to put his Twitter in the chat for anyone who wants to follow him. He's been kind of covering the Amazon thesis for uh really the past year now. He says, "Amazon has five businesses greater than 50 billion in ARR, online stores, thirdparty services, AWS advertising, and subscription." Now, the street only really cares about AWS because the narrative, but now that the narrative has started to rerate to a growth quarter, I think that's why you're seeing this type of move. So, I mean, I would be surprised. A lot of people are asking in the chat, and Sam, I'm curious of your your perspective on this. Uh, and I'm putting Sam's Twitter in the chat as well, so everyone please make sure to follow him on X. A lot of people are saying, is Amazon a buy right here? I think I would give it a couple weeks to see where it settles in. I wouldn't go FOMO at 250, especially given it was under 220 for the past two months, but I don't think it easily comes back to 220. How are you thinking of the the stock price right now?
>> I I just it's such a it's such a loaded question. And not saying that's a bad question, but like you can't just ask that question because then there's many factors in this, right? So, are you buying it to hold it for a long time? Are you buying for a trade? For a trade, like I would never chase something like this, right? But for a long-term position, like, yeah, why not? I mean, if you're going to hold it for long term there, you heard every single thing on the call. You had every single capex raise on every single mega cap call there. The market or people who are bearish in the market are looking for every single reason for the market to drop or end its AI super cycle from here. It just does not look like it's ending anytime soon. And that was the that was the case for Amazon, right? They're going to slow down. They get taken over by Microsoft next two or three years. I I never necessarily thought that was the case. I mean, maybe Microsoft might start competing with them in like three or four years if they continue to grow around 40% year-over-year in terms of uh Azure growth, but Amazon is now at $121 billion run rate. Now, they're growing at 20%. And that's likely going to accelerate if semi- analysis research is correct. Right? So, we already had that 20%, they expected to be around 22% next year.
>> I could definitely see that happening.
>> Um, the thing that happened though were the uh operating margins. As I calculated, I think it was around 34.7 something%. So, it did contract by about 1%. But I think that's kind of expected right now considering how much overhead there is in building everything out and also increasing the amount of supply uh to meet the demand. But I'm pretty sure it's not going to go below 30%. If it does, I'll be a little bit concerned. But I don't think
>> Real quick before you continue, dude, operating margins were at 9.7% for the quarter.
>> That's for the whole business.
>> I know, but that's down from 11.4. And the point is the fact that the stock pumped and they declined almost 2%.
>> Yeah,
>> that just shows you how important AWS was, right?
>> I mean, it might be a seasonality thing. Uh, actually, no, cuz if it's year-over-year, then maybe not. I
>> believe last year was at 11%. It's down 2% year-over-year and 2.3% quarter over quarter. The fact that the street overlooked that and is giving it a 15% pump is pretty freaking bullish. It goes to your point about AWS margins being the most important.
>> Well, it's not just AWS, it's also ads, right? So, they grew ads by 22% and Jasse was basically saying it's going to keep growing from here. Like he said, they were very early in the stages. So you have this is the bare case for TTD and you know I'm not I'm not trying to be bearish TTD but like when you have Amazon partnering with Roku who's one of the largest uh CTV providers in the country and only going to expand from there who are like you they're literally utilizing Amazon's Amazon's demand service provider for advertising and that's Roku and they're going to be signing up a lot more and also advertising is a very high margin business as well. They haven't released operating income for advertising since like the last year, but you could already see it's growing at 22%. And just like AWS, the bigger it gets, the cheaper it is for them to operate at scale. So, you can imagine like with automation and AI and everything that this is only going to get better for Amazon. Um, are we going to see 220 again? I don't know. Yeah, I was the LDR on this is that if you're buying for the long term, 250 is sure, but if you are chasing,
>> you would not chase that 250. Not after that.
>> I I wouldn't I wouldn't chase 250. I mean, it's just you're just hoping it goes higher with the market all-time highs. You know, this is like another one of those things. I would say there's probably better things to trade on the short term than Amazon right now. Um the alpha was before the earnings, but now the market like sees it. It's it's at 254, 255 right now. So, I mean, it it's just very difficult to do that. But long-term, dude, it's like I mean, what are you going to wait till 220 for a 5year hold and you're just going to miss out on 10%. Like, it's not a big deal. That's not a big deal.
>> Yeah. And I would just say psychologically like we are on the right side of this trade because we bought an early. A lot of the chat bought in early. Again, a lot of the community came together on this. We've been on pl I've been on the wrong side of the trade plenty of times. Not that I'm short or that I have puts, but that I'm just not in it. And it sucks. The FOMO sucks. stats when you have to ask that this is like this is going to be so cliche but the way I've worked through it over the past five years is asking myself what did I not fully understand about the bullcase and how can I get better as an investor over the lifetime of this career and hopefully be on the bullcase or hopefully understand a bullcase for a company the next time right so like like like it's really you got to combat the especially in a bull market because you could lose a lot of money chasing stuff like that and it could really feel bad so you just have to ask yourself okay what did I not understand about Amazon at 220 and how can I improve next time? Uh, and then, you know, hopefully that that deals with the the mentality of having that much FOMO when you get into it. There's another guy who was super bullish Amazon who helped us all understand the thesis. Tanner, congrats. How you guys doing?
>> What's up? What's up? Been a long time, Mr. New Bang.
>> Yes. Yeah, brother. Uh, man, I I I can't believe this. This is uh super exciting. People are understanding that entertainer, when did you when did you start buying Amazon? Have you been in here for a minute or has it been recent?
>> Uh last two quarters or so. Um but really buying in after the last quarter. Uh semi analysis. Um Dylan Patel ended up posting a lot of um you know reports that AWS is actually going to look a lot better than people think and he has you know firsthand insight in you know completely into the industry and you know from everything that I was seeing from ads to the benefits from robotics and full self-driving and and artificial intelligence and stable coins like every technological innovation that I focus on if you were to put that into like a multi-bubble uh like ven diagram. Amazon's in the direct center of it. And I I was just like, man, I need to start building up my position in Amazon. And now we're seeing, you know, a multi-quarter acceleration of uh AWS. I mean, 20%, they have not seen that 20% growth since uh December of 2022. And honestly, December of 2022, it's almost September of 2022. It's almost been three years since we've seen this level of growth.
>> And th those comps were very easy to beat back then.
>> Right.
>> These comps were not easy to beat.
>> Yeah.
>> This is this is the equivalent of Nvidia reacelerating its revenue on the data center end right now, which they kind of are forecasting. So that's going to be very interesting to see next quarter. So,
>> you started getting excited about Amazon two quarters ago. I got excited about a month and a half ago and it seems like the reason for most people online getting excited about the name is cloud AWS and the lack of performance this year. Is there anything else that was really getting
>> advertising?
>> Okay, so cloud and advertising were the two core things that you focused on.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Advertising is just crazy. I I I don't know if people are paying attention to all the names that I've been buying recently, but like if you were to go through I I bought um Meta on the dip and then it kept dipping. I bought TTD. I bought Apploving. I just bought Reddit right before they showed earnings. So that was my little
>> Wow, congrats. Congrats.
>> That was my little trade.
>> Um
>> look at Tanner becoming a trader. He used to never do this stuff.
>> You got a Discord, man? You got a Patreon?
>> Yeah, you got a Patreon, bro.
>> No, but you know what? Um, I honestly I've, if anyone's been following the channel, I've been talking about Reddit for a long time now.
>> Ever since last quarter. Well, okay, sorry, three months, but but almost every day for three months. Been talking about this name. Okay,
>> if you go back and you look at their earnings beat every single quarter, I don't think it's been sub 50% EPS beat. like Wall Street has just been consistently wrong on this name since they've been a public company, which hasn't been super long, but I just had an inkling. So, I bought it like 402 or something today. It was all live, so like check the you know, check the receipts, but um yeah. So, so that was my little uh my little clip of the day. And then
>> but but Reddit's advertising and advertising in general is what also got you into Amazon two quarters ago. every dude advertising just in general and and especially owning the customer. So that that's been very exciting. The fact that Amazon is now willing with their DSP to essentially just go face to face against TTD, pay for those campaigns and say, "Hey, try us against another third party company and you see who you like better." That that's proving that they're not just bundling their service. They they truly believe that like their service is much better. the the the performance of their advertising is much better than where you can get elsewhere. And this is such a huge target across having a centralized marketplace that is Amazon.com, Prime Video, like I don't know. I'm sometimes I get a little overly excited. I just really like Amazon. I'm loving the mag seven names right now. It's crazy that the biggest names in the stock market are also some of the fastest growing high highest margin businesses across the board. It It's such an uh an interesting time right now where you don't even have to go look for the next speculative startup names. You can just buy the best companies in the world and still find quality and growth.
>> Okay. So, we'll talk more about that. Sam, I know you got a dip. So, uh
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Thanks for being on. Yes, thanks for having me on
>> Twitter right there in the chat. You can follow him. Great analysis and uh yeah, thanks for helping us understand the Amazon story.
>> Talk to you guys later.
>> See you, Sam.
>> Have you ever taken a look at Reddit?
>> I I watched your deep dive on it. Uh I actually bought it back at 115 and then I sold it like at 120 or something. But um first of all, congrats on the trade. Second of all, I agree with you, dude. These mag seven names that are giving people opportunities. First of all, I think a year from now, Meta down 12%. A lot of people are going to be like, "That was stupid." And now Amazon for the past couple months that's been flat or down year to date. I mean, this was at 212 weeks ago. I think people are going to say that was stupid. So, the question then becomes going into 26, are you buying these dips because you think the MAG 7 are just going to keep being the best companies in the world?
>> Yeah. Yeah, dude. I I think you're 100% right. I was talking with Stephen Fiorello the other day. his last name. Like we don't know who.
>> Sorry,
>> you're talking to Steve. Yes, we we know who he is.
>> I was talking to Steve the other day and um
>> his government name.
>> I'm friends with a famous person. I like to, you know, say his full name for people know.
>> That's true. That's true.
>> Um but uh he was saying, you know, 2026 is going to be a harder trading year because everything's run up so much. So, it's going to be very hard. And then you see things like we're we're fourth quarter 2025 and Meta sells off double digits. This is Meta, okay, not showing free cash flow deteriorating extremely fast. Like Capex grew, but so did free cash flow. Like they're still putting up great numbers. I think we're always going to find these opportunities. Maybe broad-based if you're buying the S&P 500, that might climb, but you're going to see these weird market reactions. constantly. So, I probably am going to start building up a position in Meta and I might even use the gains that I've had from Google buying that dip whenever everyone forgot about that then forgot about Amazon and now people are forgetting about Meta. I mean, this is what game are we playing? I feel like I'm just juggling Meg seven names. Like, I don't know. I agree with you. It it's it it like buying the dip is always mentally hard, but buying the dip on phenomenal companies makes it easier and uh yeah, I don't know what happens to Meta. I think there's, you know, there's the streets going to have to figure out how they think of it, but I think longterm it does well. And then Amazon, this this is one that a lot of us agreed on this. I like there was push back on X for the most part of people that just hate Jasse. And I mean, there was like there was some petition that he needs to be replaced. I remember arguing with someone saying he needs to be replaced. I'm like why does he need to be repl it's almost like the sundar needs to get fired comments.
>> Yeah.
>> But outside of that the majority of people were like this is robotics AI cloud they just needed AWS and they delivered. I'll ask you the same question that I asked Sam. Would you buy after this 15% move or no?
>> It's harder now. Um I haven't looked at the the multiples and where this will be whenever it opens tomorrow at 250. Um, but no, I'm I'm probably going to start buying positions in meta to be honest.
>> Um, like I I I think that not only is advertising going to continuously grow as an industry for forever. Um, but that things like aentic commerce and the the ability to target people better with uh advertising is only going to make their take rates better. And then all of these companies for the most part even though they're in, you know, 100 plus countries, the majority of their business is done in one or two countries, US and Canada. And so as Meta, Amazon, all of these business expand internationally, and they usually see faster growth internationally than they do in the United States, there's so much business left to grow. Like these could be 10 trillion plus dollar businesses in the future. But just because we haven't seen a company at that size before, people think that it's not plausible. But I don't know. We saw Nvidia break four trillion, 5 trillion. No one thought they were going to do that. You think they're going to get six trillion this year in video?
>> Okay. Now, see, now you're sounding like Steven Fiorillo. He's He's talking about 1980. No, I don't. And I don't think that would be healthy, quite frankly. Not in 90 days for them to hit six trillion. It would be kind of cool.
>> 60 days? I don't know, bro. A trillion in 60 days. They were at four trillion. What? July they hit it for the first time.
>> Yeah, something like that. Yeah,
>> it's quite incredible. But even Jasse on the call when you talking about the tranium chips, I mean you're you're seeing the progress of the, you know, everyone's asking ROI. You're seeing it with how they're monetizing tranium in collaboration with Nvidia.
>> Someone said Stephen who? Please specify. Oh my goodness. All right. Well, congrats to everybody. Hell of an earnings day. There's Tanner right there. Tanner's YouTube putting it in the chat. Uh, thanks. I'll be
>> I'll be live with Steve at 9:30 again tonight. Tanner, if you want to join, feel free. I think Chris will be joining that one. And, uh, you know, we'll probably be talking Amazon. But this was a good one, dude. And and it felt like the sky was falling at 359. For whatever reason, the algos wanted to dump and be stupid and bitcoins recovering a little bit, but you needed this one to go well and this one went well. Man, the amount honestly I was looking at the amount of quotes that I was finding from Amazon's quarter and uh it's in it's incredible some of the things that he ended up send like did you even see the the tranium growth fully subscribed they grew 150% quarter over quarter
>> it's 40 it's 40% better than trrenium 2 you know
>> and drop already signed up for the next set of chips yeah I mean it's it's a big And and even Rufus, I thought everyone was having terrible uh experiences with Rufus. I've only heard bad things. They said users that were using Rufus uh interactions went up 210% and they were 60% more likely to complete a purchase.
>> Yeah. To drive over 10 billion in incremental annualized sales.
>> Yeah. I've never used Rufus, but I would imagine other people do. And I mean people in the chat were saying that the Amazon ads get them every day and they buy something new from it. So
>> yeah, why not?
>> Yeah, same thing with Gemini, right? People overlook it for so long and then you realize that it continues to pick up speed and it's actually doing very well. And AI overviews and AI modes monetizing at the same level of Google search. And I if someone were to think out that problem, they probably wouldn't believe it. But the facts are the facts unless you think that Sundar or Andy Jasse or some of these guys are lying on these calls which clearly they're not you know but
>> yeah and then you know when he was asked about robotics Amazon obviously I I think they are the number one company on the planet that is infiltrated with robotics and has been for the past decade. So that's a massive tailwind to increase their margins. What what was your take on the layoff question that he said it was about culture not AI? Do you do you believe him when he says that?
>> Uh you know what I said that he wasn't lying about things. I don't know. He might be lying about that one. We We'll see. But um to me it feels like AI, not financial and not even AIdriven. Okay. Well, he did say they hired like crazy during COVID and so it's a natural downsizing, but I agree. some of the jobs that have been replaced. You could argue AI probably can
>> Yeah, but how is that not financially driven, culturally driven?
>> It's a fair point.
>> They're just not blending into the AI workforce. Like to me, the way I think of the AI or or sorry, the Amazon workforce is like, you know, employee 47104, please get to your station. Like, there's no culture. You got Amazon drivers pissing in bottles so they can make their time slots. It's like what what's the culture of Amazon?
>> That's a fair point. That's a fair point. And the corporate workforce, I mean, there were some people who work at Amazon in the chat and they said, "Dude, it's not about the culture. Let me tell you that."
>> So,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah. One could argue this was more financially motivated, but but again, this goes back to the conversation we've been having for about a year now. You've got to own the asset. You have to own the asset. Whether it's one share, a 100 shares, a thousand shares over your lifetime, whatever you can DCA into these companies that are defining what will be the technology of our lifetimes, which is AI, you've got to own them because when people get fired from Amazon and then they increase AWS revenues and then their operational efficiencies get better, who gets rewarded? The shareholder. It's just that simple. You can hate it, you can love it, but if you want to make money and you want to secure a financial future and not be stuck to the whims of currency debasement or inflation, you've got to own something that is going to benefit from this tailwind. And that's likely these tech companies that are the biggest tech companies we've ever seen.
>> Amit the immoral investor, eh,
>> I don't even think, you know, get morality out of it. It's just like how do you secure your financial future? You've got to be on the side of the asset holder versus the person complaining about the company.
>> Have you seen the movie War Dogs?
>> Classic, dude. I love that movie.
>> Dude, shut up,
>> dude. I've seen it. What are you talking about? Jonah Hill 2016. Classic, bro. It's on Amazon Prime.
>> 2016 movie with, you know, Jonah Hill.
>> It's an hour and 54 minutes, bro. It reminds me of that where there's uh two kids that will do anything to sell guns to any side, any team, doesn't matter. It's not about the morals, it's about the profits.
>> Agreed. I I think the scene in the movie that was really important is when they started selling the guns because that to me defined the the the the the ambition that they had to, you know, to to thrive. So, I agree.
>> Yeah. Well, what it's been a while since I've seen it, but you know what happened during the movie? Yeah. Uh anyway,
>> yeah, let's talk BMR. Oh, wait, no, I have to go. Um,
>> well, hold on real quick. Let's just say this on BMR because everyone is going crazy about this. I mean, I said my thoughts in the morning, but you can give your thoughts. I think people are really freaking out about it because it's going down, but at the same time, they're not remembering why they got in it. And I think you and I got in it because we believe in Ethereum and we've been studying the technology for a minute and you know given the intersection with Robin tokenization we're big Robinet fans that's why we got excited about it. Uh I think a lot of people got in it because they just wanted the stock to go up. So what is your take on what's been going on with BMR?
>> Yeah I mean I I'm I'm not worried about the uh the the share price right now. They're not at their 5% alchemy of holding ETH. So the playbook is simple. They're going to continue to acquire more ETH. What happens in the share price from then till now, I've got no control over that. I mean, you were a long holder of Palunteer through $8 and everything where the business looked like it was going in one direction, the stock was going in a complete other one. I mean, that the the stock market does not have to adjust on your timeline.
>> We just experienced this with Amazon.
>> Yeah,
>> we just experienced it. stuck at the whole freaking country shut down because of AWS. Stocks at 212 like and now it's at 250. So I think narrative moves with price as easily as it as emotions go to the euphoric stage with price. But at the end of the day, you have to understand why you bought BMR in the first place. And I think it's because you and me are looking at what Vlad is doing with Robin Hood. We're looking at what what Larry Frink is doing with Black Rockck. And we're looking at the intersection of Wall Street and blockchain. And it's becoming very clear that Ethereum likely is the winner. Maybe it's not, but that's at least the thesis we have, just like everyone had a thesis that AWS would be able to grow. And then you're just getting leverage against it with BMR. If you hate that thesis, then don't get into the story. But if you think that thesis makes sense, then you're going to have to deal with the volatility of that thesis. I mean, if you want some real gains, stock just can't go up every single day because that's not how crypto works. And if you didn't know that, then then get out of it, right? then then cryptos then a cryptole leveraged digital asset treasury is not for you and that's okay but I think people freaking out about it because the price is down it's just like any stock
>> will have a price
>> yeah um if you've seen this already it I don't need to show it again but these are maybe the two most powerful names in financial services right now Larry Frink and Jamie Diamond 17c clip just about how Jaime Diamond has completely flipped his opinion of blockchain and crypto services
>> skeptical of crypto at one point he was still skept with no damage so far. Crypto is real. If you mean blockchain, stable coins, you have a JP Morgan deposit coin. You can move stuff. Smart contracts are real. All that stuff is real. It will be used by all of us to facilitate, you know, better transactions and customer.
>> Anybody skeptical of crypto at one?
>> I mean, I I I haven't seen that. Wow. That that happened today uh about six hours ago. I saw I saw Think give a speech, but I did not see Jamie Diamond admit that it's all real. So, the the the business model of BMR, in my opinion, it it would be hard for it to even be a scam, as some people are alluding to. All they do is acquire Ethereum. There's no secret sauce about it. They've barely created many different ways to acquire Ethereum. They're selling their stock. They're buying Ethereum. If Ethereum is not running, that's not like Ethereum didn't just get created today. This has been around for, you know, almost a decade um or a little over a decade. And um now you just have a purchaser of Ethereum. Now, all of the largest financial managers and and biggest guy like don't trust me, don't trust uh Emit. Trust the guys that are moving hundreds of billions, trillions of dollars a day, a week, a year, like they're all on the blockchain thesis now. They they they see no way around it.
>> So,
>> yeah. And look, that doesn't mean Ethereum has to win. That also doesn't mean Bitmine has to keep their MNAV. But I I you either understand that thesis and believe in it and you want to be long it or you don't. And if you don't then there's plenty of other opportunities in this market like Meta that just took a nasty dip that you know it's a more fundamental business you understand it you understand cash flows all that stuff then shift the money there. But I I do think a lot of people are just reacting to the price and it's like if the price is going to control the emotion uh then you can't be in anything that's crypto derivative. Now, one of the reasons I love Robin Hood is because it's rooted in crypto in terms of it being a big part of the revenues, but it's like a real fundamental business that has other elements to it. But make no mistake about it, one of the reasons Robin is at $130 billion market cap is because crypto has had a pretty good past couple years. So, it's like if you're going to be leveraging anything that is going to have uh meaningful exposure to the upside when it comes to the cryptocurrency markets, you've got to be ready for that volatility. Not to mention the administration, Donnie T and all of his friends, including his sons, they own a lot of ETH and they are making sure legislation and regulatory frameworks are on the side of Ethereum. So again, I just think being blinded by short-term price action on any asset, much less BMR is going to hurt in the long term, but or hurt in the short term. In the long term, you know, if there's an underlying thesis, the stock should perform. Another guy, by the way, Vlad Tennov, the guy who's, you know, brought Hood to where it is, is also saying that the entire financial system will be tokenized. And they specifically are building their L2 directly on Ethereum. The Robin Hood chain is on Ethereum. They could have picked Salana. They could have picked Aval. They could have picked whatever they, you know, and I kind of trust Vlad as someone who understands where the future of finance is going. So,
>> all right. We got
>> Yeah. Thank you, Tanner. entertainers YouTube right there in the chat. Amazon, congrats to everybody. We'll talk more about it tomorrow in the market open. This was a big win for everyone in retail. I think we all came together on this one and uh yeah, we'll keep it going. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. See you guys tomorrow.