Hi everybody and welcome to in good company. I'm Nicolola Tangan the CEO of the Norwegian so wealth fund and I'm today I'm in a particularly good company with the CFO of Somi Alla Lamb.
>> Hello Nicola thanks for having me.
>> Now uh Allah um Somi is just an incredible company with phones, cars, humanoids. Um you know we are the lucky owner of more than 1% of the company. So, um, just tell us, uh, what do you do and, um, and how did it all happen?
>> Well, thanks, Nicola. Thanks for the question. Uh, and good to be here. Um, so, first of all, Xiaomi is a still a very young company. We just turned 16. Um, we founded in uh, April 6 on April 6, 2010. Um, and since then, we have, uh, done a lot as you mentioned. Uh, but ultimately, I think we think of ourselves as a global technology company. Obviously we have smartphones, we have a lot of smart devices. Uh plus re recently we have smart electric vehicles and we are into manufacturing. Uh but underlying all of these is our technology whether it is uh our operating system, our semiconductors, our AI. I think those are the stuff that uh that we built um under underneath all of our ecosystem, right? M
>> um I think we built a pretty comprehensive uh what we call a human time car time home ecosystem ranging from all your personal devices to all your home devices and now with your mobility solutions. So um that's where we are but you know we've achieved quite a bit uh you know over the last 15 years you know obviously uh last year we have over 450 billion R&B in terms of sales and um you know and we have achieved um you know pretty good profitability
>> it's just such an incredible story so I'm not quite sure even where to start but why don't we just go through it chronologically uh the first product you had um you know just how did you just how did it art.
>> We actually started off building the operating system for smartphones and that was in 2010 when we founded the company. We want to do a uh you know uh operating system on top of the Android ecosystem and then try to uh offer it to uh smartphones. Um but eventually we decide to get into the smartphone ourselves, right? And our first smartphone which we call Xiaomi one uh we sold it at 1999 R&B in China. And that become a huge success because I mean as you remember back in the days there were a lot of products out there that were low quality but high prices.
>> How long time did it take you to develop the telephone?
>> So uh we launched our first smartphone in 2011. So one year after we
>> How is it possible to have such a short cycle time? Yeah, because at that time I think there is a lot of you know the supply chain is obviously quite advanced in China but the problem in the market for that at that time was there was a lot of expensive products with very low quality right and the philosophy for the for the company is that can we do a smartphone that is much better quality and can you know and we can offer to users at much more affordable prices and that's something that you see perminated in the history of of our products, right? We try to offer, you know, very high quality solutions to our users at affordable prices.
>> How do you think about your supply chain? How much of that is Chinese sourced and how much is sourced outside?
>> Well, I mean, at the beginning, I think there's still a lot of reliance on uh you know, foreign technologies. Um, but over the last 15 years uh for a smartphone, frankly, most of the content now uh is localized. You can find local solutions for that uh in most of our component. How much easier is it for you as a firm to be fast in product development when you can source everything locally? Um it is important uh because the local um you know frankly speaking if you think about the foreign uh products a lot of them are more standardized solutions off the shelf right whereas the local partners are willing to work with you uh developing products that are more customized uh to what you know we want right and and and as a result it's not just faster but it's also our ability to offer much more customized solutions that fits better into our smartphone, that fits better into what we want and as a result, you know, we go to market uh we are able to offer, you know, products to our customers at, you know, as some offer something that they really want.
>> So, you are now at model 17. Um, you've aligned with uh with the Apple uh kind of numbers. You had a setback in 16. What what happened then?
>> Well, I think um there was such a big leap between 15 and 17. that we think that it's it's be beyond one generation in terms of improvement from our Xiaomi 17 to our Xiaomi 15 and hence we name it uh Xiaomi 17 uh you know and the innovation comes when you look at the smartphone I don't have one with me right now unfortunately but it offered a back panel right so instead of having a front panel like most most smartphones do we actually offer the back panel as well so so you can you can use both sides uh effectively uh and that's something that has proven to be uh a lot of ground I mean very groundbreaking and a lot of our users like it.
>> How uh important um has the kind of the internet of things or your connectivity with home appliances been? It is important because I think in this world uh a lot of our users like intelligent uh solutions right so you know think about air conditioners think about washing machines think about refrigerators people mean the technology have existed for 30 50 years but that hasn't changed for you know uh for a long time right so what we what we offer to our users is you know a smart solutions right now you can upgrade your software over the air in your devices, right? As opposed to buying a new machines, right? And a lot of our users value that. Plus the fact is can you make your whole, you know, lifestyle, whole ecosystem much smarter by connecting everything together so that they can do things for you. Not just you know using your smartphone as a remote control but smart intelligence solutions that they understand who you are they understand your behavior and they can try to offer customized solutions for you every day.
>> What are the kind of things that you you that you can offer clients? Yeah, for example, uh smart lock, right? And many people now installed uh instead of a traditional lock, a smart lock, right? Not just you can look at, you know, who's outside of your door, who's delivering stuff to you, you can offer specialized password for people to enter your apartment so that you don't leak your uh you know, secrecy. But also, if you interconnect it with other devices home, for example, when you open your smart lock, your AC will automatically be switched on, right? that you don't have to do anything extra, right? And those are the smart solutions that we like to think that our users need and uh you know and obviously that become very popular feature among our users.
>> And then you decided to make a car.
>> Correct. Um we decided to get into the car industry uh in 2021 and uh and and then we launched our first car in 2024.
>> How is that possible?
>> So uh a little bit over less than three years we launched our first car, we designed it and then we built a factory as well. So um China speed
>> tell me about China speed.
>> Um so so look at the beginning um you know the car industry to us is not that foreign. Uh Xiaomi as a company has already invested in some of the EV uh manufacturers in China before. So we have an experience of seeing them develop helping them develop uh over time. But then we decided to do it oursself and uh as you as you know we've done a lot of due diligence in the industry the moment we decided to get into this industry and I think the ultimate solution is our ultimate conclusion I should say is that you know you know if you believe that a car a EV right is going to be another piece of consumer electronics and that's something that we have a lot of experience in whether it is managing the software hardware integration whether it is managing the supply chain. I think those are the stuff that you know we have experienced working with so many consumer electronics products before. I mean obviously car is a little bit uh of a different animal because you need to consider about safety you know uh but you know again I think the supply chain in China has been relatively welldeveloped on the EV industry. So as we go into that I think um what we said was look can we spend 10 times more investments to build the first car right I think that's that's also a very important philosophy as well is instead of going into all these different directions making multiple cars we decided to spend all of our efforts on one single car
>> and it's a pretty fast car right because now you you set the record for the quickest u uh round on newber last year
>> yeah look I think As we look into this car industry in the EV industry as well, we think that there are certain things that are core to the EV technology that we want to own and develop ourselves, right? The rest we can have our suppliers work with us on that. But things like the electric motors is something that we've spent real efforts on. Things like the uh how do you pack the battery? Things like smart driving, uh assisted driving, etc. Those are the stuff that we spend you know a real time on developing our proprietary technology. The rest of it I think we can rely on other people uh to supply us with this with the industry solutions.
>> How many people do you have in R&D? uh at the beginning probably around 3,000 people to de to develop the first car which is as you know in this industry probably 10 times more than other peers uh in terms of developing uh the first car because our chairman has the philosophy that you know we want to spend you know a lot of you know effort initially to catch up with our peers.
>> Now uh you sold 50,000 cars in 30 minutes. Um yeah yeah yeah because look I I think um obviously we are very new entrant to the EV business but uh but obviously at the same time we already have a very established brand in China. Uh we have a loyal lot of loyal uh users of our products. Uh we have over 180 million uh people in China that are using our smartphones every day. uh and at the beginning when we decided uh to uh to develop a car to develop a EV a lot of our users saying that you know if Xiaomi wants to make a car we'll buy it right so you know you know 20 plus% of our initial buyers haven't even test driven the car haven't even you know uh seen the car uh in in real life right they just see us launching the car and they put an order in so that's a testament to the loyal user is that we've built up, they're loyal to brand and they know that we're going to make the best products for them.
>> How do you get people to love you?
>> Um, well, I think I think it goes back to our philosophy, right? If you look at our mission, uh, we want to build amazing products with honest prices to let everyone in the world enjoy a better life through innovative technology, right? It's a long sentence, but you know, we want to build amazing products. uh we want to offer these products at you know what we call honest prices uh to our users and we want to do a global business right and we want to be innovative so I think all those all these stuff are what uh all these things are all these features are what uh users really value these days and you know over time uh we've also you know make the coolest products uh we make a lot of friends with our users uh we stay engaged with our users listen to the feedback and uh and try to change our product based on these feedbacks. So, so those are the stuff that we built a very good report with our users over time and that's how they are loyal to our brand. They know that whenever they walk into our store, they whenever they buy one of Xiaomi products, they are getting the best pricing possible.
>> What are the similarities between making a phone and a car? um some diff some similarities, a lot of differences obviously um if you look at uh the phone industry uh before 200 2024 we did not have a first factory uh smartphone factory. So before that we were all using you know outsourcing it to the Foxcon of the world, the BYD of the world and other other suppliers to make the phones for us. Uh so we are more responsible for the design for some of the basic technology for some of the technology and also for you know the branding and the marketing of the products for the car business uh you know we also undertook the task of building a uh entire new factory in Beijing right and so that is a new experience for us that's you know that's our first you know real large scale factory that built our own car so that that's that's the difference right I think that's the one key difference between uh you know how we entered into the car business versus how we entered uh the smartphone business but there's a lot of similarities because increasingly the software drive the hardware right in the EV just like they're in the smartphone and a lot of it is you know you know in in smartphone we stack up a lot of uh chipset into a very small form factor in the car is similar we have to stack up a lot of components and you know other things into a into a form factor uh but increasingly more important important especially in the EV world the software becomes very important. How do you manage battery power? How do you manage the software to drive the car in a safe manner? I think those are very important uh similarities with the uh with the uh with the smartphone business. Obviously managing the supply chain is also very important. Uh we have a lot of uh suppliers that are quite that are the same between the smartphone business as well as the EV business. And that's why um you know that there's a lot of cross collaborations. I think people trust uh the engineers uh of Xiaomi uh that we can build something that is worldclass and that is very popular with the users.
>> How far behind uh is Europe when it comes to EVs? Now
>> um look we still look up to the um you know a lot of the OEMs uh the traditional OEMs. We still think that there's a lot of things to learn from them. the way that they build the brand, the way the way that they build the drivetrain, the way the way that they give people a real good driving experience. Those are the stuff that we still look up to a lot of the European OEMs. Uh what we think that they are lacking uh are n number one I think the smartness of the car. I think they try to implement a lot of the smart features uh into the car right now. I think in that sense they are probably behind uh what we are seeing in China right now. And then then second is kind of the whole and you know NEV the new energy vehicle development right I think that they were a lot of the focus were on electric at that time but really I think when we look at uh our EV we call it a smart electric vehicles right uh and I think that some OEMs may look at electric to you know uh too focused on electric but let's focus on smart right I think that that that that's one think that you know our the users right now really want especially given the Xiaomi advantage is how do I link it with all of our ecosystem products. How do it work better with my smartphones? How do work better with my IoT devices? You know, things like that that I can create not just a EV but also a you know smart life ecosystem uh uh beyond the EV.
>> And how long time do you think it would take the western brands to catch up on that particular element? Uh no, I think I think a lot of people are learning right. I I think a lot of people are studying how the Chinese uh ED development has become so advanced. Uh we have obviously received quite a lot of European OEMs who come to visit us who come to you know want to have experience sharing with us not just we sharing with them but they also share with us you know it depends on you know how serious they are and I think I think you already seen a couple of the European collaboration with the Chinese players as well right so I think that that's going to be helpful in driving the industry forward
>> now I think it was the CEO of Ford who uh who used your su U7 for a little while. Uh what did he say about it?
>> He said he couldn't get rid of it after 6 months of driving it
>> because he loved it too much.
>> Uh apparently I haven't spoken with him in person, but apparently based on what he's been saying in public, he loves our car.
>> How is the uh EV market going to develop going forward? Uh look I think um the EV penetrations will continue to go you know to to to be higher in China is already uh new car sales is already 50 60% uh new new energy vehicle right uh so so that's very uh high already but if you look at a lot of the global market uh the e the new EV market is still quite low in terms of penetration so I think that you know as the infrastructure continue to devel develop as people appreciate uh the smartness the the the drivability of these new electric vehicles I think the penetration will go up.
>> So when you see European and um and American producers actually pulling back their EV uh efforts how do you what do you think about that? Uh look, I think uh you know, obviously there's a lot of investments that need to go in especially for uh many of the legacy uh uh brands because they need to recruit the whole systems uh to get uh NB done. So uh you know so and a lot of them are you know probably not pushing that agenda as forward but I I you know honestly speaking we don't think that they're you know we think that the NV is going to continue to penetrate you know whether uh the Chinese players are coming in or whether the European and the American players are developing it themselves uh or also the also the Japanese and the Koreans. So, so I actually think that you know the trend will be there longer term right there's obviously you know maybe hiccups along the way but uh the whole industry I think will move forward in this direction uh as you know sometimes there's there's a major breakthrough in terms of you know smartness of the vehicles and also the infrastructure I think you know there there are a lot of places whereby the infrastructure is probably not as well developed uh in in the other markets for for the EV market to take off
>> let's move on to robot otics and humanoids. Um, what are you doing there? I've just seen your latest models and it's uh
>> yeah, look,
>> it's pretty mindboggling.
>> We've been doing robotics uh for five six years now. Uh that that's some that's an investments that we we've started making back in 2019 2020. Um but then I think we are beginning to see the inflection point in in this in this market. uh a a you know combinations of the hardware getting better as well as the software getting better i.e. AI you know that is driving the brain of the of the robots. Um uh the way that we are thinking Xiaomi internally is thinking about it is we are making these human robots to enhance our own manufacturing capability and efficiency. Uh we are we haven't launched any 2C robots. So all the robots that we are developing, all the humanoid robots we are developing right now are used in our own manufacturing scenario. I think the video already showed that there were two robots that are working uh uh consecutively for three hours with a with a very low margin of error. So uh but still I think that's the long way to go. That's a long way to go because as you know and I'm sure that we'll move to AI at some point in this conversation, right? Um the AI right now is mostly focusing on you know learning from the text data from the voice data that have we have accumulated for a long long time but then the physical data are still you know quite a way behind in terms of the collection and the interpretation. So, so I I do think that the the the when you develop the the large language model for for physical AI right now, what we still lacking is a lot of data that that don't exist, right? So, you have to stimulate it. You have to find out the use cases and find the corner cases uh etc etc. But, you know, the tax and the voice are quite quite well developed at this point. Can you tell us about the the improvement in in the grip uh uh functionality in your latest model?
>> Yeah, look, I think uh if you look at the video that they shows like the the hand is much smaller than than the the other versions, the hand is uh very similar to a human hand size now, right? And also the degree of freedom that it offer, right? Right. I mean I mean I think one of the one of the biggest challenge with the hand is how many degrees of freedoms do you have in the uh in the in the hand. And then the the second problem that we're trying to solve is the cooling, right? It's like a it's like a smartphone. It's like uh when you use the machines for too long, it get heated, right? And once you get heated, you know, the the consumer electronics rule will say that the the the performance will degrade, right? So what we're trying to do also is introduce a cooling system that you can you know do some heat management of the hand as well so that it doesn't get overheated uh while you are doing the stuff uh the work with repetitive.
>> When do you think you'll have this for consumers? Um that's not the focus of Xiaomi right now to be honest. uh because uh we actually think that uh there is a big space uh for us to because ultimately we do hardware right we do a lot of hardes um and uh there's a long lot of manufacturing involved right so we want these uh humanoid robots to be able to do you know to improve our manufacturing efficiency first and maybe to recreate our entire manufacturing processes could could be but this that that's already a huge market so right now we're not thinking about uh doing any two robot at this point in time.
>> Who do you think will win the um this race?
>> It's hard to say but um but it suffice to say that you know uh if you if you look at this market right now in terms of innovation in terms of entrepreneurship in terms of technology leadership there are two big superpowers in the world right the US and uh and and and China. So, you know, the winner will come from one of these two places, but I don't know where yet.
>> What's next?
>> Well, I think I mean, we we talk a lot about, you know, uh what we've been doing. Uh I think that um the next thing for us is, you know, continue to develop our AI capabilities. I think that AI is going to be very important uh for the next wave of innovations and it permanent it will it will impact all of our businesses. How do you use it today in the company?
>> Um well I mean I think uh the simple things are coding right? So uh a lot of our software engineers now use by coding. Um number one. Second one is can we improve our sales efficiency? Can we predict sales better? Right? I.e. Do I even need to hire an experienced sales store manager or I can use AI to predict what kind of sales should each store generate every day? Right? Uh uh marketing materials, right? We can we use AI to generate the first few draft. And very importantly, even in the manufacturing process, we've been using AI a lot, right? So when we talk about our car, uh we we have a big gigap press, right? that does the rear floor for the car. Um but in terms of the material we use for that for that for that rear floor we generated over we stimulated over 100 plus formulas and use AI to predict the performance of each of these formulas and ultimately we picked two uh to be the material for that three or four that we do for the giga press that we do right in terms of like you know and in terms of each piece that we manufactured they went through an X-ray room when they take a lot of pictures and they use AIs to uh look into that to see whether there are deflexs in the in the in the manufacturing process. Right? So you don't use humans to do it anymore. You just use AI to take pictures very quickly. They can diagnose whether this piece is good or not. And then you can use AI in terms of material generations and a lot of those things. So so we using AI in a lot of different areas. Uh but you know you know but then there are more to do. I think there are more to do going forward. You also developed your own language model.
>> Yes, we just launched it uh two weeks ago. So we launched our own large language model um two weeks ago and the it has performed pretty well. I mean if you look at public scoring systems like open router.com uh you know you can see that we have been ranked uh you know very highly on that on that on that table. So, so we're very glad that um we you know we have a you know a uh a large language model that people like and people use
>> and at much lower costs than the likes of Claude.
>> Um well I mean these costs are never disclosed publicly disclosed information. So I I don't quite know the cause of it but our price that we offered are lower than crop uh but much higher than the other uh you know models from China that are being offered right now.
>> What are the cost advantages you have uh when it comes to uh you know the utilization of these models giving lower energy costs um simpler uh model structures and so on. um we we did try to innovate a bit on the uh on the infrastructure of the model. So so obviously we have the benefit of seeing how other people's do it before and then we try to optimize our path. So so in terms of infrastructure we have done some innovations although we didn't talk too much publicly about that. Uh number one number two is um if you think about the the the model development right now I think there's still a long way to go. The good thing for Xiaomi in a way is I already have a big ecosystem right that we can use to test we can collect data uh from uh from those user behavior and we can refine our model.
>> Last thing is obviously as you know that we put it as an open source model. So we're also trying to to uh invite the best uh the best mind globally to help improve that model as a result.
>> What is it going to mean that uh many of the Chinese models are open source? uh that's that's also a different approach right I think I think different model company will have different approach in terms of how they want to do an open source or close source but I think that our you know our open source model is obviously because we want to invite uh you know we invite uh you know other developers to jointly develop this model with us to help our ecosystem become smarter right and then to raise the you know experience uh ceiling of these models And also it help us attract you know good talent uh to help us improve the model as well right because ultimately I think if you look at whether it's our car whether it's our smartphone you know you know we want to invite other people to join us uh together so that we can help improve the ecosystem together as well. So let's say 5 10 years from now when you have integrated um you know all your all your products with uh the latest uh AI models and so on what is the what's the vision of the world what is it going to look like
>> as we think about uh how AI is going to change the world um uh and how do we fit into our own ecosystem right we think about the more in the physical AI world right how do we get AI into our phone, how do we get AI into our smart appliances, how do we get AI into our car, and then how to connect interconnect these things to make uh users lives are more efficient, much better. I think that that's kind of how we see this, right? Um and obviously other people are using AI to serve the coder community, the coding community. Other people are trying to use AI to make you know very useful chat box for the users so that they can you know they they can use that chat box uh to help them you know uh manage the life better. But for us for Xiaomi because we have over you know a billion uh connected devices globally. We have over 800 uh million uh uh mobile smartphone uh smartphone users globally. How do we interconnect these devices so that uh we will enhance people's productivity in the physical AI world. I think that that's something that we we we are we are we are looking at right.
>> I have to ask you a question about uh the founder uh Leon who is kind of considered a a mix of Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and and Elon Musk. Um how uh how is it to work with him? Well, uh, Mr. Lee himself is a entrepreneur, serial entrepreneur, but he's also a a product person, right? I think if you look at uh when we get into the car industry, uh, we decided that he should be the CEO of the car business uh, in order to take it forward. and he will you know I I think you've seen other interviews uh of him as well that he personally dri he has personally driven 150 different models of car right himself and take detailed notes so that he understand what's on offer in the market and how can he improve on it I mean I I I can you know I can you know I can I can assure that you can find very few CEOs that are real dedication that have this real dedications to to start off with this car business, right? He make us like all the management team like I personally driven 3,000 kilometers before the first car was launched uh in our own car just to again you know his philosophy is that you have to understand the product. uh you have to love your product before you you know before you you you know you are in this business right he make us all take uh professional racing car you know licenses um in order to you know to know how to drive properly so so he's uh obviously he's a visionary uh he defined the company's culture but he also try to you know help us right uh enhance our knowledge not just on the business but also on the products that we offer What are the other ways he uh influences the corporate culture of the company?
>> Well, I think look, I mean, he's obviously a very hardworking guy, right? You know, he he work uh I mean, people know in China that he works very very hard and that obviously, you know, inspire all of us to follow suit, right? Um uh he is a visionary. I mean, I think he'll consider it visionary. Uh he's also a very good investor uh in in in China. um you know so so I think those are the stuff that uh he defined the corporate culture
>> what does it mean to work hard in your book
>> work hard and work smart right I mean obviously we are we have a very very complicated business right it is not you know we are in smartphones we are in IoT we are in car we have AI we have operating system and we are in a we're running our business in over 100 plus countries we also in the manufacturing industry etc so there's a lot of things to manage manage on a day-to-day basis. So by that already you know you can spend a lot of time doing daily jobs. Uh but at the same time I think you know what we need to do is work smart right i.e. what are the priorities what are the three important things we want to achieve this quarter this month uh as well as this year right and we focus on those three things that matters right as opposed to getting immersed into a lot of um you know uh small tasks that may not have much of an impact. So for the management suit we are more focusing on what's the most important things and how do we tackle that on a quarterly basis on a yearly basis on a monthly basis and on a daily basis.
>> You you mentioned um Chinese speed in the beginning. What's the key uh what's the key to gaining speed?
>> Well look I think is number one is um uh you know having the right infrastructure right? If you look at the manufacturing supply chain, you know, in smartphones, in appliances, in also in the EV industry is very welldeveloped uh in in China already, right? I think that h that helps any business uh any consumer electronics business kickstart very very quickly. Number one. Number two is uh the amount of innovation and entrepreneurship that is happening here, right? people are willing to you know spend the the commitment on innovating stuff as opposed to just following stuff. And I think the third is really uh as you know people in China do spend a lot of time working right and um you know you know at the same time probably enjoying life at the same time but uh but uh they they tends to you know spend up more hours right I mean if you if you spend more hours I think you know that the investment will pay off at some point.
>> What are your plans for Europe? Um, look, we are already quite strong in Europe in terms of consumer electronics. Last year we ranked number three in Europe in terms of smartphone sales. Uh, so we're up there with uh Apple and Samsung. Um, uh, next year in second half of next year, we're planning to um to export our cars into Europe. Uh, so that's going to be a new and big joint venture for us. Uh, a new venture for us, not not joint venture. Um uh and so that that that's going to be a new thing that will happen. Uh and we are already investing a lot in Europe right now. Uh as you can see we have the car racing on Newberang. Uh we also set up a EV research center in Munich uh uh this year uh last year uh with you know 75 to 100 engineers over there already developing some of the coolest product right I mean I we we've showcased uh in in Barcelona this March a vision Gran Turismo product uh which is a you know you know concept car um that that we uh that we have and that that's developed by our European Great fun. How do you personally relax?
>> Well, look, I I did a lot of uh you know uh many people say working is relaxing. So I I do work quite a lot. Uh but at the same time, you have to find the right time. I I spend a lot of time uh reading as well. I spend a lot of time doing exercise. Uh
>> what what do you read?
>> Um all kinds of books. Uh research reports. I I do like reading research reports on other company. I do like reading business books. Uh there are obviously a lot of successful examples in many of the industries that we are in whether it is Apple, whether it's Tesla, you know, I read a lot of those books. But at the same time, I try to read a lot of books that you know talk about business failures, right? Why do some companies fail? And and then something that you always can learn, right? I think that there's one phase that I really like is history always repeat itself,
>> right? And so as you read more about these stories, business stories, you know how they people can be successful and you need to find your own path to success. But at the same time, you want to avoid the pitfalls that many many companies have faced in the past.
>> Working is relaxing. What does that mean?
>> I mean, you you do need to enjoy your work. I think it's very important that you need to enjoy what you're doing. You need to enjoy your your colleagues uh working with your colleagues. You need to enjoy working with other partners. uh you need to enjoy you know you know uh understanding what your users need. So, so those are I mean those are in itself can be you know quite enjoyable experience as well as relaxing experience but at the same time I do um you know I do spend quite a bit quite a bit of time running outside I'm I'm going to
>> do a half marathon in Beijing this weekend so that's something that I would do um and I think that those those are the times that you can think about you know what happened next some of the long-term plans but I do also enjoy you know meeting up who have partners, customers, friends over a nice meal, having a nice glass of wine and that's something that you can learn from them as well. I mean I do enjoy talking to a lot of you know industry people from other industry as well and and every every conversation you you try to get a different perspective of you know uh you know what's important to them and you can learn from them about their experience also.
>> What is your advice to young people? Look, I think um the world is evolving very very fast, right? I do think that having the you know having the interest to learn about the latest developments is very important, right? I mean we all talk about AI, right? How is AI going to change the job market in the future? How is AI going to change how people are doing things uh in the future? I think those are important, right? And I think that the young people do need to catch up on the latest trends because if they don't you know if they don't catch up then um you know that that they may face you know job security issues in the future uh they may they may not be able to um you know understand what the next stage of development is going to be. So, so I do know I do think that uh young people do need to spend time understanding the latest trends. But at the same time, I think um uh you know, as I mentioned previously, I do like to read about history. I do read read like to read about what other businesses success or failure uh because you can always learn something from history, right? Because uh there's going to be, you know, history always as I as I mentioned before, history always repeat itself. So there there's something that you can learn. You know, I think one of our chairman saying uh many years ago which resonate a lot with me was 99% of the problems there was a lot there's already a solution out there. You just need to find it and maybe with AI you can find it fast enough.
>> Well, you for sure have found a solution to very many problems and uh big thanks for all your hard work. We are so happy to be shareholder in your group and good luck with everything going forward.
>> Thank you. Thank thanks for having me. Thank you.