We have a lot going on at Axon right now. Uh between our core business really rolling in there. We're talking about tasers and body cams and digital evidence management. We manage about 40 times as much data as the Netflix library in the cloud for our police customers. And so that business has really grown nicely. And now as we look for uh both other markets, we're starting to get really excited about our enterprise market. And you mentioned we we launched the Axon body mini which is supposed to be used in retail, nursing and other non-public safety environments. And then on top of that we continue to plug in strategic acquisitions with uh more uh you know uh newer, younger, more talented teams that might not have hit that steepest part of their growth trajectory yet but are well on their way to it. We think that's a great formula for us and our customers. And when I look at your your stocks performance, you've really take off in the last few years. How is that being attained? Like are you in terms of growth, are you buying or expanding or what areas are really driving that when again look at your stock going pretty much parabolic since call it early 2023.
>> Can I just say 339 is the PE the current PE on the stock and a forward-looking PE of 104.
>> Well, I just want to say that it's up 600 more than 500% in the last three years. Like this is a big run. So, it's so there's obviously something going on or at least the street or investors are excited about something.
>> Yeah. I I think ultimately um we we do a few things really really well. Uh we grow revenue profitably. So there we're talking about uh 7 years of 25 plus% revenue growth. Uh the last three have been over 30%. Uh we relentlessly invest in the customer experience. So, we continue to bring new products to our customers that they're really enjoying using and and that of course a a good formula. And then last last point is we save lives. Like we're a missiondriven company uh and uh and having a real uh impact in society today uh with our tools to help public safety. So, when you combine all those things, there just aren't a lot of companies like that in the public markets today. And we're really really proud that we've supported our customers to the level where we're seeing it grow in our financial results. And I want to talk more about your customers and this body workforce mini in just a moment because I'd read something about how maybe retailers might be making use of it as well as they deal with theft and and situations at their outlets. But I got to ask you about, you know, we were just talking about the stock. It is down a lot since early August. It hit a record uh back then. Your CEO sold about $7 million shares last week. Your CFO sold about 3.6 6 million at the end of last month, some to a much smaller amount in mid-sepptember. Your CPO and CTO sold nearly 6 million in mid August. And you sold uh nearly 12 million worth of shares in mid August, about 11 days after earnings in in August. Insiders selling, you know, where I'm going to go. It's often something we will single out as not a great sign. Should the investing public be concerned?
>> Not at all. And if you look at our stock like over the last 5 years, uh a lot of us have sold on the way up, you know, it's our primary means of compensation. Uh but we continue to have a lot invested in the company and I', you know, I'd chalk that up to uh you know, just just life needs and and so forth as opposed to not feeling confidence in the company because we are extremely extremely confident in what we're going to do both for our customers and for our investors.
>> All right, I just wanted to put that out there. Hey, I want to go back to this body workforce mini. Um, my understanding it's kind of the size and weight of an AirPods Pro case. Comes equipped with new communication AI and HD um, video features. And I saw a story, I think it was Business Insider, that talked about some retailers, including Walmart, have been testing out the use of some police style body cameras at some locations. They're looking to improve worker safety. tell us about the retail usage and if you're seeing interest in demand.
>> Sure. Absolutely. When you ask uh retail workers uh is violent crime in the workspace on the rise, seven of 10 of them will say absolutely yes. And we see that combined with shrinkage in retail, meaning the amount of inventory being written down and lost going from 1% to 3%. And we think body cameras are a big part of the solution here. So just like in public safety when a retail worker is wearing body cameras, there's mutual accountability on both ends of the lens to make sure uh that that uh you know issues or conflicts don't get uh escalated further. So you see a drop in abuse of workers, you see a drop in shrinkage and when we can provide outcomes like that to retailers, uh they're certainly willing to pay pay for that because it does drive uh a really good ROI on their end. And that's what we're seeing. you mentioned uh you know the Walmart uh uh opportunity there. We're seeing that across several large retailers both in the US and and Canada and we think that is a really really uh exciting and growing space for our company that will participate in for a long time. How do you quantify that as an addressable market? And also, are you expecting every Walmart employee to wear one or would it just be a handful that would be interacting with customers, say at an exit?
>> You know, I I think over time, no, no matter who the retailer is, we do believe there's a space uh on the uniform for every retail worker on the floor to be wearing them. Now, I don't know that you'd be putting these on on folks that are maybe in more desk jobs, but certainly in terms of the retailers themselves, we believe 100% of retailer uh retail workers uh will see a value in wearing these. And so, uh very very excited. In terms of the TAM, you know, I I always say the way to think about this is there's a million cops in public safety, uh in the US, and we've built a $60 billion business uh in that space. Uh Walmart alone has 2.4 4 million retail workers uh relative to a million cops. And that's just one brand, of course, a very large one, but one brand. And so, uh the TAM is is uh significantly larger. And uh just like we did in public safety, we're investing a lot, putting a lot behind uh making all of these retailers more successful uh and and saving them some money. So very excited about what the space holds.