Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
In this video, let's continue to talk about "General Studies"
In yesterday's video
We said
With the economic recession in China in recent years
More and more people
Feeling powerless and anxious about reality
Since general studies emphasize
People should accept their own ordinariness and mediocrity
Therefore, it is also recognized and sought after by more young people.
However
General studies only emphasize
How to Recover Inner Peace by Accepting Mediocrity
But the common sense of the criteria for judging excellence and mediocrity
It is completely consistent with the mainstream evaluation system
That is to say
It is still the default
The legitimacy of the secular evaluation system is premised on
thus
This peace of mind is also fragile and false
Once the pressure of social environment increases
The psychological comfort brought by ordinary learning can be easily defeated
The individual will again fall into anxiety
Even if individuals feel
I have accepted my ordinariness.
However, when friends, family, and colleagues around
etc.
When we still use secular standards to judge him
He still needs to spend more energy
Fight this evaluation on a psychological level
So we say
True spiritual liberation
It is by no means untouched by the secular evaluation system
Just seek peace and reconciliation within yourself
on the contrary
Spiritual liberation means that the spirit must take the initiative
To criticize and deconstruct those false excellences
Finally, a truly universal value system will be established.
Then this video
Let’s explore this in depth.
Let me say one more thing before we start
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
Let's get back to our topic today.
We say that in Chinese society
One should try to reflect and deconstruct
Mainstream evaluation system
First of all, you will be questioned
For example, people around you would say
The reason why you reflect and deconstruct
In the final analysis
Or is it because you are not successful enough in this system?
If you can't eat grapes, you say they are sour
For example, you didn't get into a good university.
Criticizing the education system
You criticize privilege because you don't have privilege.
Or
You are qualified to criticize only when you stand at the top of the pyramid
These words all imply the following meaning:
Your criticism lacks true universality
It's just an emotional cynicism.
This question seems convincing.
Because Chinese culture
Tend to associate language with identity
Tends to undermine the universal validity of language
That is to say,
The effect of language depends on who is speaking it
Instead of focusing on whether the other person's words make sense first
But this is actually ridiculous.
Because this implies the assumption that
I want to criticize an object
First you need to become that object
If you say so
I want to criticize a bad thing
I have to do the bad thing myself first
To be qualified to criticize
I want to criticize the dictator
I have experienced the feeling of dictatorship myself.
This is ridiculous, of course.
Moreover, many people are indeed under this system
Being treated unfairly
This creates a drive for criticism and deconstruction.
This is normal
But that doesn't mean what he said doesn't make sense.
Of course, to establish a convincing value system
indeed
We cannot remain in a simple cynicism
Instead, we should pursue true depth and universality.
This means
We should strive to find the underlying logic
Deconstructing those false symbol systems
thereby
Recover and restore the hidden intrinsic value of individuals
Speaking of this, we have to mention
Bourdieu's sociology of culture
Bourdieu
He is arguably the French thinker I admire most.
Although
Bourdieu mainly analyzed French society
The resulting theory
But his analysis does reveal general patterns.
That is, how to see through the appearance of the symbol system
See clearly how the individual spirit is oppressed
Bourdieu believes
Modern society has differentiated into countless fields
Every field
Each has its own value system and symbol system.
These value systems and symbol systems
If you want to run
Certain things must
It is said to represent the general interest.
Public interest
This will gain the spontaneous recognition of all members.
and voluntary advocacy
This reproduces the unequal social structure.
But how can we get everyone to support it voluntarily?
This requires the use of symbol systems
Misleading individuals
That is, misrecognize
Thus, for some special capital
Gives witchcraft charm
Creating a universal illusion in the field
Adding a layer of legality to naked rule
Natural, friendly outerwear
This means
The aura of these things
It is largely constructed
For example in China
People want wealth
It's not that money is naturally attractive.
But because
It is in the ideology after the reform and opening up
Added a special charm
It means that people do not worship money.
It is the inherent nature of money given by the symbol system.
That is, the symbolic capital behind economic capital.
for example
The reason why a person's external wealth is enviable is
Because he is considered
Must be more psychologically secure than yourself
More freedom, more confidence
More likely to be praised by people around you
Or in other words, a broader vision and better taste
Symbology
Money and confidence,
Freedom, taste and other inner qualities are bound
Individuals believe
Those who are wealthier
Must have a better inner self than oneself
And these advantages are universal.
But this concept is not immutable in China.
Naturally
It is largely
It was constructed after the reform and opening up.
If economic capital cannot be linked to symbolic capital
People will not envy the simple rich
A typical example is that in many rural areas of China
Villagers often envy those with power the most.
Rather than the powerless but wealthy
The income of a grassroots cadre
Probably only one-tenth of the township entrepreneurs
But they are often better than township entrepreneurs
It will arouse the envy of the villagers
Actually
The villagers envy the sense of superiority behind power.
Because they will think of
Some cadres usually act arrogantly.
Or think of when you ask someone to do something for you.
A humble feeling
Or heard that a boss worth hundreds of millions
In front of a petty official who can control himself
Also have to smile
etc.
In short, the lifestyle, speech and behavior of those in power
Will be symbolized
Become a symbol of excellence
In this field
Power is more closely tied to symbolic capital than money
therefore
Simply having money is not as attractive as having power.
Another typical example is
Maoist ideology
Under the symbolic system of revolution
Dress well
Pursue a refined lifestyle and a rich life
Not only is it not an object of envy
Instead, it will be seen as unearned gain.
Bourgeois style
A person who speaks in an overly flowery manner, using elaborate words
may be accused of being a feudal remnant out of touch with the masses
Elegant and gentle attitude
Considered a lack of revolutionary passion
As the famous saying goes:
“Revolution is not a dinner party.
Not painting or embroidery
Not that elegant
So gentle, kind, respectful, frugal and modest
Revolution is a class
The violent act of overthrowing a class
In this symbol system
"Educated" and "revolutionary" are contrasted
Language, behavior
Even education level
They may become the object of criticism
And more in line with "revolutionary" behavior
It is a straightforward, rough and combative expression.
A person needs to be thoroughly cleansed
The bourgeois habits in oneself
You need to go through a set of rituals to transform yourself
That is to endure hardship and fight
In our August 4th issue
In the video about suffering worship
There is a story quoted like this:
April 1949
Officials who took over Nanjing's cultural system
In conversation with Nanjing intellectuals
Deliberately pretending to be uncivilized...
Scratching his dirty bare feet
But he was a college student and an intellectual.
In 1949, many progressive intellectuals were like him.
As if I were an old revolutionary
Under the revolutionary ideology
Civilized is actually uncivilized
The uncivilized is the real civilization
A more typical example is
Educated youth were sent from cities to rural areas
Completely abandon your original lifestyle
Wearing simple clothes to do farm work
Suffering means the baptism of the soul
Marks
The individual is infused with a certain magic and sacredness
And became able to create history
A member of the working people
We can see
The same phenomenon is expressed in different symbol systems
Can be given completely opposite connotations
This attribution itself is arbitrary.
There is no such thing as a natural order.
The irreversible basis
Bourdieu calls this collective misrecognition
misrecognize it as symbolic power
A more common type of symbolic power is gender.
Bourdieu examined
The customs of the Kabyle people of Africa
He found that in the dwellings of the Kabyle natives
Women's activities are mainly in
The damp, dark side
The men stay on the sunny and dry side.
Women were not allowed to participate in public affairs
Asked to stay at home
The housework they do
Seen as trivial and lowly
The spatial division between men and women
Seen as some kind of mysterious sacred ritual
and has political and ethical implications
In this ideology
Men are masculine and powerful
Women are petty and weak
This gender concept
It is a product of indigenous society and history.
However
The indigenous peoples regard this inequality in social structure as
It comes down to the innate physiological differences between men and women
Or trace it back to some more abstract concept
For example, yin and yang, sun and moon, etc.
This is the embodiment of symbolic power.
Symbolic power rationalizes the division of real systems
Trying to understand the biological,
In nature or philosophy
Looking for some innate basis
Thus giving a noble meaning to gender inequality
But when we pull away
To examine and reflect on the connotations of these symbols
You will find that it is actually similar to magic and witchcraft
The operation of symbolic capital
Like a wizard
Claiming to have some supernatural power
Can turn decay into magic
Putting actors in inequality without realizing it
Even fully accepted the symbol system
Self-evaluation and judgment
Bourdieu calls this symbolic violence
symbolic violence
This is a form of soft violence.
But it is better than hard violence
It can beautify and conceal the dominant relationship.
School education is a more typical example.
As Max Weber pointed out
In Western Europe, feudal society
If the emerging class wants to legalize its wealth
Must obtain
Church support, canonization
So that their rule
Linked to universal divine power
In modern society
Schools, to a large extent,
Replaced
This important function of the medieval Christian church
The word "credentials" comes from "credentialis"
To give sanctity
Give authority
The school is like a wizard casting a spell
It is ranked through a series of exams
To the students' minds
Make seemingly objective and fair scoring and screening
In our May 26 issue
Video about higher education in China
Also mentioned
As cultural capital is increasingly viewed as
Important legal resources
Therefore, since the late 1990s
The educational level of Chinese officials has begun to improve rapidly
Almost all of them have a master's or doctoral degree
Many universities
A large number of doctoral quotas are reserved for officials.
Many officials have become part-time professors
Doctoral supervisor, etc.
This also shows
In modern society
Schools are generally regarded as
It has the inner power to judge people.
Specifically
The school will use external classification standards
Embedded in the minds of students
Thus, the intrinsic nature of students
Ranking and sorting
Classification criteria are something external
For example, whether they can abide by school rules.
Can you understand the syllabus?
Knowledge points arranged
Can you integrate into the school environment?
Can you write neatly?
However
The educational system has a negative impact on the results of this classification.
An internalized interpretation
And rate the individual's mental state
For example, being able to adapt to the school environment
Linked to universal adaptability
For example, the teacher said
If you can't even stand the hardship of school
How can we adapt to society in the future?
How to deal with greater setbacks?
This obviously puts whether one can adapt to school
Such a special event
It has become a criterion for judging a person's comprehensive ability.
And they don't even mention whether there is a problem with the school environment
For example
The school teaches students to write neatly
It is regarded as a reflection of a positive attitude and serious work.
The latter is obviously a transferable
More universal capabilities
The writing is not neat
It is seen as impetuous and impatient.
However, this kind of school based on handwriting level
To judge students' abilities
Educational ideas
In today's world where the Internet and artificial intelligence are increasingly emphasized
The Era
It seems very outdated and outdated.
A person's handwriting is not good
But he may be very good at using the Internet
To retrieve information
Good or bad handwriting doesn't really matter.
In this era
Calligraphy can only be a personal hobby
It does not have universal significance
For example
The school's definition of learning ability
All are built on
In a rather narrow and specific framework
For example, within the two-hour test time limit
How many points can you get?
Those who get high scores are considered smart and talented.
Otherwise it is stupid and lazy
Smart and stupid
Apparently a universal classification standard
It seems to be based on some objective,
Neutral and fair assessment system
for example
All the exams are limited to two hours.
Faced with the same test questions
However, the injustice of this assessment method lies in
He tends to filter out
A student with quick response
But does fast reaction speed mean strong learning ability?
This is obviously problematic.
In this video on November 30th
We talked about
The human brain has two learning modes
One is the sprint mode under pressure
The other
In a stress-free
Free mode in loose state
Actually
Sprint mode is easy to produce
Instant, visual results
However, complex integration, connection and innovation
This is exactly what Free Mode is good at.
Apparently
Strengthening of school system
It is the ability to react quickly in sprint mode
This ability
In response to those with clear goals and clear framework
When time-sensitive tasks
Indeed, better at
However, after leaving school
Most of the time, I make my own arrangements and decisions.
There is no external pressure pushing you.
Many important decisions in life
For example, career planning, interpersonal relationship management
Cultivation of personal interests
Even cope with emergencies in life
You can't just sprint to deal with it.
The free mode
Empowering people to integrate experience,
The ability to discover potential and open up new paths
However, under the discipline of the education system
Students also learn to use these symbols
To know the world
and to separate others
For example, seeing someone successful
It must be attributed to his high education
Or he received a good professional education.
I didn't expect that this might be due to his personal factors.
Seeing someone fail to get into college due to some accident
Subconsciously sympathize with the other person
And feel sorry for the other party
It seems that the other party suddenly has some kind of eternal
Lifelong defects
However, the effectiveness of this classification
It's very suspicious
The book "The State Nobility" says
Sartre received elite education in France since childhood.
When he was young, he was admitted to the École Normale Supérieure in Paris
Later he reflected that when he was 20 years old
The school's education made him feel
I understand everything
In fact, I haven't thought about anything carefully.
I don't understand anything
For example
I met some people who did not take the Chinese college entrance examination.
Netizens who studied undergraduate courses in Europe and the United States
They will feel that their university is not bad.
But I always feel a little guilty
feel
Comparing myself with those top students who took the college entrance examination in China
My learning ability seems to be untested.
It seems that I have escaped some collective ritual.
That's it.
We can summarize
The problem with general studies is that
Directly accept the symbol system
Judgment of the inner mind of an individual
So his inner peace
It can only be purely subjective and temporary
He is powerless to resist the invasion of symbolic violence
To restore the true value of individuals
First, we need to start with the details
Realize that symbol systems are created through people's misrecognition
Thus, between individual minds and social structures
Establishing contact
Distinguishing this is the beginning of spiritual liberation
So about this topic
There's still a lot to talk about.
That's all for today's show.
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!