[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. You're listening to the Bloomberg Intelligence Podcast. Catch us live weekdays at 10 a.m. Eastern on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. Listen on demand wherever you get your podcasts or watch us live on YouTube.
>> Uh, speaking of technology, uh, piece of news out I thought was really interesting, Scarlet. Microsoft saying, "Hey, we're not going to have as much u I guess uh data center capacity as we thought and we're not going to have as much as we need until maybe sometime next year." It's just another data point that as Jay was just pointing out, there's lots of ways to play AI. Money's being spent all throughout
>> the economy, not just the tech stack,
>> but there's still log jams nonetheless.
>> Yeah, still log jams nonetheless. So, let's see what's going on with our good friends at Microsoft. Honor Rana joins us, technology analyst uh for Bloomberg Intelligence. Uh again, what do you make of this Microsoft news honor that they say, you know, data center crunch is going to persist into 2026?
>> Yeah, you know, Microsoft talked about a little bit of this uh in the earnings call about, let's say, 12 months ago. Then they said things are easing or things are improving and it does have an impact on their cloud business growth rate when things are tight. Now this news I think it was an excellent article written by Bloomberg News and you know it gives us a lot of things to think about as to what's going to happen over the next 12 to 18 months. We think capex could go up. We think cloud realization of the rates could go down and uh you know the AI boom is going to continue or the AI infrastructure boom is going to continue because if Microsoft needs more capacity it's going to go to people like Cororeweave, Nebas, Oracle. they're going to go to their uh you know companies that they work with to create the data centers and the you know the downstream effect of that. So positive news for the AI infrastructure space but maybe has an impact on Microsoft's cloud growth rate.
>> Does it have an impact on Microsoft spending as well and how will that show up in the earnings when the company reports?
>> Yeah, I think it can have an impact on their gross margins. You you may see a tick down. um they they have said that you know that the next financial years the next fiscal year they're going to spend more on capex than last year but the rate of growth is going to go down. Now they haven't given any figure so you can drive a big truck in that particular range uh because they are giving themselves the flexibility to say that one could argue that the year after that now they're you know maybe they're going to spend even more so that really you know has an impact on the entire cycle. So that means Oracle has to spend more. That means Meta has to spend more. Amazon has to spend more and u that that you know continues this big boom of all the downstream companies we have anything from chips to um you know data center cooling and water etc.
>> What inning honor do you think we are in this AI tech buildout? I think we're in a fairly early innings because unlike software coding or you could say, you know, the the buildout of a new e-commerce website, this one's going to take some time because every data center takes a long time to come up. I mean, from breaking ground, getting permits to getting power to actually building it, then putting it together. I mean, it's a it takes a few years for that to build out. So, I I do not see any reason why in five to seven years we'll still not be talking about this topic. you know, when we come back to this data center crunch for Microsoft, is this a zero- sum game where it's Microsoft's loss for now in the short term as it builds these things out uh and its competitors gain? And if so, what are the names that are likely to be uh most able to benefit?
>> No, I don't think it's anybody's gain in this point. So, the crunch that they are having, I bet the same thing is happening with Google, same thing is happening with Meta and Amazon. they are all going out to these third party neocloud providers to see wherever they can find capacity and at the end of the day whoever has any capacity left you know they will find a customer from one of these large vendors uh because what not only what they're doing is selling products to the third parties outside their internal processes they are actually improving it as well somebody like a meta they really are improving their ads ad business because of AI and they they need more capacity because of that as earnings uh will be kicking off the season uh next week for the banks and then we'll get the tech companies a little bit later. What are you going to be listening for uh honor during this earning cycle for your tech names?
>> It's a big tale of two cities. One side we're going to see a actual drop in discretionary spending. So any of the consulting names that they're not going to have a good time. any of the traditional software names, even SAS names, uh they're not going to have a good time because subscription growth is going to slow down. Um but on the other side, you know, somebody like a codeweave or an Oracle or a Microsoft, uh they will talk about more bookings. Oracle is not going to report in the in this particular earning season, but a month after that, I think they will all see a good increase in the backlog or the order book. Uh but the rest of the space, I think, is going to struggle. Once upon a time um a lot of the companies benefited from uh the end of the year rush to use up the IT budget. Um you know every company had a certain amount of money allotted to spending on it and a lot of times companies didn't get around to using it until the fourth quarter and then they would do so in a big rush. Do you see that happening this time around?
>> Yes, it would happen but only happen on the AI side of things. The non AI uh side of the tech spending I think that's still going to struggle. We we may not have a resolution of that till the global macro environment improves till we have a resolution between US China trade war till we know what's happening to interest rate. I think that part of the equation is going to struggle.
>> Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Intelligence coming up after this.
>> You're listening to the Bloomberg Intelligence podcast. Catch us live weekdays at 10 a.m. Eastern
>> on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App.
>> Listen on demand wherever you get your podcasts or watch us live on YouTube. All right, let's uh turn now to a sector that of course is affected by tariffs directly and that is the auto sector. Steve Man is Bloomberg Intelligence global autos and industrials research analysts and he joins us now to talk about Stellantis. Uh Stellantis, it's uh Chrysler, right Paul?
>> Jeep, Chrysler, all those good brands.
>> Okay. I I always get confused cuz I see Stalantis. I'm like, what car company is this? I don't get it. In any case, uh it third quarter shipments climbed to 13% led by rise in North America. So, there is a bit of a recovery here after the car maker uh has been working down inventory in the US. Uh Steve, thanks for joining us. Let's talk a little bit about Stellantis and how sensitive vulnerable it is to uh President Trump's tariffs.
>> Yeah, I think they are very sensitive um to to tariffs. Uh but I think a lot of the impact on companies like Stentes and the Detroit trio is really their uh operations uh in Mexico and Canada. Uh I think Trump is looking for them to actually move some of those production back uh into the US and employ more US workers. So um I mean there's been a lot of rhetoric and a lot of you know potential changes uh changes are are are impending. Um but uh I think for now uh auto tariffs it's been pretty quiet and I don't think uh you know the the Trump you know the tweets are is going to impact the the Detroit 3.
>> So where are we in terms of implementing tariffs on autos just incoming and outgoing in the US? Where are we? Are they actually being levied at the moment?
>> Yeah it's it's happening at the moment. We've heard a lot of news on, you know, companies moving production back uh to the US. Uh GM have moved some of their Silverado uh production, one of their highest uh profit uh vehicles uh you know from from Canada back to the US. So uh we're hearing that from Ford and and some other uh automakers. You know, Hyundai is investing a lot in the US uh you know, likely to move some of the production from South Korea into the US. So we are already starting to hear and see uh the the effects of those uh auto tariffs.
>> Steve, this might be an unanswerable question, but with companies making the moves to do that, this will take a long time. This is a multi-year process, right? You don't just decide that you're going to reshore manufacturing, it happens the next day. Is just saying that you're going to do that enough to appease the administration?
>> Well, it's it's a I look at it as a two-phase process. There's what what I call lowhanging fruits. So, you know, for example, I gave earlier on the uh Chevrolet Silverado that GM shifted uh to back to the US. You know, if they have spare capacity uh in the US, that's that's a no-brainer. They can shift that back quickly. But you're absolutely right. Um you know, longer term, it it's going to take years to kind of unravel uh the the North American supply chain to focus more on the US. It's going to take years because uh you know plants take years to build and then you also have to bring back the suppliers. The suppliers rather produce their parts near the manufacturing near the assembly plants uh rather than you know other you know uh in other countries where you know shipping cost could cost could be very high. So it it could take u if not years a couple of decades to to to actually um turn that ship around. So where is Stalantis just from a positioning perspective right now relative to the other automakers out there? Yeah, Stalantis has been losing quite a bit of market share on their high you know the higher profit vehicles like the Ram trucks, the the Jeeps and you know with the new CEO coming on board you know the shift the the the strategy has shifted from more of achieving cost savings from the mergers uh that created Stantis back in 2001 to more of an outreach. you know, how are we going to how are they going to uh answer the the demands of of the consumer? They really want the V8 back, which is what they're doing. They're bringing that V8 Hemi back.
>> And, you know, I I they also bring the midsize Jeep Cherokee back, which has been very popular with consumers.
>> Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Intelligence coming up after this.
>> You're listening to the Bloomberg Intelligence podcast. Catch us live weekdays at 10 a.m. Eastern
>> on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. Listen on demand wherever you get your podcasts or watch us live on YouTube.
>> All right, let's talk about the consumer here. How's the consumer doing out there? Um, there's lots of ways you can kind of get a sense for that. We talked to Mike Halen from Bloomberg Intelligence about how the restaurant traffic is doing. And we also can talk to Lindsay Dutch. Uh, she covers the consumer hardlines uh retail uh companies. Uh she's a senior analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. Lindsay, let's talk like I know Dick Sporting Goods, uh Ulta. You got a couple companies that are going to be reporting earnings coming up and what do you expect from these companies?
>> Yeah, thanks Paul for having me. Um we're taking a look at sort of fullear guidance going into the third quarter earnings and of course that important holiday shopping season. And what we've noticed is you know the guidance ranges are very very wide for these retailers. It's baking in a lot of uncertainty surrounding the consumer. But when we look at the demand trends and sort of first half results, first half results were pretty solid for many of these hardline retailers. And we're seeing better demand in the beauty space. You know, better demand for electronics even and home furnishings, some categories that have really been struggling. And when I look at this guidance range, I sort of think that we might be able to trend sort of towards the middle upper half of the range if that demand can hang on through the second half into 2026.
>> Can that demand hang on if prices increase or the supply is limited? Uh we're hearing again these headlines from President Trump that um there could be a massive increase of tariffs on goods from China. Dick Sporting Goods, Ulta Beauty certainly uh do rely on China uh for for their supply chain. And so I'm curious whether that gets folded in.
>> So I think when we think about the second half, I think a lot of that inventory is already in place. Um, and there have been price increases that have occurred on that inventory. We're expecting to see that. Um, we do think the shopper is going to come out a lot like they did last year, selective, value focused, but they're still willing to spend, you know, on certain things. And and I think that you know the key draw there is you know anything that's new um Nintendo Switch 2 um you know anything exclusive or like a premium type product you know which does skew to add a dick sporting goods. I think when I think about the risk you know of these headlines that we're seeing you know Best Buy you know is responding to those headlines I think if we see a big much higher levy on goods from China you know that's something that they're going to have to address in the 2026 year. They have significantly reduced their exposure. You know, of those Hardlines names we were talking about, Best Buy is probably the most exposed, 33% of COGS, but it's all indirect exposure. So, it's not stuff that they're directly importing. It's it's just some of the the inventory that they have on hand.
>> Lindsay, the companies you cover, the hardline retailers, what's their I don't know if they have a collective view of how the consumer is doing out there. What do you What What are they telling you guys?
>> Yeah. Again, I think what they're what we've seen and this is sort of going back all the way, you know, to last year's holiday season is that newness is driving demand and that's no matter what the category. So like beauty, electronics, we saw explosive demand for that Nintendo Switch 2. Um but even in the sporting um goods market, you know, new product or a premium type product is is really drawing that consumer in even if it's a higher price point. So consumers are definitely value focused, but they're making sacrifices. They're choosing to shop value on certain things and then they're splurging on other things. It's really hard to discern, but like I said, we've seen improvement broadly in the home furnishings category. um also in electronics and then beauty which kind of took a leg down last year is looking a lot better this year.
>> Lindsay, talk a little bit about these companies and their efforts to make sure that the consumer stays with them no matter what happens even if they can go to say TJ Maxx and get it for cheaper because they have these loyalty programs that um tie the consumer so closely to their brand even as an aggregator. Dick Sporting Goods does not sell its own branded merchandise. It sells Nike. It sells New Balance. But people go back repeatedly to the store,
>> right? Yeah. Those loyalty programs, you know, for the retailers are great because that gives them a lot of data on their their customers that shop the most with them. You know, I think this is where, you know, assortment matters and exclusives matter. So, you know, Dick Smaller Pier, Academy Sports, they have not seen the growth that Dix is seeing. And it's because they also carry Nike, but they might not carry the brand new Nike basketball sneakers for the season, whereas Dix does. So, the assortment you you really have to dive in and look at very specifically, you know, what some of these retailers have. They have to have that newest product. They have to have, you know, exclusive items where you can't go elsewhere to get it. Um, and that is really key to keeping that customer back. I also think, you know, when you have a positive experience shopping at a retailer, you know, you're going to go back to them as well for that customer service or whatever it is that they're providing to you that that no one else can give you. This is the Bloomberg Intelligence Podcast, available on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. Listen live each weekday, 10:00 a.m. to noon Eastern on Bloomberg.com, the iHeart Radio app, TuneIn, and the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube and always on the Bloomberg terminal.