[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. [Music] This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Catch us live weekdays at 7 a.m. Eastern on Apple CarPlay or Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. Listen on demand wherever you get your podcasts or watch us live on YouTube. Joining us right now, Terry Weissman, director of global currency's interest rate strategy at Mccquary. Terry, I feel like we're at Bear Sterns years ago. I got to get right to the dollar and once again, consensus is hammered. What happens in the foreign exchange market when everybody gets it wrong? Well, it depends how they're positioned, I suppose. If a lot of people were betting weak dollar, right? Absolutely. As as have we been in the medium and long term. Well, you got to stop the show. We have the Harvard foot co football coach on yesterday. Tonight, Friday Night Football, Harvard. Yep. Cornell Big Red. Bloomberg 929 FM Boston. We wisman hears us and he has to wear the Yale hat to straighten I guess an offsprings at Yale or something. The good morning offspring of Terry Weissman killing it at Yale and biology. Continue on the bet that was made in weak dollar. The bet that was made in the in in the well the bet that was made in the strong dollar throughout most of this year was a bet made on the premise that policy uncertainty would continue in the US that you would see see reserve managers rotate out of the dollar that this would be followed by private asset allocators including fixed income allocators move out of the dollar. It was also predicated on the richness of the dollar. We've seen a real appreciation of the dollar for the past 13 years and that was a great story and I think people made a lot of money uh betting on on on that weakness in the dollar until until the last few weeks. what's happened in the last few weeks I think is is is not unusual. Um I think what has happened is that people have realized traders have realized that hey there's just as much political uncertainty and policy uncertainty in the rest of the world in some of these key markets as there is in the US and the case in point of course has been Europe with these uh with the with this uh with this uh the prospect that we may see uh a socialist become the prime minister of France that we may see delay to pension reform uh that we will see France not solve its its deficit and debt issue and of course now Japan as well uh with concerns over whether or or not this ruling coalition um uh will will will maintain power and whether we go to early elections there potentially parliamentary elections. So look as long as the US looked to be the only source of uncertainty it was a weak dollar story. Now that the US is not the only source of uncertainty it becomes a strong dollar story. Does the dollar retrace that 89% decline it's had around? I don't think so. Although it's hard to predict uh the headlines coming out out of the rest of the world in part because the nature of uncertainty is that it becomes hard to predict. Uh but I will tell you that the dollar had gotten so rich uh over the last 13 years and had gotten to a point 9 months ago where it was probably a level on sustainability in its valuation. I just don't see it getting back to the levels of of February uh uh and March of this year. explain to those across America listening and watching why we should care about Japanese yen. I saw a couple really good essays on this yesterday, but I think it needs to be repeated. Yeah. So, look, if if you're a stock market investor and let's take it from the perspective, not a policy maker, but an investor because I I want to appeal to the to the readership here. uh if you are invested in Japanese stocks and a lot of these stocks are are multinational stocks. They they sell you know uh very high value added industrial products to the rest of the world their margins their operating margins benefit from a weak end. So uh that's one reason why you need to pay attention to this. In fact, with the weakness of the sorry, with the weakness of the yen that we've seen in the last few few days uh since the political turmoil, the stock market's done fantastically, which which seems to suggest to me that that the weakness of the yen is not so much a fundamental thing as much as it is a a a prediliction on the part of investors to to wonder what is the central bank going to do. It's not about a weakening of the of the Japanese economy. I was tackled by a Morgan Stanley guy yesterday and we were talking about this, Dan Skelly, who's a big Dan Skellyy fan. And I thought Dan was on last time I was on was great. And and the guy said to me, he he said, "This yen is hugely disabling." And the heart of the matter, their wages have disappeared. Yeah. They're like England in 1930 in terms of real wages. Yep. Terry, we got a government shutdown here in the United States. Um, is that going to affect our Federal Reserve here over the next several meetings, do you think? Yeah, I don't think so. I mean, if what you're referring to is the premise that because of a lack of official data, the Federal Reserve will not know what to do, I I would I would take issue with that. There's plenty of third party data, the Federal Reserve itself conducts surveys. It collects data. It will have that at hand when the when the meeting takes place on October 28th and 29th to make an informed decision about where the economy is going. Uh it doesn't rely just on official data. To say that you're data dependent does not mean that you're officially data dependent. It means that you're just data dependent. uh uh so I I I think they'll have enough data. Look, my view on the Fed is that there is sufficient reason to believe that uh uh interest rate policy in the US right now is not uh overly restrictive. Uh if it were, we wouldn't be seeing the stock market at new highs. We wouldn't be seeing gold ripping. We wouldn't be seeing corporate bond spreads as narrow as they've gotten. I think the Fed needs to take all of that into consideration. If they do cut, it will be a very reluctant cut. uh I I think in view of what the financial markets have been doing. So I mean is the cadence here of the Fed is it meeting by meeting? Do they you think they have a strategy of let's cut a couple times this year then cut early next year then we'll sit back if that um I I I mean you know Jay Powell said on on September 17th I mean practically admitted that that the cut they made in September was an insurance cut. That seems to suggest that they're not necessarily on a path to cut two or three more times and wait. It really does suggest that the cut was only intended to strike a balance uh between the the two mandates within the dual mandates a little bit better and it does not imply a long and profound series of rate cuts. We are fortunate at uh Bloomberg Surveillance to have Terry Weissman with us this morning from McQuary with all of his uh experience. These headlines out. This is CNBC driving the story uh forward. The president's fed chair candidates list. It's narrowed down to five by the secretary of treasury. Um the list here is it sounds like a these guys for good. They play Crosby Stills and Nash Great. Bowman Waller Hasset Walsh Ryder of Black Rockck in the final five. And I would suggest none of those are a surprise within the Fed Derby Zeitgeist. I defer to Mike McKe on that. Chair Weissman, is this the way to pick a chairman by by headlines and interviews and No, no, you don't you don't need these trial balloons, I don't think. Right. I I I think that that's becomes disconcerting to the market, especially when there's so many choices that they are looking at. Look, personally, I think that Chris Waller would be a great choice. Not because he's uh ideologically aligned with the administration. In fact, he's not, which is one reason why I think it would be a good choice. He is dovish and I think that aligns him temporarily or short-term with the administration. But Chris Waller has had a long history of publications in which he espoused and exorted the autonomy of the Federal Reserve. So he prevent he provides a very good balance I think willing to be to be dovish right now because he has his eye on the job market and the prospected employment gains are are diminishing but at the same time not willing to be structurally dobbish. I think that's what's needed right now in in a in a Fed uh in a Fed uh chairman. Love it. was taking notes. Terry, I'm going to be speaking with Governor Waller at the Council on Foreign Relations October 16th. Can you be in the front row so I can have you ask a smarter question? I'd love to join you, Tom. Just a call with Mccari. We'll have to see on that. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube. Joining us tonight are Katie Kavitzky, chief research strategist, Alpha Simplex for an ample uh discussion here. The mathematics is just predigious. All of it based on the trend of the moment. The late Martin Zwag over to Fed policy and economics would say the trend is your friend in the stock market right now with the I would say weekend panic AI we're all going to die capex we're all going to die in that define the equity trend right now Katie the equity trend is very strong signals have continued to strengthen especially since the summer and there's really no and what's challenging as a trend volume you need to see that resistance to pull pull back and all systems seem to be going right now. Well, Paul Paul allowed me to go nerd twice in this interview. I'm going to do that right now and then shut up and let Paul drive it. Okay. So, you have a setup folks and I'm going to take SPX take with NDX whatever you want and I'm going to take out a two standard deviation trading envelope and then I'm going to run it logarithmic on the Y ais to show percentage change, not an arithmetic axis. And then I have exponential moving averages. And I look at the curve of them, the first derivative and even second derivative. And when you hear me say log convexity, that's what we're talking about. The equity market has not given up a bull market log convexity, has it? No, not at all. And I think depending on if you use exponential moving averages, I mean, that is going to get rid of some of that V that you're seeing in the first part of the year. So you're seeing signals strengthening and you're losing some of the concern. Pro tip, Paul, I do this on a weekly chart as a rule of thumb. Everybody goes daily and I go to a week. No question about that. Lisa's nodding her head. She knows she goes log on on a weekly basis. Gold up 51% spots. Silver up 73% year-to- date. Commodities, that's a trend. Are you guys on that? Exactly. I mean, that is the other really interesting big trend. And we're getting a lot of questions from investors about it because from both a fundamental perspective, buying gold, it seems to be your or any precious metal seems to be that go-to safe haven trade. When the dollar's been weaker, you're looking at the yen now weakening. So the precious so it's buy gold and buy the stock market. I mean, that's kind of an interesting combo. But how about the dollar? The the dollar again, it folks, it traded off about 8 n% from that early early uh 2025 uh levels. Now it's kind of stabilized it seems like. So is the sell-off over? Is the trend is that selling trend kind of over for the dollar? That is an interesting question. We have seen some idiosyncratic movements in the dollar. So you're seeing certain currencies like the Swedish croner, the Turkish lera kind of gaining some ground on the dollar. My view on this is it's a trend that is sort of petering out. So it's losing some of its strength. And part of this is there's been so much um so much backing for that weaker dollar, so much hedging demand against the dollar that has built up. Um we also have rate cuts on the horizon which is also very negative for the dollar. So I'm not saying that I'm positive on the dollar yet because of that. But it is a trend that as as Tom would say losing some of its convexity, losing steam, I would put it, but convexity. I think he's lost convexity. That's right. Exactly. Um, so what's the what are the trades you guys are looking at these days? So the biggest trades that you're seeing in the market is clearly equities and precious metals, but interestingly enough, you haven't seen a lot of movement at fixed income. It's been long to short and it feels like that's an area we're going to have some change in the next few months, but the signals are really weak. Do you guys short in the market? Uh, right now we're not short in the US. We're seeing short positions in Europe. So you're seeing things like JGBs also and and you know the UK. Um but the US has remained long. To be clear on your short JGB, your short price. Yes. Price down, yield up. Correct. More worse. Worer as they say. Katie Kaminsky with us for a good chat. This is for Global Wall Street. We welcome all of you across America around the world on YouTube. Subscribe to Bloomberg podcast. Paul. So, government shutdown. Do people like you, do you care about that? I mean, I obviously care about it because I got to fly home today. You know what I mean? But, um, Exactly. You know, but what's really interesting is the markets are seeing through. They are. It is. And they're focused on growth and they're focused on let's not miss out on this AI bubble or potential rally, whichever you want to call it. So, it's not moving on that. Okay. Okay, what we're going to do now, folks, it's my second dose of nerd Friday nerd show. We welcome all of you. What a privilege years ago to interview at length Ed Thorp, who invented so much of this. He basically folks took Las Vegas into the classroom, which was at the time scandalous, and brought Las Vegas, how do I not lose money, over to the stock market, how do I not lose money? Katie Kaminsky, my religion is anti martingale theory, folks. The stock, you buy it at 100, it goes to 90. I think I'll double up. That's what most people do. Ed Thorp saying buy it at a 100 and only add to the portfolio if it goes up. Anti martingaleill policy out of COVID and forward. How has it been working? So it's it's had its moments and I think what's really exciting about that is he talks a lot Edor talked a lot about Kelly betting and this is the idea that your conviction is a function of the strength of the trend of your position and it works very well in poker and and in other areas as well. And for people who are not familiar with Kelly betting it's about this idea that you measure the strength of the probability of your bet and when your bet strength is stronger then you take more risk. And that's sort of what trend following is really trying to do is trying to adjust positions as a function of the conviction of the markets and how they move. And it works very well in a world where the headline risks don't run the show. So the fact that government shutdown is not causing noise, you're seeing those trends being quite profitable for trend falling in the last two to three months because that consistent approach of measuring and adjusting is is working pretty well. One of those trends slash potentially bubble risk for a lot of people is just this whole AI narrative in the market. And it got maybe to a fever pitch over the last week to two weeks when we saw investments by these big tech companies like Nvidia into these private companies, platforms like Open AI and then they would then commit to buy chips and this circular trade. people said, "Boy, this this doesn't feel right or it feels a little fishy, but boats are rising on this trade." How do you guys think about that? So, the way we think about bubbles as a trend follower is it's really about measuring and it's very hard to pick tops and bottoms of any sort of trend. And so, what you want to think about is a trend can actually go much longer than you would expect. And that's this idea that Tom was talking about about the Kelly vetting. So you continue to trade into it and sometimes it could take months. I mean just because we are worried it doesn't mean that the market will react and so we wait till the market reacts to confirm that hey this is actually you know something that's going against us. What's the biggest let me make this personal. What's the biggest mistake Lisa Mateo's kids make sitting on the couch trading through Robin Hood? I want you to speak to our audience and particularly our audience with kids that are learning. They don't have your mathiness. They they don't know who Andrew Low is. Okay. What's the biggest mistake the trading crew is making today? I think and this is a personal view. Emotions and moving on your emotions. That's why we have a diligent process is where you make the biggest mistakes. And actually some of the research that Andrew Low did looking at investor behavior, they find that it's precisely those panic cells, those sort of emotions where you kind of say, you know, things go down and panic that actually cost you the most. So I think this idea that your emotions connected to what you decide is actually the dangerous part about a lot of a lot of the math a lot of the research shows returns are are generated over a longer period of time and a relatively few discreet time periods. So you it goes to Tom's point you need to be in the market. If you try to time the market I I don't know that just seems like a way tough game. It's just you kind of have to just be in the market, you know, otherwise you're just going to miss it, I think. Yeah. I mean, who knows? I mean, look at the equity markets now. It could be months. Jim Kramer and I have talked about this. Jim's been very good about it in speeches and that there's a huge baseball analog here and that if you line up, you know, to keep it conversational, 10 trades, all of your alpha comes out of two or three winners. Let's expand that out to a lifetime of trading. You got a retirement plan, folks. you're wicked conservative and you're playing a speculative portfolio. If you do a hundred events, how many of those really create alpha? I'm going to say 18 out of a 100red. So, it depends. For trend volumeing, it's much more of like a 50/50 ratio where your hits and the hit rate and the win is higher on that 50/50. So, that actually shows you that trading in the markets, it's very difficult and the edge is small. And so it's the diligence that actually matters as opposed to kind of picking that specific winner. You can't pick the winner. You can pick a set of winners, but I I think the industry is weaned that everything can be a winner. You can win 60 Paul 60%. 70. This is there's no evidence of that within the at Vanderbilt has led on this. That's why Damian's nuts like he is. They did great research at Vanderbilt, but I I mean you you just don't have that. It's not Munger's brilliant on this. The late Charles Munger absolutely brilliant on this. Katie, how do you guys decide to sell a winner? Great. The way that we think about philosophical. So the way to think about winners is when l winners are becoming losers. You know what I mean? So we're always thinking about the sizing. So, for example, if you see a pullback, so if you see something like what happened in gold, it creates some noise on your signal. So, that's an indication that you're kind of hitting some of the top and that you're kind of seeing that resistance because if something pulls back 10 10%, do you sell half your position? If it pulls back another 10%, you sell it all. It depends on the time horizon. I mean, I think where it gets tricky is in these big huge sell-off moments where it's very hard to ascertain, you know, is this an environment where the trend is actually changed or is there noise and so we tend to use multiple different horizons and measurements to kind of aggregate to have a view that's maybe more of a voting mechanism. So as a traditional rule, I mean I mean everybody used to have 300 stock portfolios and then they became a hundred and then Merceno and the crew over at Fidelity invented Fidelity 50. Sequoia had a lot to do with that. What's the optimal stock portfolio for mere mortals listening here? So I'd say I mean for stocks they're pretty highly correlated. So you want a relatively diverse portfolio. We tend to trade multi-asset. So that actually gives you a lot more diversification because you can add gold to your to your equity positions. Did you add gold to your positions? Yes, we've been in gold. Yeah, it's been the right call and it's been like that for about a year and a half now. So gold is an example of a perfect trend. I can't tell you why, but it's doing it. One more question here to Paul's great question on AI. What do you do with a Mag 7 here into earnings season? Well, this is this is tricky because if you look at the mag 7, it's such a large proportion and that's what makes me and most people nervous is you have such a concentrated exposure to them. But most reports are showing that earnings are still looking good. So, like I said before, while the train's still going, it could go for a while before we have any sort of disruption. to all of you in the stock market as you prepare to read your baronss here Saturday morning. Katie Kaminsky said something that is religion position sizing. Go out to perplexity. Go out to whatever AI AI you have. Type in the phrase position sizing and just read everything you can about it. It is the heart and soul of the game. Katie Kaminsky, that was just absolutely fabulous. Thank you so much. Really appreciate that. chief research strategist at Alpa Simplex. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this. This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Listen live each weekday starting at 7 a.m. Eastern on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. You can also listen live on Amazon Alexa from our flagship New York station. Just say, "Alexa, play Bloomberg 11:30." There's been so many AIdriven stories out there. Yeah. I saw a map and it's like three or four states like Virginia, right? You know, I I I just just I'm learning as I go. Who do I learn from? I learned from Yuri and Timmer. It's been way way too long since he's been on. Pro tip, this weekend, your head is spinning. Go out to LinkedIn and subscribe to Yuri Timmer. T M- R. is director global macro at Fidelity. He is beyond generous in sending you at Fidelity charts as well. What do you got Paul? And also Yuring will be on the latest edition of Masters in Business with one Barry Rhold's podcast drops Tom this afternoon and airs on radio at 700 p.m. Wall Street time and all weekend long. Um I don't know how he I mean Masters in Business. You got to be a player to get on Masters. You do. Well, Yuri Timmer's a player. Let's dovetail the two together. Ren Holtz urine timmer has a phenomenal type two construct how not to invest when you look at all your abilities at fidelities what should you not do now well good morning um you know as your very great uh previous guest mentioned you know having a having a system um is very important and you know the market goes up 10 11% per year it rises is 60 70% of the time. Uh but it has it's volatile and 30 to 40% of the time the market drops and nobody likes that unless you're a short seller. And so having a plan for those times is really what separates the the investors who compound from the ones who don't. So I I like to think of it as the price of admission for that juicy return, right? is to not lose your stuff when the market doesn't go the way you want it. And so I think that's really the most important thing uh in investing for all of you worldwide. This is the way we roll the Charles River. We go from the Northshore to the Southshore for 929 FM in Boston. Katie Kaminsky out of MIT over to Devonshshire Street and buildings in the Back Bay with your Timmer. Exactly. year and you sit back there at Fidelity as director of global macro from a global perspective. What looks attractive to you these days? Um what really gets me um excited these days is the how the rest of the world. So we know you know the US has been exceptional. The Mag 7 have dominated really for the last you know decade. It was the fangs before the mag 7. And so we know about this, you know, supremacy premium that US assets have always enjoyed uh and they still obviously continue to enjoy. And we've got the AI story overlaying that. And for many many years, you know, valueoriented investors would say, well, look at look at EHA or EM or just, you know, MSEIXUS index. It's trading at, you know, a PE that is so much lower than the US. why don't we do the whole mean reversion trade and go there and sell the expensive US and you know that doesn't really work until you have an actual catalyst that drives value um into the shareholders pocket and so for many years we did not have that but in the last year or two or really last year or so that's finally happening so especially for the Msei EA which is the non- US developed markets index um they have companies there So mostly Europe and Japan have really started to unlock shareholder value. You know even like regional banks in Japan are now buying back shares. Uh and that might sound trivial but when you look at a discounted cash flow model you obviously look at long-term earnings projections but almost as importantly you look at the share of those earnings that get returned back to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks. And so the growth rate of the PO of the payout and the payout ratio so the percentage of earnings that are returned um is very important and for EHA over the last 5 years the PO has actually grown faster than in the US um and the payout ratio which always used to be lower in the rest of the world is now at 75% for EPHA and it's at 75% for the US only the composition is different for non- US markets it's 2/3 dividends one/3 buyback and in the US it's the opposite but you have now very competitive um fundamentals and you know non US stocks are trading at 1516 the US is trading at 25 so finally for the first time in a very long time uh we're now in a global bull market where uh the pond has gotten bigger which is good right because we all have to deal with concentration risk of the max Y but there are other places to go which which is good for for an investor. You're in uh earnings start in earnest next week with the banks. I know your teams at Fidelity, all the analysts, the army you've got there will be pouring over the earnings uh releases. What are you looking for for this earning season? Well, what we had in the last couple of quarters was um earnings beats that were well north of what we typically see. So we all know this is the oldest game on the world, right? Companies guide lower and then they underpromise and overd deliver and then during earning season, you know, they beat by 3 400 basis points and that's fairly typical. Um earlier this year, of course, we had the tariff tantr, earnings revisions were were being cut down and then they were sort of, you know, brought back up again when when the when the worst case tariff situation did not develop and then we had the one big beautiful bill. Um and so right now the earnings growth rate, the expected growth rate for Q3 is at 7%. And if recent history is any guide, we'll go well into the double digits. And that will then be three quarters in a row of double digit earnings growth. And what what more do you want, right? In in a market that is expensive and now about to enter its fourth fourth year of the second. I got I got 90 seconds. And this single sentence in your report is too important. You cannot see a bubble coming. You can only discuss a bubble after the fact. Give me one attribute that gets you out front of a quote unquote bubble. Um, they always last longer than people think. I I've I've done the analoges all the way back to the tulip mania and um they are by definition they are chaotic patterns. They're parabas and those are not rational linear patterns. So, this is why bubbles suck everybody in because otherwise there would not be a bubble, right? I can't say enough about that, folks. You're in timar on the x-axis. Everything takes longer and if you're betting against it big time in, out in, out, as Mr. Maynard Kane said, guess what Paul, you run out of money. You're in timmer. Thank you so much at Fidelity Director Global Macro. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this. This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Listen live each weekday starting at 7:00 a.m. Eastern on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube and always on the Bloomberg terminal. Now, back to regular newspapers. The reg I'm afraid to ask, what do you got? Okay, we touched upon this yesterday with um PepsiCo earnings, but the Wall Street Journal has this deeper look into the makeover of Lays potato chips. Okay, cuz health conscious consumers, you did look. Okay, let's start with the bag. Okay, for those of you, this is it. Okay, if you're watching on YouTube, this is what the bag looked like before. So, they're going to be changing it. You have this shiny yellow bag, right, with a little potato on the bottom. Okay. So, what it's going to be, it's going to have a phrase that says made with real potatoes. No more shiny as opposed to the ingredients on the back. I'm not sure. Um but um the shiny bags are going to have this matte finish. It's going to have pictures of potatoes and chips and more kind of natural look to it. Okay. And it's going to have wordings that say no artificial colors, no artificial dyes, flavors. It's going to have that on the front. And on the back, it's gonna have the original chip recipe from Herman Lay himself. Nice. Um, so a lot of ingredient changes. It's all because of what's going on, you know, today. It's through the whole food industry, right? It's through the whole food industry. We always hear about different companies kind of taking out these dyes. Can I ask a dumb question, please? Is French's mustard really yellow? Is Hines ketchup really red? I'm sure it's not as red as that. But that's the problem is that these colors like the the the the barbecue potato chips, they're this red color, but it's because of, you know, the artificial coloring. Can I ask you a dumb question? We got to get to the next story. Who cares what the color is if the bag of chips has a pound of salt in it? Right. Exactly. That's what we're talking about. Are we like missing what we're really talking about? How many bags did you have this morning? I had a bag this morning. I had that like a bag like that and I'm just fine. 40 milligrams of sodium. Can I Can I I'm sure that Mr. Bloomberg's listening. His P&L has gotten shaken. Every day when I walk out of here, I sneak out a bag of cheese. You know, it doesn't, you know, just because it hurts to be blueberry LP, you know. What do you got next? Okay. What else we have in the blueberry pantry? That would be matcha. Yes. Okay. So, I have my matcha here. That's it's a look into matcha mania. But this is serious. This is Financial Times. They're saying, "Can Japan sustain the demand?" Because the demand has gotten so great, not just for like matcha lattes, but for things like matcha flavored KitKats, matcha flavored cookies, matcha flavored, you know, ice cream, all this. I mean, it's a staple. Is a matcha a leaf? It's Yes. It's the from the green tea leaves. It's a powder made from it. Okay. Okay. So, it's green tea leaves. Green tea leaves. Yes. It's crushed into a powder and the powder is what you use in the matcha. But you have to put something in the matcha to make it even drinkable. I actually and I put um a little syrup in here. All right. But it's it's becoming this this big thing. I mean, Japan's exports of powdered green teas were up 75% in 2024. So, it goes to show you how much this is on the rise. Um it can become a problem. Chill and never squeeze in one more and make it something I'm pleased with. Yes. Okay. This one also. Well, there was a lot of talk, right, over whether trimming down the New York City mayoral race would trim Zor Mandami's lead. And there's a new Quinnipic poll that shows it's starting to happen. Mandami's lead over former Governor Andrew Cuomo. It's narrowed after Mayor Eric Adams exited. So, here's what they show in their latest poll. He leads a race 46% um backed him followed by Cuomo with 33%. Um Curtis Lee 15%. Now, when you look before um when it was a four-way race, it showed that Mandami had 45% to support, 23% for Cuomo, 15% for Sleep. So, it's looking like, you know, nearly all of Adam's supporters are turning to Cuomo at this point. To the mayoral staffs listening on Bloomberg 1130, we are honored to have your candidates come in and talk to us, right, Mr. SL in this week, and to get all the rest of them, frankly, numerous times before the first two. Yeah. Mr. Almost we have not. I guess we had Mr. Matani once I believe. So pretty good. The newspapers with Lisa Matteo. This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast available on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. Listen live each weekday 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern on Bloomberg.com, the iHeart Radio app, TuneIn, and the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube and always on the Bloomberg terminal. [Music]