美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者7月3日美国众议院通过了一项重磅的财政法案大美利法案7月4日在美国最重要的一天川普省市浩大的签署了这个法案正式成为法律为什么这份法案会对川普如此重要呢因为他几乎包揽了川普上任后所有的财政政策涉及个人企业政府国防美债等多个领域 法案已经落地,一时激起千层浪债势率先反应,常债利率飙升,美债遭遇大幅抛售川普的政治盟友、最大的金主爸爸马斯克怒发冲冠宣布成立新党派美国党与川普公开决裂然而,股市却异常兴奋那指标普纷纷创下了历史新高 So what kind of a bill will cause such a big controversy? In order to find out the specific impact of the bill, the U.S. military went to explore the history of Trump's last term in 2017. I found that the purpose of Trump's bill didn't seem so simple. So what kind of political and economic signals is hidden behind it? What impact will it have on the capital market? 本期视频,美投军就要来跟大家深入分析一下这份足以影响美股未来五年的大美利法案这个大美利法案早在去年川普当选后就已经开始筹备了这次的川普决定搞一波大的和以往那种一个政策一个提案的方式不同这次川普几乎把所有的财政政策都塞进了这一个法案当中所以这次大美利法案的通过可以说是带来了很多的改变 从整体结构上看大美立法案主要包括了四个方面减税增加国防开支削减社会福利以及提高债务上限而首当其冲的便是减税 In 2017, Trump introduced a tax reduction bill At that time, the corporate tax was directly reduced from 35% to 21% But this bill is going to expire this year In other words, if you don't do anything, the corporate tax will automatically return to 35% And this time, the big beautiful bill on the reduction of corporate tax In fact, it is to continue the previous policy No extra tax reduction But although the tax rate has not decreased But Trump has added some new tax reduction provisions For example, new tax reduction projects such as the cost of research and the fixation of asset savings 针对个税川普也有新动作比如小费收入和加班工资的免税车贷利息的抵扣以及老年人增加额外的免税抵扣等等所有这些减税条款就相当于是变相的减税了能让企业和个人都少交税但这次减税法案也不都是好事像风能太阳能和电动车等绿色能源行业的很多免税抵扣就彻底被砍掉了至于他们具体影响咱们一会还会详细分析 The second part of the bill is to increase the cost of national defense and border The bill plans to increase the cost of national defense of about $15 billion In the field of military equipment, manpower, and national defense research and development At the same time, it will increase the cost of border security Support the upgrade of border wall construction, immigration law, and related infrastructure Third, the government's spending on medical, food aid and education loans. Including the proportion of the reduction of the number of federal subsidies for medical subsidies, the cancellation of student loans and the plan to drive the return on income. This part of the spending will be gradually effective only after 2030. Fourth, increase debt limit The bill will increase the new federal debt limit from $40 billion to $50 billion, further widening the government's income space It can be said that the "Democratic Party of the United States" bill continues the thinking of the small government 一方面减税把收入更多的留给实体经济另一方面削减福利目标是美利坚不养闲人减少民众对于政府的依赖而在所有的这些政策中对于市场影响最大的政策毫无疑问当初减税了而刚刚我们也提到这次并非是川普的第一次减税那我们不妨就来看看上一次减税的历史从中我们也能够窥见这次减税最为真实的影响 In 2017, Trump was the first president to be elected. That was his most important economic policy, which was also to reduce taxes. At the end of 2017, Trump launched a very large reduction in taxes bill, called the reduction in taxes and employment bill. This bill mainly targets three aspects. First, personal income tax almost all income income tax rates are lowered. The highest tax rate from 39.6% to 37%. Second, corporate income tax directly from 35% to 21%.直接从35%大幅砍到了21% Third, a series of structural reforms have been made against the tax system of cross-border enterprises. The purpose is to bring the profits of these cross-border enterprises back to the United States. When the bill was just introduced, it was a crowd-funding campaign. You rarely see such a large-scale tax reduction bill, so the responses of all parties are very positive. At that time, the U.S. Tax Administration estimated that this bill would increase the average income of tax-payers in 2018 by 2.2%. The US National Assembly Research Service in 2017 through model calculation This tax relief plan will bring 0.3% to 0.7% GDP growth every year in the next 10 years And the market is also very excited about this The whole 2017 standard 500 has risen by 20% in the interest of the tax relief plan Now, eight years have passed, and this bill has also been implemented for eight years. What is the result? It is coincidental that the US National Assembly Research Service in April this year made an assessment of the actual data of this tax reduction bill. As a result, they were surprised to find that this unprecedented tax reduction was ultimately almost unimpressive for economic growth. The tax reduction is a common sense that even primary school students know. Why will it have no effect in the end? An important reason is that those companies that really make a lot of money don't pay taxes at all. Although the tax rate has dropped by 21%, large companies have already reduced their tax revenue by a wide variety of means. 根据CNBC的数据2018年财富无败强中竟然有近100家公司交的联邦税是零那你减不减税对本来就不交税的企业们能有什么影响呢后来拜登政府还想要靠通胀削减法案堵住这个漏洞他们设立了企业15%的最低税率但其实也收效甚微那你说政府难道不知道吗他们当然知道只是有时候政策的推行政治姿态的作用要远高一塌实际的经济效益 另一个很重要的原因在于,企业们完全就没有按照政策推行的目标来行事用一句中国人很熟悉的话说就是,上面的人的想法是好的,但下面的和尚把井给念歪了川普原本想通过减税,鼓励企业把海外的资金带回美国,用一扩大投资增加招聘,从而拉动美国的经济增长 But in reality, these companies did bring the funds back, but they didn't use them to expand their business, but to buy back stocks. In 2018, the total stock purchase of American companies was up to $110 billion. And more than 80% of big companies did not increase their recruitment or investment because of the cut in taxes. According to Peng Bo's calculation, the income from the reduction in taxes is about 60% to the shareholders, only 15% is used for employees' salaries and benefits. In other words, the biggest beneficiary of this reduction in taxes is actually the capital market, not the real economy. From the market performance, this reduction in taxes has indeed defeated the capital market in a short period of time. 法案通过后第一个月标普版就上涨了2.4%两个月后涨幅扩大到5.9%紧接着川普同意大公司将海外资金用一个非常低的一次性税率带回到美国这让苹果微软这样的科技巨头开始了大规模的回流资金并且他们开始用这些资金来回购股票2018年9月标普版一度冲上了2930点的极端性高位 除了短期提振股市外减税也带动了美元的走强2018年美元指数从92.3一路震荡走高至97.8减税跌价温和的加息使得美元资产更加有吸引力但与此同时大规模的减税也让美国的财政赤字迅速扩大2019年赤字首次突破了1万亿美元这也为今天市场对于美债可持续性的担忧买下了付币 The 2017 tax reduction bill has stimulated the stock market in the short term, and has led to the return of the stock, but it has not obviously promoted the economic growth of the United States in the long term, and has not changed the long-term investment logic of the US stock. Will the 2017 US interest bill be different from the 2017 one? What kind of impact will it have on the market in the short term and in the long term? 首先我们必须清楚这个大美立法案其实藏着一个猫腻那就是政策的推行时间整个政策矩阵并非是同时推进而是呈现前松后紧的趋势像减税政策就主要集中在26年到29年之间大多数条款到了30年就会到期而削减开支则大多要等30年之后才逐步生效 and the 所以说政府花钱都花到了前面而勒紧裤腰带则放到了5年之后可想而知不管是民众还是市场短期先看到的都是促进经济有刺激美国也有支撑而难受啊得等到5年之后才难受到时候不定谁上台呢井朝有酒井朝醉 The problem is that such a slow and tight flow will lead to rapid increase in the tax cut. From the map, it can be seen that the tax reduction bill will increase the tax cut of 25 to 26 years by 500 billion to 600 billion dollars. Subsequently, the effect of the tax reduction policy will gradually begin to decrease, but it is also an effect of increasing. According to the budget of the US Congress budget office, the bill will increase 4.1 trillion dollars in total in the next 10 years. Even considering the most optimistic income that the customs tax may bring, it will still increase 1.3 trillion dollars. No wonder Musk is so dissatisfied with the Darmel bill. I'm struggling to raise my money, and I only have a few hundred billion dollars. If you take a handful of Trump, you'll get a few trillion dollars. What am I doing here? The most direct impact of the increase in the price of capital is the US debt, which will inevitably lead to a further increase in the size of the US debt. And to keep the buyer's purchase going, interest rates must be increased to compensate. Then the price of bonds with a reverse ratio to interest rates will start to fall. At the same time, high interest rates will also bring pressure on the bank Plus the policy of mutual tax, it will also further pressure the bank The threat of bank accounts will increase their risk of falling behind in the US Fed's monetary policy However, the high interest rate is a support for the exchange rate of the US dollar Perhaps it can reduce the pressure on the depreciation of the US dollar 以上这些就是大美利的短期影响经济有刺激美国有支撑美元也很可能会走强但赤字会使美债风险增加利率升高通胀也存在一定的压力不过整体来看促进都是力干坚硬的而风险则需要一定时间才能够显现所以短期来看还是利好会大于威胁那么该法案长期来看会有怎样的影响呢 白宫下属的总统经济委员会非常乐观他们认为这项法案未来十年能够让GDP增加2.4%到2.7%然而投行和学术机构们的态度则完全相反耶鲁大学预算实验室认为该法案会拖累美国经济使得GDP整体下降0.1%投行摩根斯丹利则认为法案能够在26年带来0.2%的GDP增长但之后的十年反而会拖累GDP下降0.4% Why are there such big differences between the two? Maitreya has studied the calculations of these different institutions I found that the White House's prediction did not consider the new financial expenditure And the increased interest cost I don't know if it's because of the poor level or deliberately Of course, the view of the more independent third party institutions is more credible And from the history of 2017, we can see that such a large-scale reduction in taxes has not brought long-term economic impact This time the range is obviously not as good as last time, I am afraid it is also difficult to bring more active income On the contrary, in the long term, it is more worth worrying about the increase in赤字 and debt scale 大美利法案不仅影响财政和经济还很有可能会带来更高的贫富差距根据国会预算办公室的测算从2026年到2034年最富裕的美国家庭每年能够增加收入约1.2万美元而中产家庭每年能增加大概500到1500美元而最贫困的家庭反而每年要损失掉1600美元那为什么会出现这种现象呢像这样的 The reason is simple The US law not only reduces taxes, but also reduces benefits The lower the tax, the higher the income, the better the effect So the rich will have the most profit And for benefits, the poor are more dependent on the poor Reducing benefits is equivalent to directly increasing the expenses for the poor For example, all low-income Americans used to provide free medical insurance Now it has been changed to have to work 80 hours a month to get medical insurance The CBO predicted that by 2034, about 11.8 million people would lose their health insurance, which is equivalent to an average of $1500. This wealth distribution imbalance will have a structural impact on the consumer industry. Low-income groups' disposable income will decrease and reduce their consumption. For example, the lower-priced retail sellers like Walmart and Dollar General will be affected negatively. And high-income families will increase their spending ability because of the decrease in tax. So the consumption of related non-necessary consumer goods, such as tourism, luxury goods, high-end retail and real estate industries, will be good. The big US dollar bill has all the effects on the red level. For investors, what kind of opportunities and risks will this bill bring to the US dollar? Overall, we just said that it is a short-term stimulus against threats. According to the budget for the high-summit, the big US dollar bill is expected to bring about a 5% increase in the overall profit of the BIA in 2026. The BIA is expected to be the first to increase the overall profit of the BIA in 2026. The BIA is expected to be the first to increase the overall profit of the BIA in 2026.预计在2026年能够给标普500整体的盈利带来5%左右的提升 But this approach is completely different from the case of different板块和个股 From the benefit板块上来看 The most obvious benefit is the technology and semiconductor companies Their capital expenditure and research and development investment are particularly large Which will bring a lot of saving and consumption And the US legislation provides more tax deductibles for this part 比如之前的利息支出最多就只能抵扣税前利潤的30%现在这个30%不再算在税前利潤上了而是算在折旧贪消钱的利潤而这就大幅增加了抵扣的幅度特别是半导体行业只要2026年之前开始建厂那么税收抵扣的比例还能够从25%提升到35% Companies like Enveda and Taiji will make significant profits In addition, Microsoft, Google, and Amazon, these three cloud service giants Because there are a lot of investment in AI infrastructure, they will also make significant profits In addition, military and traditional energy industries will also have a lot of benefits The plan will invest about 150 billion US dollars in the next five years For the construction of the ship, missile production, missile defense and other projects This will benefit the military companies such as Rockies, Martin, Boeing, Palantir In the traditional energy sector, the United States will restart the oil and gas sales of Alaska and Mexico, reduce the gas emission rate, and increase the subsidies for carbon capture technology. This will benefit from the capital funding of X-Metal, Xfron, etc. After saying that, let's take a look at which boards will be empty. First of all, the most shocking is the new energy industry The US-China case gradually canceled the new energy subsidies in the Biden period For example, the tax ground for wind power and light energy will be canceled in 2026 And the subsidies for electric cars will stop immediately on September 30 this year And the subsidies for second-hand electric cars and commercial electric cars will also be canceled directly in 2025 Tesla is the biggest victim in this Not only will the cancellation of the electric car subsidy affect the purchase of the consumer And the carbon footprint will also affect the company's profits In 2024, Tesla will sell carbon footprint to other companies Earned $2.8 billion This is pure profit 17% of the annual net profit In the future, this profit is equivalent to being directly cut off And Tesla's other business, including solar roof, battery storage system, will also be negatively affected by the bill. After the fight was made, Musk was hit by Trump's "one-hit" The public break-up of the two people seems to be in the middle of cleaning. I want to talk about Tesla a little more Indeed, the US-China law has a very big impact on Tesla's performance But the impact on the stock price is not as simple as it looks on the surface According to the average valuation model used by the investment bank The income of carbon-fiber is not included So the loss of this part is relatively limited to the impact on the stock price The main impact is still the problem of electric car sales But investors need to know that Tesla's main investment logic is still the progress of autonomous driving FSD and Robotex. This good development will still be the decisive factor in the growth of the stock price. And if this is not in time, the interest rate pressure and interest rates of the US-US dollar will double the share price of the company. So the key is to look at the development of technology, and the policy interest rate is not a decisive factor. Another industry that has been left out by the US is the medical industry. The bill reduces the medical subsidies for non-citizens, children's health insurance, and tightens the qualification to obtain medical insurance subsidies under the evaluation medical bill. It also limits the right to the sale of the price of the orphaned children's medicine. These changes will directly affect a medical industry that relies on medical insurance and policy subsidies. The last affected block is the consumer block. We have just mentioned this. Low-end consumers, such as Walmart, Dollar General, will face pressure. And medium-high-end consumers, such as furniture, Home Depot, travel concept stocks, Airbnb, casino stocks, MGM, will instead be the number one. Finally, I would like to remind you that the US-Li Faian is only one of the factors of influence in all relevant parts and stocks. We can't just look at one investment decision. The key to the long-term performance of the company is the basic surface, industry and management of the executive power. Overall, the U.S. especially in the fields of technology, military, and traditional energy. On the contrary, the new energy and medical industries are affected by a relatively negative effect, and consumer blocks are showing structural deterioration. But in the long run, the current US legislation is still controversial One view thinks that the US government's debt is too high The financial situation is not sustainable It should be reduced to a low level as soon as possible Control the size of the debt Otherwise, the pressure will increase The risk of debt will increase The confidence of the capital market will also be severely affected And another view thinks that As long as the economy is stable and the bank is warm It's not a bad thing for the government to maintain a certain level of debt On the contrary, if the economy is in a hurry to tighten its finances when the economy is just starting to stabilize, it will cause unnecessary damage to the economy. I personally think that from today's point of view, on the one hand, the US economy is almost fully established and the economy seems to be more stable. In this case, there is no need to do a large-scale stimulus. But on the other hand, the inflation has just stabilized, and the high interest rate has also brought a lot of pressure to consumers. So it's not a time to just step on the brakes. This is a "reliable" US legislation that is really helpful to maintain the balance of the economy. So from a policy point of view, I think that in the next one or two years, it will have a relatively positive impact on the market. And for the debt problem, I think the current size of the In a short period of time, this is definitely the foundation of the capital market's madness, but the continuous isolation of the problem will also lead to the birth of a greater crisis, and the great beauty is undoubtedly accelerating the development of this city. Ok, that's all for today's video. In the next video, I will introduce the recent stablecoin industry and the star stock circle. For stablecoin, there are many people who already know about it. This time, I will focus on the investment analysis of the industry and the stock. Let's start from the basic side, and explore the value of the investment of the stable currency industry and the stock circle in depth with objective data. Thanks for watching, welcome to subscribe to the new user of the US-Tou Jun Pro, free to use, come and experience it. If you like the video of the US-Tou Jun, don't forget to like it, follow and forward it. Thank you.