[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to the channel. We are back on another market close. Dude, the amount of jokes you guys have in the chat for why I'm late. We're a minute late, bro. We're like 30 seconds late here. Not even a full minute. The amount of jokes, bro. Some of these comments are actually They need to go in the Hall of Fame for some of these comments. I leave him alone. He's with his dentist. Goodness gracious. Anyway, uh, dip buyers came back with a vengeance, folks. Dip buyers came back with a vengeance. Markets are green. We have added $800 billion dollars of market cap today. 800 billion of market cap, 663 on the S&P. We got all the way up to 664.6. Got a lot of different headlines and different things to talk about. But I mean the the kind of punchline here is we are getting into earnings tomorrow. We'll do a bit of a preview on what we've got going on with bank earnings because I think it's going to set up really what happens with overall stock market earnings going into Q3. Um, but as you can see on the screen, Google up 3%, SoFi up 4%, AMD up half a percent, Nvidia up 2.4, four hoodie 1.1, Palanteer up 1%. Tesla nice little 5% move 435 right there on Tesla. Tesla got to 437 at one point. Apple is green, SMCI is green, Ethereum and Bitcoin which were pretty weak when I left at the market open. Bitcoin was almost below 114. Ethereum was actually almost below 4,000. Nice rebound. Those two are green on the day. Uh your energy names like Ollo that is up 18% on the day. Centress Energy LEU that is up 10% on the day. Bloom Energy got a $5 billion deal with Brookfield 27% on the day. Pretty damn incredible across the board. Even Quantum making a move. D-Wave 40.46. That's up 22%. Regetti got above 50. 53 right there up 20%. As you can see, the dip buyers came back and they started to essentially buy as much as they could based on the decline that we got last week. I mean, there were a lot of dip buyers on Friday, but today you're seeing pretty much across the board. Micro Strategies up 3% as look at that. 9151. It hit 92. That's an all-time high. A lot of these names continue to get buyers to pile in. Maybe institutional, maybe retail, maybe a mix of both. But I think the core argument here is that the China Trump situation probably was not the top of the market. And eventually, we're going to find out if we ever can get back above 673. But I think most analysts that have their $7,000 price target continue to have their $7 $7,000 price target. It doesn't seem like that's necessarily going to be going away anytime soon. Yeah, it's the most hated V-shaped rally 2.0 No, and it's not a full Vshape yet. We got to get back to alltime highs, but it's a pretty close one as you're seeing on the S&P 500 right there up 1.53% on the day. Now, the biggest deal of the day, and we'll talk more about this after the bell right here was Broadcom. Broadcom up 10% on the day. OpenAI signed a 10 gigawatt deal with Broadcom. They put out an entire podcast with both of the companies actually talking about the substance of the deal. But once again, it continues to lead the argument for how entrenched OpenAI is in this entire ecosystem. $100 billion dollar deal with Nvidia, six gawatt deal with AMD, $300 billion deal with Oracle, and now about a $300 billion deal with Broadcom for custom ASIC chips, which is quite incredible. That deal kind of sparked the rally, I think, in all the data center plays. So, I that's up 7% on the day. Bit farms, is that above $5? That is well above $5. Look at that. 28% on the day. Uh, CleanSpark, Marathon, all those names. I mean, if OpenAI is signing these gigawatt, multi-gawatt deals with multiple companies, Sam Alman saying he wants to get up to 30 gigawatts in the next five years. I mean, yeah, you're going to get a lot of the Bitcoin miners that are turning into data centers essentially to catch a bid. Even Cipher, Cipher got that Google investment a month ago. Look at Cipher up 20% on the day. Terra Wolf as well, not doing too bad. And then that's not even to mention the the the most important sector of the day that was running ever since that China news is rare earth minerals and metals 95.83. 83 on MP. US AR also getting a big boost, up 17.9%. TMC, the metals company, that one got a massive boost. That's up 17%. Uh and then you had TMQ, the company that Trump will be taking a stake in that is up another 11%. I mean, this is just this is just incredible to witness the rerating of these companies in real time. And if you believe that this data center stuff is not slowing down anytime soon, which none of the evidence that at least I'm seeing is a reason for it to slow down, then it looks like these companies are going to continue catching a bid. Nebas right there, that's up 4.8% of the day. 135.88 is what you have on Navius. Now, I did buy a little bit more of Amazon today. I don't know, dude. I I just feel like Amazon, again, there's we've gone through the thesis plenty of times on why I think it's undervalued, why I think it should run towards the end of the year. So, bought a little bit more Amazon, I think, at 220. I bought in at 222. It's not that big of a difference in terms of the entry price right there, but I think they're going to have a strong Q3 and I think AWS is going to surprise to the upside and as long as that plays out, I think Amazon does okay. So, I bought a little bit more Amazon, bought a little bit more grab today as well. Google, right, they're up 3%. But across the board, you're just seeing a lot of these names rebound from where they were on Friday at the lows on Friday, which is very nice to see. Crowd Strike as well, 508. That is up 2.95% on the day. Again, Olo massive move up 18%. I know the company doesn't have revenue, but it's in the hottest sector in the market, which is energy. Every chart that we look at every day shows how much we're going to need more and more data centers, or how we're going to need more and more energy to fuel the data centers, and how we're going to need more and more electricity to just naturally make sure the price doesn't spike up for the average person in America that is using electricity in their home because of those data centers. And nuclear is going to probably play a role. And as a result, I think got low is getting more of this momentum. PI, this one got a deal with Nvidia this morning that's up 23%. We talked about that in the morning when it was up 10%. So, another 14% since we talked about it. $2.4 billion market cap. Small company, but again, uh, as we see this energy ecosystem continuing to thrive, you have companies like Powi, which aren't really, you know, talk about companies. Average volume is 748,000 shares, was 6.3 million shares today. So, 6x the volume simply because of the partnership with Nvidia. And it doesn't look like that is slowing down. SMR, New Scale Power, that's up another 15% on the day. And then Nanuclear Energy, NE, that one is up 18% on the day. BMR also didn't do too bad. I mean, now that Ethereum got above 4200, there you go. We're at 56. We're at 53 when the market open was ending. So, it's nice to see that one gap up a little bit above 56. Again, it got to 47 on Friday night. So, if anyone bought that dip, not too bad. Uh, but you are seeing crypto do okay. And you are seeing the data center plays continue to get some love. Uh, did you buy shares or calls of Amazon? Just shares. Not buying any calls at this time. just shares. KRE is something I'm looking at as well. Again, the banks are going to start to report and we'll talk more about the banks after the bell, but KRE is barely up here to date. This is the regional banking fund ETF. XLF is up like 9%. So, I mean, if you want to be selective with certain parts of these banks, whether it's a JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Cityroup, they have run a lot this year. So, you know, it wouldn't surprise me if they kind of take a breather tomorrow and don't actually perform. But the actual earnings growth, I'm looking forward to be pretty good. And I and I think that gets us into the conversation of what to expect from earnings growth. The banks are set to report tomorrow if the financials can give us a good start to earnings and we see double digit earnings growth throughout most sectors in Q3, which is pretty much what is expected from every analyst that I've been reading in terms of their the reports this morning going into the bank earnings, then I think we're going to continue to see an argument for multiple expansion and money coming off the sidelines. Now, the push back to this argument is, well, what about the froth in the market? And I think you have to acknowledge that there is froth. But if Nvidia was frothy and not putting up the earnings growth, there would be an argument. If JP Morgan was frothy and not putting up the ear earnings growth, there would be an argument for, hey, this is too much. There's a structural problem in the economy. Oaklo being frothy, which I think most people can agree, yes, it's probably a bit frothy. $25 billion company with no revenue isn't that big of a deal because if 25 billion goes to zero, again, it's whatever, right? It's not it's not a $4 trillion company going to zero. And second of all, a lot of the companies that are perceived as frothy and might legitimately be frothy, they're in a sector that's getting a ton of excitement and opportunities and potentially the ability to get revenues. I mean, even for the people that feel that quantum is incredibly um frothy. JP Morgan today announced a $ 1.5 trillion investment and they announced that part of their investment is going to go to quantum companies. So when you have narratives like that going around, even if you think there is some broader froth, I don't know if it's enough to say that is a top to the market or the market's in a bubble and as a result, you're seeing the dip buyers come out and they are continuing to buy. S&P 500 right there up 1.62% on the day. What do you think about Dominoes? I don't know much about Dominoes, but uh Papa John's got a buyout offer today from Apollo at 60 bucks a share. Stocks at 45. It's up 10%. So obviously the market's not really thinking the buyout is going to go through, but they are kind of thinking there's a chance for it to go through because it's up 9%. So if uh if Apollo ends up actually taking Papa John's private, then you know, you might see Papa John's get bought it at 60 bucks. But that was the offer that came out today. That's what caused the spike. I think got it up to 50 bucks 95 at one point. Now it's down to 4565. But Domino earnings are going to be important because we're going to have to see how is the consumer doing. And pizza is one sign of seeing how the consumer is ultimately playing out. Uh here is what Beimo said. This is one of my favorite analysts on their call on where the market's going, their kind of thoughts on the China selloff and then we will get into this market close.
>> That just that just came to me. But um I think it was oh no, here we go again with respect to the tariffs and we knew that China was kind of the remaining story. We also know as investors that there's been so much emphasis not just on AI Mike but also with respect to Nvidia Broadcom and some of the big leaders in that. So of course uh we took some air out of the out of the wind there and the sales in terms of of the ship that is the bull market. You know when we talk about markets they're rarely linear for long. This has been a very exciting bull market the cyclical bull market that started in October of 2022. We actually started to talk about that cyclical bull in November of 2022 and kind of people thought we were too early on that. But look look what look what's happened. But I do I do think that what's happened here today is a logical kind of recovery from oops I'm going to overreact again. And I think we're in one of those markets that until we get into earnest uh heavier earning side of things, which we ultimately think are going to be the leading us kind of out of this, I think you're going to continue to see more volatility. Plus, it's Columbus Day, so there's some people that are off.
>> Yeah. And of course, bond market is closed.
>> So again, we don't have as much volume as you would have on a typical day where the entire market was open. But the same argument from Beimo that's been calling for 7,000 on the S&P for a while. and and very similar to Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs. By the way, the JP Morgan trading desk today said, "Buy the dip." So, they said, "Hey, this is a nothing burger that happened on on uh on Friday." And that's kind of unanimously across the board from what I've been reading this morning. All of them are saying this China thing was a nothing burger. Trump is using leverage, yada yada. It's like he's trying to negotiate like it's not something they should be that concerned about. In fact, JP Morgan said the top three stocks that were bought by retail investors on Friday's 3% draw down, and we're going to get a lot more data on how much retail actually bought on Friday in the coming days. Nvidia, Meta, and Hood. Nvidia, Meta, and Hood. I didn't expect to see Hood up there, quite frankly. Nvidia and Meta make sense, but I guess people took advantage of of buying Hood as well. So, those were the three names that were bought heavily by retail investors. Um, and you know, there was a lot of other names that we saw in the chat on Friday, but again, it became a buying opportunity and we haven't had a full recovery to say that we're out of the blue in terms of or out of the woods, I should say, in terms of all the issues that we dealt with on Friday because, you know, it still created a a meaningful draw down. But another 800 billion in market cap being added today is not bad and it definitely is a sign that hopefully we should be on a a path for a recovery. And right there, 188.35, you got circle that was up 3.6 6% app 111 this was at 570 in the morning 590 that's up three and a half% nphase up 1.5 and then Microsoft up half a percent on the day as well and then Tesla right there 436 that is also green we are 2% away from alltime highs that is correct 2% away and you know given the market action today it doesn't feel like it's going to be crazy to necessarily get back there if earnings growth is going to be good and that's the big thing we have 40 seconds until the market closes we got earnings growth We got a lot. Well, we have earnings coming up. I think we're going to have really good earnings growth. And as long as that earnings growth is not bad, dude. Like again, it's it's really not that hard to to make the argument for why people are buying stocks today. If you've got a good earning cycle that's coming up and the banks are going to help prove that tomorrow, you're probably going to get more money coming into the ecosystem. AMD right there 216 at 37. We got about 20 seconds until the market closes. Tesla 435. Broadcom was the real story of the day. We'll talk more about them on the close and what's going on with OpenAI. But OpenAI continues to prove that uh they are one of the most important companies in AI and as a result uh Oracle, Broadcom, AMD, Nvidia, all of them are starting to depend a lot on what OpenAI can do. Monday, October 13th, 4 p.m. Banker for everybody for being here. The stock market is now closed. All right, we are done for the day. The Monday after uh the selloff on Friday. I mean, there were some people saying it would be a black Monday. Thankfully, it didn't end up being the craziest Black Monday, but it is uh it is nice to see a bit of a rebound right here. And this rebound being stronger than what some market participants expected. S&P 500 close of the day 1.52% up basically getting 50% of that 3% draw down that we had on Friday. And that's where we get the close. Robin Hood 140.70. We actually have a news update on Robin Hood that we'll talk about in a second. We have a quote from one of their VPs of products. So, we'll talk about that in a bit. Palanteer right there ended up about 1% on the day. Tesla 5 and a half percent. Not too bad for Tessie. Nvidia up 2.89%. Nvidia did break 190 at one point today. AMD up half a percent. AMD seemed like it was down based on that Broadcom deal. I really don't think that's a reason for AMD to be down. I mean, it's not like OpenAI is not working with AMD. So, it was kind of weird that it had that reaction, but AMD was down a little bit from the pre-market. SoFi 4% on the day. Google up 3%. Grab up 1%. Reddit up 2.5. Amazon at 1.69 69 at 220 on the day. Meta 1.4 that was at 690 on Friday. Now at 715. Salesforce at 258 or 248. PayPal continually. It's PayPal, dude. I I It's freaking PayPal. 68.90 on PayPal that was down about 1%. ELF 2.3%. Apple was up 1%. SMCI was up 3%. Ethereum trying to break 4,300. Bitcoin 115.8. Apploven that's up three and a half. Uber was up 1% on the day. Rockab I think closed at 68. Rock 11, never mind. 6542. Still a nice little rebound up 1.8% on the day. Nebas got the $135 close. Not too bad. Coreweave I think actually had a little bit of a dip. No, it recovered. It was dipping in the morning now back to 141. Fell all the way to 137 which is not too bad. I Bit Farms, Cipher, all of them up 7 to 8% on the day. Many of them up even 20% like Cipher. There you go. Up 20.1%. That was green. Quantum massive massive day across the board. D-Wave hitting all-time highs up 22% on the day. Oracle as well. Did we get above 300? We are 307 up 5% on the day. Great day for Oracle. Looks like that Broadcom deal was super bullish for Oracle as well. Catching some of that momentum. And then Broadcom right there up 9.8%. Big Bear got a partnership this morning. Uh and that helped them get some green. That touched 920 at one point. 22% on Big Bear. I mean, it shows you the appetite on some of these names is pretty damn strong. That's green again. This thing was below five a couple months ago. So big bear with that partnership this morning 8.85. That one continues to be green. I guess the most important argument one could argue is not even Broadcom Open AAI but rather gold. Gold surpassed an all-time high again. 4125 up 3% on the day. And silver did the same thing at $503. I mean gold and silver are both up 70%. Gold up 55. Silver is up like 68%. It's really incredible. It's really, really, really, really incredible to see. But I think this is also a function of that broader argument that says, hey, cash is not the place where you want to be. And if cash is not the place where you want to be, you're going to start to see a lot of diversified assets continue to catch a bid. So, pretty incredible to end out the Friday after one of the worst sell-offs we've seen in the past six months. AS gets the $90 close. Congratulations to those that are in AS. This is a big one. It basically was about to get the $90 close on Friday and then the whole Trump thing happened. So, this one rebounding a real proper Vshape down from the low 80s back up to 90. And as John says right there in the chat, 7.4 trillion is still in money market funds, which inevitably probably some of it comes out. EOS Energy, another big energy name that was up 24% on the day. I mean, I think today was just one of those days for energy. And the reason I think the energy names took off outside of Bloom Energy because they had a specific reason with their Brookfield deal is that OpenAI partnership with Broadcom. I mean, when Sam Alman is talking about the numbers that he's talking about, I think the entire market is thinking, how is this possible without more power? And as a result, these names end up getting a lot of love. This is a clip of Sam Alman as we head into some of the headlines now as the market is closed um talking about how much energy and how much demand we're ultimately going to need. Think about how much more the world would like to do than they get to do right now. Think about how much more the world would like to do than they get to do right now. If we had 30 gawatt today with today's quality of models, I think you would still saturate that relatively quickly in terms of what people would do, especially with the lower cost we'll be able to do with this. But the thing
>> if we had 30 gawatts of energy that we could deploy on data centers, Sam Alman is saying that still wouldn't be enough. I mean that's the level that open AI is thinking at and maybe they're being too hyperbolic or maybe they're really underestimating it but that is why I think your ciphers your INS your ters your bit farms are really catching a bit
>> we have learned again and again is let's say we can push GPT6 to feel like you know 30 IQ points past GPT5 something something big the and that it can work on problems not for a few hours but for a few days weeks months whatever the amount and while we do that we bring the cost per token down the amount of economic value and sort of surplus demand that happens each time we've been able to do that goes up a crazy amount so you can see to pick a I think well-known example at this point when chat GBT could write a little bit of code people actually used it for that it would like very painfully paste in their code and wait and they would say do this for me and paste it back in and whatever and models you know couldn't do much but they could do a few The models got better. The UI the UX got better. Now we have codecs. Codeex is growing unbelievably fast and can now do like a few hours of work at a higher level of kind of capability. And when that's possible, the the demand increase is crazy. Maybe the next version of codecs can do like a few days of work at kind of one of the best engineer you know level or maybe that takes a few more versions. Whatever it'll get there. Think how much demand there will just be for that and then do it for every knowledge work industry.
>> Okay. So I know his voice is a little hard to to listen to but the point is he's saying hey we have multiple verticals that are going to have levels of demand that we can't even imagine and as a result 30 gawatts of energy wouldn't be enough because just the coding version of chatbt which right now I think anthropic is kind of the undisputed winner in terms of being the best model that can uh actually output meaningful code uh chach is or openi is saying codeex which is our version of that is growing exponentially then they have sora then they have the actual chatbt product. Then they have all their enterprise API calls. I mean you have all these different verticals and now multiply that by XAI by Gemini by anthropic by all the large language model companies. I mean you just have a massive amount of comp. And then you you think about the humanoid robotics companies that are going to need to train their chips to be able to be good for the humanoid robots. And if you have billions of robots walking the earth one day like it just really does feel like this is the narrative that is overtaking the market. And even though a lot of these data center companies don't have the revenue, they don't have the facilities or they don't have the ability to execute on the facilities as quickly as some people may think, they're getting the premium. And the best ones are getting a really good premium like Iran because they've shown a lot of capacity to to actually execute um because the demand is there. And if the demand is there, it's likely not slowing down anytime soon. Uh, speaking of OpenAI, this is what Oracle CEOs had to say today when they were questioned on if the money would be there uh, from OpenAI because the reason their stock went from 230 to 300 is primarily because of that OpenAI deal. Here's what they had to say.
>> It's a bet on the success of AI. Obviously, we have a great relationship with Open AI, but there are many different customers that are all going to need this type of infrastructure for many, many years to come.
>> Meaning what though? I mean, they're I mean, they're supposed to pay you as much as 60 billion a year starting in not too long. They're going to be good for that money, I would assume.
>> Of course. No, I I think any look, that's this is exactly Mike's point. If you look at the financials, if you look at the results, if you look at the growth, if if you look at the the products that were able to build with this technology, this is unlike anything that's happened before. These are not uh typical ways that companies have been founded and grow. I mean, just look at their their, you know, f the rate at which they've grown to, you know, almost a billion users. That's just unheard of. Yeah. And
>> all of this is unheard of, frankly. The numbers that we're talking about are unheard of as well.
>> And I think that's what people are struggling with is they go, "Okay, is this unheard of in a bad way or is this unheard of in a good way?" And we think it's unheard of in a very good way.
>> Um, you know, I wanted to follow up on that then.
>> So, again, you got the Oracle CEOs saying, "Dude, of course, that's their exact wording. Of course, they're good for that money. They are expecting to make sure that open eyes openai is going to be able to pay for this stuff and you know as long as openai is good for that money and there's an ROI and you hear the Oracle CEO saying look at their growth we expect that growth to continue that's how I think this momentum around the broader AI trade continues by the way Palanteer looks like they just confirmed earnings on November 3rd Monday November 3rd I know Pounder has been relatively quiet over the past couple months I mean the biggest catalyst is going to be earnings there hasn't too much beside that. Uh, but I think the numbers will probably talk for themselves. I mean, I'm expecting at least 50% revenue growth. We basically got 48.5% revenue growth last quarter. So, looks like November 3rd, we have Pounder and then Hoodie on November 5th. Hoodie on November 5th. So, that first week of Monday or that first week of November, it's going to be a pretty big week. It's going to be a pretty pretty big week. Uh, Amit, are you going to do a deep dive on energy? Yes, I've already started a lot of research on energy. I'm compiling a lot of sources trying to understand what are the best opportunities. Steve has been doing some research on this as well. I mean, really with energy, it comes down to are are you going to bet on like a rerating on Exxon Mobile or Chevron or are you going to go to the EOS E of the world or the Bloom Energies of the world or the Oakloss of the world or the Centric Energies of the world? Like I think and obviously you could pick both, but like what is kind of the best route logically going into 2026 if one is bullish on energy? I don't have the answer to that question yet, but I have started the research for it. I'm leaning towards the latter versus the former. I mean, I think Chevron and Exxon will matter, but some of these other companies and just like the battery technology solutions in some of these company like they're they're able to move faster and quite frankly, their market caps are smaller. So, any catalyst is able to move the stock faster and so I think a lot of those names continue to get some excitement. But yeah, I have started working on that and hopefully I'll be able to put out their research very soon. Bit mine right here 56.85 85 closes above 56 for the day. Not too bad. That's up a little bit more after hours as well. And that's getting some green along with some of the energy names that are still moving after hours. S&P 500,002% for the day. CEG is a bigger one. I mean, that stock is Constellation Energy. They signed a big deal with Meta. They were up 3% on the day. See even CEG there was no catalyst for CG to go up today but you know just the entire sector went up based on that Broadcom deal 57% year-to- date. So the other question is which is important like is is are the like and this is a very important question are these stocks so richly valued that uh deciding to take a bet on these energy names could end up being you know not the best bet. like maybe, you know, these were good bets 5 months ago and now it's getting a bit aggressive. I mean, even the rare earth mineral stocks, take a look at this graphic right here. They're all up at least 350%. On the year, most of these rare earth names that we've been like just exploring on the channel as we've been seeing their names pop up. They don't have any revenue. they are getting a premium on the perception that the decoupling of the United States and China supply chain specifically around rare earth minerals and metals is going to be enough to provide all that demand which is not a horrible thesis and same thing for from an energy perspective a lot of those companies that don't have revenue eventually the assumption is that data centers are going to need so much energy that they should be getting a premium and we should pull forward that growth but none of it's there yet and so it's one of those things in the deep dive which is like hey do you feel comfortable taking a risk at these valuations And I don't know yet. I don't know. There's got to be some more work to be done to see if that is the case. But I think over the coming years, it doesn't seem unlikely that we're not going to need energy and we're not going to need rare earth metals and all the other things that have been starting to get some excitement. I mean, are there any stocks currently with any good entry points to get into or is it all too high? I mean, look, the the draw down from Friday definitely made a lot of things more exciting. I think grabb below six is exciting. I think Amazon still at 220 is exciting. I mean, even Meta was at 800. It's not like Meta is the cheapest, but Meta is also not back at 800 like it was two months ago, right? Obviously, PayPal if you want to take the risk there, but that's relatively depressed. Um, I mean, there are definitely opportunities now. You know, Apploven, are you willing to deal with the SEC probe? This is down from 750. It is an opportunity. You just have to be able to assess the risk. I don't think Ramad's like the best opportunity in the world down from 150. But nonetheless, it's not at 153 anymore. So that is also potentially an opportunity. But realistically, I think a lot of these names come down to do you have a trajectory where you can see the earnings growth over the next five years. If that's the case, a lot of the market probably is not as expensive as people would say it is. In fact, someone who disagrees with the market being super super bubbish is none other than Howard Mark. So for those that missed it today, he said three main things. Number one, he said, "I don't see many in the market right now." Yeah. UNH, that's another uh stock that's probably undervalued. S&P is expensive, but the quality of companies are much better, and I'd struggle to call the market a bubble right now. I mean, I did not expect Howard Marks to be this bullish. And I'm not saying he's like gung-ho, buy the S&P, buy AI stocks because he doesn't have any exposure to them. But dude, a month ago, if you listen to his Bloomberg interview, he definitely sounded way more cautious than he sounded this morning on CNBC. And I don't know what changed in the past month. maybe he just saw a little bit more of the uh actual progress of some of these AI companies and he kind of concluded you can't say that this is mania euphoria if the earnings growth is there. I mean, no fund manager, no matter how much of a value investor they are and how much they don't want to pay expensive multiples, can deny earnings growth. And I think that's why, you know, the market continues to do what it's doing. Definitely not the most bullish, but also, I don't think, the most bearish on what we have in the market. UNH, how did that do today? That was at 350. 359. Okay, so that was up 1.2% as well on the day. Let's go to the stock draft. I think Matt's still probably in the lead right here. Yeah, Matt 46.7. I'm at 41. Steve's at 8.3. Tanner's at 21. Then Chris is at 12% on the day. Do you think we'll ever see April lows again? I think it's possible, but it's going to be really tough to see April lows. I mean, April lows, you're talking about Robin Hood going back to 29. You know, you're talking about Irene going back to $10. No, I was like a $7 during like it it is hard to get those opportunities again. I think Friday was like a good enough taste of what somewhat of a draw down would look like. But then look at what happened today. The dip buyers came back on a day where you know a lot of financial institutions are closed including the credit market and the banks. But still so much money came into the markets today just off the idea that maybe this is one of the best opportunities that we have. So I don't think we get April lows again but we might you know see some inevitable dips across the way. Amcore nice 8% move today. I mean again amcor did not deserve to go to 2850. The stock is relatively cheap in my opinion, trading at 1.15 time sales. So for anyone that got in last week at 28 or 29, you had that opportunity on Friday and it jumped up on relatively little volume, too. I think this was just algorithmic that this one didn't deserve to be down as much as it was down. And so it made a move higher back to kind of where it was trading at before the draw down. And I think that happened to a lot of different stocks today. Like SoFi went from 25 to 27. I mean, nothing really changed last Friday to bring it down to 25. Nothing really changed today to bring it back to 27. So a lot of these names just kind of rebounded. Same thing with Google. went from 232 to 244, but he created opportunities. He created opportunities for a ton of different people. Is Tim Cook stepping down? I don't think so. That headline would be pretty wild. Tim Cook. Now, there was a uh there was a report from Bloomberg last week that um one of Apple's VPs, this guy right here, John Turnis, is getting ready to replace Tim Cook. I don't think they would announce that until the beginning of next year if it does happen. If they announced it on the earnings call, that would be kind of crazy. I mean, I think a lot of investors would need some time to be associate or learn how to associate themselves with a new C. I mean, Apple's an important company. It's 6.2% of the S&P 500. So, that would be a big change. So, I feel like they would make that announcement in a different way. He's You guys are saying he's retiring. I mean, I don't see the headline of him. I feel like Apple stock would give us a reaction if he's retiring. I mean, eventually he is, but probably not today. At least we don't see that news today. But we will keep an eye on what goes on with Apple. Apple stock right there at 24750. Um, Bit Farms won't quit, dude. Bit farms, this thing was below $5 in the pre-markets. was like 450 continuing to move after hours. Now, see, here's the thing. Like, is this just a sympathy trade with Cipher and Iran? For all the people that miss Cipher, I ran Terolf, are they just jumping into Bit Farms? Or did Bit Farms announce something that is making the stock go parabolic after hours? I mean, I don't see I didn't see a headline all day from Bit Farms. I don't see a headline after hours on Bit Farms. So, what is it? I mean, I think it could be a mixture of both, but just the sheer excitement I think is getting more and more people excited. A mid to use stock lending feature on Hood. I think I have that enabled. It gets you like, you know, 30 40 bucks a month if you loan out your shares to short. So, I have to check if it's even enabled or not, but it's not uh it's not the biggest feature for me. But if you have a lot of shares of a stock, then it, you know, stock lending definitely does add a little bit of yield to your to your shares. Wolf right here, are we 18 after hours? Terowolf 1396. Not there yet. Uh I have not looked into NKLR. I know this is the alternative to Oaklo that people are thinking of. This is a this is um this is another nuclear name. NKLR. It was up today just with like just like Oaklo. Isn't this a spa? Yeah, this is a spa company. So, it's up 84%. It It spacked on Thursday. And the reason it's up is probably because a lot of people think it's going to spack into some massive nuclear name. And that's why that's green. I mean, again, dude, a lot of these names, they're just like they're running for the hell of running with it, which I think deserve some caution, but they're also in sectors that matter, and it's hard to deny that those sectors are going to continue to matter. This was Trump today. He was at uh Egypt announcing the Israel Hamas deal, and here's what he said about World War II.
>> Means so much. There was so many people who said the Middle East, and this has been going for many, many decades. I've read it many times that World War III will begin in the Middle East. It's not going to happen. That's not going to happen. It was a time that you would have thought it could have, but it's not going to happen. There won't be World War II hopefully at all, but it's not going to start in the Middle East. We're not going to have a World War II if we're smart. Never be a World War II. Means so much. It was so many people who said
>> it was a pretty long peace summit. You had a bunch of European leaders including the UK prime minister, uh, Italy's president Mcronone was there. So you had a bunch of the Europeans that were there. And um, look, Trump is getting the credit from a lot of different parties. I mean, even Time magazine put him on the front cover and said that underneath this president is when you finally got some peace in the Middle East. So from a market perspective, the question is going to be, hey, do the markets interpret this as positive just because there's going to be less geopolitical instability outside of what's going on with Russia and Ukraine? And we're going to see over the coming months, but it's definitely not a bearish thing to see happen in the in the broader markets. Um, I think Carney was there. Not sure if Carney was there, but I think I think he was. Uh, H O N D. Have I looked into that? No. I've heard of this name. Oh, this is another Spack. Goodness gracious, bro. Who put Who's sponsoring HD? That That Spack was up 10% today. When did this one even go live? I mean, Tom Lee still has a spack that hasn't officially gone. Oh, this has been live since like January. So, who who's sponsoring HD D? Um, it's Priestback. I have no idea who's a sponsor for that, but whoever is, I mean, see, look, this is so, okay, so one thing that's really important as we get into this time of the year, and you know, some people might like hearing this, some people might not not might not like hearing this, but you don't have to chase everything. You really don't have to chase anything. I mean, I have not really been into the rare earth metals or the the the super super speculative energy names like an EOS or an Oll or stuff. And I'm like, honestly, bro, I'm not really feeling that much FOMO because it's been a good year. I kind of don't want to mess it up by getting super excited about Ollo at 171. It's like, you know, if it goes to 250, God bless, but like I don't know if I want to take that risk. So, I already kind of fumbled into Iran at 28. should have should have fomoed way harder at 28. But like at 64, I don't know if I'm going to easily be able to FOMO into it. I just don't. Even though I think there's a really good fundamental thesis and you have a lot of price targets at that $7,500 range. It's just a question of do you buy a stock that's up 6x in five months. And do you need to, right? Like is is your performance so bad towards the end of the year that it needs to, you know, run up by by chasing a lot of these like the question is do you need to chase? And if you don't need to, then you know, maybe you don't. And you don't have to feel bad about not chasing either. Bit farms right here trying to run up to six after hours. I don't see any headlines after hours, folks. So, Bit Farms, whatever run that's happening on Bit Farms, that looks like retail is just piling in. Uh, yeah, I see nothing. I see zero headlines. Absolutely nothing. That that's got to be people chasing Irene, chasing Cipher, chasing Terwolf, and using BitForms. a $5 stock as their proxy to chase. If someone has a headline, let me know. But I do not see it. Sam says, "You don't need to chase these stocks. Maybe a trade but not long term." Yeah, I agree. And also, it's like, look, if you're going to buy Bit Farms right here, like you got to know something about Bit Farms. You have to know about their mining facilities and their ability to how many GPUs do they have, all this stuff. I I I'm pretty sure a lot of people are buying it not knowing any of that stuff because it's a sympathy trade because they missed Iran, which is fair, but you just have to be honest with yourself. Like when I bought Iran, I didn't know that much about it, but I saw the Neb's deal and I was like, you know what, Iran probably is going to run and I should have bought a lot more, but I bought it at 28 and I was like, all right, it is what it is. But I was honest with myself and if it fell, I would also have to be honest with like I, you know, I probably deserve to bag hold if I didn't know that much about it. So, I think you're seeing a lot of that excitement right now, definitely after hours with a bunch of these names in the data center space. And the question is, do you want to participate in that? And do you need to participate in that or do you just freaking buy Amazon, which maybe is going to barely move a couple cents a day, but you'll sleep better at night because it's Amazon. What was the good news? Okay, the hood news is we got a quote from the VP. Uh, by the way, there were 75.5 million calls on the Mag 7 stocks today. So, he had a lot of bullish momentum on MAG7. Uh uh Reuters reported that trading platform Robin Markets is open to potential acquisitions in the fast growing prediction market space. Uh one of the vice presidents and general managers of futures at Robinet said, "We as a firm are going to be looking to see if there's an acquisition that's available." That being said, what we also know is we have really good engineers that build great products here. So what we're doing is trying to balance the two. Uh essentially Robin had saying, "Hey, we are interested in getting deeper into the prediction markets." Now this is a little confusing to me because they're already partnered with Khi and they didn't invest to my knowledge in Khi's latest funding round. Khi just raised that 5 billion. I don't think they've invested in Poly Market either. Poly Market just raised that 10 billion. So they must be looking at other prediction market companies that are out there that they want to expand their work with. And as a result they may be thinking, hey this is a big opportunity just the prediction markets itself which is you know probably going to produce a couple hundred million of revenue for them every year at this point. And as a result, they are continuing to go deeper into that. Um, I'm surprised they don't have an equity stake in Koshi, you know, I mean, like they they account for 25 to 35% of KHI volume. So, you maybe they do and maybe we just don't know about it. But it would be interesting to see if they end up partnering with them more deeply or taking an equity stake or even buying them out. Although, I don't think Khi would want to be bought out. So, Robin might be looking at other companies that are out there. Prize Pix has a $2.5 billion valuation. Prize Pix, do they do prediction markets? I've heard of them many times. I know they do a lot of different types of sports betting. Yeah, maybe Robin wants to expand completely to sports betting. So maybe it's not just prediction markets, but they want to do a variety of verticals. But yeah, exactly. Prize Pix is one of the companies I could see them potentially be more interested in. Yeah, they do prediction markets. Okay, so that makes sense as well. Bit farms open AI deal coming. Dude, open AI touches your stock just says your name and it goes to the moon. It's pretty incredible. Amit, is the Golden Dome priced in for Palanteer? I don't think so. I think the Golden Dome is something that is not priced in for a lot of the stocks that are associated with it. SpaceX, Andrew, Rocket Lab, Palanteer, but also we don't have much clarity on how much of the I think it's like 68 billion those companies are going to get. So no, I would I would say the government growth is very strong and you know we don't have any updates on Golden Dome so I wouldn't say it's fully fully priced in DL thanks for the super chat. Does WorldCoin have utility or would you go with the stock buying it? So again orbs is the treasury that's turning worldcoin into their uh core digital asset. I don't know much about world co. I know that they have 17 million users on the platform. I've never used it. I saw a couple people on Twitter that went to the world coin location and they got the biometric scan. I mean um I don't know obviously there's utility of 17 really in South Korea a lot of people are using it more and more and in Japan but the question is does that utility result in like a massive revenue opportunity and maybe it does but I think it's a little too early to tell but if you're bullish on it you know orbs is probably one of the best ways to get exposure or just buying the world coin flat out yeah Beyond Meat. Okay, so this one got hit today. Okay, this one was down like 80%, no 49%. Okay, recovered. It was at 50 cents at one point. Um, they they filed not for bankruptcy, but they filed for something else and uh and that's what got the street to be upset. They had like a a debt swap for the convertibles that they put out a while ago that they reported this morning. Yeah. So, uh, Beyond shares are tumbling after the company announced early results for its exchange offer of a 0% convertible note due 2027. Roughly 96% of the notes were tendered, well above the 85% threshold. That is not good. In return, Beyond Me will issue 28 million of new 7% convertible notes due in 2030 and about 316 million new shares. So, more dilution, way above their previous threshold. And that's why this stock took a nasty beating today. So, you know, they got to call up Open AI and figure out how they can work together. But until then, you got Beyond Meat down 50%. Next decade, was that down more today? Next decade was down even more, 5%. I have not taken a stake in this. Again, this is this is again, this is the problem with some of these tickers, right? It's like Matt has said over and over again, you buy this and you hold it and you don't worry about it for literally the next decade. But I think all of us are so inundated with the short-term updates on this. Like I don't know why it's down 4%, but if you asked Matt, who kind of got most people thinking about this, I don't think he would care if it's down 4%. Like it really is a long-term play for some of these people. So I I think people have to be honest with themselves. So, if you're buying next decade, think it's going to go to eight bucks soon, like don't buy it because that that's not the thesis from any of the people you heard it from, which is, hey, you literally have to hold this for a long time. You're not going to get that move. And then, you know, down 4%, you should be buying. That should be the if it's if it's truly a decade long hold, it should be something you buy. NAT gas is tough to own. Yeah. And like, you know, you don't get into a ticker just because it's at six, seven bucks and you think it's going to go up. Uh, Nat Gas is not an easy industry and NEX is not even producing revenues yet. VG is producing revenues and they got their ass sued by BP which is why, you know, they continue to fall. So, I think, you know, and this is when people are like, oh, Amit, well, you missed this, you missed that. It's like, well, I don't understand the sector and I'd rather like Oscar at 12 it was a great buy and, you know, it's at 20 and that's phenomenal, but I don't understand healthcare, so why would I put capital at risk at 12 in a sector that I don't know about that it could have blown up in my face? You have to be honest with yourself. Some of this [ __ ] if you just don't know about, you just don't invest in it. It's really not that that complicated. Like even for Bitmine, dude, I was late on Bitmine. I mean, I could have got this thing in the 30s. I got it at ended up getting it at like 45, but it took me a while to understand this. And I love Tom Lee. I mean, he's, you know, he's an awesome guy. He's been on the channel a bunch of times. We've done podcasts together, but I wasn't going to buy it just for the fact that I like Tom Lee. Like, it really took me some time to be like, what the hell is he even doing with BitM? Like, what is happening here before I even bought it? So, I just feel like you have to have peace of mind with a lot of these investments in order to to be excited about them. Speaking of peace of mind and retail investors, here is Wall Street Journal's Gungjan Banerjee who was on the channel about a year and a half ago and here is what she's reporting on what's going on with retail investors and their psychology or buying the dip.
>> It's been a record year for this very popular buy the dip trade. S&P 500 has rebounded around 2% after one day drops of that much this year. That makes it the best year for the buy the drip trade since 2019 and the second best year since the 1980s.
>> It's those are incredible stats. I mean, going back to my time, the 1980s and and it's we saw it in deepseat day in January. We saw it again with tariff liberation that took a couple days, but the markets came roaring back. We saw it again from Friday, i.e. today. Who are these people? Do we know why they're buying?
>> Well, I think they've seen that this trade has worked. You know, as as you mentioned, we have not seen that much volatility this year, but every time we have, people have plowed money into the markets. And what's really remarkable is that I do think that this recent leg of the rally has been driven by Americans of many different income levels and of many different ages. As the Journal recently reported, 25 year olds, around a third of them are in the markets today. In 2015, that figure was 6%.
>> Was this the story I read and everything kind of gets mushed together on the weekends when I read my Apple News Plus? There's a Sorry, I was referenced the previous segment um about how people aren't buying homes in part because they're buying so much in stocks. They're putting their money into the stock market, not the housing market.
>> And it's worked. Take a look at share prices, right, compared to home prices. And I think that's why Americans of all income levels are also putting money into the markets. Income levels between $30,000 and $80,000 a year. More of those Americans are in the market than ever before. And many of them have entered during this bull market.
>> That is the the true retail investor. That's we want market participation. We want everybody to feel that they can access this market. You don't need to be a multi-millionaire.
>> And they feel
>> but and here's where here's there's always a butt. when I see leveraged crypto trades, when I see 3x ETFs up or down, you know, I'm not setting up a warning flag, but at the same time, these are instruments where if they work, they're going to work really well. They don't work, there is a lot more risk here, right? Talk to us about leveraged crypto.
>> I mean, I think it's leverage across the board. I was shocked to see that leverage ETFs tied to the NASDAQ. Nvidia saw some of their biggest inflows on record last week during this volatility and stock investors who entered the markets on Friday are probably taking a look at their accounts and they're pretty happy right now. Cryptole leveraged traders are still nursing losses.
>> So the so to be clear and if I'm wrong please tell me the leverage here is basically it's not one to one. You buy a share of Nvidia goes up you make some money goes down you lose a little bit of money when you sell. These are ex multiples right.
>> Exactly. This is
>> borrowed money 10x
>> 10x 20x 100x leverage and these trades are
>> 100x leverage
>> well that's abroad that's on offshore exchanges but
>> but it does ex but that exists
>> it exists
>> 100 times leverage offshore stuff crypto trades exist
>> and I would bet that US exchanges and brokerages will keep amping up the leverage on Coinbase you can access 10x leverage on Bitcoin and Ethereum that was for the first time over this summer and I think they're going to keep pushing the envelope.
>> If these crypto assets continue to go up, those people are going to make a lot of money,
>> right? But take a look at what happened on Friday, right? People in these trades can also lose a lot of money, lose everything on days like Friday. I called it the get-rich or get wiped out trade.
>> Yeah. Do we know how much of that leverage may contribute to sort of the more volatile declines that we see, right? So the stock market won't go down, you know, a quarter of a percent. It'll go down 3%.
>> Yep.
>> And then it comes back roaring right back. that ex those extreme movements or at least my perception sitting here of extreme movements has to be tied if it's real to those leveraged trades or no
>> look what what I often hear from traders especially the past few years as we've seen the rise of options trades one day options trades leveraged ETFs right a lot of these trades rebalance around the close so a lot of traders do think that that can exacerbate volatility on big up days and big down Is this is this you said offshore I would imagine that there's not just US retail investors buying in. I've heard a lot about investors in other places like South Korea. This is a global market. Correct.
>> This is a global phenomenon and you will be shocked at how much activity is taking place in these so-called perpetual futures around 68% of Bitcoin volumes.
>> Perpetual future.
>> So
>> again, Robin Hood is also bringing perpetual futures to uh to their platform soon. We talked about it in the morning, but perpetual futures just basically let you go long and do the sort of 20, 30, 50x leverage that Gon was talking about. You guys are hilarious in the chat. You guys are genuinely genuinely are genuinely hilarious in the chat. But uh the point is, look, her argument is retail is continuously engaged in this market. They're not going away. They're continuing to buy the dip. The top three stocks that were bought on Friday were Metahood and Nvidia. And um you know the like it's almost the end of the year. Do you take a shot and pile into some of these harder harder retail trades that have continued to gain excitement even if you're not in them or do you add to your normal positions add to something that's relatively cheap and hasn't moved like an Amazon and call it a day? I don't know. It really depends on how much you want to up the risk ante. But with rates coming down, is it crazy to say IRN breaks through 7580 by the end of the year, especially if they get another deal? Like, no, it's not crazy. Cost of capital's coming down, earnings growth is good, and you know, they could announce something overnight that changes the company. It's just, do you want to take the risk? And based on what Gun John's saying, obviously a lot of people are continuing to want to take take that risk. Dude, you guys need to go outside, bro. You guys saying I need to go outside. You guys need to go outside. Goodness gracious, bro. I feel like I feel like we want to get engagement up on the channel. We just need a co-host at this point. Like, and I know exactly what type of co-host to get. Goodness. These are some good comments though. These are some good comments. Roger, thanks for the super chat. Reuters Gun Jun is a midst dentist. Yes, you know, she was on the channel, right? A lot of you guys are new. A lot of you guys don't remember when uh she actually came on the channel. She uh she was on Yeah, she was on, bro. She was This is old video, but she was there. I'm looking at that right now. Look at that. I gotta get her back on. I got to get her back on. She was on a while ago, but it was fun. It was fun. She's dope. She's up. She's on the Wall Street Journal and uh yeah, she covers a lot of what's going on for the the retail ecosystem. Anyway, so those were some of the main headlines. What else do we have after hours? Do we have anything else? Oh, a couple things. So, Kali is reporting government shutdown is going to be worse, bro. Colossi is reporting we are going to have the longest government I mean they're not reporting but the prediction market is saying that we are likely to have the longest government shutdown of all time which would be kind of crazy if that ends up actually happening but uh that is the argument from Kshi and if that's the case then obviously you know it's going to be a little wonky in terms of where we're going to get that government data Navas by the way it's up 18% after hours not sure why what the heck is the headline pushing this stock up. This stock I think Jose is a fan of. It's in the semiconductor space. Oh, there you go. Na'vias supports 800 VDC power architecture for Nvidia's next generation AI factory computing platforms. Boom. There you go. This was actually the same headline for power integrations, this 800 VDC power architecture. So it looks like Nvidia is working with multiple companies to make sure that the uh architecture they need for the nextgen AI factory computing platforms, Jensen has talked about these AI factories for a while has momentum and looks like Na'vi is playing a role there. Wow. $12. Take a look at that. 1230 after hours. It was already up 21% during the day. So I guess someone knew that there was going to be probably some level of collaboration and now you got the official press release after hours. as that continues to go higher. Kane said, "I I almost sold some of my Na'vias today." Almost. Or did you? If you didn't, then you should be happy. If you almost did, then um you should just be grateful you didn't. But goodness, bro. I could understand selling it today, though, right? Because it was up 20%. So, you might say, "Hey, I'm going to take some profits." There you go. That is green. The top 20 stocks that were trading in the options market today, Nvidia, Tesla, IBIT, AMD, Amazon, Apple, Broadcom, Pounder, Beyond Meat, Marathon, Intel, Open Door, SoFi, Microgy, Regetti, which crossed 50 today, Big Bear AI, EOS, Energy Play, MP, Rare Earth Metals, Ethereum ETF, and then IN. So, look at that. In the top 20 stocks that were traded today, Marathon Bitcoin miner turn data center play, Regetti Quantum, Micro Strategy Crypto, Big Bear AI, AI, EOSE, Energy, MP Materials Rare Earth, Ethereum, and then you got IN Bitcoin miner turn data center. A lot of these names are not Netflix or um Marll, you know, or or SMCI. I mean, these are names that are relatively smaller companies, but they're getting a lot more excitement. Navitas right there 11.84 84 after hours. Denian says, "My average price on Na'viS is 258." Someone says, "I have 5,000 shares at five bucks." I mean, this stock year to date has to be up more than 100% year to date. 185. Now, it's basically 200 with the after hours move. There's been a lot of good opportunities this entire year. There's been a lot of good opportunities this entire year. And you don't have to mean all of them, but even if you got one or two of them, I mean, last week, Rocket Lab and AS lot of people that are heavy in those names, you've done well. The week before that, AMD, um, obviously the hood, the Palunteers, like all these names have just really begun to make some Google a month ago, right? A lot of people were stuck in Google at 150 for nine months until it broke out. So I you really I mean Tesla wrecked a lot of portfolios until it finally pivoted at 330 when the whole Elon compensation package started coming out. So it is seeming to be an everything rally across the board. Precious metals are leading it along with these data center plays and as long as we get a meaningful Q3 earnings report hopefully it continues. Hopefully it continues. Apply digital. Yeah. Did that break 40 today? APLD. APLD 35. It almost broke 40. 35. Yes. Google is investing 10 billion in India. We talked about that last week. They're also investing 9 billion in South Carolina. Um so I mean they're, you know, Google is getting ready to spend as much money as they possibly can on these data centers and they're obviously trying to do it in a way that continues to increase momentum. Here was Mr. Ryan Dietrich today speaking about navigating October volatility.
>> You look just at the last two days. Yes, probably two days now of 1% moves. Just October 13th, a little history for everybody. At 89, the S&P dropped like 6% on the UL LBO deal that fell apart. And then on uh in 2008, this day, October 13th, gained 11%. Mike, I'm not sure why, but there are more 1% moves in October than any other month after the I guess I'll say we've been spoiled with this rally. Maybe some October spookiness and volatility is perfectly normal.
>> Certainly normal. I guess the question is um did it kind of break the market stride in any notable way? I mean, it's essentially, you know, once you've got the people who are in it because you can't get the market down and this is a low volatility grind higher and there's no real use uh in in waiting for a dip to say, "Okay, maybe we're going to get a deeper pullback."
>> You're right. I love that this guy shared with Paul a little before I came on. He talked about some of the internals that are weakening. You know, I look at things like regional banks, those are lagging big time. Housing is lagging big time. Look at high yield credit, right? That's starting to crack. So, by no means are we saying there's this big monster under the bed, but Mike, there are some little things that have me concerned. And the last one, put to call ratios, you know, they're quite optimistic. And from that contrarian point of view, I just think it makes sense after a 36% rally in 6 weeks, maybe we're due for just some, I guess, a Charlie Brown shirt type of volatility.
>> You know, you mentioned 35% up in 6 months, right? So, I wondered if we were also suffering from a little bit of anniversary itis in the sense of, wow, look at this massive six-month move. Obviously, also just hit the three-year mark of the current bull market, uh, with some great gains, although maybe not, you know, I mean, kind of middle of the pack on on the three-year anniversary, but what can we expect from here uh, as the the bull market matures?
>> Yeah, we're still pretty optimistic. Have been for a while. You know, you look at there's been five other times we've gained more than 35% on the S&P in 6 months. one year later higher every single time up like 13% average. I know some other guests have pointed this out. I'll just mention it. Once you get a bull market that gets to this point on its third birthday, there's been five other ones back to 1950. All right. The shortest any of those other bull markets went was 5 years. The average Mike was 8 years. So listen, the reality is this is a strong bull market still. And to think it's just going to be over because we're here and it's 1929 or stocks are overvalued. We're not minimizing that, right? Earnings are still strong, profit margin strong, a dovish Fed. There are still reasons to think that this bull market's alive and well and it might last longer than a lot of investors expect.
>> Yeah, look, earnings growth is on the side of the bull market continuing to last and when you see a lot of these names get more and more deals, they're still breaking over 12 bucks. Um, it doesn't look like it has to slow down. It really doesn't look like it has to slow down. Uh, I think Bit Farms right here, uh, this could possibly be the reason for it. Eightball, thanks for the super chat. Bit farms, right before the crash on Friday, secured a $300 million project financing in a debt facility. So, it looks like they raised 300 million, which is bullish. I think they got a price target today as well. Northland increased them to seven bucks, but the magnitude of the move today, I mean, that just seems like you're getting a lot of new investors interested in the stock. Mind you, this thing was at like, wasn't this thing two bucks like a couple weeks ago? Yeah, it was literally two bucks on September 29th. It was 250 on September 15th. It's up 117% in the past month. So, a price target increase. Like if you're a stock inside of the data center space or the energy space or the nuclear space or the rare earth metal space right now and you have an analyst upgrade, you have some level of financing whether it's through debt, equity, raise capital, however it is. And then you have like one thing that you can point to about capacity for data centers, licensing, GPUs, whatever. You need some type of tailwind that is more specific to your industry. Your stock is going to go up. I mean that we've se just seen example after example after example over the past couple weeks whether it's a cipher terolf bit farms clean spark marathon all these names EOS you get any upgrade and you get a little bit of juice boom we move higher and I think that's what we're seeing right now where was open door on the day open door open door was down open door down about 4% on the day PayPal got downgraded to sell from JP Morgan and you know I think that's what kind of wrecked some of this momentum today 68.90 they did unveil their ads manager last week which got them above 76 but right here back below 70 and look it can be really annoying for people that think they're in really good high quality companies that aren't moving as much as like a Bit farms or a EOSC. I think the important thing there is to not get resentment. Like the worst thing you can do for for your mentality as an investor is be resentful of someone who got in US AR and is up 27% of the day or NP and is up 500% for the year. Like look, at the end of the day, if you pulled the trigger and you bought MP at 20 and it's at 97, like hats off to you, right? So it's one of those things where I wouldn't get resentful for it. I would just try to analyze, hey, like how could you have done a better job? And this is me talking to myself as well to try to find that trend before it took off. And then the question becomes, do you want to risk the capital at these prices? And that is a personal decision, but everyone's got to make their own conclusion on is it worth like the reason I like AMKR is because it's cheap. It's a semiconductor name that hasn't run. It's in a sector that obviously is growing massively with capex. And then there's actual company specific tailwinds on AMKR that are really easy for me to understand. And it's cheap. Like the most important thing is it's cheap, bro. Like I I I don't want to buy stocks that are super super expensive. I'll put the one pager on AMKR right there in the chat that I that I shared last week. And so I think the question to ask yourself is, do you think a bit farms is cheap? I know at like five bucks it could look like it's cheap, but you're paying three billion for this company. Is that cheap or not? I think that's the question that people have to ask themselves when looking at getting into these names. Bought MP at 45. I'm up 100% now. See, and the thing about MP is they had actual tailwinds that didn't even have anything to do with like a bull market. They just had tailwinds in regards to a Trump decoupling from China when it comes to rare earth metals and then b Apple, the department of war, all these entities investing in them, the Pentagon, like those are catalysts that are hard to deny and that's why MP ended up getting a really really decent run. LAC lithium America's that one was also up another 13.5% on the day. Yeah, Regetti 150 to 56. I mean, dude, you guys know Palenteer owned Regetti at like two bucks. I think they sold it back in the end of 23, early 24, but um they owned it. If they held on, they would have had a 20 bagger, but you know, they they didn't. So, I I don't think Ballinger saw the quantum computing ecosystem growing as much as it did, but it it did. And as a result, you know, now you're here. So, I don't know. I think at these moments, it's very important to not get super super super euphoric, but also it's important to look at these opportunities that present themselves and then ask yourself towards the end of the year, do you actually want to invest? Now, speaking of investing, the EU came out today and they rolled out a $ 1.1 billion plan to ramp up AI in key industries amid sovereignty drive. Uh I think this headline was trolled by a lot of investors today because they were like Europe's thinking of investing a billion dollars which is simply not enough to actually compete meaningfully in AI especially when you have Salesforce committing 15 billion today into a San Francisco investments over five years. Google's putting 10 billion into India. So when it comes to ramping up the investment spend, you got a lot of investors thinking, hey, Europe's not really doing it at a super competitive level, which is also feeding the momentum for American stocks because a lot of these American AI names are ready to spend and they're not afraid of spending. I mean, literally JP Morgan today announced a $ 1.5 trillion security and resiliency initiative to boost critical industries. A lot of that having to do with rare earth metals, crypto, quantum, tons of different things were mentioned. energy obviously I mean you got the EU saying we're going to invest a billion and you have JP Morgan saying we're going to invest 1.5 trillion so there's obviously a sort of dichotomy on where the money is coming from and ultimately how much of an impact that money would have the quantum bubble pop well dude I mean it's important ask yourself is it even a bubble that is going to pop right like is it I look obviously the valuations are aggressive and some of these stocks are getting insane premiums But if quantum computing grows into an industry and there's something real behind the technology, you know, maybe these stocks are not at as at the levels there are today. But do they have to go back down to zero, which is or at least go down 50 to 60%, which I think would be the definition of the bubble? I don't think so. It really depends on how much it grows. So I I think the the the sort of takeaway from this is you can't get too bearish on the broader market if you're seeing froth and you're seeing these things that are that are running that you know maybe you have no idea why they're running but you also can't FOMO into them and that this is a hard part of market psychology. Can you be okay with enough of the gains you put up for on the year to not yolo into critical metals CRML which is up 72% on the day? Because when something goes up 72% on the day, you start asking yourself why the hell are you not in it and it's up 72%. Right? Like well maybe maybe you just didn't do enough research in that space. Maybe you didn't care to take that risk. But is it worth buying it after it's up 72%. FOMOing into Amazon and Google. See, that's the type of that's the type of FOMO that I think is worth happening. I mean, look, it really is a psychological like Amazon might be stuck at 220 for the rest of the year, but buying into Oaklo might go down 30% for the rest of the year or it might go up 30% or it might be flat. Do you feel better sleeping at night with Amazon or Oaklo? And and and maybe it's Oaklo. And if that's the case, then you buy some Oaklo. But if it's easier to sleep at night, you're talking about, you know, hard-earned money in a name that hasn't really run all year and you're not worried about its revenues or its profit margins or its earnings because, you know, there's like something of substance there. Yeah, you're not going to get those astronomical gains, but you're also not going to have to worry about losing it. And I think that is important. But obviously it's aggressive to see a lot of these names pump every single day and good quality companies are kind of stuck. But at the same time, ironically, it is really important that Amazon, Google, Nvidia, Meta, Microsoft aren't pumping like [ __ ] right? Like in Oaklo, which I'm not saying is a [ __ ] code, but you know, obviously the perception is $25 billion market cap, no revenue, like people are assuming this thing is just egregiously expensive. It would not make sense for like an Amazon to be worth5 trillion dollars today and be pumping every other day four or five percent. Like people would say we are legit in a bubble if there's that much euphoria that that much money is coming into a blue chip stock every single day. But if $2 billion out of a $ 35 trillion US stock market wants to go into Oaklo, I mean that's like that's just not a bubble. Like it's it's it's frothy. Yeah. and Oklahoma might get a deal tomorrow that turns that zero revenue into $5 billion of revenue, which is why that's multiples being pulled forward. But it's not a top in the sort of conventional sense. If Amazon legit was gaining hundreds of billions of market cap every day for no reason, that would be pretty toppy because it would make no sense, which is exactly what happened in 2021. So, ironically, as annoying as it is to see some of these names gap up, it's also important that the most important companies in the world aren't doing that because a it means there's an opportunity in them, but b it means that they're likely not as bubbleicious as some of the other names that, you know, catch a bid for whatever reason they're catching a bid for. And at the same time, the other thing that everyone has to remember is we might be in the greatest revolution of technology of all time, which means it would be one of the greatest decades for investing of all time. And there are going to be hundreds of opportunities across the board, potentially thousands of opportunities. And if there are those massive thousands of opportunities, um, you're going to get names that randomly take a run. And you can't be too afraid when they do run because that is a function of a bull market, especially if the most important names are not in a bubble. You're going to get other names that end up getting a bit of a bid there. Yeah, just looking at gold proves to you that the wall of worry continues to be there. But I mean I I I I I cannot deny it is incredible to see the data center names gap up the way they're gapping up every day. It is incredible to see Oaklow move up 18% in a day. And like realistically, your gut tells you this isn't sustainable. But then again, who knows? like we had a 3% draw down, $20 billion of leverage in the crypto markets got wiped out and the next thing that happens 72 hours later, Oaklo goes up 18%. I mean, it's it's a hard sort of place in the cycle to define what exactly is happening, but I think you have to come to the conclusion that as long as the most important companies in the world aren't getting to the point where they seem egregiously valued, then it's okay because whatever happens to the other parts of the market don't really have an impact on the the broader bull trend. Greatest technology revolution of all time does not equal straight up every day. There will be losers. We just need to stay long the winners. Yes, I would I would agree with that as well. I haven't looked at TAC. I know Camilo's bullish on it. Uh TRA Trans Trans Alta Corp. I know it's an energy name for uh Calgary, but I've got to watch their podcast on it because I haven't looked too much into it. Said, "Yes, I'm fine missing the Oaklo like socks. Just not for me. Got to be able to sleep." Yeah, I agree. Put in the chat if you're in an Oaklo or something. I mean, put in the chat if you're in one of these names that doesn't have any revenue but is massively moving because like and what are you doing? Are you selling? Are you buying more? Are you just holding? Like, if you bought Oklahoma at $10, I mean, look, it's at 170. Like, should you take some off the top? Sure. But like also, it's your margin of safety is so strong where it's like, if it goes down 20%, like would you even care, right? Does BMR count? Um, does it count? I mean, this I I guess so. I guess Well, it's in the meme stock ETF, so BMR has to count, right? It's it's a meme stock as per round. No, I mean, look, BMR is more of a crypto play that's leveraged against Ethereum. So, I'm talking more about companies that like are supposed to have revenue and earnings and don't. I mean, I don't think anyone's expecting revenue out of BMR. They're just expecting Ethereum to go up. A lot of those names again have continued to run. Um I see a decent amount of Oakloss 450% up on Open. Well, Open's going to have revenue even if they don't have profits. So you're you are going to see some revenue on Oaklow or on Open Door, which is not too crazy. I mean, all the rare earth names that don't have any revenue, US, CRML. The funny thing about CRML is we saw it at $10 two Fridays ago when the Reuters rumor came out that Trump was going to be buying them and it went up to 14 and then the Reuters rumor came out and said Trump's not buying them or sorry the Secretary of Energy came out and said we're not buying them and it went down to 11 and now it's at freaking 25. Why? I don't know. Well, I do know it's because Rare Earth Minerals like that entire sector is taking off. So CRML is just going to go up $26 after hours, 74%. Regettia 10, Na'vias. All right, so look, a decent amount of people that are in these names. You got to ask yourselves, do you want to take some profits here or do you want to let this play out over the next coming years? And ironically, dude, again, like letting this stuff play out over the next five years might end up being the best decision. Like just because these names are frothy does not mean they are an automatic cell because we might need a lot more demand for these industries that are getting more excitement. Quantum might actually become a thing. Um nuclear energy might become more important than it is today and like all those sectors might take up. Now maybe that doesn't happen in 2026 when you get a little bit of a draw down, a little bit of a pullback and the market kind of realizes these companies don't have much to show for those get hit. But if there's any indication that it's a very real industry that's not slowing down, I mean, maybe those stocks really don't have to slow down. Even if they don't, you know, continue surging the way they're surging four or five percent every day. So, it's a question of how do you individually analyze it? Um, now there's decent amount of people in Regetti. 11 bucks, 12 bucks. That was the average that people got into. I remember looking at Regetti at 50 cents because as a Palanteer was owned them and so I was looking a little bit at their balance sheet but I was like dude I don't I don't really understand quantum I don't understand what's happening and regardless whether you understood it or not those stocks have started to do very well. Uh Tom Lee did give a talk at the token 2049 Singapore conference and that talk is finally out. Here's a part of it that I thought was actually really important. Speaking about the most important financial institutions and the market caps of how those institutions are continuing to grow above 600, they'll say that banks work fine. Uh what I don't see how JP Morgan can become more profitable. Well, actually companies that are natively built on the blockchain are inherently more profitable. For instance, Tether is raising capital at a $500 billion valuation. Look at the list of the 12 largest banks in the world. Tether is the second largest. I mean, think about that. Tether is 50% bigger than Bank of America. And Bank of America is a giant. It's twice the size of Cityroup, twice the size of Morgan Stanley. It's even bigger than Goldman Sachs. Okay, but here's what's interesting. If you look at the number of employees at Tether, okay, JP Morgan is a $869 billion market cap company with $317,000 employees. That's a market value of $2.8 million per employee. Tether has 150 employees. That's less than JP Morgan's analyst class. you know, um it's probably like the June analyst class. And so that means Tether has a market value of $3.3 billion per employee. I think that's what you have to realize. Tether, which is a native blockchain company using public chains, has a value nearly the size of JP Morgan and with only 150 employees. So as exhibit A in my opinion clearly building companies and rebuilding Wall Street on the blockchain is very profitable.
>> So he kind of went on to make the argument that the reason companies are incorporating with blockchains is because it makes them more efficient. And the fact that Tether can get a valuation almost the size of JP Morgan and have you know 1/100th of the employees is a big deal. And I think more and more companies are recognizing that not only can AI make them more efficient, not only can blockchains make them more efficient, but the intersection of both of them, which is kind of the point of of what Tom Lee was saying in that talk is something as a macro trade cannot be denied. And as a result, you know, that's why he continues to be excited for Ethereum. Jose says, "Can we have days like this forever?" Jose, we got to get you on the channel tomorrow. I think you're back from Arizona now, right? We got to get your take on all this. AMD, Open AAI, Oracle Open AI, Broadcom Open AAI. Open AAI is just being passed around, bro. Open Open AI is the entity that is central to making all these stocks get some love. But, uh, yes, I would love to get your take, Jose, on it tomorrow. Again, 10 gigawatt deal with Broadcom. I did not expect to see that this morning, but you got that. And that's what got Broadcom really moving. Is Navitas still moving after hours? MP is still moving. Na'vias. Wow. Almost hitting 13. I think Jose's in that one. This is one of uh one of the ones he likes. This one also continuing to go green. I saw a video where Tom said Tether is buying up gold. Yeah, it looks like Tether is tokenizing gold, which I mean it makes sense they would do that, but I didn't even think of it. And that could be one of the reasons we're getting a ton of this uh gold demand. Richard, thank you for the $20 super chat. Let the good times roll. Richard, thank you for being here and thank you for the super chat as well. Paul, thank you for becoming a channel member. Cala, thank you for becoming a channel member. Shri Kant, thank you for becoming a channel member. And Kuya, thank you for becoming a channel member. We'll end off on this super chat from Daniel. If you were going to start a long-term portfolio today, what five stocks would you pick? It's a great question. What five stocks would you pick long-term portfolio today? I mean, I'm biased, but I'm going to name the names that, you know, I'm continuing to hold for the next 10 years. Long term, I'm assuming is 10 years. Got to put Nvidia in there. Got to put Palin in there. Got to put Hood in there. I have two left. Uh, I feel like it's got to be Google or Amazon. One of those at least. I don't know. Fifth one could be Grab. It could also be IBIT with Bitcoin, right? Just like long Bitcoin. It could also be Tesla. Easy long T. Like, it's hard to narrow it down to five, but I know my three for sure would be a Hood and Paler. Those three for sure. I mean, BMR could be up there as well, right? Like if ETH and Bitcoin do what they do over the next few uh few few years, you would imagine those take on. Now, would I want freaking Oaklo in there? Would I want EOS E Energy? Would I want Bit Farms in there? Like, it's hard to definitively be like, "Yeah, those would be in my long-term portfolio." But you know the names that have done well already I think it'd be easy to have them. Desi says I'm so happy when Nebius Stock talks told me on that month ago. Yeah. See I was talking to Stock Talk about Nebius and he got into that when it was 25 and he's like bro at 140 this [ __ ] makes no sense. He's like this [ __ ] is stupid at 140. And he's like all the bulls that are screaming Nebius is a buy at 140. He's like I'm the one who bought it at 24. I was one of the only names on Twitter talking about it. these bulls are out of their mind screaming that it's a deal at 140. Now there may be a legitimate argument for why Nebius is a deal at 140 if they get another deal with Microsoft that was to the tune of 20 billion. But he was just like people are going crazy. It's like that valuation does not make sense. It made a lot of sense at 20. It doesn't make a lot of sense at 140. And I would say the same thing for Hood. I love Hood but at 150 no I'm not buying that [ __ ] Like no. Like and I think Tanner would say the same thing. I think Roy would say the same thing. We're some of the most bullish people on Hood. They're like, "Bro, this is like like no, we were we were buying this thing much below this price for a reason." So, I think the moral of the story is, is the earnings growth enough to get you to buy in to these all-time highs expecting more all-time highs? And maybe it is. But if it's not and you're already up a lot this year, maybe you don't need to take that risk. It's just a question of, you know, how you navigate it. So, that's what we got. I'm getting to be the same with AS. Yeah. I mean, look, if you've been in AS for a long time, even if you got it at 20 or 30 bucks at 91, is AS the best? This is a $ 35 billion company. They don't do any revenue. And I don't say they don't do any revenue as a disc against them. It's just like the facts. They don't have any revenue. That is not a reason to say the company's a horrible company. That's just one of those things where you have to be at some point come to grips with reality of like, okay, how much am I really willing to pay for this type of a name unless you're expecting, you know, 1015 billion dollars of revenue overnight when the deals start pouring in. But as an amazing narrative, it has an incredible moat. It has a passionate community and it deserves the premium. It's just is it a deal at 90? And it was at 36 3 weeks ago. So if you missed it like myself, you missed it. if you miss the dip and it sucks to suck, but like do you cry so much about it that you that you FOMO in at 90? Maybe it works out, maybe it doesn't, but like I think those are the questions a lot of people have to ask themselves now. But look, I'd rather ask these questions than freaking, you know, seeing the S&P down 10% and having to worry about other types of questions, which it felt like on Friday there potentially was a trajectory to see how far that would go and seems like that pivoted, which is okay. So, I think these are good questions to ask versus the opposite, which could have, you know, potentially happened if we really had some issues. That's what we got. That's what we got in the market. Stock talks not selling at 140 either. I agreed. So, again, I'm not selling my hood at 140 either, but I'm not buying more. So, it comes down to how much exposure do you have or do you want to have if you don't have any exposure versus, you know, if you want to start some type of a long-term position. All right. I think that's it for us today. We are done. We'll be back tomorrow on the uh market open. Two things for today. So, number one, uh daily recaps are back. Daily recaps are back. It'll probably posted around 7:30, 8:00 p.m. Eastern. So, uh the daily recap I'm going to try to keep it to 15 minutes because usually if I end up talking it ends up becoming like 30 minutes. I'm going to try to do five stories, three minutes each. That's going to be the structure. Five stories, three minutes each. the most important stories, three minutes per each story, five of them. And I'm really gonna try to keep it to 15 minutes or below because, you know, if it ends up being 20, 30 minutes, it kind of defeats the point of a daily recap. So, we're going to have that come out today. That's starting um I think the longest daily recap was 37 minutes. It's like two months ago, and someone commented, they're like, "Hey, dude. I really love the format, but I don't know if it's a recap in 37 minutes." I was like, "Yeah, you're right. I just I just ended up talking too much on this one." But uh so that we're going to do that and then Tech Bros tonight with Tanner and Roy. Tech Bros with Tanner and Bro. Tanner and Roy. So uh I will be back at 9:30 and we'll talk about everything else that's going on in the market as well. Technical Tuesday tomorrow. Yes, technical Tuesday tomorrow. So Tech Bros today with Tanner and Roy. TT tomorrow with Jason. Daily recap probably will be out in about 2, three hours. It'll be call it 8:00 PM Eastern every day. That's when you can count on it to be uploaded. And uh I think that should be pretty much it today. And then the deep dives for the Substack launched this week as well. So it'll be out towards the end of this week and we will get the first deep dive deep dives up on that Substack and you guys will be able to read it. Uh Chris will be on for Macro Thursday. We couldn't do last week. By the way, my tooth for those that have been asking is like feeling a lot better. So, the root canal, the antibiotics really helped. Um, but yeah, Chris will be on on Thursday and we'll probably get Steve on later throughout the throughout the week. I was on Steve's show yesterday. We did an episode on um on alternative assets. I'll link it right here for anyone who wants to watch it. But, uh, I think it was it was a fun episode. We got to talk to one of his buddies who making a killing off selling Pokemon cards. And you know, you're starting to see a lot more excitement in that overall ecosystem for alternative assets. Steve is, you know, a big fan of big fan of that industry as well. So that's the link right there in the chat. Get on. Dude, you guys are wild, bro. Like I can't even imagine having a girl on stream if you got like we're watching a freaking clip and you guys are going crazy, bro. Someone's like, "Amid, where are your hands? Show your hands." I mean, like, dude, what is wrong with people? Goodness. I I think I dude I mean it makes sense though, right? You get a you get in you get a beautiful woman on the like it's just it just keeps people's attention, but like goodness gracious, dude. That means I've got to be really good at talking, bro, because I'm not a beautiful woman, but you guys continue to show up every day. So, there there's got to be something in the way I communicate that's getting it's got to be the humor, bro. I'm I'm telling you, it's the like you guys don't want to admit it, but it's the humor because you guys, if you go that damn bad for a girl on the screen, there's got to be something else that keeps you here. You are handsome. It's because we're gay. Oh my goodness. Oh, dudes. All right, last story of the day, dude. Grinder is going private. What a freaking story with this stock. Apparently, Grinder, they came out today and they said, "Yeah, we're uh we're going private." Um, let me get the exact headline for you guys, but you know, this is just it's one of those it's one of those stories where sometimes public companies aren't able to end up fully doing it. So, the the headline was Grinder insiders are exploring a take private deal after the stock's recent slide triggered a forced sale of pledge shares. A deal could draw national security scrutiny due to Grinder's past ownership by a Chinese firm, all these other details that are associated with it. But the point is, they're probably going private. So I said, "Well, back in the closet. Back in the closet for Grinder." It's not an original joke, but still. Like, they're basically going back in the closet, bro. They were not able to make it as a public company, but that's what you got for Grinder. So, there you go. Oh, is this the actual Tom Lee just responded to this. Is this the actual Tom Lee drummer? Is that how to I'm not I didn't look how the other the Tom Lee drummer guy looks. Okay. Well, there you go. That's Tom Lee the drummer. There you go. Um All right, cool. So, I think that's it. What happens to stockholders? They get liquidated at whatever price. I think it's like 15 bucks a share or something. So, you know, if you had leaps for like 20 bucks, those kind of go to zero. But that's what you got. Same hair. Yeah, he has the same hair. He has the same hair. Trump is not live, but Trump was live in the morning. He was in Israel, then Egypt. I think he's back on Air Force One coming to the United States. Um, look, peace in the Middle East. We're going to see how it ultimately plays out, but the market so far is not too upset by it. And if that continues, then obviously it could be a broader tailwind for less geopolitical instability. Wow. Taylor Swift broke the 2025 streaming record with 1.5 billion streams and 5 million albums sold so far in 2025. That's her newest album. Goodness gracious, bro. That album came out last week. 1.5 billion streams in a week. We didn't even listen to it together. We said we were going to listen to it together here. That's massive, bro. Music's been kind of dead this year. I don't know how much people keep up with music. I mean, I'm not the biggest music guy, but music's been kind of dead. So, I guess he needed something like Taylor Swift to revise it a little bit. All right, so I think that's it. I think we're done. Na'vias, are we still moving after hours? That one big one after hours. Congrats for anyone who's in that. Congrats for anyone who's in Broadcom. Wow. 1317 60% for the day. Absolutely incredible. that continuing to make a move. All right, congrats if you're in it. You are doing very, very, very well. And again, every day it's a new name that's kind of moving, which is a good thing. So, tomorrow the most important thing for everybody are earnings. Um, we got before the open JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, J&J, Black Rock City, Wells Fargo, and Domino's. So, we have some massive names tomorrow. I'll be live at 8:45. We'll cover those names and we'll get into all the earnings growth and hopefully we get some good earnings. And if we do, then we can start out Q3 earnings. Not be too bad. All right, that's it. Daily recap. We'll be out in a couple hours and um Tech Bros. We'll be out later tonight with Tanner and Roy. Powell is also speaking tomorrow. I'm not sure what time exactly Powell is speaking, but Powell is speaking. So, we'll see whatever Powell says as well. What are you doing for your birthday? I am doing nothing. I'm working. It'll be a Tuesday, I think, my birthday or Monday. Doing the market open, market close. Yeah, it's a Monday. Dude, honestly, I don't feel like doing anything this year. Like, I really I am so tired of like this year has been a busy busy year. I would very much like to just stay home and do nothing. Like I genuinely don't want to do anything. So I'll be live market open, market close, and that's where Call, you know, I do have a number, dude. I uh I texted our boy Jay Kush over the weekend, and I was just like, "Congrats on uh you know, the peace deal." I didn't know he was that big of a negotiator in the deal. I mean, he told me he was still working with the administration, but I didn't know he was like that pivotal. I mean, he was one of the guys. He was one of the two negotiators that got the job done. I didn't think he would text back, but he texted back. So, we got the uh we got the we got the Jay Kush name drop. Hope hopefully we have different name drops over the coming over the coming years. I really didn't think he would text back, bro. I'm like, dude, the guy must have hundreds of thousands of people texting him right now or something. But he texted back. So, he's a dope guy. He's a dope guy. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Um, we'll be back. I didn't think he text back. Sounds so gay. Okay, I am done. Thank you everybody. Goodness gracious. That was a good one though. That was a good one. That was hilarious. That was freaking hilarious. All right, I'm out. Daily recap will be out in a couple hours. And Tech Bros later tonight. I just can't beat the allegations, bro. I really can't beat the allegations. All right, bye everybody. Have a good one.