[Music] [Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We got a red day. We've got a red day. And well, it went red in the middle of the day. I don't think anyone really had a reason for why it went red. We didn't get a Trump tweet. We didn't get some China stuff like we didn't get some random thing headline that you could say, "Oh, obviously that's why the market's down." But we did get something. And it took a little bit of time to figure out what happened. And over the past couple of well, I would say past honestly 45 minutes, I think I've come to a conclusion on why we're red for the day. And it looks like we have the reason, but it's hurting the entirety of the market. So, let's just pull this up real quick and look at some of the damage and then we'll get into what's going on. Robin Hood down 2% on the day. Palunteer down 1%. Tesla down 2%. Nvidia somehow holding green at 180. S&P back down below 660. We were at 668 at one point. So, that's down about 1%. Grabby Grab went below 570. Bought the dip at 577. Bought the dip at 575. father did that 570 and here we are at 568. So it is what it is. We're not going to go to Trump. Trump is not speaking about the markets. Trump is speaking about in vitro fertilization. So don't worry about what Trump is saying when he talks about some questions or he takes some Q&A from the audience. Maybe in 30 minutes then we'll switch over to him. But the announcement is about in vitro fertilization. I know you might be saying what the hell it's about IVF. Yes, it is about IVF. He's not making any commentary about the markets. At least not probably until Q&A. So we'll go to him when we see what Trump says. Reddit down about 1.3%. Amazon down 1%. I did buy a little bit more Amazon today as well. PayPal down 3%. Salesforce was up 7%. Now it's down 3%. Apple down 1%. Again, all your usual spec suspects are just taking a hit on the day. AMKR actually hold held up a little bit. That one's still green. Again, this one doesn't really have too much of a multiple. And TSM earnings were good, so that's why that's holding on. But TSM, which crushed earnings, that's down 2% on the day. S&P down 1%. And we don't even want to look at Bitcoin and Ethereum. My goodness. Bitcoin 107, folks. It was at 112 this morning, $5,000 candle down on Bittycoin. And then Ethereum obviously getting hit as well, 3,800. And as a result, Bitmine, which was at 55 in the morning, is back down to 5134. So, what's happening? Why is this happening? And what the hell is going on? Well, to get a little bit of context, we have to go back to March of 2023. What happened in March of 2023? Silicon Valley Bank, a regional bank in Silicon Valley, California, collapsed. Why did they collapse? The Fed raised rates at the highest rate they did in 40 years. Silicon Valley Bank took on, one could argue, some unnecessary risk because rates were low. Rates went up really fast. Silicon Valley Bank unfortunately had to deal with the fact that they issued loans at a way cheaper rate than what rates were currently at. And as a result, they ended up getting liquidated. And that created an issue in the broader financial sector. Now that issue was contained pretty quickly. A lot of people thought the sky was falling when Silicon Valley Bank collapsed and all the regional banks uh did get hit as a result of that. KRE, by the way, the regional banking index is down 7% on the day. This doesn't move like that. And it's reminiscent of what happened back in March of 2023 when one bank ended up saying something that messed up the entire regional banking ecosystem. So, what happened today? Zion's Bank and Western Alliance, two regional banks, they came out this morning and they said they had some bad loans. They had they said they had some bad credit. And as a result of that, saying they have some bad loans, bad credit, and there's some nuances to it. One could say it's a charge off, one could say it's because of a legal action. Like, it's not necessarily a structural trend, at least not yet. The most important story in the market has turned away from tech companies and their ability to show good earnings to regional banks at least for now because the reason the market is getting hit today is if there is a credit crisis in the country which is hard to believe quite frankly because JP Morgan and City Bank yesterday literally said that credit delinquencies are lower than expected. Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Black Rockck, all these guys said credit is fine. But then you got two regionals that are saying banks are not fine. And as a result, that's where we're getting some of the pain in the equity markets today. And I think regional banks now are going to be the most important story that we have to keep up with to see how this ends up playing out. We are not going to Trump. So for those saying to listen to Trump, he's talking about in vitro fertilization. We don't need to listen to Trump. He's talking about IVF. We will listen to him when he gets to Q&A, but he's not talking about anything around the markets. So don't worry about listening to Trump right now. thought the meeting or the 3pm announcement was going to be about the stock market. It's not. It's about solving the population problem that we're having right now.
>> Every company with a loan book in the red right now on concerns about credit quality. Regional banks are plummeting. Alternative asset managers are slumping and Jeff is tanking once again as its name has become increasingly synonymous with the first brand's bankruptcy. Credit concerns at Zions and Western Alliance spooking the entire sector today. Zions revealing in a filing last night that it is filing a lawsuit and taking a provision of $60 million due to what it describes as quote apparent misrepresentations and contractual defaults related to a borrower. Western Alliance filed its own 8K this morning, saying it doesn't need additional provisions related to its exposure to that borrower, which it had sued back in August, alleging fraud. The bank believes collateral coverage will cause it to avoid losses, but Western Alliance also had exposure to first brands, and you can see what those stocks are doing. They're down double-digit percentages. Bank of California is another name to watch today. As analysts point out, it too has exposure to the same borrower. Although its exposure is minimal and senior in the capital structure, still those shares down 8% right now. Even though exposure totally for each of Zion's Western Alliance and Bank of California stands at under 2% relative to their respective tangible common equity. The markets are on high alert about cracks in the credit markets following the bankruptcies of those two auto companies last month that sent private credit stocks roing which we're seeing kind of a rinse and repeat of today. Scott.
>> All right, Leslie. Thank. So, in a nutshell, what did she say for those that just want to get the pure summary of it? Two banks this morning, Western Alliance and Zions reported that they have some bad credit. Is this a structural problem in the regional banking industry? I don't know. No one knows. But if you take a look at these stocks on the day, I mean, it's pretty disgusting. It is a full-on wipeout on some of these banks, and a lot of these banks are down even worse than when the screenshot was taken. And the reason I think the broader market is down is because if there is the potential of a credit risk in this country, which again, I don't want to be too hyperbolic and say that's the case because we got a lot of bank earnings from the most important banks in the world and they said that there's not that type of risk, but then again, you know, maybe there is in the regionals. So, we're going to have to really keep a keep an eye on it. But if there is, then yeah, I mean, people would rather sell first and and investigate later versus hold on to their stocks assuming that it's a nothing burger. I mean, that's just kind of the psychology of the market. But it doesn't necessarily seem like that is the the biggest structural issue that we're not announcing a war with China. Two banks said they had some bad loans and so and so I I I I don't know. I feel like it's a little bit overdone. I mean, back in April, we were in extreme fear. We have not been in extreme fear since April. In April, the S&P 500 was at 5,000 and we were at extreme fear. We are 3% away from alltime highs and now we're at extreme fear. I I I don't know if that makes any sense, but nonetheless, the fear and greed index is telling you it's a buy the dip. But once again, it feels a little bit more like ALOS are taking advantage of this. Also are selling. You know, you you automatically get people getting scared of a brand a bank run or a credit crisis. They start selling. So, it piles on. Stop losses get hit, margin calls, etc. It's not as bad as it was on Friday with that 3% draw down. But, you know, S&P down .065% on the day is reasonable, especially given the recovery from 647 on the S&P. Obviously, just take just just taking a let down a lot of stocks with you. And that's why I bought some of my favorite companies. I bought more Grab. I mean, look, if you're going to give it to me below 580, I'm going to buy that. If you're going to give me Amazon below 250, I'm going to buy that. Especially if I think the regional banking crisis is not really a crisis. It's being perceived as a crisis. and any other regional banks that come out over the next few weeks and they announce their earnings and they don't have credit issues, I think that reverses it. And as a result, I don't think it would be the biggest deal in the world. But nonetheless, we're going to have to see how this plays out. Now, the VIX is spiking on this. Uh, as a result, VIX, you can see right there, up about 20% on the day, 2440 on the VIX. We, this is the second time we've had a VIX spike of over 20% in the past week. Once was on Friday and once was on today because of the regional banks today. Friday was the Trump China tweet. And as a result, you're having some pain. Now, if you are in a high beta stock like Rare Earth, you are down badly today. TMQ down 16%, CRML down 14. Lithium America is down 22, MP down six, US down 15% on the day. If you are in a Bitcoin, Bitcoin miner turn data center, you're getting wrecked. I down nine, Cipher down 10, CleanSpark down 14, Wolf down 10, Hive down 14, Bitform down almost 20, Marathon down 11, Riot down 11, Galaxy down five. Also, if you're in some nuclear stocks today, like the OLAs of the world, you are getting hit along with the quantum stocks of the world, D-Wave right there down about 10%. Is this a structural problem with all these high beta stocks and the momentum is gone and they are ready to really get, you know, fall to a floor. I don't know. But on a day like this, momentum is definitely not on their side. And the question simply becomes, are there enough people to come in and buy the dip or is this going to be an issue that lasts for a longer time? We're going to find out. But that's why we're in pain, folks. That is why we're in pain. It's the regionals. I really like I I mean I And we should have seen this in the morning, but I I just didn't pay attention to the Zion's earnings because we had so many other things going on. And then by about 1 p.m. today, market started taking a hit. And like when you look into like, oh, regionals didn't report the best uh quality of credit. And as a result, that's why we're taking some pain. For those that wanted to look at Trump, this is a 20 second clip of what he's going to be talking about for the next hour.
>> We're here today to announce a historic victory for American women, mothers, and families with the actions I will outline this afternoon will dramatically slash the cost of IVF. And the treatment and uh many of the most common fertility drugs for countless millions of Americans, prices are going way down, way, way down.
>> So, it's about IVF. It's not about the banks yet. We will go to Trump if he does Q&A and we'll see if he talks about China, the banks or anything else, but right now it's about IVF. And you know, actually when it was announced by like the New York Times and Bloomberg that, hey, Trump's going to be talking about IVF and that's it. Markets actually went up. If anyone noticed, markets started going up because everyone was like, "Oh, cool. It's about IVF. It's not really about, you know, some it's he's not like going to make an Oval Office address about the issues going on with China that would spook out the markets. It's about IVF. No one cares." And then an hour later, it's like, "Wait a second. These regionals are not doing that good." And this is why it's so fun covering the markets because one thing or another is going to try to put pieces to the puzzle of the story of understanding every day what is happening. And uh today you've got regional banks that are creating the issue. Um put in the chat if you bought the dip, if you took some profits, let me know what you did. Did you get Robin Digest? Yes, I got Robin Digest finally. That is the AI uh suite of products from Robin Hood explaining why stocks are up or down on individual tickers. I literally got it 10 minutes ago and it's super smooth, dude. It is super smooth. So, I'm loving it. I've been playing around with it for a couple minutes, but I think they rolled it out to a lot more people, so people have that. Chris will be on in about 10 minutes. We'll be talking a lot about macro, what's going on in the regional banks. Chris was actually one of the first people who helped me understand regional banks back in March of 2023 when we both bought call debit spreads on Truist after it fell to an 11-year low. So, I'm sure he has some opinions on that. Also in the midst of these regional banks getting hit the tenure we are finally below 4% which is actually pretty bullish and at the same time as we are above 4%. Gold has hit a new alltime high at 4,300 which is kind of crazy. So you got gold at 4,300o. I mean gold's been going up like 3% every day like that. That's not supposed to happen with gold. But then you also have the tenure coming down, which is good because, you know, we need the 10-year to come down. It's really important for the 10-year to bring down the cost of borrowing in this country. It's just, you know, how do you make a narrative out of it that makes sense? I don't really know. And we're going to have to get a little bit more data to see how this plays out. On top of that, we have IBKR earnings after the bell. I'll put a poll right here in the chat on do you think we're going to get a on uh Schwab had a great earnings, so IBKR will probably have a good earnings. It's just going to be a question of if the stock also reacts on those earnings. All right, folks. Here we go. Thank you all for being here. Another day, another time to analyze what goes on in the global capital equity markets. And today, the story is about regional banks. It is Thursday, October 16th, 4 p.m. The stock market is officially closed. All right, we're done for the day. We are done for the day. I see a lot of people saying I bought IBKR. I bought some Hood. I bought some Weeble. I bought uh BMR, bought Grab, bought Sofi. SoFi got all the way down to 2662. I see a couple people saying I sold gold. Other people saying I sold some of my VIX calls. I see Lemonade. I see BMR, I see Rocket Lab. I mean, everything was down round about at least 2 to 3% today. On the higher side, 5 to 7%. So, I see a decent chunk of people that took advantage of those dips, but it looks like more people bought. Nvidia closed the day 1.13%. Nvidia actually holding on to its green. Tesla down below 430. That's down about 1.4%. Pound share down half a percent. Robin Hood, Robin Hood almost lost 130. Got pretty damn close. If Bitcoin takes another wick down, I mean, Robinet's probably going to lose 130. That's just the honest truth about it. And I get more excited in the 120. So, let's see what happens. But Robin Hoodet right here, 131, 138, that's down about 2%. AMD down 2% of the day. SoFi, now look, oh, let me address this real quick. A lot of people are saying, so is this bearish SoFi because the regional banks are having some credit issues. My perspective is hell no because SoFi A is not a regional bank. B, SoFi's credit writing is phenomenal. I mean, if you've just done any research on their credit underwriting, it is not I mean, they are they do not take the process of credit underwriting lightly. I mean, they really focus hard on making sure they give out good loans. So, I don't think this is a sell SoFi news. Will the ALG go sell SoFi? Yeah, because it's a bank, but I think that should create a good opportunity. If we get a stupid dip on SoFi, I will be a buyer as well because I just don't think that would be justified. Google right here 252. Google actually closing above 250 was bullish. Grab right there 576. Redd it down 1%. Amazon down half a percent. Meta down 1%. Salesforce still held 4% of the day. PayPal down 3%. And then ELF up about 1.3% on the day. Apploven that one held on to the 600. Circle down 5%. Anything Bitcoin related kind of took a hit. Coinbase right there at 330 that was down 2%. Micro strategy are we below 300? We are at wow 284 on Micro Strategy. Ugly, but that's what you got for MSTR. Okay, IBKR. I think the earnings are out. Let's pull that up. We are going to pull up Weeble so we can see the after hours move on this. Okay, Weeble is being stupid. So, we'll go back to Legend IBKR. I think we got a pump. Do we have a pump? Do we have a pump? We do have a pump. We do have a pump. It's not up 2% after hours. It's more up 4%, but we are up. Looks like we got a double beat. Looks like we got a double beat of 3% after hours on IBKR. Uh, let me see if I can get the exact earnings in a second and we'll see. What did you guys say on the chat? 60% of you said pump. 60% of you said pump for IBKR. Also, CSX is reporting earnings today after ours. Wow, you got a double beat. 6% beat across the board. 57 cents versus 54. That's an EPS beat. Uh, EPS is up 40% year-over-year. Revenues up 21% year-over-year. 1.61 61 billion versus 1.52 billion for IBKR. I mean, you can't be too upset about that. Schwab also had a phenomenal earnings today. By the way, Schwab is getting ready to start unveiling more crypto products based on what they talked about today. But IBKR not doing the worst. And that one continues to Oh, no. Now it's losing some of it. It was green. Is it losing it? It's still up 1% after hours, but you can see that red candle right there from 71 all the way back down to 60. I mean, look, a one or two% move isn't even that volatile in the first place, but it is losing a bit of its momentum. Uh, Austin says, "Net interest income increased 21% to 967 million on stronger securities, lending activity, and higher average customer margin loans, and customer credit balance." Let's see if IBKR actually put out the entire letter on their website. Um, do we have it? No, we don't have it yet. Okay. So, once I get it, we'll get through all of it. Oh, no. I got it. I got it. I should have it. This is it. Yep. Here we go. All right. Commission revenue 23% to 537 million. Net interest income 967 million. Other fees down 66 million. Uh general admin of expenses down 60%. That's actually really good. They're taking their expenses down pretty dramatically. Customer accounts 32% increase. Equity 40% increase. Darts daily active daily average revenue trades that's up 34%. That's incredible. 3.6 million trades a day. Customer margin loans 39% IBKR is loaning out 77 billion to customers on margin 40% year-over-year. I mean that's similar to Robin Hood and I think Schwab to an extent. Uh you know obviously that means people are risk as they're borrowing money to buy equities but you can see those margin loans are up and then overall revenue is up 21% yearover-year. So that's what we got with IBKR. Now all the I be care back to going green. All of the fintex today took a little bit of a hit uh unfortunately because of the because of the uh regional bank stuff. So CLA right here down about 5.5%. Square XYZ that one took a hit. A firm took a Square right there down about 2.4%. Affirm was down about 3% 5.4% on Affirm. So this regional bank issue again I don't know how big of a deal it's going to be. Look at Truis down 5% on the day. The overall index took a nasty hit. Kerry right there down almost 7%. Zions, which was one of the main culprits, that one down 13% on the day. And then Western Alliance Bank, that one down 8%. We needed to get a good earnings for Q3. And so far, we've got a good earnings. It's just two of these regional banks have not been the best on earnings. And it seems like that's what's creating some pain as markets are very close to alltime highs. CSX that is green after hours as well. It looks like we've got those earnings. Um adjusted EPS of 44 cents. No, miss. Uh, and then revenue is a beat. Okay, so they looks like they missed on EPS. They beat on revenue. I don't even know what CSX is to be honest. Oh, no, they beat on the top and bottom. Okay, so they beat by 5% on EPS. They beat on revenue. CSX, what is this company? Tra uh, American Holding Company focused on rail, transportation, and real estate in North America. Market cap of 67 billion. Uh, dividend of 1.4%. Year-to date. This stock is up about 11.3%. So definitely not a small company, but you do have a beat on the top and the bottom for these guys. And it looks like the stock is reacting favorably. Let's pull up some coverage on the and we will keep going from there. Let's pull this up and then we got some updates on what Trump is saying. We'll see what we've got.
>> Frank Holland has the numbers. Frank.
>> Yeah, John, as you mentioned, stocks moving higher right now after revenues that were in line, but a beat on EPS. The estimate was 42 cents a share. It came out at 44 cents a share. We're looking deeper in the report, though. When you look at the company's merchandise segment, that's where they generate almost 2/3 of revenue. The revenues there were essentially flat. The company had promised volume growth throughout the year. We actually saw the volume in the in the merchandise segment flat again. But overall volumes for the company were down 2%. That's going to be something very important for the new CEO to to deal with in this company. Uh he actually put out a statement saying that the company saw some strength in its inner modal volume. That was something that we actually talked about just a short time ago on closing bell. The fact that the company expected to see strength in interotal following its partnership with BNSF, the West Coast Rail also expected to get some volumes from JB Hunt that's also moving much higher right now. Uh but again, shares of CSX up about 2 and a half% after revenues there were in line and a beat on EPS. The strength really came from its container shipping business. All right, so CSX and IBKR, I mean, they did their thing in terms of delivering us good earnings. It's just these freaking regional banks. They did not have the best earnings today. And as a result, you're not getting some pain. Uh, Terowolf announces prices of 3.2 billion of senior secured notes and proceeds. I don't think that's new delution, right? That's older delution. Terwolf still is down on the day. Again, all the Bitcoin miners got hit pretty bad today. Okay, Terolf up a little bit after hours, but not seeing too much of an impact from that news. Trump is not talking right now. There's some other lady in the IVF conference talking. Um, Trump probably will get to Q&A soon, but there's someone else right now talking about IVF. I really didn't think the announcement today was going to be about IVF. I thought I was going to have to do something with China, but it ended up being about fertility and uh the population crisis, which look, it's a legit concern. It's just, you know, when regionals [ __ ] the bed, everyone's a little worried about something else. But UNH right there also down about 1.6% on the day. IBKR and Hood both have the similar uh margin book, but their IBKR is 77 billion. Hood is 10 billion. Yeah, Hood is I think now almost 12 billion. So IBKR vast, you know, a quintupling of Hood's margin book and they make a lot more money off of it. But the point is all the brokerages are giving out lots of margin because comp, you know, consumers are willing to pay for margin and as rates come down, the cost of borrowing capital gets cheaper. So, you know, people are willing to borrow more, it's just when the market crashes, if the market crashes, you know, and you can't pay back your margin load, that's when things can get ugly. So that is the risk that is there right now. Now, Corey was up on the day. If we get to some other headlines, we'll see what Trump's talking about in a bit. Coreweee was up 1.4% of the day. The reason Coree was up is because uh XAI is going to be leasing a $20 billion package to own Nvidia GPUs. This was actually announced a couple days ago and it was kind of confirmed today. Coree is estimated to be one of the core companies that's going to be helping XAI lease a bunch a bunch of those GPUs potentially also in Texas. And as a result, Coree ended up going green on the day. Nabius also got a boost right when that announcement came out. Nabius could not end red on the day. Got all the way up to 130. Closed at 123, but all the data center companies outside of the Bitcoin miners got a bit of a boost once that announcement did come out. So, that's what we've got. Open door, how did that do on the day? Open 708, the meme stock ETF. This one took a hit, down 8% on the day, back under $10. In terms of the most traded options in the stock market today, Nvidia and Tesla were number one and two. Then you had iBit, AMD, Amazon, Palenteer, Apple, Micro Strategy, Regetti, a lot of the quantum stocks down in the day. So Sofi, Google, Intel, Micron, Oracle, Marathon, Cory, Beyond Meat, TSM, Meta, and Openor. I'm surprised none of the regional banks actually made it into the top 20. Uh so, you know, maybe the concerns weren't enough to get the options market super excited on buying puts on regional banks. But nonetheless, that is now a new concern that a lot of us are going to have to look into. And that's what you got. Did you buy more Grab? Yes, I bought more Grab today. Bought a little bit more Amazon. I mean, look, I didn't buy a crazy amount of the dip today. I nibbled here and there. I don't know if this regional banking thing is the biggest issue in the world. Realistically, an hour ago is when it became more apparent to me that this was the reason the market was actually upset. And we're just going to have to see, you know, how long this ends up playing out in regards to retail banks. Now, the one final thing I want to say on regional banks and then we'll get Chris onto the show for Macro Thursdays is that the government shutdown might be doing something to the regional banks. By the way, real quick before that, uh, Perplexity launched a new language feature today. That's why Duolingo was down 5%. All of these tech companies, they're going after language for some reason. Language is the biggest thing they want to cure with AI. And I think Dolingo is just like, "Dude, do all of you guys have to focus on what we focus on? like can you just like let us chill out? But that was Duelingo. Okay. So, one of the issues with regional banks in terms of the shutdown right here is from this idea. A lot of regional banks rely on short-term liquidity, aka cash on hand, to cover daily operations. Weekly government payments temporarily boost the cash on hand for these regional banks, aka their float. But when a shutdown stops these payments, banks must sell assets to stay liquid. Right now, large Treasury settlements are draining cash and banks are borrowing heavily from the Fed to cover gaps. That selling pressure ripples through into the broader market. This is one theory. This doesn't have to be the only theory. Uh especially because the shutdown has only been happening for two weeks. And you know, these earnings that tanked the market today from these regional banks are from last quarter. So, they really don't have anything to do with what what's happening right now. But one argument could be the perception of the government shutdown is having a short-term liquidity impact on some of these regional banks. And that from a perceptual perspective could be the reason why the market's losing some of its momentum.
>> Having said that, we got a lot to talk about today in regards to the 10-year inflation, interest rates, regional banks. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into macro Thursday. Chris Patel, what's up?
>> Happy sub4% on the 10-year day. Finally, after I think almost nine months, we're below four below 4% on the 10-year, which is always nice. It looks like we might sustain it too eventually.
>> I hope so, man. I hope so. There's a lot of people that need to refinance, a lot of businesses that need to start working uh working on planning for their uh debt issuances for next year. So by by uh getting the longer term rates down, you know, this is a big positive for a lot of uh a lot of businesses and you know, even people like average people that need to refinance their homes lower because they bought, you know, during 22, 23 or 24, 25 and they're sitting on seven, you know, they got a lot of people got sold on this stupid thing which is marry the house and date the rate or some [ __ ] like that. You ever heard of that before?
>> Yeah. Yep. Yep.
>> You're muted. I can't hear you. I don't know if it's just me.
>> No, no, it's just you. It's just you.
>> No, it's probably me. One second.
>> Uh,
>> we got We got to make an intro for Macro Thursdays. That's correct. We do got to make an intro for that.
>> Dude, someone called him Indian Steve.
>> You can hear me now?
>> No, you still can't hear me. We have Asian Steve, regular Steve, and Indian Steve.
>> Yeah, technically it's Indian Steve. Man, I was on here before Steve was.
>> That's true. Oh, you can hear me now, right?
>> There we go. Sorry, my uh my headphones are uh weren't connected.
>> Okay. Can you hear me?
>> Yeah, I can hear you. Okay.
>> Okay, Chris, I would zoom out a little bit because it's a little bit too zoomed in on you.
>> Yeah.
>> No, no, that's that's too close. Okay, perfect. Perfect.
>> There we go.
>> Okay. So, we got a lot to talk about with the tenure. Let's start off with this dude because you know a lot about regional banks and obviously you've seen what has happened over the past two hours with these regional banks. Do you think based on what uh Zions and Western Alliance said we might have a structural problem with credit based on these regional banks?
>> Uh I don't think it's nearly as systemic as um as people are making it out to be. Um so uh let me let me briefly give some people a little bit of background on regional banks versus like your traditional JP Morgans and Well Fargo you know based on how big you are as a bank there's certain restrictions that were placed uh that were that were put on you after the great financial crisis where the bigger you were the more likely it is that you know you had to retain more capital on your balance sheet and you could not lend that out. Now because of that there are other banks and non non non-banks that kind of filled the gap right so basically they came in and said look we you know we know the big banks can't lend you money but maybe we can we'll help you out right and so a lot of regional banks if you wanted like let's say a car loan or a home loan or whatever you could go to your local regional bank your credit unions and basically get the loans that you needed because the big banks wouldn't necessarily have that money to lend to you or the the rates that they were trying to give you were not as uh as good. So, a lot of what we're seeing right now is just some tailwinds from uh from the fallout withricolor and some of these other ABS originators. And uh that's a big problem. And I think I mentioned this the last time we were on here about auto loans, how they were being fraudulently issued. and also like this whole business of subprime borrowers getting loans for used cars at crazy crazy high rates. I was actually just at lunch today with uh with my accountant and he was telling me about um certain certain transactions that he had seen with some of his clients where a lot of like let's say you're an immigrant like an illegal and you wanted to buy a car, right? Or a truck whatever. um you can't go to the traditional banking bank and say, "Hey, G, let me borrow 15$20,000 to buy this used truck." So, they were going to these quote unquote weird lenders that essentially charged crazy and high interest rates like 10 15%. But essentially, they would give you that loan, right? Um the challenge is with all the deportations and all this happening can't exactly go after someone that just got deported, right? So you're starting to see things like that kind of creep up a little bit into this uh into this thing. So there's a lot of there's a lot of things that are happening. Um there's also a lot of fallout from commercial real estate where a lot of these regional banks they held debt from commercial commercial uh commercial real estate and instead of calling those loans in when they matured they essentially just pretended like they didn't default and they just extended the extended the maturity. Well, that only works for so long before people start asking questions and people try start doing something called mark tomarket where if you if let's say there's a property that you know they needed $500 million in 2017 and that property is now only worth $250 million but on your books you're saying that the asset is actually still worth $500 million because you didn't rerate it down. That means that when you do actually get it rerated, that means that now you have to eat that cost. So, a lot of people are worried like, "Hey, wait a second. Am I is my bank one of the ones that has issued all these bad loans or or coll undercolateralized?" And so, that's where a lot of people are kind of scared. And um a lot of this is because believe it or not, Jaime Diamond Jamie Diamond um kind of said, I don't know if you saw the quote from Jamie Diamond.
>> Oh yeah, he he talked about cockroaches basically and said that
>> yeah, the exact quote right here is um I mean Michael, you should assume that whenever something happens, we scour old processes, old procedures, old underwriting, all everything, and we think we're okay and other stuff. But my antenna goes up when things like that happen. And I probably shouldn't say this, but when you see one cockroach, there are probably more. And so we should everyone should be forewarned on this one. Do do you think he's he's making a legitimate point that there are cockroaches in the credit sector of the country? I mean, you you talked about these auto loans and what's going on with legal immigrants. Could that like on a percentage basis, I know it's kind of a gut reaction today, but what 10% 20% chance that it's a real issue in the country right now?
>> It's too small to be a major issue. This is not 2008. 2008, like you're talking about the the the mortgage market, right? And underwriting has gotten a lot better since 2008. So, it's not necessarily as impactful as 2008, but there's definitely a lot of banks that are out there that are uh not not exactly in the greatest of shapes. Um, I'm telling you, the biggest challenge that you have is businesses being marked marked to market. like there's a lot of uh non-traditional bank lenders that have come in and provided capital and they they don't want to declare what the real value of these underlying businesses are and if that's the case then the loans that they've issued are not good. So you know it's this is one of those times where confidence is being shaken in the financial uh sector and the thing is do I think it's a do I think it's a systemic issue? I don't think so. I think the banks, the regional banks have had plenty of time to kind of rightsize some of their balance sheets. So, this is the time where you want to kind of look at the regional banks and look at the ones that are being sold off and uh and and look at the ones that are the strongest that have the best credit profiles. Unfortunately, this is this is not public information that we can reach into like SEC filings and look for like bad credit events. like you can't say, okay, yeah, they issued loans to this specific company and or or they have loans on the balance sheet that has this kind of exposure. So, it's really hard to um to figure that out. So, you have to just rely on, hey, what is the what is the management of this business like? How credible are they? How what kind of processes do they have in place to make sure that they're not they haven't been issuing a lot of fraudulent um um fraud? I'm not and and it doesn't necessarily have to be fraud, by the way. It could also just be making bad loans that they don't want to recognize.
>> Yeah. And and you know, if if anything of like when this happened in 2023, the big banks got bigger because they ended up acquiring the regionals that failed and that kind of stopped the contagion from becoming a contagion. If it does and Silicon Valley Bank collapsed like that was a thousand times worse than Zion saying they had a $50 million charge off. One of those was because of a u uh a legal injunction. So it might not even fully be just because of bad credit, but to your point, when the markets get scared about credit issues, you know, everything gets sold off.
>> Well, Silicon Valley Bank was was more structural than actual like bad credit. Basically what they did was they borrowed they had all these depositors and what they did was they bought treasuries with them and the treasuries were yielding barely anything and at the same time um you know they had a bank run and so now you have this really illquid well technically it's super liquid but the the lo the further out treasuries that they had were illquid and they would have had to take a giant write off. So, you know, Silicon Valley Bank, First Republic, those are a little bit different. Um, this time around, people are just worried and especially because some of these originators have gone out of business. Like, this other one that they they have, I for I forgot the names, but they're not that big. So, it's not something that I would be like, "Oh my god, this is a systemic issue with massive rampid fraud all over the place." I will say this though, there could be a lot more used cars on the market. Chris, I'm gonna stop you real real quick right there. Trump's taking questions. Uh let's see if we get any questions of value and then we'll we'll go back.
>> Please, Mr. President,
>> you posted earlier today. Please,
>> Mr. President, this is a major campaign promise that you made. It was a big hot topic towards the end of the election. You're delivering on that. Again, I actually had a question for Secretary Kennedy or Dr. Heidi. Dr. Heidi, you said something that I thought was really important. You talked about how this coverage option, this benefit option gives companies the maximum flexibility to design uh benefits consistent to their values. I was wondering if either you or the president could expand on that and talk about why that's an important thing to understand about this program.
>> Yes, thank you. It's a great question. We think that employers are best situated to know what what them and their employees when are want to contribute to in relation to their benefits. So employers are going to be able to decide these two um see certain types of doctors and they can work with providers that are identifying the highest quality fertility providers and so it gives it puts them in the driver's seat and our view is that we want employers to be the ones that can make those decisions not the government.
>> Thank you.
>> That's a good answer.
>> Yeah. Well is a very good answer.
>> Mr. Mr. President, Mr. Mr. President, um, previously you did not seem to be bothered uh regarding Hamas track cracking down on uh what you called um
>> All right. So, we're not getting actual questions about China or anything economical. So, we'll get some quotes. I will pull up the quotes whenever we get them in real time for whatever Trump says, but those questions are more on the other political issues. Okay. So, um let's talk about the tenure then. Regional banks maybe not that big of an issue. The 10ear, this is something you're really focused on, Chris. Why is the tenure going below four such a big deal for markets right now? Uh, you're muted there. It's a combination of things. One, it's a projection from the bond market, and the bond market is much much bigger than the equity market for for people wondering. When the bond market starts to buy a lot more bonds, there's two reasons why. either they're they're expecting inflation to be lower on, you know, on a forward basis. So, when the long bond starts to go south, you know, people are not going to say like, "Yeah, I'm willing to accept, you know, uh a 4% interest rate if they can get 5% from the Treasury, right?" Um unless they expect that within the next two years, 3 years, the interest rates on the Fed is going to be down to 2%. in which case now they're going to be like they're not going to be able to get the the same return. So what we're seeing right now is number one people are expecting less inflation more cuts right so that's a simple reason why one it's going down but the other reason why is because if there's any fear in the equity market people are going to run to safety and treasuries are pretty good yielders right now in terms of safety you're getting right now almost 4% return pretty safe without having to to do anything. So this is the one thing that weirds me out a little bit in seeing gold run up but at the same time treasuries are coming down. I mean treasury yields are coming down technically.
>> What does that mean? Why is gold going up? Why why are people buying gold and treasuries at the same time? Because that usually goes the opposite, right?
>> It would you would think so, right? Gold going up means that people are expecting um the debasement of the dollar. So that's the trade that people have been kind of making. But then if you look at Bitcoin, Bitcoin is down today, right? So what is it? Is Bitcoin not an inflation hedge all of a sudden? It's not a not a not a, you know, inflation.
>> Has it has it ever been an inflation hedge or has it always been a way for people to speculate? I mean,
>> well acted good during inflation.
>> That's the idea that it's supposed to be, right? So on one hand, you're starting to Well, technically on the longer run, Bitcoin has outperformed the dollar by miles. Yeah.
>> It's just gold has been recently doing it. And I I suspect the reason is more structural than than actual fundamentals, which is um people are ddollarizing, right? Like central banks around the world are just, you know, they're they're worried right now like what is the dollar going to be worth? So a lot of central banks are probably buying dollars. I mean, uh buying gold right now. So like China right now is probably buying a the Chinese central bank is probably buying a ton of gold. And then there's also like I don't know if you saw the post by Chicken Genius, there's like lines of people buying gold all of a sudden. So some of it's like just mania, right? Um so I think that that could also be another thing where things can get a little bit speculative in which case people are just dumping cash into gold. So
>> okay. So this so so people are buying gold as the inflation hedge, but they're also buying the 10-year because they think inflation's coming down and they want to lock in a good price. Like like structurally, does that does that end up boding well for equities? I guess is the broader question.
>> Well, I mean the the one thing that the treasuries have that gold doesn't have is liquidity. You know, like what are you going to do? Like all these people standing in line, what are you going to do? Buy a bar of gold and store it at home?
>> Yeah. is that like and then how do you cash out? Like how do you get how do you sell it? So maybe consumers and central banks can, you know, do their shenanigans with gold, but most businesses, they need liquidity and they need liquidity fast. So they're not going to be out there buying gold like this or even gold futures for the most part. They'll probably just stick to treasuries and get a yield off of it. So, you know, I think there's there's room enough. The market's big.
>> Okay. So then the question becomes on the equity markets. Did you buy the
>> So, one thing real quick. Someone said chicken is selling, not buying. Yes, Chicken Genius posted that those people standing online are exit liquidity basically. So, everyone's been buying gold.
>> Yeah, everyone's been buying gold. Now, silver is making a run for it. It's uh and and if you look at the RSI on gold right now, it's in like the 90s. It's crazy. It's like gold is one of the most crowded trades right now. So, usually if you want to be a contrarian, you go the opposite direction of every everyone. When everyone else is standing in line, you figure out, okay, where can we go from this? And everyone seems to be bowled up on gold right now. So, I don't know. I don't know if I' I'd be in gold. Are
>> are you buying gold at all or No,
>> no. No. I I'm the traditional like buy yield guy, you know? Like I I like buying businesses that grow over time and grow yields over time, not just, hey, the next guy is going to buy my shiny rock for more than I bought my shiny rock for.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> The only difference is there's consensus around the world that gold sh the rocks that are called gold are are valuable. So everything runs on consensus. If everyone thinks that a Mickey Mantel card is worth a million dollars, then it's worth a million dollars. If no one thinks it's worth a million dollars, then it's just a piece of paper with with some guy on the on the the on the card.
>> Well, the market cap today officially is 30 trillion for gold. Um, okay. So, equities next six months, what are you thinking? We had rare earths that got crushed today. Quantum got crushed today. Nuclear stocks got crushed today. Bitcoin miners got crushed today. Is this a flushing out of froth or is this a buy the dip on some of these highf flyers? Um, I think some of it is just plain fear that's kind of like making its way into the market. And not to mention, look at these companies, man. They've had massive run-ups up till now. So, some of it is just profit taking. You know, some of it's fear of overvaluation. Some of it is just, hey, the technology is probably BS. And so, you know, people have made substantial gains. They're going to want to take some profit, right? So, I shorted uh CQITS today. I did it via QBTZ which was a good move in the morning time. So
>> that was a great move in the morning. You should be up like 20% or something on that. So
>> 10 10 because I didn't get I didn't get it fast enough.
>> Yeah.
>> So okay. So then the question then becomes if you think people are just taking profits right here. Is there any concern for the highf flyers to end out Q4 or do you think they consolidate even if they go down another 10% but they still hold the majority of their gains? I'm not too sure about like you'd have to pick each one individually. Like with regards to quantum, I'm not I'm not like in either direction, right? I I think the technology is probably legitimate, but the use cases are like years away like what's his name Scarelli saying. So I agree with that. Um but that doesn't mean that the the market isn't willing to speculate. when it comes to the AI data centers. There's actual customers that are coming out building things. So that's a real tangible business. I don't think that there's a real business with quantum. So you have to be very selective on which one do you think that's actually real and which one is not real. You know, and it's not to say that quantum the technology is not real. It's just, you know, there's a lot of things out there that are real technologies, but they're just not monetizable because the use cases are either so limited or or not worth it. Like another thing is like uh same thing with the the what is it they called the rare earth minerals. While rare earth minerals are very important for the manufacturing process for you know high technology. Do you know what the total total um worldwide market was for rare earth minerals?
>> No.
>> It was like 19 billion last year.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. It wasn't like
>> you would think it's like hundreds of You muted yourself. You would think it's like hundreds of billions based on how much we've been talking about it, right?
>> Yeah. No, no, they're critical like in terms of manufacturing, but you know, it's it's all over the place. Uh total market size. So, when you look at the total market size, it's here it is one second. Uh let me just pull it up real quick. Um Sashi, thanks for the super chat. He says, "Chris, do you expect gold to come down in the next four months? I have to buy nonetheless. Should I wait or should I just buy now as it might never come down? Well, Chris can answer that, but I, you know, Chris is not buying gold based on what he just said.
>> I I don't know, man. Gold is gold is there's no fundamentals that could tell you like, you know, where to go on gold. So, I don't know. I couldn't tell you.
>> I would say in general buying something that's up 70% on the year, like in 10 years, maybe it works out, but if you're doing it as a, you know, short-term whatever, you you're buying something that's run up a lot, which is hard. Yeah. So if you look at the market like like you know market for uh rare earths it's not big you know like I said they're very important like the total market size for rare earth estimate is about 12 to 12.75 billion.
>> Yeah.
>> And it could be 37 billion by 2033. So 3x from here. It's like, okay, not exactly. Like,
>> do you think these got bit up for no reason then? Or because you said they're important, which they are.
>> So, like,
>> would you even think of buying the dip on these or like no, because even they're even though they're important, the market application of them is not enough to justify the runup. Yeah, I think I think most of these projects are going to require government support just to break even,
>> you know, and not to mention the Chinese have a way of kind of flooding the market. Um, and so it's almost like you this thing is strategically important to have, but it's not necessarily the greatest business. You can't really build a a great business around it, you know, because the the the amount of people that need it is a lot more limited than people think. You know, this is not one of those things like steel or aluminum or something like or copper where it's in almost everything. This is very specific use cases and very small amounts. So, yes, they're critical, but they're not like it's just not a business that you want to it's not a growth business, you know, unless you're very very early into like MP materials or stuff like that, then yeah, you could you could be in it, I suppose.
>> Are you at all concerned about capex? We've seen these deals with Open AI and AMD, Open AI and Oracle, Open AI and Broadcom, Open AAI and Nvidia. Anthropic said they're going to do 26 billion of revenue next year. Like, are you feeling any uneasiness around the state of the AI capex trade or you think it's good to go?
>> As of right now, no. I think there's enough um there's enough data out there that says demand is outpacing supply. So, it's not something that I'm overly overly concerned about. Whenever we see like companies actually starting to pull back on capex plans, then then there's something that we have to, you know, take into account. But as of right now, every CEO is coming out saying, "Listen, we've got more demand than we have supply."
>> Yeah.
>> And you just got to take them for their word, right? I mean, I can't I can't deny that. So, Novo's down 5%, folks. We got a Trump quote. He says, "I think the fat loss drugs will be a lot lower in price." hymns is also down after hours. Let's let's go back to Trump and see what he's saying
>> because it was statute. It couldn't have been earlier. I said, "Boy, this falls into the next administration. I better win." And all of a sudden, I watched this Biden taking credit for something that I did and uh on other things. So, we had a lot of things kick in. So, the nice part about this, this is at the beginning of our administration. So I think we're gonna see
>> was just indicted by a grand jury in Maryland. Do you have a reaction to that?
>> I didn't front of the line. We
>> That's great.
>> Why didn't I have him speak? He was so could have saved a lot of time. Thanks. I'm not surprised. Yeah, please.
>> Yes. Thank you, Chris. Uh so Senate Majority Leader John F today said he'd like to proceed with the bill which would put sanctions on Russia. What's your thought on that?
>> Well, we're going to see. He doesn't know about the call yet. I'm going to speak to him later. And it was subject to what I wanted to do. And so we'll see what happens. Uh we may have this may be uh such a productive call that we're going to end up we we want to get peace. We want to stop the killing. 7,000 people a week. Can you believe it? We want to stop the killing. So uh I'm going to speak to him and the speaker, Mike Johnson. I'll speak to them a little bit later and I'll tell them about this and we'll make the right determination. I'm not against anything. I'm just saying uh it may not be perfect timing.
>> It could happen in a week or two, but it's at my option as you know,
>> right? But did President Putin try to dissuade you from selling Tomahawk missiles?
>> Well, of course, what do you think he's going to say? Please sell tomahawks.
>> But did he say please sell those tomahawks? I really appreciate it. I did actually say, "Would you mind if I gave a couple of thousand tomahawks to your opposition?" I did say that to him. I said it just that way.
>> He didn't like the idea. He really didn't like the idea. No, I said it that that way. Uh you have to be a little bit lighthearted sometimes, but uh no, he doesn't want to Tommahawk is a vicious weapon. It's a vicious offensive, incredibly destructive weapon. Nobody wants to hook shot at him.
>> Ask you not to provide.
>> So wouldn't anybody? I mean, it's been in the news. Who wouldn't do that? CNN, who wouldn't do that? You know, you think he's going to sayward,
>> I'd love to have Tomah Hawk sent my way. I don't think so. Maria, we have one of the great stars of television here and she's an incredible person and she's just an amazing woman who she got it all right. She got the Russia Russia Russia hoax right. She got everything. Would you have a question? Uh yes, Mr. President, I would ask you why this was so important to you. Uh IVF and why was autism
>> for for babies, baby boys. It's one in 12. I heard one in 10, Bobby. I heard another one, you know, different lists. But when you think of that, it's not even sustainable. But there's something artificial when that happens. That's not like a natural. And then you have certain groups of people that literally don't have autism and they're not taking some of the things that we're taking. So we're working very hard and or IVF. It's just that I have friends including Katie that called me and they told me the importance of it. I wasn't that familiar with it. Now I think I've sort of become the father ever since I heard we there was a bad decision in Alabama where a judge wanted all clinics to be immediately closed. Right. And Katie called up and you said you were pretty strongly attacked by your friends that you didn't even know were involved with IVF. Right.
>> You had people's that had grandkids, people who had gone through IVF themselves telling their story and saying there are people out there.
>> Tell what you did when when you heard from your friends, you said this was not they almost became violent.
>> I told him I said Mr. President um we need you. We need your voice in this conversation. Um we we need the directive. We need the strong support because there are millions of people out there, moms and dads, wanting to bring life into the world. And you had people, the chilling effect that occurred across Alabama. There were people that were in the middle of that process that had been praying to have a child and that was halted. And so the reality of that um was very stark in our state. And so I was able to tell the president some of the stories of um people, you know, friends and grandparents and uh relatives that told me what they had experienced and also um you know what they were fearful of in the future. And the president very quickly acted, spoke with a strong voice and really led the way. Um, obviously we saw Democrats continue to fear-monger for the remainder of the year, trying to use it as an election issue when actually IVF is legal and accessible in all 50 states. And President Trump very clearly said where he was on this and he said, "I'm going to make sure that this is more accessible and that is more affordable for families coast to coast." That's exactly what he did. But it's that real life, there's real life stories, sir, that he responded to. And that's what people don't know about him. He cares and when you
>> Okay. All right. So, I guess the uh main comment we got is Trump's comment on Russia and that the weight loss drugs will be coming down in price. Uh Chris, geopolitical instability. Do you think it's a concern for Q4 or you think we're getting to some level of peace? No,
>> I think we're This is all just back and forth. I think this is like Liberation Day part two. where everyone's just kind of um number one the markets run really hard. So one people are not willing to just overlook things. They're like hey you know what maybe I should take some profit off the table just be smart about it. Um, so I think some of it is just profit taking and then also some of the comment that Trump is making is kind of on one hand it's hey we're going to fight a trade war with China but then within like 24 hours it's like yeah but we'll figure it out.
>> We'll figure it out, right?
>> You know and you don't think the soybean thing is that big of a deal?
>> Not really. I think this is just how Trump negotiates, right? He's a tough negotiator. So, he's just wants to keep the other side guessing and that he said that so many times like I just like to keep the other side guessing and so I think um going into trade negotiations with China and some of the some of the things that Scott Bessant has said uh representative uh trade representative Greer has said you know they'll get to their conclusion that they need to um this whole thing remember it's a mutually assured destruction we can't blow up their economy without them blowing up our economy you know Right. And China did actually say today uh the quote what from the foreign ministry was decoupling from the US is not realistic or rational.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean that's good to hear, right? It's not like they're trying to say, "Yeah, we don't need you guys anymore." And it's a full-on isolated war between the the two of them. They're like, "No, we'll figure it out."
>> I have a theory, bro. I My theory is Baron or President Trump has figured out zero DTE options. Okay. and they're just like, "What's going on today?" You know, "Are my calls underwater? Yo, China, buy our cooking oil or or whatever." And boom, the market crashes. Like, woo, I'm in the money again, you know.
>> No, but we're joking about it. But would you put the odds at zero over someone who's connected to someone in the administration that's getting this information ahead of time? I would say the odds are greater than at least 10% on that. Dude, Eric Trump came out and said they made a billion dollars on crypto.
>> Yeah, he did say that. He did say that.
>> I mean, come on. You're telling me that people are on not at least somewhat in the know about these things and making uh making making some moves in the background? So, I don't I don't think it's guiding uh Trump himself. I just think that some of the some of the people around him could be taking this using the information to their advantage. I mean, imagine being the guy who knows that Trump is about to put out a tweet that's anti-China.
>> Yeah, we need to we need to get into that network.
>> Well, that's that's a hard network to get into. But if you if you know that information and you can do it via crypto, which is totally anonymous, I mean, the guy made $200 million on Friday shorting Bitcoin because of that.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. Speaking of crypto, Bitmine, what the hell is going on with this? You got a price target of $90 from B Riley. Stocks been flat. Ethereum's been kind of dead. I mean, is your bullishness still up there? Or how do you think the story plays out?
>> Hell yeah, dude. Hell yeah. Still bullish on Ethereum. Bullish on stable coins, bullish on Ethereum. There's just too many um institutions that are talking about building on the blockchain and specifically level two layer layer two and uh of uh Ethereum and eventually that that uh that ecosystem that's being built is going to be worth something. So I'm in definitely I'm in the Tom Lee uh I hate I hate being in in Kathy Woods uh camp, but I think she's right, bro. I I anytime I hear Kathy Wood, I still remember our debate on Roku, you know? So, it's really hard to like be like, "Oh, yeah, Kathy Wood knows what she's doing."
>> You you defended Roku. You're like, "No, I think she has a point here."
>> I did. See, and I was a [ __ ] for doing it. So, you know, what is Roku doing these days anyway? I haven't even checked.
>> It's still like number two in her fund. Roku year to date is up 30%. So, that's helping.
>> Is it? There you go. So, maybe maybe Kathy knows what she's doing.
>> Okay. So I agree with you on ETH. I'm super bullish as well. But question is about BMR. Do you still think a 100red by end of year is a possibility?
>> See that's the thing. I don't know how how these guys are getting their price targets. Like it's just I mean I know how I'm getting a price target but then like the assumptions that some like Tom Lee is making are grounded in I don't know pie in the sky numbers. Like I think it was like oh I think he said he thinks Bitcoin is going to be I mean not Bitcoin Ethereum is going to be between 10 and 12,000 and I think the way that he came to that number was the gap between Bitcoin and Ethereum closing. But then my question was well then how do you know what the value of Bitcoin is going to be? And then he threw out a target like 250,000 on Bitcoin. And I'm like okay. So, it's not that it's not that I don't trust his numbers. I'm sure that there's a methodology at work. I mean, unless he's like publishing his numbers and saying the reason why I think this is going to be worth this is because of X. So, the best thing you can do is um is just hedge to the hedge your downside while giving yourself a lot of room for upside, you know, and if you can create a strategy around that, you could, you know, you could theoretically make a really good return without putting up too much risk. So,
>> okay. So, long term, we still believe in ETH, just ultimately it's going to be a question of the performance towards the towards the end of the year.
>> Yeah, I think if if we get a Santa Claus rally and the market gets like, you know, like really happy again, which definitely is the case. I think we have another rally in Q4. Um, I think I think ETH can get up there. you know, the 75 in my opinion 75 is definitely possible because I'm looking at realistically like a 5,500 on Ethereum and then you just do the math on it. 6 million Ethereum outstanding 500, you know, multiply that out by uh 5,500 and then you just divide up by the estimate number of shares outstanding at the time, which is ends up being close to like 550 to 575, which is the total issuance. you got yourself $75, you know, um with an MNAV of 1.3 1.4. The only the only thing that um I would caution people is understand that the daily volume is pretty sticky right now in terms of like it's around 50 to 70 million, but the number of shares outstanding is getting bigger and bigger.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, in my opinion, it's going to be harder to move it up and harder to move it down. So, you're starting to get this like gravity effect. And that's the real question that I have is like unless Ethereum starts to make massive moves to the upside or massive moves to the downside, the value of BMR is not going to be moving as nearly as much, or at least that's what I'm thinking. Um, in which case the options market is totally totally screwed up. In which case, you can take advantage of that. So, if you know how to take advantage of that, then take it. And if you don't, stay out of the trade.
>> I agree. All right, so we got 10 minutes left. Let's uh end it out with some Q&A. Any questions for Chris? We'll do some rapid fire. There is Chris's Twitter right there. Please make sure to subscribe. We did talk about gold for a bit. if you rewind uh spend some time talking about gold but any Q&A on specific stocks macro concepts Chris will try to answer it in whichever
>> I think I think the best thing that I can not like make a prediction but the best thing I could say is I think we are headed into a lower rate environment next year like it's very it's very obvious to me all the things that are happening number one you've got shelter rolling over number two you've got energy prices like if you look at energy price Last year they were like $75 a barrel for oil. Now it's like 55 56. So ton of ton of movement towards a disinflationary environment. You know there's also fears around growth slowing down. Then there's technology which is super deflationary coming in. Jobs market is cooling off. So all the all the people that are like inflation inflation inflation is going to reacelerate just shut up relax. like it's not. So, you know,
>> that doesn't even take into account AI being deflationary.
>> Yeah. There's so many things that tell me that. Like I said, everyone is everyone is looking at like the 1970s and trying to like repeat that and say, "Oh, look, we had a second bout of inflation because like the first time we didn't control it, blah blah." And I'm like, "Yeah, but look at energy prices." The one thing you got to give to Trump is that dude, he's jawboning the hell out of everyone and just making sure that oil prices stay where stay at a nice sustainable low level so that this way inflation doesn't run rampid. So yes, are there more input costs from goods that are coming in from tariffs? Absolutely. But then on the other hand, you got aggregate demand destruction from all the all the the deportations. So population growth is going down. Uh energy prices are much lower. So logistics costs are down, right? Uh credit now is starting to roll over. So that's another thing. So you know, and then and then you have all the liquidity that's being pulled off of the consumer from the government, which is no longer doing housing moratoriums and rent rent uh rent moratoriums and now people are going to have to pay more for their health care because ACA
>> student loans, student loans are back online. I mean, dude, the consumer right now is getting hit from every single side. You're telling me that, hey, all of a sudden they're going to go out there and spend more money. Like, no, credit's tightening. Sorry, inflation's not not not the problem that we have to really worry about. And I think um there's this video by Steven Moran if you want to see something that just came out today. I actually got it queued up. Let me just put it. Stephen Mirren, now Moran, sorry. Jay Powell signaled that the Fed is on track for another move. Are you expecting it's 25 basis points? Should it be 50? Yeah. Well, my view is that it should be 50. However, I expect it to be an additional 25. Uh, and I think that we're probably set up for for for three 25 basis point cuts this year for a total of 75 basis points this year. Uh, you know, but I think that look, it would be really helpful to have the economic data in order to be able to make the decisions we need to make. Uh, certainly we would want to be inspecting the economy for signs of for signs of moves lower in inflation, for signs of changes in the job market. But without those data, we still have to make a decision anyway. And so we'll have to rely upon our forecasts for doing so.
>> And and what did you
>> Okay, cool. So we we we heard him yesterday on CNBC as well. I mean, he is the most bullish out of all the other Fed presidents. The question is just if we'll actually get three cuts. Um Okay, let's do some rapid fire on some stocks. So Chris, you you've talked about VG over and over again. So just quick thoughts on this. Are you buying the dip or you just holding steady on this?
>> Yeah, longterm great business generates cash.
>> Cool. Uh woman. Yeah.
>> Irene, are you touching this one?
>> Not really. I I don't really know much about the business, so I couldn't tell you. Uh, that's Sam. Sam has been talking about that. I don't know much about it. So,
>> okay. Do you still have as bro?
>> I do. I do.
>> You're not taking profits here? I mean,
>> no,
>> bro. This thing is up. Like,
>> no. And if if uh you want to know something, I'm going super long on Verizon. See?
>> Okay. Okay. So, you're doing you're doing both together.
>> That's right. Telecom, baby. That's where you want to be.
>> I'm surprised you're not selling your ESTs. You were that convicted that you were choosing to hold on.
>> It's the easiest business model to understand. It's literally se sell towers in space. Like,
>> all right. There you go.
>> Sell towers in space, dude. They get fixed fees that are contracted down. I mean, Bell can Verizon just had that deal with them. Bell Canada is talking about it's it's a great business model. You know,
>> uh Amazon, are you a buyer?
>> I'm going to let it uh come down a little bit more. Uh mainly because Amazon's got two major headwinds. One, it's AWS business. It's still growing, but it's losing a little bit of steam compared to GCP and Azure. And people are worried about the consumer, which you know, Amazon, that's a core business. So, you know, people are like, I don't know if I want to be in this too much. So, yeah, but it is it's trading for a really good value.
>> Yeah, especially on a EV to eBay basis. I would agree. Nebas and Corwe, would you touch any of those right here or No,
>> it's not my forte, man. That's all Sam. Sam is like there are certain there's certain um industries that I think other people have done a really good job of covering and Sam has done the deep dive and all all of Nebius's business segments and data centers and all that stuff. So I've kind of just like substituted my my own research to him and just if he tells me it's good, it's good. If it's not good, it's not good. So you know, we'll just go based I'll just I would just say caution against listening to me about it. Just ask someone like Sam.
>> UNH continue to hold.
>> Uh yeah. Yeah. UNH is good. Recession resistant. So if we do get any weakness, they'll do good. Um they've also got a massive amount of debt on the balance sheet that they can manage, but their debt um you know, if interest rates come down, it's easier to finance it. So yeah, UNH is fine. They've got they've got to deal with some uh regulatory changes that from the Biden era that they're hopefully going to get their hands around. But one thing you're going to start to see is premiums. If people here haven't already saw some of what the premiums are going to be looking like for not just for United Healthcare, if you have that health insurance, but any health insurance, it's going to be a lot higher next year. So, just letting you all know right now, better save up. Is is Oscar a play on the eventual capitulation of this shutdown or do you think that one could get wrecked easily if it's not favored?
>> No, I think it'll do I could I think I think at this point the ACA subsidy extensions are almost a guarantee. Like it's way too important for the Republicans uh to have the ACA because there's just so many members that in their local districts that are utilizing the ACA subsidies. Now, this is something that Marjorie Taylor Green said, which actually made a lot more sense. She's like, "Look, we can talk about getting rid of these subsidies, but we can't do it cold turkey, right? We can't just say, "Hey, get used to these subsidies for the last 5 years and then all of a sudden be like, yeah, you know what? Now you got to stand on your two legs."
>> Like, no, you got to you got to give people an offramp. And especially while inflation and uh uh has basically wrecked a lot of people's bal, you know, um uh finances over the last two three years, you got to get people a chance to adjust. So,
>> are you buying next decade?
>> Uh not really. I' I've already got too much exposure to next decade. So, next decade in venture global I have in spades. So, I'm not really going to add to it.
>> Okay. So, you own it, but you're not adding more. Gotcha.
>> No. Um, all right. I think that's pretty much it. Is there any stocks that are on your radar that you would think people should look at? Any broader concepts or just rates coming down should be a tailwind long term?
>> I think people need to look at yields. Yields is where I would focus on next year. So, number one, the valuation on the S&P is really, really high, which means that there's going to be people who want to kind of like move into a little bit of safety. 2026 is also a midterm year. Uh those are not usually very very delightful for the market.
>> Those are actually horrible years for the market to be honest. They're not good years at all.
>> Yeah. So, you know, you want to be in safety and so there are companies out there that have really good safety profiles from cash flow perspective that you want to look at and then you want to look at the yields that you could get. So on average the S&P yields between seven and 9% every year for the last you know however many years. Um the only thing is it also really depends on the entry price. So if you enter at the wrong time when valuations are super high you're almost guaranteed to underperform the market long term. So it's a good idea right now in my opinion if rates are projected to come down to lock in those yields now. Right. So there are dividend companies out there right now that are doing se seven% in I mean 7% dividends qualified 7% dividends that you know for someone who's done really really well this year you want to take a little bit of money off the top you know like put it into some safe industries that's where you want to look you know and that's where I'm looking anyway so uh someone said UPS and Verizon dividend monster so UPS I am not a big fan of only because they're unionized at this point. And so anytime they make a little bit more money, the union kind of just says, "Hey, I want more money. Give me more money." You know, so definitely not a UPS um UPS guy. But Verizon's good. Verizon, you know, economy goes down. What do you think? People going to cancel their cell phone plans? No. Yeah. And then uh there's also this general trend that's happening with a lot of people switching over from cable to fixed wireless broadband access. That's a tailwind for these guys. And then when you look at their credit profiles, they have a lot of debt on the balance sheet, but the debt is manageable because of their strong cash flows. But at the other end of it, if you cut interest rates, the debt servicing becomes cheaper. They just got a new CEO. And there's a whole lot of due diligence that I've done on Verizon. And so I'm I'm actually I've been building a position in Verizon. I actually took another bigger chunk today as well. So yeah. Okay, there we go. Thank you everybody for joining. This was our third Macro Thursday with Mr. Chris Patel. I'm putting his Twitter right here in the chat and we'll be back tomorrow. See what happens for
>> later, guys. Have a good one.
>> Later, Chris. Thank you. Appreciate you. Later. Later. All right, folks. That is it for the day. We are done. Um, tomorrow's Friday. I'll be back tomorrow on the market open. We'll have a daily recap in a couple hours. Uh, talk more about the regional bank stuff on that daily recap. So, we'll get into that. Look, in general, I I personally don't think Zions and Western Alliance are creating some structural problem with credit in the United States, but that's how the market's reacting. And you know, if the market's going to react like that, then the market's going to react like that. But there's not much we can do until that is kind of resolved. We do have a quote from Trump on uh well on beef. It's such a big category. Everything follows. So just about everything follows. And we are working on beef and I think we have a deal on beef that's going to bring the price of beef. That would be the one one product that we would say is uh a little bit higher than we want it. Maybe higher than we want it. And that's going to be coming down pretty soon, too. We did something. We worked our magic. But groceries are down and energy is down. Electricity is way down. Uh we have the prices coming down for people. They were they were abused for four years by the Biden administration. Uh thank you very much everybody. We'll see you soon. Thank you.
>> For the IRS. Okay. Beef. Are there beef futures? No, there's cattle futures. Are they green? Are cattle futures green right now? They're up a little bit. Cattle futures are up a little bit. I don't know what deal we got on beef, but Steve is going to like this. Yeah, Steve's going to love it. Steve is gonna love it. There you go. Cattle futures up point4%. All right, speaking of Steve, I'll be live on Steve's channel at 9:30. We're gonna do something every Thursday. So, uh, 9:30 to 10:30, we'll just chop it up about markets, whatever. Steve will probably be on, uh, after 10:30 just talking with you guys, but I'll be with him usually on Thursdays and we'll start the first one of those today. And that's pretty much it. Then we'll be back tomorrow. Uh, Dunce, thank you for the super chat right here. Ash, thank you for becoming a channel member. Karen, thank you as well for becoming a channel member. Dun says, "Uh, this is the last market open for me. I got a job starting Monday, so I can't be here during the day." Love you though. Dunce, appreciate you, man. Congrats on the job. The job is way more important than being here watching every day. So, hopefully you can catch the daily recap and get caught up on everything, but appreciate you being here. And congrats on the job as well. Um, all right, I think we're done. That is pretty much it. We'll be back again tomorrow morning. Can't believe it's Friday, bro. This was a quick week. This one felt like an It felt like it was slow, but it was really quick. Particularly because we were up on Monday, recovered from Friday, down on Tuesday, up on Wednesday, down in day, then we were up today, then we went down today with the whole regional bank thing. And so, I guess we'll see how we end this out on Friday. Ryan says, "Bro, just watch at work." Okay, not everyone can just put in their earphones and not do anything at work like some of you guys. I say that because I used to be one of those people that like not not work per se, but one of the clients that I had that I would consult with like there'd be there would be some hours where I'd be like, "Dude, I'm checked out. I'm not doing [ __ ] right now. I'm just because if you get your work done within like an hour and you're on you're on the the docket for four hours. I mean, you got three hours left. Like what are you going to do? Like you're going to do more work?" No, you're not getting paid for more work. You're getting paid for is the same amount of work that you finished because you were an efficient worker. Philip says, "I feel seen." That's what happens, bro. That's what happens. So, there you go. All right. I'll be back tomorrow. And I think that's uh I think that's pretty much it. Yeah. I don't think there's anything else. I mean, we'll have the daily recap out, but I think this regional thing was an issue. We'll see if it continues to be an issue, but if it's not, then we should be good to go. We work for our portfolios. Exactly. Exactly. Let me link Steve's channel for those that don't have it. Uh, deep dive will be coming out tomorrow. So, again, if you want to subscribe to the Substack, I'll put it right there. There's Steve's Oh, I gave you his Twitter, but I'll put up his YouTube. And I'll be on with him at 9:30 today. 9:30. and then we'll be done. And then the Substack link that is right here. All right, that's it for me. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. Means the world. Tooth is doing really good. I actually have a checkup with the dentist on October 28th, the day after my birthday. So, I'm going to have to leave the market open a little early that day, but it is after the market open, which is a good thing. And uh yeah, the tooth is going good and we'll keep going from there. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys tomorrow. on the market opens. See you later tonight on Steve's show and daily recap out in a few hours. Bye everyone. Have a good one.