[Music] [Applause] Hello, everyone. I am very happy to be here again. I am currently a literature teacher. The topic I would like to share this time is a bit big. It is related to friendship. But this big topic may not have been thought through by us. This is the reason why I want to talk about it. When we talk about friendship, we may want to listen to stories, especially those that have been through the years and have not changed their emotional stories. But in my personal life, these stories are particularly lacking. When I was in middle school, I was very far from the words "friend" or "dead party". At that time, I was not so passionate about socializing. We hope to have a better relationship in a new environment, but we often get disappointed. We hope to have a closer relationship with someone, but we find that we get separated as we walk. Whether it is in middle school or in an adult world, we all hope to have a more secure and trustworthy relationship, but we often get confused. So the complexity of friendship is the topic I want to talk about today. Although I had never had a wonderful friendship in middle school, when I got a job, I was rooted in the education of literature and the language. I gained a close relationship that I had never imagined before. Although people always say that no one is reading now, everyone is playing with their phones, I always feel that people who read books are not getting more or less. They are scattered in different places. Many questions will be raised in the class of literature, but not in a class. This question is over. We may continue to discuss these questions in the playground, on the side of the school, in the cafe and cafeteria of the school. If we don't discuss them in detail, we may move to the WeChat group at night. So I always feel that my identity with some of the students is no longer a traditional education, or a teacher-student relationship. We rely on a more profound, aesthetic life, or a wise life, to form a close community. I call it my "common sense of confidence". I remember that something very impressive happened last semester. Last semester, I took my students to read the novel "The Human Wasteland" by the American novelist Philip Ross. In this novel, the protagonist is a black man with pale skin. So in order to fight against the social pressure of racial discrimination, he disguised himself as a white man and kept climbing up. He eventually became a professor of literature in college. When he was in middle school, he loved to do a sport, which was boxing. But boxing was not the sport we imagined, it was boxing. We have already discussed the details of this text in the class, but I am still not satisfied. After the class, I and my junior students, who are my classmates, we are still talking about this topic. They gave me an inspiration. Why must we play空拳 instead of sandbags? When we play with sandbags, when you punch out, you have a target. The power will soon dissipate on the sandbag. But when you play with empty punches, we can imagine that when your hand goes out, you must have a very strong control. When to stop, when to take back. This means that the self-control and self-control of the mind is higher than the control of the body. This is exactly the same as the theme of the novel. I have just introduced that the protagonist of the novel has a strong tendency to create himself. He wants to create himself as a white man to fight against a society with discrimination. So in his view, the self-creation of the empty fist is closely related to the self-creation and self-improvement of his life and destiny. After hearing this explanation, I felt very happy because I didn't have the intention to explain it. But I was wondering why my junior and junior students could give this interpretation. Because they are also in their youth. Maybe they ask themselves every day, "What kind of person do I want to be? How should I shape myself?" In other words, their personality is very similar to the protagonist in the novel. When they exchange their life experiences and their literary experience, I think our discussion is no longer about the literary texts in the literature class, but a kind of understanding between me and them. I think it is precisely because of this existence, the existence of this common sense, that it surpasses the traditional meaning of the word "divide". I remember that day I was very excited. After listening to their explanation, I felt like I was lit up. I even went to my Douban and posted a broadcast. I said that I have felt this year's community of intelligence very strongly for my meaning. We are a group of people with similar inner self. We share ourselves in a way that has never been done before. We see ourselves as someone who is being controlled by the foundation of this common being. We think ourselves as someone who is being led by our own feelings. I also mentioned that the closeness of friendship is a kind of dizzying happiness. Sometimes I even feel that it is more powerful than the support of my family and relatives. I want to identify this kind of relationship that is dependent on the relationship of the teacher and student, but it is not just a friendship of the teacher and student. It reminds us that friendship itself is vague and complicated. When we discuss what friendship is, we should ask the core question, what is intimate relationship? When we talk about intimate relationship, we may want to have some more clear boundaries, or categories, or scope. So in my own class, I often use the definition of CS Lewis in four kinds of love, What are the four types of relationships? The first type is a relationship of family. It is a relationship of blood, which is derived from the birth of parents and children. They have a relationship. The second type is a relationship of love. It is a relationship between men and women, which is produced through the combination of physical and sexual desires. The third is the relationship of love. In Lewis's view, love may be the only one between cities that does not depend on blood. It is a relationship of color. And the last one, because he is a mystic, he speaks of divine love, which is a kind of unloved love sent by God. When I was doing this in class, I found that our students were very serious and diligent in writing notes. And at these moments, I was always thinking, is this kind of classification enough? Do we just have to follow the classification of the rules and clearness, to fully understand the intimate relationship? In fact, in the common theme of friendship I just mentioned, I found that it is not like that. Because many times, we feel a kind of love that accompanies each other, and also a kind of divine love. However, this divine nature is not sent by God, but by literature itself. Literature has a possibility of surpassing everyday life. It indicates the most sublime vibrations in our existence. So when we discuss literary issues, we always hear a deeper voice. I want to give a more common example to explain this. Last semester, I was reading the book "The Idiot" by Tosoyevsky with my friends. The hero in The Fools has a disease called "Sickness". Every time he falls ill, his eyes turn white, his mouth is covered in white ink, and he loses his mind. We might think it's a very scary scene, but there was a time when the hero fell ill again, and he suddenly got a kindof stasis. It's like a beam of light pierced through his soul. He suddenly did something to himself. His relationship with others, and even his state of life, created a sense of sense of touch. It's the season of this moment of silence. I have a student who also shared his moment of silence. He said that once he went to... It was already late, so all the tourists had left. He was alone in the center of the temple. It was already sunset. So the sunset penetrated through the temple. the window frames of the tomb were lit up one by one. At the same time, he saw the golden dust under the sun flying among the light beams. He said, "At that moment, I suddenly heard a voice calling me. I suddenly felt some kind of divinity. I asked him what he felt. He said that he felt that what he wanted to do in his life was to put himself into an endless study of literature and humanities. He heard the sound of the divine. What was very coincidental was that his name had a "ru" in it. It was the "ru" of the "ru family". And when he shared this story, I found that everyone around him was silent. This kind of silence is not because of the poverty, but because everyone has entered a kind of fair and satisfactory silence. It's like we throw a little stone into the water, The The So in this example, I want to talk about the blurring, which means that friendship is sometimes built on the so-called good friends and some kind of sacred relationship. Next, I want to share another example. It is also about the blurring of friendship. It happened when I was reading The Dwarf's Dormitory with our students. In this text, the female doctor is in her mid-school years, and she has a very good friend who is gay. They often hide in the tall building of the house, reading books, reading Plato, reading Snow White. They swear to never get married, and they will act very close. When I was reading this text, I noticed that some of my classmates were laughing at me. They found that the relationship between these two girls was far beyond friendship. But it seemed that you couldn't use love to define them. However, when we think back to our youth, especially the youth between girls, perhaps many people have felt this kind of "over-the-top" friendship, a mysterious, ambiguous, and even "loving" color. Of course, you can't define it with love. So at this time, I think we should feel more of this kind of friendship, In fact, whether it is the stories we encounter in the literature, or the stories of women in their youth and their gay friends, I think they are also reminding us of another detail. When we talk about the word friendship, In the past, it was a male-coloured word. That is to say, whether it is in Chinese traditional Chinese language, "a season of golden blue, high mountains and flowing water", or in Western language, "brotherhood-like friendship", it seems to naturally exclude women. Even the first sentence of the 1948 World Human Rights Declaration, it also said that "let us unite like brothers". I think this is because before women gained a more equal status through revolution, they were excluded from this friendship. However, whether we think back to the stories we have experienced ourselves, or the complicated friendships we read in the texts, they will let us realize that the friendship between women also has its history, language and importance. In this book, there is a word that is very meaningful, perhaps. When we hear this word, we may have some doubts. Because I became friends with you, isn't this a matter of course? Is there still a possibility? But the meaning of Derrida's words may be a hint to our hidden side of friendship. It is the possibility that we rarely think about or imagine about friendship. In Derrida's view, the friendship needs some kind of space. It is not that two people become friends and then start to push each other, and know each other without saying anything. Instead, we need to preserve our style or accept the sense of identity that we never know about each other. In terms of progress, in Derrida's view, good friendship is not about reflecting each other, or me reflecting each other, or the other person reflecting me. We are like mirrors that reflect each other. Good friendship is a kind of confrontation. In other words, your best friend is the one who forces you to grow. The next example I'm going to talk about will make many friends who are still in middle school feel more emotional. Because many of my students will become teachers in secondary school, one of them has already become a young class teacher. She told me about the situation of her class. There was a girl in her class who was very bad at physics, but she was good at English. So her teachers always suppressed this girl and said, "Look, girls can't learn this kind of math and physics. Why don't you learn as well as boys?" So this girl accidentally became an enemy of another guy. She was holding a breath in her heart, always trying to surpass that guy. Finally, she thought of a way to help that guy study physics, and she could help that guy improve his English. Of course, I think the meaning of this story is not that you can learn well and you can get sweet love. It's just one aspect. Because it still makes us realize that in this kind of friendship, it is inevitable to entangle a kind of confrontation, even hostility. And we also know that in the current situation of high-pressure education, we cannot talk about this kind of friendship and confrontation relationship so romantic. In the vast majority of the time, because everyone's education pressure is particularly high, it is more possible to become enemies with others every day. I am here today to say that I have no other way. I can only say that we can avoid becoming enemies with others in middle school, middle school or high school. Because this is a social structure problem. Under this kind of internal structure, it will distribute its pressure on everyone. Everyone is forced to become an opponent of others. But I think when we realize that this hostility is not because I don't know how to make friends, or I'm terrible, or you deliberately want to mess with me, or you deliberately want to embarrass me, it's not because of the individual's personality, but because of some kind of collective logic, or structural violence. Maybe we will have more tolerance and less responsibility between our interactions with others. When we talk about the resistance of friendship, I want to continue to put this topic down. We also see that it is not only about friendship, but also about resistance and violence. This is completely different from the cold and polite friendship that we usually imagine. Why is friendship filled with violence? This is because the alliance itself is a de-escalation. In other words, my choice to be friends with you may have already hinted that I want to be enemies with him. The alliance itself is violent and de-escalating. Let's take some examples that are very familiar to everyone. For example, in Chinese traditional narrative, The three of them are not saying that we can become friends in private, we can go to a big bowl to drink, eat meat, and that's enough. Their alliance is a form of political and military action. What they want to do next is to form a military alliance and suppress each other. So in the process of friendship, there may also be an unpleasant, unpleasant confrontation, which is the rejection of the perpetrators, the suppression of those who betray them. If we put this logic into a more everyday context, for example, in the school violence, we often find that it is a group of people who are violent to one person, rather than one person being violent to another. This is because when a small group of people is going to have internal unity, they may be more likely to use a number of targets, a number of enemy ways to strengthen their alliance. From this point of view, friendship can be understood as a kind of unity, or a kind of It is a very typical political community. One day, a secret agent appeared in the community. So the people in the group made a punishment action, saying that we would trick him into the woods and kill him. Not only kill him, but also bury him. So when they were killing him that night, we found that all the people in the group were forced to get involved in the violence to show their loyalty. At this time, Toshiki explained a very powerful and powerful brush. He said that one of the members saw his other partner carrying a stone in his hand when he was transporting the body. He was waiting to put the stone on the body of the dead confessor. At this time, he said he was a little tired, so he wanted to put the stone on the ground. When we read this, we may need to be aware that he is not only letting go of the stone, but also his uneasiness. But in fact, due to the inner strength of this unity, this person never let go of the stone. The last stone has indeed become the last bit of strength that can press the body of the confessor to the bottom of the lake. When we hear the details of this literature, I think we can understand deeply what is the resistance and violence that it calls in friendship. Since we have already discussed these more serious topics, I hope to open a new possibility of construction, which is What kind of community and friendship do we need? Since it has hidden so many disturbing, vague, violent, and closed moments, how can we build new ones? I would like to start from the friendship I am experiencing. As a teacher, I have new students joining my class every year. Many graduates leave. I hope our friendship can keep a certain space for a person to leave and turn back. I hope it can preserve the wisdom and sensitivity that has been left in our small common body to the language and the world. Some of you may think that the common body you have been talking about sounds too far away from us, and I don't like to study, how can I have this common body? But what I want to say is that first of all, everyone likes to listen to stories, and literature itself is the core of stories. So literature is not far from us. And this common body will not be limited to my very small class. When I was listening to the speakers earlier, I felt deeply that whether it was to pursue the wind or to play games, they actually have their own circles. almost no one is going to work alone. As long as we are doing some kind of creative behavior, I think the possibility of mutual companionship and mutual support will appear. Although the company we spend time with is very important, for example, some students like to go out to eat together, or even some girls like to go to the bathroom together. Because these things solve the problem of our existence and loneliness. But when we are doing a creative joint activity, I think the common sense of the same-sense friendship It has provided us with more inspiration and emotional support. Finally, I would like to share a small story that happened a while ago so that you can better understand the open, flexible, and intelligent community I am talking about. A student of mine has graduated for many years and is now teaching at Xiamen. Actually, he is closely related to me when he is studying. We often discuss questions together. But he is very busy after work. He may have to work from Monday to Sunday. He doesn't have a day off. So naturally, he may not open a book for a long time. But in the past holiday, I suddenly found something very subtle. When I opened my WeChat reading, I found that he was reading a very difficult book with me. "Kalamazov Brothers" by Tosoyevsky. And he would not complain to me, "I'm reading this book too." He would not complain. He would secretly like or leave a comment under the notes I made before. And he would leave a few comments. So we are separated by screens, by the black and white, and even by cities. The only space we are gathered together is those few lines and those pages. But I know that his purpose is not to seek a grade, and for me, it is not to become close to him again. Instead, we read each other through a day and night translation. we may be able to correct our vision in our tired lives, or bring back those serious and cold topics back to our lives. I think as long as we continue to read and think, such a common and confident friendship will not be broken. we will always meet again at the corner of a book, standing side by side, and standing side by side. I think this is a friendly community that I look forward to. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]