Hello my friends. Today is April 29th and this is my April FOMC debrief. All right, so I just finished watching the final J. Powell press conference and honestly it's a little bit sad. I've been watching Powell for for years and years and at the end of the day I think Powell was someone that is very smart and did what he believed to be best for this country. At the end of the day I think Powell was a good Fed chair. Next time we'll have Kevin and you know we'll see what happens then. Now before we continue, let's level set a little bit as to what happened in the intermedating period. The elephant in the room over the past few weeks of course has been the war in Iran. No one knew how long it would take or what it would do to oil prices. I think the president did his best to jawbone oil prices, but at the end of the day, I think the war lasted longer than many expected and oil prices continued to march higher. The market has been looking at this and been very volatile in pricing its expectations of Fed policy. Now in the beginning earlier in the year the market was pricing in a few cuts but since the commencement of the war the market took those cuts out and even priced in some probability of a rate hike really fluctuating along with oil prices. Now not withstanding that looking at the labor market labor market data has been stronger than expected and consumer spending data has been resilient as well. So overall during the intermedating period although we did have a lot of volatility in oil prices the economy the US economy seems fine. So heading into this meeting this was widely expected to be a very boring meeting. The market uh did not price in basically any probability of the Fed doing anything. Um, what I was focusing on heading into this meeting is to learn more about what Chair Powell would do after his chairmanship ends. After all, it is customary for a Fed chair to resign from the board and allow the president to appoint someone to replace him. But last meeting, Cher Pow hinted at that uh maybe he would just kind of stay on. And so I was looking for more clarity to that today. Uh, but actually the meeting began with kind of a bang. So, first at 2:00 when we got the uh the FOMC statement, we saw not one descent, but four. Now, everyone is expecting one descent from Governor Moran, who customarily would like to have more rate cuts, which he did again. But what was special this time was that we actually had three other people form a hawkish dissenting block. Now, these are well-known uh Fed presidents that are hawkish. It's uh President Logan Hammock and Qashqari. And what these people desented on again was not the rate decision. They were totally okay with keeping rates where they were. They were dissenting upon the language in the statement which suggested that the next move the next move would be a Fed cut. Now looking at the sentence itself, you will see that you know on its face it doesn't seem like there's much bias in in it. Uh but if you are a Fed watcher and looking at the Fed history, this statement, this language was basically initially rolled out in the past when the Fed was strongly hinting at uh to the market that the next l the next move will be a cut and how many cuts is going to be up to the data. So by keeping this sentence in in the um statement the Fed presidents who who obviously have been working at the Fed for a number of years knew that this is an easing bias and disagreed with it. What they wanted it seemed was to have language that says hey the next move could potentially be a hike. So basically more two-sided risk which is actually totally reasonable. After all, if you look at what's happening with oil prices, with gasoline prices, there is a possibility that we could have a wave of inflation depending on what happens in the Middle East. So, that was kind of the exciting thing there and that's not going to be resolved for for some time. When Kevin comes in as chairman, uh that hawkish block will still be there and I'm guessing that Kevin will probably want to have great cuts and who knows, he may be the first Fed chair to actually descent against his own committee. Now, the second thing that I thought super interesting about this time was, of course, Cherpo being crystal clear about his path forward. Let's listen to what he says. I welcomed the announcement last Friday by the US attorney for the District of Columbia that she had closed the criminal investigation. She also noted, however, that she would not hesitate to restart the investigation. Over the weekend, the Department of Justice provided assurances that they will not reopen the investigation unless there's a criminal referral from the Fed's inspector general. And absent such a referral, if they do appeal the recent court decision, they would not seek, as part of that appeal to restart the investigation or send new subpoenas. I've said that I will not leave the board until this investigation is well and truly over with transparency and finality and I stand by that. I'm encouraged by recent developments and I'm watching the remaining steps in this process carefully. My decisions on these matters will continue to be guided entirely by what I believe is in the best interest of the institution and the people we serve. After my term as chair ends on May 15, I will continue to serve as a governor for a period of time. To be determined, I plan to keep a low profile as a governor. There's only ever one chair of the Federal Reserve Board. When Kevin Worsh is confirmed and sworn in, he will be that chair. So, like he mentioned, he is going to stay on as Fed governor after his chairmanship ends largely because he doesn't like what happened with um with the criminal investigation into the Fed and into him. Uh in his own words, he was not really bothered by uh the president being vocal, being mean, and saying things about him. He was really, really bothered by the criminal action, the criminal pro the criminal proceedings against him and the Fed. that in his mind was a red line that was crossed. And so because of that, my sense is that he feels that the Fed independence is threatened and he's going to stay on the Fed until he feels comfortable that um until he feels comfortable. And that could potentially be, let's say, all the way through midterms. Let's say that the Republicans lose the Senate so that a future position, future Trump governor could never be confirmed or very difficult to be confirmed and maybe he would leave then. Uh nobody knows, only Cher Powell knows and we'll see how things unfold. Uh but the implication of course is that if President Trump had not been so aggressive in his uh treatment towards uh of Powell and of the Fed, maybe he might have had an extra Fed position to fill. So that strategy did not seem to work. Now, one other thing that I note in this press conference that I thought was interesting was that, you know, Cher Pal himself didn't seem very hawkish. uh in a sense that he was noting that even though high gas prices of course would have an upward pressure on inflation, he also repeatedly emphasized that well if people have to pay higher gas prices that means they have less money to spend on other things as well. So that has a negative growth impact that could impact in part moderate the inflationary impulse of high oil prices and of course it also raises concerns about uh the Fed's employment mandate. So even if we do have extended period of um oil price high oil prices there is a point certain point I don't know where it is it could be 120 it could be 130 it could be 140 where the market will not price in additional Fed hikes in response to this but actually price in Fed cuts because the growth impact of higher oil prices will overwwayigh the inflationary impacts. So, we did see that a little bit earlier a few weeks ago, but it's it's not it's not it's we're not seeing it today at least, and oil prices are surging. So um at the end of the day it seems what will happen is that there is some kind of u sweet spot where you could have oh well I wouldn't say sweet spot there is some level of oil prices where you would actually get hikes and beyond which you would actually get cuts and I guess the market will feel that as the data goes on. All right so that's all I prepared for today. Um looks like uh we we'll hear soon from what the new fetcher uh will be at the next meeting. It's going to be his first. It's going to be very interesting. There are some hints that maybe uh Kevin Warish actually doesn't want to do conferences or at least not as many. So, uh everything is up in the air. We'll find out soon. Talk to you all this weekend.