[Music] [Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Friday, October 31st. Happy Halloween to everybody. I did not dress up because this week has been one of the most wild weeks this year. I have barely went outside this week. So, nine-hour streams basically eight, seven to eight hour streams every day outside of the nine hour stream. I mean, I just I don't have an outfit. I'm sorry. I just This was This was a wild week. I guess you can call me uh stock market YouTuber who is absolutely exhausted after a week of earnings, but it's worth it given S&P 500 right here is at alltime highs. And we've got Amazon, which we'll talk about that absolutely demolished earnings. Amazon right here, 25265. I guess I dressed up as rich on Amazon today. That's I guess you can say a lot of us dressed up with that. Yeah, we're live and we're here for the market open. Thank you everybody for being here. Um I hope everyone has been having a good week. It's been a long week, dude. It's been a long freaking week. There's just been so much going on and again this has been an exciting week, but we're getting into the home stretch of 2025. So this is one of those weeks that we really needed to have as a good week. And we needed big tech earnings to be good. We needed the Fed to cut. We you know all of us this is real money at the end of the day. I know we all look at numbers and candlesticks go up and down, but at the end of the day, every dollar of these stocks up or down does affect all of us in some way and affect our families. So, we needed a good week and uh it looks like we got a relatively good week and hopefully we can end out the week pretty strong on this Friday. Even yesterday when we had that 1% decline on the S&P, which I don't even know why. I don't think there's any meaningful reason for why we had that draw down. We're back basically up 1% in the pre-markets. Everything that we lost, we are pretty much getting back. And it's likely because Amazon and Apple just had monster earnings. Apple, by the way, 276. At one point, it hit 284. So, they had an they had a great earnings, then they crushed it. We'll talk about that. Reddit, it's up 10%. Amazon obviously 13%. Massive, massive day. They crushed it. Meta starting to recover a little bit from the lows at 650. Palunteer, I think it's going to try to push 200 when the market opens, which will be great to see. Nvidia back above 200. Tesla 446. Robin Hood 141. Bitcoin and Ethereum starting to get a little bit more recovery. Bitcoin at 109.6. It fell to 105 yesterday. Ethereum fell to 3,700 back at 3850. I know they've been lagging. And Bitcoin's got to have like a $7,000 candle to end green for October. Um, but regardless, you do have a little bit of momentum coming back in the pre-market, which is very nice to see as we get into it. So, thank you everybody for being here. Excited to talk. Next week's also going to be crazy. Monday, we've got Paler. That's a big one. Uh we also have Grab on Monday. So, you know, and then and then we have Hood I think on Wednesday. So, it's just going to be a massive massive week next week. This was really important for the stock market next week is really important for my portfolio. Also really important for a lot of people that are long those names. And uh we are pretty much done with 40% of big tech earnings or of of the S&P 500 earnings. And so, this was one of those weeks we had to get through. And it was a long week, but we got through it and we are here. All right. So, since it's Friday, let's do what we usually do on Fridays in the morning. Where are you watching from? You can put in the chat where are you watching from. We'll see where everyone is. Hopefully, everyone gets to enjoy the weekend. Also, we will have Palenter Weekly today. I know we haven't had it in a while, but we're going to be doing Paler Weekly today to do an earnings preview of expectations. That'll be at 11 PM Eastern on the channel. Amir will definitely be there. Arie might make it. Matt, I think, will make it, but if they can't, then it'll definitely be me and Amir. and uh we'll go through some numbers and see what we've got for for Monday and we will get that weekly in tonight. All right, where are we at? Where are we at? Also, let me know if anyone's wearing a costume today. I know I was lame and don't don't have a costume, but if you do have a costume, you can you can tag me in Twitter and I would love to pull up some costumes on the uh on the stream and see what people are wearing today. And uh we can see if you're if you're at like a corporate job and you went to work today. I mean, one of the fun things about like uh when I went to my mom's job back when I was little is like they they you know, they actually dressed up because she worked at a school. So she had she was sending me these pictures from like 2013 because of guess what? Facebook has a moat. And she was showing me all these pictures of me back when I was like 10 uh 14 years old wearing these outfits. And so, yeah, let me know if anyone is actually wearing anything today. Uh, I'm gonna admit look alike. All right. Well, you got to grow out the beard then. I'm a Jensen look like, dude. We have some videos of Jensen that are so tophy, but they're also so epic. So, we're going to we're going to see some of that stuff as well. All right. Where are we watching from? We got Rodrigo from Amsterdam. We got the UK. We got Invest with CT from New York. We got Alex from Philly. We got Ohio. Bulgaria, Estonia. Hako from Norway. Maxim from France. Uh, we have Chief from Austin, Tony from Philly, Lee from Ireland. I'm not gonna make the joke. I'm not gonna make the joke. Not going to do it. There's no way I should do it. But let's just say Amazon is hopefully going to allow all of us to get our money. Dublin, you know what I'm talking about. Samuel from Toronto. We got Ada from Tel Aviv. Omare from Berlin, Germany. Uh, you got Victor from Malaysia. online fitness coach from Melbourne, Australia. I cannot wait to go to Aussie one day. One day I will be an Aussie. Got Martin from Spooky White Plains, New York. I love it. Uh Saboro from Detroit. Paul from Amsterdam, Dubai, Winnipeg, Wales, Maryland, Atlanta, more Dubai, North Dakota. Uh Hokei says, "I just ran two miles in beautiful forest, Virginia, Thailand, Tel Aviv, Seattle." It's so crazy across the entire world. people coming together for these streams. It really is so crazy. It is so wild. Got Northc. Uh Danny from Atlanta, Tim from Estonia, Jam from Orlando, Ruben from Spain, Willie from Philly. There's got a lot of Phillies here. Ton of Dubai's Montreal, Mexico, Chicago, Korea, Portugal. I love it. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for joining every single day. Really means a lot. I mean, this is uh you know, we turned 28 this week. So, again, very very grateful for that. See, that's crazy, dude. This week has been so crazy. I forgot my birthday was on Monday. Like, I legit forgot my birthday was on Monday. This is like after Monday, you just had so many events back to back toback that we had to cover. Um, but it's the coolest thing in the world to be able to do this every single day with a community that truly is global. So, thank you everybody for being being here. Deeply appreciate it. Hopefully everyone had a good week and we're going to try to end out this week as well. Wow, I'm getting some of these pictures. Oh, this is awesome. This is awesome. This is so cool. Look at this. This is uh Love to Fly Pilot. Yeah, if you've got pictures, tag me in them. I would love to show the stream. Look at that. I love it. This is great. This is Love to Fly Fly Pilot. I met him at the um the Bay Area meetup. He is the person that actually gave us the big pounder bell and uh he has a lot of pounder. Look at that. I love it. Great outfit. Absolutely incredible. So cool. Yeah, tag me in these pictures. I would love to see the Halloween outfits today and it would be super cool to kind of see all them. All right, let's get started. Thank you everybody for being here. Let's get into it. Let's start off with Amazon. We got to start off with Amazon. We got a bunch of different macro stuff to talk about, but Amazon is the big one today. And uh let's cover what happened. So, first of all, congratulations to everyone in Amazon. I think on the channel publicly, we started really talking about Amazon basically a month ago. Call it early September. And uh the reason for that, it kind of just piqued my interest. It was that the stock was negative year-to- date, although the NASDAQ was up almost 20%, the S&P 500 was up 11%. And so this was the post I made. Yeah. Towards the middle of September, as you can see right here, and the two ter the two reasons I thought it was going down, tariffs might affect their commerce business, AWS not as exciting. And the thesis simply was, and there was a lot of comments and engagement under under these posts that just like it doesn't deserve to be trading at these levels. And this was at 222. That's when I initiated the position. It ends up going down to 212. And I think all of us kind of came together and said, "This is one of the most important companies on the planet. Do they deserve to be treated the way they're being treated?" And it's technically yeah, they do if they can't get the growth from AWS. And so what did Jasse deliver yesterday? He delivered the growth on AWS. And that is kind of what changed anything. I mean, sometimes it's really simple. Sometimes it's one thing that the street needs for a change. And once you give what the street needs, everything changes. Online stores up 10% year-over-year. Third party seller services up 12% year-over-year. Amazon web services 20%. That's the big one. Physical stores 7%, subscriptions 11%, and then advertising 24% at an $18 billion uh quarterly run rate, which is just incredible. I mean, we don't talk enough about the advertising business, but high margin business and Amazon continues to crush it. Now, what did Jasse say? He said, "We haven't seen this type of AWS growth since 2022." That's it. As soon as he said that, it was over. And I don't know if Amazon's going to hold the 14% move right now. I I definitely think it's going to be harder to go back to 220. Uh but I I do think that the reason it's actually maintaining this momentum in the pre-market and it's not getting faded away is because when Jasse says, "Guys, we have not seen this type of growth in almost three years. The street pays attention." And what does the street care about the most? They care about the one thing we've been talking about, which is AWS acceleration. The whisper number, by the way, they came in at 2.2%. The whisper number was 18.9%. So, they beat the whisper number. The whisper number is like the the number that Wall Street is literally whispering about, but like is not the actual number they're expecting. When you beat that number, you win. When you beat that number, you win. And it's really hard to lose. Um, and as a result, that's why you had some momentum. Jasse on the call said, "Another 1 gawatt coming in Q4 and expect to double load capacity by 2027. Power remains the main industry bottleneck on the tranium demand. Our custom tranium 2 chips are fully subscribed with 30 to 40% better price performance than competitors. They're basically building a little bit of a mini Nvidia inside of Amazon, trading at half the valuation of Nvidia. Obviously, they don't have as much growth as Nvidia, but the point is you're you're getting something that barely is up here to date. Now, it's up around 14%. Uh, and the moat is a moat that truly just can't be denied, and it is one of those companies that's going to be around for a long time. Demand remains strong across large and midsize customers. Tranium 3 will preview later this year with full volumes expected in early 2026. I mean again, this was one of those companies that's like it's not going anywhere. It could become a cornerstone of the portfolio at 250 over the long term. It likely is still cheap, right? May I probably wouldn't chase it today after the run that it's having. But nonetheless, if you're ready to hold on to this for a long time, then this company's going to be here for a long time. Capex, they're going to be spending 125 billion this year. So that's up from the expectations of around 118 billion. And then for fiscal year 2026, they are projecting to spend more than 125 billion. So you've got the capex taken care of, which is uh really good for the semiconductor names, especially Nvidia. I think that's why Nvidia is up right now. They're not giving you a dividend or a share buyback. So they don't have to reinvest into the business or they can only reinvest into the business because they don't have to reward external shareholders. And the street's rewarding them for that because they got the growth. Like if you're not going to give us a dividend or share buyback, give us the growth. Jasse deliver the growth. Uh, and then number three, their operating margins were down from 11.8% to 9.4%, but from my understanding, this was more so because of the layoffs and one-time severance charges. So imagine operating margins are still at 12%. Again, if they increase that closer to 15 20% over the next five years, you're talking about a company that's likely going to be doing 200 billion in operating income. And that is a company that probably gets closer to the $45 trillion valuation, which is basically a double from here. And so it's not that scary to say, "Hey, I'm going to hold on to Amazon stock for a long time." Now, operating income was flat year-over-year. That is true. And free cash flow is not uh, you know, growing the way the way Google and Microsoft is growing. The the one reason they beat on EPS, by the way, they beat by 30% is because they recognized their investment from Anthropic. So again, they have a $9.4 billion investment in Anthropic and that has been or $9.4 billion gain from Enthropic and another startup they invested in and that allowed them to beat on EPS. But quite frankly, even if they missed on EPS, I don't know if the stock would be up 15%, but I don't think it would be down 15%. And the reason for that is because the only story that really mattered was AWS. This is literally the only thing the street wanted to see. And the fact that the street got it and they got it at a number that was way above expectations, that lets you know the demand for AI workloads is strong and Amazon is is fulfilling that demand. And as a result, you're getting some great momentum as uh the stock continues to move. So very very nice to see. Congrats to everyone at Amazon. This was a big retail victory. Uh definitely a big retail victory for a lot of us that came together. So many of you in the chat tagged me in post and sent me DMs and said, "Hey, you got to look at this. You got to look at this." And like it was, look, Amazon's not the hardest stock to own. It's just whenever a stock is down relative to its peers, you start to feel like an idiot buying this stock over the winners because it's obviously not the winner at the time. But that's when the opportunity is. That's where the alpha is. And I think, you know, the long the longer everyone invests, the more they realize the alpha is where everyone is not looking at. And thankfully, people weren't looking at freaking Amazon for the past two months. And as a result, you know, people got to take a position in the company and now we get to benefit from the gains. So absolutely incredible, great Amazon earnings and congrats to everyone who is in Amazon as well. All right, we got a couple more pictures. Let me show you guys some of these pictures that I'm seeing that you guys are tagging me. And again, if you're dressed up, definitely tag me in these pictures. This stuff is pretty cool to see. We got Bobby right here. I was an Amazon Courier. I definitely said that wrong. Courier yesterday. I wore my team jersey on Super Bowl Thursday. Look at that. Shout out to Bobby. I love it. And then we got Tyler. Happy Halloween. We're cosplaying characters from the anime spy family. I love it, dude. I love Halloween. I've always loved Halloween. It's just this week has been crazy and I really did want to get an outfit, but there was just no way I was going to be able to come up with an outfit given how busy it was. But I love it. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome stuff. Definitely tag me if you are in any of these outfits and uh we'll show them on the screen. All right, Apple. So let's So we had Amazon. Let's talk Apple. Apple crushed it as well. So, the big thing about Apple that crushed it, which I really didn't expect, is that they increased their guidance for Q4. And that guidance ended up getting increased to 10 to 12% revenue growth. Apple has not done 10 to 12% revenue growth in almost two years if I'm not wrong. They've always been at 3 to 4%. And so, as a result, you know, we we just haven't seen that type of revenue growth. And the fact that we got it was very exciting. 5% EPS, 185 versus 177, and then 102 versus 102 billion. Revenues up 8% year-over-year EPS is up 13. Uh Tim Cook basically said he's really excited for iPhone 17. He's really excited for the momentum they're seeing in China, even though they missed on China this quarter. iPhone also missed. It was a very slight miss, but nonetheless, it missed. And he's also very excited for the overall AI opportunity that exists long term. And as a result, the street ate it up. I mean, the street absolutely ate it up. This is a company that's trading at a pretty aggressive multiple in my opinion for the lack of growth that they're putting up, but they also have 132 billion in cash. They are consistently buying back their stock. And at the end of the day, this is probably not a company that's going to be going away anytime soon in regards to the level of distribution that they have with consumer devices. Would I be buying Apple here? No. But then again, I haven't been buying Apple at 198 outside of in the ETF. So, we have that there for the stock draft. But like it doesn't matter if I'm buying it or if you're buying it. It matters if the market's buying it. And given Apple is 7% of the S&P 500. It really matters for the S&P 500 if people are still buying it. And remember, people have owned Apple for the past couple decades. And as long as they're not selling and they're continuing to hold on because they see that future belief in what Apple can become, uh, you know, Apple really having a moat outside of its numbers, but more so having a moat in terms of the scale and velocity of its business. I think that's why Apple continues to trade the way it trades. Take a look at this stat right here. uh capex now for Google, Amazon and Microsoft in one quarter was 120 billion. Tim Apple spent 12.7 billion for capex in the whole year. So basically Apple's saying hey you guys can spend all the money and and fuel Nvidia's profits. We are going to benefit from whatever you guys do by integrating you into our distribution which is also another reason to get excited about Apple because they don't have to waste the money on Capex because they don't necessarily have to build out old models. Now, theoretically, a couple years ago, if they decided to build their own Apple LLM, would that have been the right choice? Maybe. Maybe that would have changed kind of how we think of Apple as an AI company, but they didn't. And as a result, they'd rather buy back their stock and let Meta and OpenAI do it and Google and just partner with them in the future. So, I think overall, as an investor, there is not a better week you could have had outside of the conclusion we got to it yesterday. Now, obviously, Meta could have really helped the week go a lot better, but then again, in my opinion, I think the street is being stupid about Meta. They had to pay their taxes, and so they had an reaction to the to the tax charge off. And then number two, they're mad that Meta is spending on capex. I think you just got to trust Zucks that the capex is going to play out. And if you don't trust Zux, then you don't invest. But if you do, and you know, Meta now trading at 20 times 2026 earnings, it does feel relatively cheap given they're likely going to continue to grow at 25 to 30%. So, you got Google that crushed it, Microsoft that crushed it, Amazon that demolished it, uh Google right there at 285, Meta that did crush it, although the optics didn't look the best, and then Apple that continued to crush it. I mean, this is what you needed. This is really what we needed. And then you got the rate cut. You got the rate cut. So, the only thing left for this year now to kind of keep this playing out is one more rate cut in December, which, you know, JPAL can say whatever we want, but we're likely going to get it. The number two is uh Nvidia. But I think we can sit back a little bit and at least, you know, allow the market to consume these big tech earnings and not be that anxious about if these companies will crush because they absolutely crushed. And and I think the punchline to everything we're seeing, by the way, Amazon was upgraded to 315 at Morgan Stanley and upgraded to 335 at Everore. So, you're getting upgrades across the board as well. I I think the the thing that's the most important about this is that for the past 11 quarters, Google has beat, Amazon has beat, Microsoft has beat, and Meta has beat. And and I think the simple argument everyone is starting to realize is that the hyperscalers will probably go down as the easiest investments of our lifetime. It is very hard, in my opinion, for us to find easier investments than the companies that impact every single part of all of our lives on a day-to-day basis, have the free cash flow, the net income, the balance sheets to support their R&D and their growth, and ultimately are companies that are likely just going to keep getting bigger, which is starting to make me think about 2026 portfolio allocation and and and a decent part of that allocation might be just to go a little heavier into the hyperscalers, especially on these dips, versus having to find that next big stock, which yes is very important if you want the like increased you know 3x 4x alpha in in a year or two years but if you want a steady consistent gain uh while being able to sleep at night and not have too many worries it seems like the hyperscalers are important and so there you go that's what you got with Amazon and Apple looks like they absolutely crushed it shutdown is still here we don't have the shutdown resolved yet I mean Trump's been tweeting all night about how the Democrats need to fix stuff and I don't know I don't know when that stuff's going to get resolved. I mean you are starting to get a lot more people in the country just what I'm seeing an anecdotally get a bit more upset and wondering why the hell is this happening and you got each side trying to blame the other side but I don't know we're in what day 30 almost of this. So hopefully this gets resolved but obviously the market doesn't care about it. Eventually it will but we're going to hopefully need them to resolve this pretty soon. Netflix did do a stock split. Yes. 10 to1. I don't know why they announced it today or yesterday night. Uh I I feel like they should have done it on earnings, but now we'll be able to buy 100 shares of Netflix for $11,000, not $111,000, which is nice. It's not that easy to buy 100 shares for 100 grand, but now we can get them for 11 grand. So Netflix will be splitting their stock. I think the effective date is like in a couple weeks, but we will be seeing this stock split pretty soon. All right, let's talk about Bur. So, uh, for those that haven't seen, Michael Bur is back. This is his Twitter account. And Bur has not tweeted since January 31st, 2023. The last time that Bur tweeted, he said this, sell. The NASDAQ has doubled since that. It's kind of crazy, you know. He said one word sell. He deleted that tweet after on January 31st, which quite it was not literally the bottom, but it was very close to the bottom. The bottom was October 2022. and he disappeared. He has not tweeted in the past two years. Then yesterday he tweets, "Sometimes we see bubbles. Sometimes there is something to do about it. Sometimes the only winning move is not to play." Very poetic uh argument by Mr. Michael Bur. Look, here's my perspective on this. Number one, uh you need a wall of worry. You need people to be afraid. If you don't have people that are afraid, then you're not going to be able to have a bull market because we get too euphoric and then we top out. I think people like Bur coming out and saying, "Hey, it's a bubble." essentially that's what he's implying uh is bullish because you have people that are scared and you need those people that are scared at the end of the day to create that wall of worry. Number two, the guy is probably annoyed that he missed it and I know he's had some trades with Estee Ladar and uh and Baba etc. But if you had just leaned in to America and you know Bur's not a horrible stock picker if you had picked a couple of the Max 7s he would have been up multiple hundreds of percent. So it's like obviously he's annoyed that he missed it and it's like objectively you missed it. It's like you missed it, right? like after two years you can't keep saying it it's it like unless we go back to 3650 on the S&P and is that possible? Sure. But then when you look at the earnings growth that would not make any sense, right? So like at its core when you said to sell you didn't anticipate the type of earnings growth you would see. You didn't anticipate the type of AI revolution, the capex buildout we would see. Just to say all of that over the past two and a half years was pure bubble. I mean it doesn't make a lot of sense. And so I think he's obviously annoyed. He's angry and as a result he's now trying to voice that frustration by telling everybody, hey, it's time to sell and you should uh you should be scared of what's going on in the market. I think this is a bullish signal because again, you need people to be afraid and worried in order to get that type of momentum that really takes us higher. And so I wouldn't read too much into it, but nonetheless, you do have Bur coming out and he's kind of implying there's not much to do in this market other than stay on the sidelines, which is fair, but then you see Amazon's earnings. It's like, do you really want to be on the sidelines when Jassis is going to accelerate growth at 20%. For AWS? Maybe not. Maybe not. So, that's what we got. Uh, he was right once. Yeah. And look, you got to give him this credit. He called the housing bubble. And Big Short is one of my favorite movies ever. It's I know I don't watch a lot of movies. This movie I've actually seen like four or five times. I I like that the entire story has fascinated me and he got it right. But it's also like just because you get one thing right does like the reason we we look up to Buffett and Aman and Drum Miller is because they have a consistent career of being right over and over. And by the way, all those guys go long. It's really hard to be short and be consistently right for a career because stocks tend to go up over time because companies can perform and the best companies in the world tend to keep performing. So, uh, you know, getting one thing right is not really the reason for why you should assume every time they are bearish. They could be right. But nonetheless, that's what we got for for Bur Mitsaw movie. No way. Dude, I actually love that movie. Like, I legit love it's any stock market movie. Like, I it keeps my attention. And so, that was a good one. Um, do we have some new pictures? Yeah, we have some new pictures. Look at that. Even Tony Stark would be proud on Halloween. This is awesome. I love it. Look at that, dude. I love Halloween so much. I love it so much. It's been such a such a busy week. But there you go. You got Mr. Iron Man for his birthday today. Ah, Tyler, this is this is great, Tyler. I think this is your daughter. This is This is great. I love it. Look at that. So much fun, dude. so much fun. Do you guys know like my mom because I was born on October uh 27th. My mom dressed me up uh for Halloween on October 31st when I was four days old. I I should see if I can try to get that picture. I'll see if I can get my mom to send to me. But I was in a Halloween baby contest um when I was four years old in 1997. So that I feel like Halloween's been ingrained in me for so like literally at four days old my mom decided to dress me up and put me in that this goes to like it shows it goes to prove how creative my mom is. Like you would think, you know, I just popped out. Maybe I need to chill for a couple days. Nope. Put him in a costume. We got a Halloween baby competition coming up. And so I've always loved the holiday. It's just been such a busy week. But crazy crazy. Tess says, "I've dressed my babies up ever since they were born, too." Yeah. See, like some moms they love it. Some moms they love it. A This is great. This is Andy's kid. Look at that. We got Mario. We got Mario. Shout out to Andy. That's his little boy. I love it. That's awesome. That is awesome. All right. So, uh, we talked about Amazon. We talked about Amazon and Apple and Bur. Let's talk about Jensen. So, the videos I'm about to show you are going to scream Toppoy, but you just have to remember it's freaking Jensen and he gets to do what he wants because he's Jensen. So, let's start off with a couple of these videos. First of all, uh this is Jensen with the CEO of Samsung and Hyundai uh doing shots while putting while locking each other's arms. You guys have ever done that before where you take a shot and you like you you you put your arm in someone else's arm. So, he's in Korea and uh that that's Jensen taking a drink. So, that's the first video. I I I think that was kind of cool, kind of fun. Jensen having a good time. The next video right here is uh well, take a look at this.
>> Anybody else Nvidia investors?
>> That's why Korea so rich. So you got Jensen in Korea talking to a crowd of people saying, "Is anyone investors?" And then that same crowd responded by showing off their phones with Nvidia stock price.
>> Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. You could tell Justin uh Jensen's having such a good time. Like people in a crowd are treating him like a rockstar. They're pulling up their phone to show their stock prices of Nvidia. And Jensen's like, "Wow, look at that. Look at that. Look at the stock. Look what it's doing." I mean, obviously it feels kind of toppy, but nonetheless, Nvidia has been putting up the growth. And I think Jensen deserves to be able to bask in the glory of this moment and have this much fun because he's made people filthy rich. And that's why it's very exciting. Now, one thing if people don't know about South Korea, and I found this out actually over the past couple months, South Korea is one of the biggest countries when it comes to not only investing, but when it comes to two things, option trading and DGEN investing. When I mean DGEN investing, I mean communities that form in South Korea that uh come together to be able to bet on a stock has happened for various companies over the past really decade and it's only accelerating. Nvidia being one of them. The latest example is Openoro. There is a massive open door community in South Korea. They did the same with Tesla back in 2014. They did the same with Palunteer. They've obviously done the same with Nvidia. If you look at the option stats, so one of the high I think South Korea is number four in the top five countries that trade options every day. India is in that top five. Obviously, the United States is up there and then South Korea is up there. So, you've got the Koreans that really do have a culture. There's also a very heavy culture of gambling in South Korea. I think I showed you guys a video a while ago of like this like this like futures trading event almost. It was like a esports event, but people were trading futures and there was like a there's like an audience of 500 people in the room that were watching it happen live. Yeah, Terra Luna. I mean, there's a massive culture of South Korean investors and they like to take risks. Call it DGEN, call it, you know, uh, risk takers, call it whatever you want to talk, call it whatever you want to call it. But they enjoy the process of allocating capital and seeing if there's a thesis towards something. And when you have a transformational company like an Nvidia put up the numbers that they do, you're going to get a lot of investors come from South Korea and be excited about it. So, you do have Jensen that is in South Korea. Now, why is he in South Korea? Well, he's signing some deals and he's talking to the media in South Korea and, you know, continuing to make the argument for why Nvidia deserves to be at the spot that it is. He's making a couple of deals with SKH Heinix and Samsung. Here's what he was uh answering when he was asked about Blackwell going to China.
>> Mr. Jensen, do you talk about selling chips to China?
>> No, we were just mostly talking about enjoying each other's enjoying each other's company. Thank you. Will you be um selling techniques to China?
>> Uh I don't know. I hope so someday.
>> Okay.
>> I hope so someday. I think it's really good for America and it's really good for China that Nvidia could uh participate in the Chinese market,
>> but no decisions have been made and uh uh you know, we'll see how it turns out. I hope it turns out well. total. This week, we announced that we will build 250,000 more GPUs here in Korea, making Korea one of the largest GPU or AI infrastructure countries in the world. And we're going to build 50,000 GPU AI factories with Samsung. Working with SK, the SK group, of course, with HPM memory, but also in creating digital twins of their factories. and we're going to build 50,000 GPU AI factories with uh SK group uh for their AI factories.
>> So the overall deal is summarized right here. Uh Nvidia will ship 260,000 GPUs. Samsung will get 50,000 GPUs for its new AI factory. SK Group 50,000 then Navercloud 50,000. Samsung already manufactures all of its Nvidia's robotics processor. So the reason he went to South Korea was to really solidify these deals. And it looks like this was a successful trip. By the way, we got a headline from Amazon. Amazon robotics team is working towards automating 75% of the company's entire operations and expects to ditch 160,000 US roles that would otherwise be needed by 2027. That's from Bloomberg right there. That is likely in the factories, not corporate, because I don't even think there are 160,000 people that work in corporate for Amazon. Um, you know, at the end of the day, this is going to help Amazon stock and this is what we've been talking about. It's like no one wants to see the layoffs hop happen. Obviously, everyone feels bad for someone losing their job, but the one way to protect yourself is to own the asset at the end of the day that is benefiting from it. Now, as a society, how do we deal with all those job losses? I don't know. Uh I think it's going to be a very intricate problem for us to deal with over the long term. But the asset share, the asset holders are going to benefit when margins go up. And if they're going to get ready to automate, you got to own the asset. Not to mention robotics. Again, we don't talk about it enough. This is a major tailwind for Amazon and they didn't talk about it too much on the call, but that is something that we can't ignore as a moat for the company over the long term. So, you got Amazon right there at 253. Another video by Jensen. Here's him throwing the Biden administration under the bus in regards to their China business.
>> China sales be with the export restrictions or without the export restrictions?
>> Well, Nvidia had 95% of the China market. Today, we have 0%. Um, at the beginning of the Biden administration, we had 95%. And the the um uh the policies of that administration u really caused us to lose practically the entire uh China market. Um I I would guess that China is probably something like, you know, 35 to 50 billion dollars a year to us if we're fully in that market today. and and uh uh by the end of the decade it's probably you know well over a hundred billion dollars. It's quite substantial but at the moment it's zero. We're forecasting zero. We're expecting zero. We're hoping for nonzero but we're expecting zero. And um uh we'll do our best and continue to continue to grow the company. You know of course around the world the opportunity is really quite substantial. We're going through a platform shift from the old way of doing computing to this new way, Nvidia's way of doing accelerated computing and AI. We're in the beginning of that the decade journey of building out uh this infrastructure. I think it's going to be really a lot of growth uh with or without China, but the China market is very special. We we um we don't take it for granted and it would be really helpful that we're in there. So obviously Jensen's playing to Trump, which is, you know, love it or hate it, he is very smart about this. And when Trump hears those quotes, he is going to be happy knowing that Jensen is blaming the Biden administration. But I think the biggest bullish takeaway from that for Nvidia is that again, everything that they said this week, I mean, dude, I forgot Nvidia had GTC this week. That was that's another thing that made this week so crazy. Uh, everything doesn't assume China revenue. None of it. And so when you're being as bullish as Jensen is with no China revenue, I mean again, if they add any bit of that China guidance, it just continues to make the stock look not that expensive, which is pretty bullish. So you got Nvidia right there at 20662. Palenteer, I think there's a shot we see 200 today. We're at 199. Got very close in the pre-markets. We're going to see when the market opens if the momentum is there. But uh pounder right there 199.14. Where is Rocklab premarkets? We are at 6175. ESTs we're at 77.86. All those are green. Iran that's at 6125. Uh where is Lemonade? We are at 5966. UNH got a little bit of a bounce yesterday. Wow. Goes down. All right. So C A Sigma couple and Molina a couple different healthcare companies not doing the best over the past four days.I United Health was almost at 390 on Tuesday. So that one definitely took a hit. And then Oscar right there 1823. Uh, Reddit crushed it as well. So, Reddit was weird, dude. There was a hilarious video of Tanner. If you were watching Tanner stream, Tanner for the first time did a earnings trade and I know Tanner pretty well. He never does earnings trades. He's always very cons I mean, the guy would barely get into options and selling a covered call for like the past 10 years as an investor. And so, he doesn't do earnings trades. And I think Reddit at like 195 or whatever. He took he took the trade and then the stock goes to the moon. Then it goes all the way back down and he starts apologizing. He's like, "Guys, this is why I don't do earnings trades. Don't follow me. I'm a horrible person." And then the stock shoots back up and he's like, "Screw you guys. I was right. I knew Reddit would go up." And it was the funniest thing ever. But it was great to see the roller coaster of emotions uh from Mr. Tanner on Reddit. Uh Reddit deserves it, dude. These guys are crushing it. These when you talk about a growth company, these guys are freaking growing. And it's pretty incredible to see. 68% year-over-year growth. Gross margins at 91%. Profitable adjusted IBA has a 40% margin. Operating cash flow 185 million. Daily active uniques up 20% year-over-year to 116 million. I mean, look, I never love the valuation of Reddit, especially when it started getting into the high 100s and I kind of forgot about it. I had it at 106, 110, got out of it at like 120, 125, but they are able to grow and it doesn't look like they're slowing down. There's also an argument that there's an AI moat to Reddit that is very undervalued in regards to the fact that they do have, you know, hundreds of millions of people every week come to the platform and create content. That content can be trained on large language models. And I think, you know, there's there's a lot of different proprietary stuff Reddit can do, but the core advertising business is growing and it's growing really well. So, for those that are in Reddit, I don't see those earnings as a reason to sell. Now, it it is high beta, so you got to deal with the volatility of it, but like it does feel like Reddit's going to be a larger company five years from now. So, it's not the worst long-term hold to uh to have on Reddit. So, that's what we got on Reddit. Earnings this morning. So, all the earnings yesterday after Well, let me show you guys this real quick. Coinbase also crushed on earnings, but uh they beat on the top and the bottom. Incredible revenue numbers. Guidance was good. Subscription revenue was good. I mean, Coinbase really did crush it. And it's one of those names that I know it's tied to Bitcoin, but like just as a business, they are absolutely crushing it. Pretty much every company yesterday on the top and the bottom had a really good job. The headline on Coinbase though was this that happened at the end of the call and I'm just curious what is your gut reaction when you hear this because I was a bit mixed when I saw this happen
>> on that. Um I was a little distracted because I was tracking the prediction market about what Coinbase will say on their next earnings call and I just want to you know add here the words Bitcoin, Ethereum, blockchain staking and web 3 to make sure we get those in before the end of the call. Okay, so look, I think Brian Armstrong is incredible and I genuinely think he was in the earnings call and someone in the Slack probably sent the link of the Kali marketplace for what will Brian Armstrong say and he just had fun with it and he really wasn't like thinking that deeply about it. But dude, that is sus. That is so like the obvious thing people think about is who does he know that is has trades which whoever knows how much money what if it's like a million dollars on if Brian Armstrong is going to say the word stable coin and then boom he does his buddy a favor says the word stable coin and then and that guy just made some money. Now did that actually happen? I really don't think so. I this guy I don't think is he's Brian freaking Armstrong. He's not worried about saying a word so that someone can make money from a prediction. I really do think it was just him just having fun with it. But the perception was so bad in my opinion like and and I'm not the guy to nitpick like that. I mean like I I I tend to be on the side of the CEO and the founder. Brian Armstrong's the founder. I don't want to nitpick on something this stupid. But I just like even me I'm just like dude that's just weird, bro. You do something like that and people start thinking and they get all these conspiracy theories. And it goes to show how deep the gambling culture has infiltrated our lives. And quite frankly, I think the reason Brian Armstrong did that is because, and I heard this rumor a month ago, and I don't know if it's going to happen, but I feel like Coinbase is going to launch prediction markets. Why wouldn't they? They have the distribution. They have the ecosystem. They have the technology. Poly Market is not proprietary. It's not special. Koshi is not special. I mean, Robin would copy them immediately, right? Like, so this stuff is very easy to replicate. Uh, and there's a global pool of liquidity that Coinbase would offer to the prediction market. So, I think that's why he did it because they're trying to get into it. But it really does show that gambling is not going away and it's becoming more and more uh of a part of our culture with these prediction markets. So yeah, that's the one thing you had from Coinbase, but nonetheless outside of that, still overall pretty good quarter. Cloudflare, they beat by 17% on EPS, beat by 3% on revenue. Zillow beat by 100% on EPS, beat by 1% on revenue. Rocket companies beat by 40% on EPS, beat by 8% on revenue. Western Digital beat by 12% on EPS by 3% on revenue. Reddit beat by 54% on EPS, 6% on revenue. Coinbase 28% on EPS, 4% on revenue. Twilio 17% EPS, 4% revenue. At last, they had a beat on the top and the bottom, 24% on EPS, 2% on revenue. And then Roku, which didn't have the best stock performance, but they beat by 78% on EPS and revenue came in line with expectations. I mean, again, you're seeing these companies continue to beat and particularly beat on EPS, which is the most important thing. And it's very, very exciting. I mean, we're having a really strong Q3 earning cycle, which is nice to see. Iran getting a little bit of a bump right here. Robin getting a bump as well. I don't know if there's any headline. I'll see in a second, but we got 30 seconds before the market opens. Either this is a little bit of a head fake and you have Algo coming in and just buying stuff up. Micro Strategy also getting a bit of a move right here, or uh you got people that are buying right before the market opens today. So, here we go. We're going to see what plays out. Thank you everybody for being here. Happy Halloween. We got all eyes on Amazon. Amazon and Apple absolutely crushed it. And big win for the entire community. Big win this week forever for all stock market investors. And now we just got to see if we can end out this Friday. I will be on the market close today. Not going to miss my job today.
>> I'll be live and we'll see what we got to do. 9:30 a.m. Halloween. Thank you everybody for being here. The snack market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Amazon 24944, loses 250, but holding on to an 11% move, which you can't be too upset about. There you go. Amazon right there. 11.7% up on the day. Palunteer, do we get 200? We got 200. We got 200, folks. We might as well do it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, Palunteer, congratulations. $200 a share. Palunteer gets 200. 20030 at the opening bell. Robin Hood up 5%. Nvidia up two. Tesla up two. SoFi up two, AMD up two, S&P's up one, Grabs up half, Google's up 1.3, Amazon 11.7, Meta starting to get a little bit of recovery, PayPal's up, Apple's up, ELF is up, SMCI is up. You're getting a move across the board in this ecosystem. IN 6162, that's up 7% on the day. AMD is up 1.5%. Uh Google again up 1%. BABA's down, the VIX is down 3%. That's a big move on the VIX. I mean, that's going to get the market to get some love. Fizer's flat. Dualingo is up a little bit. Lyft is up a little bit. Consumer defensives are down and tech is up. It looks like we're getting a pretty big rotation on that value to growth argument that we're seeing right here. Tesla 447. Now, I know we're only one minute into the market open, so we got to see how these algos react. Google right there, 284. SoFi trying to get back to 30. Uh pounder just under 200 at 1995. Again, we got that $200 30 level. BMR, which did take a bit of a dump yesterday, 4598 from 47. So that's down from the pre-market. It did hit 44 at one point yesterday. So BMR um obviously did get hit as Ethereum got hit. Ethereum right here, are we still at 3,800? We are at 3850 on Ethereum. And then Bitcoin trying to get a move at 10,964. You're getting a lot of these names that are just running as soon as the market opens on this Friday. Look at Reddit. 17% move on a Reddit. Congrats to everyone who has that one. Meta not really able to hold up. 6 I did buy Meta yesterday for those that missed the market close at 659. 659 I took a little bit of a a nibble at Meta. Have not really made it into a real position yet, but 659 is when I bought bounced up all the way to 680 yesterday right here at 668. The 25 billion of bonds that Meta offered, uh, there was 125 billion of demand for those 25 billions of bonds, which is quite incredible. And so you did have a lot of people that get excited about that. Wow. pound here. 200.72 200.72. We got the earnings on Monday. We did hit 200 a couple days ago overnight. Uh this is the first time we're hitting it as the market is open again. It's pretty incredible to see that two handle on it. I think a lot of us knew it was going to happen eventually and as we inched up to that $200 handle, here we are. Uh we just broke 201. We just broke 2011 on pound here. That is incredible, dude. That is absolutely incredible. I'll check resistance for 202, but 2045. Someone's buying heavy. Someone is buying heavy. 202 resistance is 20,000 shares. 20,000 shares. There's not a ton of resistance. Nvidia right there at 206. Amazon, are we still holding 250 248? So, we're not holding 250, but we're holding 247, which you can't be too mad about. It's a $24 move on a multi-tillion dollar company. Market cap of Amazon now is 2.65 trillion. It was 2.3 going into the print. So can't be too upset. Micro Strategy that's up 5%. They had a great earnings. I think Micro Strategy is just down because Bitcoin is down. Hims up 4%. AS up 2%. Uber's up 1.4%. Where is Rocket Lab? Rocket Lab is 6150. That is green on the day. Uber again that's at 98. Nebus uh unfortunately none of the hyperscalers mentioned any of the smaller companies like a Nebius Cororeweave. I mean, Jensen mentioned that at GTC, but you didn't get any of the big names say their names explicitly, but you would imagine that the partnerships are going to be happening in 2026 because all of them have said they are computed and they're going to need more capacity, which is the reason why all these companies are continuing to get momentum. All the Bitcoin miners are up except Hive and Riot. Bit Farms is up at 408, Marathon's up a little bit, Galaxy's up now. All of these are still down a decent chunk from where they were a couple weeks ago, but nonetheless, they are green and so they're holding on to some momentum right there. AMD 1.2%. Pounding 2011 20150. Wow. Roku reversed. Roku was down bad yesterday. Look at that 9% move on Roku, which it didn't make sense when it was down 10% yesterday because they had a pretty big beat on EPS, but you had some knee-jerk reactions there. Roku getting a move 109. I think Kathy still owns like a billion dollars worth of the stock. So, that one is going green. Uh Jay says, "I closed my Amazon debit spreads for 165%. Let me know what you did with your Amazon, if you sold it, if you're selling any covered calls, if you're taking any profits." Micron right there, 230. That's I think an all-time high for Micron. Very close to an all-time high. 232 is an all-time high for Micron. Where is TSM? TSM right there. Wow. 306. TSM five bucks away from its all-time highs as well. Pound here touched 202. We touched it for a second, but we did touch 202. We did touch 202. I think we'll get right back there. 2080. 202. There he is. There it is. 202 on Palunteer. My goodness. 203 resistance, by the way, is 8,000 shares. 8,000 shares. Nvidia at 207. This is incredible, dude. This is absolutely incredible. Congrats to everybody. I mean, you know, it's just I you never know sometimes when this stuff happens. And I I I think, you know, over the past couple weeks, I've been saying if we get a good earnings run, especially a 50% growth quarter, I think we can make a move to 200 after earnings. We got it before, which begs the question, how good does earnings have to be now to hold 200? I don't know. But if earnings is lights out, are we going way higher than 200? Monday is when we're going to find out. But my goodness, this is incredible. You also have people probably buying before earnings. You probably have a ton of people saying, "Look, I'm going to buy before earnings because I think they're going to crush it." And you're getting those people to load up right there. Circle up 3%. App loving 638. This was at 550 in the beginning of the week. So, this one making a nice move. Ethereum at 3,800. Then, Bitcoin right there at 109.7. Nvidia is at 207. Open Door is doing a video earnings call for their earnings and it's going to be hosted on Robin Hood YouTube and X as well, but also on Robin Hood. So, uh, I like it. Look, I I don't own Open Door stock, but I really like this new CEO. I think he's really motivated to care about retail investors, and I like that they're doing a video call. So, very nice to see that from Open Door, and their earnings, I think, will be next week as well. And we are going to see uh Meta is not getting any love. That is correct. Now again, I think that's where the opportunity is. You've got to really understand the thesis here to bet on meta, but I think the opportunity is where you're not getting love. Steve and I were talking about this last night, but there's not many opportunities where a hyperscaler that has a moat that is hard to be replicated. I mean, one could say impossible to be replicated gives you a 15% decline. Like, you just don't see that too often. And Meta is giving it to you. So, the question is, you know, this is where you got to put in the hard work as an investor to say, is it worth taking that risk? I do think a year from now we're not going to be that upset at Meta. PayPal right there, that's basically flat. ELF is up a little bit and then Apple goes red. Apple goes red. Did get to 285, but then Apple goes red. Brandon, thanks for the super chat. Uh, right covered calls today on pound chair for maximum share retention but decent premium. Where would you be looking? So, I would be looking a month out and I'd probably be looking at 230, 240. I wouldn't go 210, 215, 220. I know the premiums are super juicy and you probably want to do that, but I would at the end of the day give Palanteer the benefit of the doubt every time they've crushed on earnings. And if it if it goes down on earnings, you can roll it down, right? So you can still collect some premium on the downside if you go from like 230 to 210. But I wouldn't risk it by being super aggressive on earnings even though the stock has made a move already. So yeah, I'd probably go a month out around 240 and that's where I would write those covered calls. Um, pounder still 202. Did you invest in OpenAI? No, I invest in Nvidia. So, I guess by proxy I have some allocation in OpenAI, but I do not have a direct investment in open eye. AMD right there 259. S&P still green on the day as well. Up half a percent. So, it's not like the S&P isn't moving with this. BABA is dumping. Not sure why. I mean, not really dumping, but it's down 2%. You are getting a little bit of a hit right there. By the way, SpaceX, Wall Street Journal reported, will be developing satellites for the Golden Dome. SpaceX will be developing satellites for the Golden Dome. That is what Wall Street Journal is reporting today. Shout out to Arie, my brother on the journey. Look at that. How palad 200 feels like. Shout out to Aronaldo. Shout out to Mr. Arie. Tesla trying to get back to 450. 458 or 448 right here on Tessy. Uh you got a lot of these names moving up. Lumen did drop from 11. That is correct. Uh where's gold right now? Gold is still back above 4,000. By the way, this 10 year is not really cooperating. Um it's down a little today, but it it was at 4.1 yesterday. We kind of need these bond yields to go down. So even with the rate cut, you're not necessarily seeing a decent move on bond yields going down. But you know, at the end of the day, one could say that they're selling bond yields to to buy stocks or selling bonds to buy stocks, which is causing yields to go higher. Uh we are still in fear. We are still in fear. Wow. So we were at neutral at 690 on or 689 on the S&P. We're at 684. So that 1% decline is causing 36 level on fear whereas we were at neutral before. But so far we're still on fear. UNH getting wrecked I guess by Sigma. That one continuing to get hit. 343. That's down. Pounder Weekly will be tonight at 11:00 p.m. Eastern. 11:00 p.m. Eastern tonight. Marll. Okay, so Marll has a very close relationship with Amazon, uh, or at least has been rumored to have a very close relationship with Amazon, especially on the tranium chips. Marll right there, 9454. I think it's running because of Amazon's outstanding demand for Tranium. I mean, that would be my argument for why it's making a move, but that's what you're seeing right now on Tranium. Uh, and that's why it likely is going green. Take a look at this chart, by the way. I mean, speaking of resilience in the S&P 500, the S&P has traded above its 50-day moving average for 125 consecutive sessions. The longest streak since 2011 when it lasted 130 sessions. This is the third long longest stretch this century. The longest run since 2000 was 149 sessions, which ended in February 2007, which was the Great Recession. Before that, the index remained above its 50-day moving average for 257 consecutive trading days from January 95 to January 96, the longest streak since 1928. The S&P 500 is also trading 13% above its 200 day moving average, the widest gap since July 2024. I mean, again, when you when you see people scream bubble, you also got to realize just the resilience of this market and why every dip is getting bought because there's not that many opportunities to get allocation to these dips. And so when they give it to you, people start buying. Wow, Hoodie. Hoodie also has earnings next week. She's trying to go back to 150 147 on Mr. Robin Hood. Tesla right there 449. Nvidia 206 then Palanteer just under 202. Would you sell Amazon? No, I would not sell Amazon at least. Look, here's my thing. Could Amazon go back down to like 220, 230? Yes. I mean, we're probably going to get some level of correction in 26 and maybe get these prices again that we had over the past month. But I I do think Amazon can become a cornerstone of a portfolio where you don't have to be too worried about it. And I think we've done enough work in terms of analyzing the company over the past two months to realize this is a dip by if it ever gives you a dip and you just kind of hold on to it over the next 10 years as Amazon continues to become the behemoth that it is. So and and from a numbers perspective again if they can increase their margins to 20% they have 200 billion in operating income. You know you likely have closer to $45 trillion company. It's still trading it's not trading at its lowest EVA multiple but it's still trading at a relatively low EV to EB EI multiple compared to the other Mac 7. So it's not the the scary stock to hold on to for the long term. Nvidia right there 207 pounder trying to go for 203 got to 20261 right here. 203 again resistance on 203 is like 8,000 10,000 shares now. It's not a ton. So there is a shot. Apple right there too. I still can't believe we're staring at a pound 200. Like it's like I'm like I'm seeing it but I'm not believing it. But we're staring at a pounder at $200 which is just kind of crazy. But there you go. AMD right there, that's up 2% as well. BMR put out a new presentation in their 8K yesterday. They said they want to get to the 5% alchemy of ETH before they begin staking. They're looking for a 3 to 4% yield on their staking. Again, I think with BMR, if you can't stomach the volatility of it, you should get out of the stock because it's not for the faint of heart. It's leveraged against crypto. Crypto is already volatile. But if you believe in the broader ethesis, then I think BMR plays out. And if it does, then it should give some decent returns. Speaking of BMR, here was Mr. Tom Lee at the Saudi Arabia conference yesterday speaking about the value of tokenization.
>> Crypto has been a huge outperforming asset class. If we look at the last 10 years, a hund a million dollars invested in the S&P 500 today would be worth $3 million. Um, a million dollars invested in Bitcoin 10 years ago would be worth 116 million. A million dollars invested in Ethereum 10 years ago would be worth $500 million today. So uh as far as asset class performance, uh there is nothing even approaching the returns that have come from crypto. Crypto sits at the intersection today of two super cycles. One is that is Wall Street moving on to the blockchain evidenced by stable coins and eventually tokenization of assets. But it's also sitting I think going to play a very important role in aic AI. Um and that means that any region that supports the growth of blockchain and invests in it is going to also be sitting at this important intersection. You know, when I think about the Bitcoin rationale, why investors buy Bitcoin, I think one of the principal things that draws them here is the idea that Bitcoin is digital gold. Um you know, it's a store of value in a world that's increasingly digital. U what do you what do you all think about the idea of is Bitcoin going to be attractive if gold itself is available on the blockchain? So that if gold becomes digitized and we can buy it as easily as we can buy Bitcoin, would we still want to own Bitcoin?
>> The thing about tokenized gold is that you still have the party, the counterparty risk and you might show up there and there might not be any gold. The thing about Bitcoin is that the token itself once you have it in your address, that's it. It's final settlement.
>> You got very important financial people talking about the bullcase for tokenization and Bitcoin. I mean again and then you got the United States government being very friendly with the legislation that is going to help support those assets. It does it just feels like over the next five years having exposure to those asset classes matters and then you get to pick which one you can stomach in terms of the volatility whether it's Hood, Coinbase, Micro Strategy, BMR, but it does not look like that train is slowing down anytime soon. SoFi right there that's up about 1%. AMD still up 1.2. Uh S&P getting a red candle right there from 685 to 683. But you do have a little bit of red and pound right there at 200.9, Nvidia at 206, S&P at 683. Now, we did have some hawkish comments today by one of the Fed presidents, uh, Fed President Logan, if you can see right here on the screen, they basically just said, "Inflation's going up. Labor market's bad. We shouldn't be cutting. We have to look at repro rates." I mean, they just said a ton of different things about why we should not be cutting rates. Uh this was the only person on the federal board that was more bearish. Uh you know, thankfully you've got a lot of other Fed presidents that see the downside risk to infl to to to uh the labor market outweighing any upside risk to inflation. But nonetheless, you do have some of that commentary right there by one of the Fed presidents. That's that could also potentially be creating a little bit of weakness across the market if you know some market participants think we're not going to get that December cut. But we're going to have to see. HMS is up 4%. A is up 2.86%. BMR 4664 that continues to go green as well. Gold still above 4,000. Nebius still making a move as well. 120. Wow, Nebius, look at that. Trying to go for 130. Data center play is getting some love here. Likely based on what Amazon said. Cory at 133. And you got Nebas trying to move its way to 130. Uh, do we have PMI? We do have PMI Chicago PMI 43.8 versus 40.6. 43.8 versus 40.6. The estimate was 42.3. So, we got a beat on PMI. We got a beat on PMI. Let me pull that up right here. Happy Friday. Happy Halloween. And yes, we are getting some of the PMIs. We get confidence numbers. They don't go through the government. Chicago's October read on PMI comes in better than expected, 43.8. We're expecting a number closer to 42 and a half. There's good and there's bad. This is the best since well, July of this year, but that's still an improvement, sequentially higher than our final read last month at 40.6. Here's the fly in the ointment. This is the 23rd consecutive month in contraction territory, meaning under 50. The last month to be an expansion over 50 was November of 23. Right now, as we sit at 408 in a 10-year, we're basically down two basis points on the day, but we're up eight basis points on the week. A two-year is up 11 basis points on the week. And remember, both these maturities are higher in yield than they were before the September 25 basis point cut. Lesson to be learned here, we could all wish the Fed lowers rates. that doesn't mean the market's going to go along with it. Squawk on the street will return.
>> Okay, so PMI uh still contracting for what seems like about a year right now, but it is beating expectations, which is good. And you know, that's another reason why Tom Lee is bullish on this market because we've had such a contraction over the past couple years in PMI that any level of expansion, aka above 50, would be very important. And you know, that would be another bullcase for earnings as well. Apple right there 271 trying to go green after being red. This is the heat map for the day. Let me know if anyone's making any moves. I saw a couple people saying they were trimming their Amazon options. Few people said they were trimming shares, but seems like most people are holding. It's a green day outside of a few sectors. Real estate, utilities, healthcare, consumer defensives, and financials, which is a lot of the market besides tech. I mean it looks like tech, communication services, electronics, cyclical, technology, semis, software applications, etc. are green. Everything else is red. Now, Meta is one of the main red names in that uh green tech trade. Amazon still holding 11% but everything else still red. That is kind of weird. Everything going red except tech today. I guess it's on the back of good earnings. Google going red 279 again on Google. I know we pumped to like 297, but you can't you just can't be that upset, right? Google was at 250 a week ago. Now it's at 280. But that one does go red. Netflix, they got that split. So that's why Netflix is going green. And Meta, wow, Meta 656. I bought at 659. Goodness, dude. I think the lowest it got to was at 650 yesterday. So we didn't violate those lows yet. But we are red on Mr. Meta. Are you buying Netflix? I I want to see what the covered call premiums look like. I mean, Netflix has some pretty decent premiums. So, when they split, I might buy Netflix. But I also, Dude, I've never loved Netflix. I mean, trades at like 45 times earnings. Like, there's a lot of the companies that are growing faster you could buy at that multiple. But the reason Netflix caught a bid this year, it's still up 40%. Is because I mean, who's canceling Netflix in a recession? Now, granted, I don't think there's a lot of good content on Netflix, but I'm, you know, so I if if things really got bad, I would cancel it and not care. But I guess there's enough content that keeps people engaged. And every quarter, they keep finding more subscribers, which is why people buy in. Robin right there. 147. Robin right there. 47. Chipotle. Are we still doing okay on Chipotle? Wow. Still down. It might break 30. It might, you could tell Bill Aman was pissed off yesterday. Bill Aman quoted some random account on Twitter that said, "The way Chipotle needs to fix its business is to cut the burrito in half because the burrito is too big in the first place." And honestly, it makes sense. No one like it's hard to finish the full burrito if you've had it. like it it's like and then it gets messy and you can barely hold it. So it's like the the the the account was like cut the burrito in half and make it under $10 and you would have tons of people coming to Chipotle. But a big burrito that no one's going to finish that's 15 bucks. It's like and Bill Aman tagged Chipotle. Bill Aman owns 21 million shares of Chipotle. He's like, "Hey guys, maybe you should think of this idea." So you can tell he's a bit pissed off that Chipotle is not executed. A lot of you guys saying disagree. Yeah, I I I tend to not finish the full burrito, dude. It just becomes too much. So, I actually like the idea. Like, if they can make a cheap version of the burrito and it's just not as big, I don't know. I think that could drive more sales, but it might have some other people saying that that wouldn't play out. Uh AMD starting to get a pump. That one moving as well. Make it bigger and half the price. Okay, that's not sustainable. That's that they're not going to get a margin if they do that. Rocket Lab 6141. That's green because you're like 5'4. Okay. First of all, I'm 5'7. 5'8 on a good day. All right. So, you got to watch your mouth. All right. Second of all, it's No, it's just cuz the burrito's freaking huge, dude. And they never wrap it perfectly. So, it's like it ends up becoming a salad with a tortilla. But that's that's that's one suggestion that exists on uh Chipotle. Meta right there 657. All right, let's see if Meta violates 650. Let's see if it gets any love or if it violates 6 650. I mean, if you see the 640s, I do think that becomes a bit more attractive or at least the low 650s. But let's see. Right now, it's getting dumped 2%. Meta market cap 1.65 65 trillion down from about 1.97 trillion. Um, okay. Let's see a couple other headlines that we got right now. Again, PMI, that is a beat. We're going to get consumer confidence in about six minutes and we're going to see what we get there. Pounder, we still holding 200. We are still holding 200, folks, on pounder. What are we thinking on pounder? Are people getting nervous, scared, excited before earnings? How are you thinking of it? How are we navigating pounders move? By the way, take a look at this. The S&P 500 is set for its sixth straight monthly gain. If we end out green today, which even if we don't end out green, we're still going to be way higher than we, Dude, October, we fell to 647. Even if we closed at 650 today, which would be a 3% drop from these levels, we would still be green. So, we're going to be green for the sixth month in a row. And big tech, as you can see right here, is leading the multiple expansion for the S&P as those companies continue to perform on earnings. And that's what you got. Excited, excited, excited. See most people getting excited, ecstatic. Yeah. I mean, look, I'm really confident on the earnings. I just think they're going to have a massive quarter. And so now I I was expecting to move to 200 on that quarter. Now I'm like I don't know like I don't know 210 215 or is it so good but it's baked in like I I have no clue. But I do think it's going to be a good quarter. And you know as long as the company keeps performing the stock price eventually over time that'll that'll move with the earnings. But as long as the company keeps performing that's the most important thing. S&P 683. You got a Reddit right there. 15% 224 Reddit big day and then Grabby Grab at 608. I am excited about Grab earnings as well. I have no idea what to expect. Again, I think this is going to be a good quarter. This is one of those stocks where I mean, look, it's up 25% this year. Uh I do think it has ambitions to get closer to $10. And I've done a lot of work on this, but we're going to need a good earnings. We're going to need a beat. We're going to need a guidance raise. We're gonna need the street to really think these guys are changing their narrative in terms of how dominant they're becoming. We're gonna find out 7:30. I'm likely not going to be live for Grab earnings, but uh well, we'll talk about it the next day after, but 7:30 p.m. Eastern on Monday. We're going to see what we get from Grab. Has Grab tested your conviction more than pound Hood? 100%. 100%. Now, and it's it's funny I say that, right? Because pounder and hood were stuck. Like Grab has moved 25% this year. Pounder and Hood when I got them they were stuck for a year. Like they didn't they didn't pounder didn't get any 25% move. It got a 25% draw. I got a 70% draw down. But pounder is a much more higher quality company than Grab obviously. So this one is definitely tested conviction. But I continue to look at the I was talking with Steve last night. I looked at seven different discounted cash flow models. All of them come to the same price target. Maybe even played with the numbers from 750 to 830 as intrinsic fair value. So these are the moments where you just got to, you know, ignore all the noise and say, "All right, we're going to see what happens." But sometimes you got to trust yourself as well and see how it plays out. Bitcoin right there, 110, Ethereum 3852, BMR, are we getting any move? Apple goes red on the day. Bit mine 4670 on the day. The googs is red 278. 278 on the goog. Where's Weeble? This one a lot of people are excited about. Weeble. Dude, this one's been stuck as well. Back to 11. Got to 12. Right back to 11. Only a 5-year-old can't finish a Chipotle burrito. I guess I'm alone, dude. I guess I'm alone. I can't finish that damn burrito. This goes back to what Steve said, dude. I I can't finish my steak. I always I always save it for later. CRDO, they also had a big move today. This is a correct me if I'm wrong. Yeah, 9% move. This is a important company in the semiconductor ecosystem around cables, circuits, etc. I feel like they've had a pretty strong relationship with Nvidia for a long time as well. Credo Technology Group, that's up 9% on the day. I believe they had a double beat as well and that's why that stock is green. Nebus back to 130. back to 130. A man, I have a question. I bought GSIT because I feel strong about their GPU tech. Down 35% on that, but with their $50 million investment, hoping Q4 takes off, do I buy too early? So, GSIT is the company that put out that white paper, right? Yeah, we looked at this a week ago. They put out the white paper about how they have a better chip than Nvidia. Um, you're down 35%. So, you probably bought it around that 12- $13 range. Now, it's at 9. Yeah. See, this comes back down to like due diligence, right? Just how much do you understand about the company? Uh, did you buy too early? I have no idea. May maybe this thing's going to 15 after their earnings and you bought just at the right time. But I just don't know enough about them outside of the fact that they released a white paper. The stock gained a hundred million dollars in market cap because they released a white paper saying they can make chips better than Nvidia from an energy perspective. And then, you know, after a week, people probably realize there's no revenue, there's no earnings, there's, you know, so it's like, but some of these names, if you're betting on them from a speculative standpoint, you just got to be ready to deal with the volatility of the speculation. But I would I would wait till learnings, right? You got to wait till learnings to see how that plays out. So, there you go. Is Bur tweet saying we're in a bubble, but not the point of selling? No. Bur's tweet is just him being annoyed that the market is going up. That's why it's poetic, right? That's why he says sometimes the best thing to do is not do anything because he knows shorting it makes no sense. But he also thinks buying into it is too aggressive. So he's probably implying that you should sell and take your gains. But then again, it begs the question, you know, is the earnings growth not there? I mean, that's a simple question for every is the earnings growth not there? If you think the earnings growth is not there, then you get out of this market. And every company that we've covered outside of a handful, literally a handful, have beat on EPS, which shows that the earnings growth is there. By the way, EOS, I know a lot of people like this one energy uh company. They secured a 228 uh megawatt order from Frontier Power under their existing 5 gigawatt framework and they achieved their final cerebrous milestone. So that's why that stock is up 5% on the day. Bloom Energy, another company that crushed it this week in energy. EOSE, another one today that looks like they're getting some momentum as per a new contract. There you go. That's up 5.59%. I don't think any stock down 1% is dumping. I agree. Google down 1% is not dumb. Again, guys, like this is we're we're at we're also at a stage in the market where I think people are just impatient. Like Google was at 150 less than three months ago and it's down from 290, but that is not a reason to be upset about it, you know, and look, if Paler dumps 10% on earnings, I'm sure people will be so upset, but it's like you just can't have sympathy for those people. It's like it's like the stock has done incredibly. Same thing with Robin. Like these stocks have done same thing with Nebas. These stocks have done amazing. So, you can't genuinely be upset if they don't hold a higher premium if the market just doesn't want to give it to them at the time. especially given they're already holding such a such a strong premium. But you do have some momentum there across the entire board. Robin Hood 14737. I think Vlad's gearing up for a pretty good quarter which will be very exciting. And then you got the GooGs right here still at 279. Crowd Strikes up 1%. Coinbase up 6% and then Corey up 2.4. Let me see consumer confidence. I think we got that. Let's see what we've got on consumer confidence. We got spoiled. Yeah, I think the bull market has definitely spoiled a lot of people, but it is rather healthy because you're seeing uh stocks go up on earnings, stocks go down if they have bad earnings, which is the most important thing. Uh okay, consumer confidence. What do we have? Let's see. Uh it's 10:00 a.m. Friday. Consumer confidence. No, I guess we don't have it. I thought we had it today. I guess we don't. No, we had just had Chicago PMI. I thought we were getting confidence. All right. Maybe we don't have it. Thought we were probably getting it next week. Usually it's on Friday. Maybe that one is actually from the government. Yeah, I think that's from the BLS and the BLS. The BLS is part of the government. So, that one we're probably not getting today. Let's get a little bit more coverage on Amazon, then we'll keep going from there.
>> Two tech mega caps. Mackenzie Sagalas is covering Amazon stocks spike this morning. Steve Kovak has got the Apple story for us as well. McKenzie, we'll start with you on Amazon.
>> Hey, David. So, Amazon shares are popping 12% all thanks to its cloud comeback story. AWS grew just over 20%, its fastest pace since early 2022, and beat even the most bullish Whisper numbers with 33 billion in revenue. that helped ease concerns that Amazon was slipping in the C cloud wars, especially after Google and Microsoft posted even stronger year-over-year percentage growth. Now, CEO Andy Jasse, he says that demand is strong across both AI and traditional workloads and that Amazon is scaling compute to meet it. Now, he told investors he expects AWS to sustain this momentum for a while, ting the company up for its first ever $200 billion plus quarter in Q4. backlog that's now at $200 billion dollars, not including October's unannounced deals, which apparently exceeded the entire Q3 volume. So, this wasn't just a rebound, it was a referendum. Amazon needed to prove that its massive infrastructure bets are paying off. It spent $ 34 billion in Q3 alone and now expects to hit 125 billion in capex for the year, more than its projected operating income. A big chunk of that is going into its in-house AI chips and new hypers scale campuses like Project Rainineer, an 11 billion data center that it just built to power models exclusively for Anthropic. This is Amazon's answer to OpenAI Stargate. And the chief takeaway across big tech, the winners aren't just the ones spending the most, they're the ones showing that it is working. Alphabet and Amazon are seeing that halo effect. Microsoft, it's still growing fast, but saw its stock dip. And then Meta, despite a revenue and earnings beat, it logged its worst drop in three years as investors questioned whether its AI push will ever turn into profit.
>> Now again, project rainier, the crazy thing about it is that that is just for Anthropic. It's in a corn field in um in in Indiana and it's literally for one foundation model company that's already booked using their tranium chips. To have that level of backlog is just incredible. And for them to be able to expand the margins on that backlog and have it already fully booked. I mean, that is why Amazon is getting the premium that it's getting up 11% on the day. Not at 255 like we were yesterday, but again, can't be too upset. 248 right there on Amazon. We got Paul Atkins on. He is uh the chair of the SEC. Last time he was on, he talked about some hanky panky going on in the market. So, let's see what he has to say today.
>> There's some form of an AI bubble. Um, by the way, I sometimes say there's an AI bubble of some sort. What I don't know is a whether you think there's a bubble. U, but b, even if you thought there was a bubble, if there's something that the SEC should be doing about that.
>> Well, you know, markets will be markets and people uh should be free obviously to invest in what they want to invest in. Um, and so it's not for us to say we're not a merit regulator and we're not the big daddy over the marketplace and over investing. I knew we I knew we would get something, bro. We would get something. Last time we got Hanky Panky and this time we got Big Daddy. I have not watched this, so I literally I I didn't watch this before. I'm watching this for the first time, but I had a feeling we would get something and we got Big Daddy. There you go. There you go.
>> Um but at the same time, we'll look for manipulative behavior and take action uh where appropriate. And so, uh, you know, we will, uh, you know, we're, uh, obviously focused on, uh, making sure that the rules and and the laws are being followed,
>> right? How do you feel about some of the transactions that are taking place? People call them roundtrip deals, circular deals. Uh, they appear to be disclosed, meaning, you know, we're talking about them here because we know about them. Uh, but there are these transactions that people are raising red flags about. Well, so again, you know, I can't talk about any specifics, but of course uh again, we're monitoring the markets and we'll bring actions where um necessary and indicated. So um but uh you know, at any point of time in history, there's al always been uh people who try to do things in the marketplace and so we stand ready to uh take action where necessary.
>> Let me ask you a different question about some of the new products that are coming to market. um and a letter.
>> All right, so we'll go back to that. But as you can see, he doesn't care, dude. He is one SEC chair who does not care. Gary Gendler had an opinion on everything and he never had this kind of LZ fair attitude of markets will be markets and we don't want to be the big daddy of markets. I mean, you got Paul Atkins saying, "Dude, let people trade. If they're going to buy a ton of Nvidia to get it to five trillion, let them. If they're going to buy Open Door, let them." like he really is not having that approach where he thinks he needs to micromanage or govern the activity of the markets which I think is net bullish. It can get bearish if you have nefarious activity going on. Um and you know there's always some type of nefarious activity but if it's not as aggressive then at the end of the day you're letting the market be the market. And this market is not going to reward nonsense. You don't put up good growth you get crushed. You put up good growth like Microsoft you still get crushed. So, I I do think the market is being fair in terms of making sure they have a gut check on what stocks they're going to give a premium to or not, which is not the worst thing for the broader markets. Pounder right there. 20250. 203 doesn't have a lot of resistance, folks. Doesn't have a lot of resistance. What a crazy week, dude. GTC, Fed cuts, all these tech earnings. Pound here busting through the 200s. 20275. I mean, it has just been incredible to witness this. It really has. It really, really has. It's been a crazy journey. Crazy, crazy four-year journey. Red at 225. That's up 16%. And then Amazon still holding up 11%. Meta bounced off 657. So, it didn't get to those 650 lows yet, but Meta right there at 667 on the day. I did buy some Meta for my sister yesterday as well. So, I bought some meta for myself and she doesn't have any of the um hypers scales except Nvidia. So, I did buy her a little bit of meta and you know, if it really does go lower and she can develop a position in it, I don't think that would be too crazy. So far right there 2920 as well. Um, okay. Yeah, we I see the headline JP Morgan has 8.1% stake in HIMS. Again, I don't know if that's actually JP Morgan or the market making part of their business. So, I wouldn't take that that seriously. But it is nice to see him get some more institutional ownership as that one goes higher. Nebus, what do you got here? Nebius 12975. 12975. That's cuz Jamie Diamond is using him. Oh my gosh. Does your sister own she knows Meta? Of course not. Of course not. She doesn't care. She has no idea. She probably hasn't checked her portfolio. Dude, what what was that? Was it end of September? early October where we just had a massive run in the markets, like crazy run. I remember I came home and I was like, like, "Have you looked at your portfolio?" She's like, "Nope." And I was like, "Well, you should open it up." And she opened it up and it was up six figures. And she's like, "Oh, that's crazy." I was like, "I hate you so much, bro. I hate you so much." Like, my dad freaking checks it every hour and he's working like a real job and my sister doesn't even check it on a weekly basis. How are women even legal? It's It's not all women. It's just my sister, bro. She doesn't care. Like, she legit does not care. And it is what it is, bro. But it also helps because she doesn't ask me any questions, bro. She doesn't ever like question my moves and she hasn't had a reason to. But like, it's not, you know, by the way, I lost my sister a lot of money, dude. when I lost money in the biotech. You think your boy was going down alone on that ship? You think in 2020 when I thought I found the company that had the cure for every cancer, you thought I was not going to tell anybody about it? Of course, I told my sister. And of course, she was like, "Okay, cool. Whatever. Buy me some." And of course, you know, a year later, I had to have an awkward conversation with her be like, "Well, there's this thing called tax lost harvesting." And if you look at it on the bright side, it's actually very productive. And she was just like, "So, I lost all my money." I was like, "Well, you know, the way you say it is just not the right way to frame the conversation." Like, we need to think of it in a in a in a in a diametrically opposed way that allows us to have a new paradigm. And at the same time, while we have that new paradigm, Palunteer 203, baby 20306 on Palunteer. Wow. Busted right through 203. We know what's better than 203, guys. 204 resistance. 204 is 9,000 shares. Dude, there's no walls. There's no walls. This is like pure price discovery. I like that. Like once we broke through 190, we were in price discovery, but now price discovery because we are well above the previous all-time high. There you go. 203 again. There's no walls. There's no resistance. There's just people coming in saying, "Hey, maybe I'm going to buy." My goodness. 20320. And she's not stopping at 203. Guys, think about it like this. Now, a decline from 203 to 190 would be perceived as a dip. That's the beautiful part about a stock going higher. It's like if it actually does take a 10- 15% drop, that's a 10 15% drop. That's an active amount of selling pressure because you had all that buying pressure. Especially if it can you imagine us normalizing 200s forever, which I don't want to get ahead of myself. We're only three bucks above 200, but like could you imagine that? I mean, to not have to ever see below 200 again. My goodness, dude. Robin trying to get to 147 and then hoodie 20320. Hoodie 20320, Grab at 603, Amazon at 10%. Amazon losing a bit of momentum right there, but still holding 10% of the day. Google still down 278 and the S&P 682. That's quite incredible. 20311. But um but yeah, so so so on on that on that, you know, biotech stock that I thought was going to change the world, I you know, I I I went down down with the ship with other people on the ship with me. So definitely in 2020 I probably ruined her trust in my stock picking capabilities but I think I got it back over the past two years and that's why she doesn't question a single thing anymore like really but also I don't invest in stupid biotech companies that I think are going to solve every disease in the world right so it's like I've grown as well but you know your boy had to your boy had to go down with the ship there's no way your boy doesn't go down with the ship and bring bring people along with them. Microsoft right there 515 that's down 1.59%. Crowd Strike is also up a little bit and then the Q's are 085%. Okay. Uh back to Paul Atkins. Let's see what he had to say and see if we can get some comments on everything else that's going down.
>> I believe you received from Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders. Uh this is expressing their concerns about President Trump's EO that would effectively expand access to private markets. crypto and other things in retirement plans. What kind of concerns do you have about those those products, what they look like, what kind of transparency they have, what kind of auditing they have and the like? Well, like as you said, uh uh President Trump uh issued an executive order uh regarding uh you know, the ability for uh retirement plans and other sorts of uh um uh long-term savings plans to be able to uh access alternative investments. And so the as far as the retirement investments go, we're working with the Department of Labor and of course all this is affected by the shutdown, so we haven't really been able to make much progress. Um but uh basically we will be working uh with the secretary and uh and deputy secretary and others at the department of labor have already met with them and we will be plotting out a course uh to uh to study and then uh make proposals for uh these sorts of retirement plans to be able to access uh alternative investments but within guard rails. We're not just going to fling the the gates wide open. And then on the individual elective investment side, uh we're we will be looking at the credited investor standard. Uh you know, which is a very kind of a a hard bludgeon sort of thing as far as trying to determine who's sophisticated and not.
>> Right now the uh qualification is you have to have a million dollar net worth excluding your home or you have to make $250,000 a year for the past three years in income. So it is a really stupid way they clarify accredited investor. If they change that, that opens up the possibility for a lot of people to just be able to get access to things like Android, Stripe, Discord, etc.
>> Uh, you know, is that still something that we should um, you know, have or modify uh, you know, other ways to do things to uh, have uh, some sort of a guard rail around who's able to access those sorts of products.
>> Can I try out an idea on you? So I'm fascinated by the these new sort of venture capital and private equity and and other kinds of uh instruments that would likely be what are called semi-liquid instruments and actually I I think they are very exciting instruments uh to a large degree in the context of retirement though I wonder whether they should have effectively a target date on them such that you know for most people they will look like a stock you could buy them on any day but the truth is because they're semi-liquid products uh potentially you may not be able to all sell them on the same day if you so wanted to. And so while someone who's 20 or 30 or 40 years old might be able to buy them with a 20 or 30 year time horizon without a problem, if they if you're someone who's a 65year-old or 70year-old, uh these products may not be uh your friend in in a crisis or a panic or something else. And so I wonder whether they should actually be dated uh in the in the context of retirement programs against your age, meaning that you can't not that you effectively you can't buy them um or you shouldn't be owning them at a certain age. Does that make any sense to you?
>> Yeah. Well, so that's building on uh uh products that uh the market has experience with. So target date funds obviously are out there in various sorts of retirement plans. Um and then uh we have uh interval funds, those sorts of things, closedend funds uh that have various uh restrictions on uh redemptions and and so forth. So uh that's uh that sounds like a a great uh way to explore something that uh you know it almost sounds like the the date that you have on your milk carton or something like that best buy or best until. So anyway, so
>> the fact that he just compared retirement financial accounts to e expiration dates on a milk carton shows you how much this SEC chair does not care. He does not care in a good way, but also it means he's probably been watching Steve's live streams a lot as well. Robin Hood got to 148, folks. Big move on Hood, dude. Like I mean I'm just noticing that we're up 7% today on Robin Hood which is kind of crazy. Not sure why. Also this is super bullish because crypto is not running. So Robin is moving independent of crypto today which is very nice to see. I guess we're waiting for uh we're waiting for people are getting excited for earnings and that's why we're getting a move. SMCI that's up 3.85%. Applovin up 3.3. Palanteer still back to 203 right there. 20306 20310 uh AMD 2.6 and then the S&P 500 still 683. AMD call flow 295 call for AMD 1128 1.6 million coming into AMD. AMD does have earnings in another two weeks. So you're getting some call right there. AMD alltime high is 267. Right now it's at 261 on AMD. You got some headlines geopolitically. Uh Forbes and Reuters is reporting Trump officials identify Venezuela strike targets and a strike could happen at any moment as per the report. So you have more of the Venezuela headlines. Uh Birkshire Hathaway tomorrow. Oh, tomorrow's earnings for Q3 for Birkshshire. This is the last earnings report with Buffett as CEO. So, we're going to see uh they usually do it on Saturday, so it makes sense. We're going to see what they did, if they sold more Apple, uh if they held on. Again, Apple really was the defining metric of Buffett's final run as an investor over the past 10 years. He has 6xed on that investment. And so, that one's done very well. I did see Bergkshire get a couple downgrades from the JP Morgans and Goldman's of the world. And they were just like, "Hey, uh we don't know if the new CEO is going to be anywhere near Buffett's caliber." So, we don't think this is the best thing to get into until we have confidence in the CEO. And so, you do have some downgrades there. AMD is next Monday. Really? Next Monday? No, AMD is on Tuesday. Oh, wow. Tuesday. AMD and SMCI at the same time. Okay. So, next week's going to be crazy. What are we looking at next week? We're looking at Poundier, Grab, Uber, Shopify, Spotify, Ferrari, AMD, SMCI, Hoodie, Qualcomm, Apploving, Dolingo, DraftKing, Sound, Airbnb, Trade Desk, Archer, DWave, Oscar, McDonald's, Lemonade. Okay, next week is going to be wild. I mean, this week was big tech, but next week is still going to be crazy, guys. Palanteer is not doing a split. I don't know where people got these rumors for on a split, but just ask yourself logically, why would they split the stock at $200 a share? Like, I can't think of a company that's done that. What are they going to split it to? A 10 for one split and get it down to $20? They're going to have 20 billion shares outstanding. You know what company has 20 billion shares outstanding? Nvidia. And Nvidia is a $4 trillion company. So, I really I would be willing to bet my life that we're not doing a split anytime soon. And it's kind of dumb if they did a split. and they don't need to pump the stock to do a split because the stock's done well. So, until you get into that $500 range, you know, I've seen some companies do it at 300, 400, but realistically, you got to get above 500 for you to think a split is even feasible. Yeah, Meta should be doing a split. You know, when you get to above $600, $700, it becomes harder to buy a share of stock. 200 is not like that big of a burden for a lot of people even though it's it's higher obviously than like a $20 stock but you don't also it would be the street would get so annoyed if they artificially split their stock they would if they're if they thought they were trying to pump the stock by making it more accessible and then think about the volatility on that they have 2.5 billion shares outstanding they would have 20 billion shares they split it by 10 like when you get to that $500 range it makes a lot more sense yeah and you can already buy fractional shares exactly You can already do that. Yeah. Even when they split it would be a small one. Yeah. Maybe if they're like 500 they would do like a three for one split or something. But like there you're not you're not you're not seeing that I think until they get to a much higher level. Um so there you go. Okay. Let's look at a couple other things that we're seeing right here. here amid. How do you think Hood will do on their next earnings? We'll actually do a Hood preview on Monday with Tanner Roy and I pounder still pushing 203 right there. 20307. Uh look, I think Hood's going to crush. The earnings estimates have gone up to 1.2 billion. I don't think they're going to deliver a bad earnings. Uh I am curious on how wide of a margin they could beat by which I'm not sure what we're going to see but we'll go through the actual numbers on the I think Coinbase earnings and the the uh retail revenue on transaction revenues was actually very strong which makes me think that you know Robin's going to have a pretty good quarter and so it shouldn't be that bad. Microsoft though, why is Microsoft getting dumped today? I still have the five shares of Microsoft I bought a couple days ago. 516. And honestly, the reason I kept those shares was just like a reminder to me of like, hey, maybe I should really start thinking of this company and beginning a DCA going into 2026. But I don't know why that's down 2% on the day after a really good earnings, but that one is down. What are the best robotic stocks? Tesla, Greenfield, Figures, Not Public, any others you like? Honestly, it's Amazon. It really is Amazon. I mean to tell me a company that's using robots more than Amazon right now. Like I think it's hard to say it. And Tesla is like more of a multi-year uh moonshot on the idea of optimist becoming real. Tesla's using robotics today. ISRG is a good one, right? Intuitive surgical. Uh serve robotics is out there bit more speculative. Uh rich tech robotics. I don't know enough about them, but you know, they're another robot. But like outside of these smaller robot companies that might not have moes yet or tons of free cash flow or tons of earnings, feel like it's Amazon and Tesla. Obviously, Nvidia has exposure to to robotics as well, but I feel like it would be those two. Don't know why Microsoft's getting hit today, though. Not sure why. Baba's also getting hit. Yeah, Symbotic, that one's another robot company. BMR is not below NAV right now. BMR is still at 1.2 if I'm not wrong. BMR 1.27 on BMR. 1.27 on that one. Um, UPS says have exposure to robotics. I don't know if that'll be the best robotics. I think they're going to be using robotics. I don't know if that would be the best robotics investment. Just got access to hood banking. That's the other thing that we haven't talked about a lot. I mean, it's not going to be a big growth catalyst this year, but next year banking is going to be very important and that could be another game changer for Hood. Okay, couple clips from the recent Mike Wilson podcast. uh he has flipped bullish over the past year and a half and I thought there were some important things that he said yesterday. Here's the first thing he said that was pretty interesting around how he thinks about why the S&P 500 is going up in comparison to inflation.
>> Second reason which is the one that people's heads explode on is that stocks are basically an inflation hedge. Okay, particularly high quality stocks. S&P 500 being best case in point, NASDAQ even more so. Gold as you know has gone through the roof. Okay, Bitcoin has also done extremely well. Why is that happening? Because investors are more worried about inflation today than they have been in most of our careers going back to the 70s. That's, you know, that wasn't around the 70s investing.
>> All right. So, the market is worried about inflation. Stocks are basically a hedge against that. So, if you have an equity risk premium today of zero, you say that's crazy. Why should I have a zero risk premium relative to bonds which is risk-free? Here's why. If bonds are giving you a good base rate of 1 and a half% that's your real rate. That's four minus 2 and a half break evens. Okay, that's a pretty good base rate. Then I should be willing to take a 0% equity risk premium. Why? Because I'm worried about inflation,
>> right?
>> So stocks give me that hedge against inflation where bonds do not. Particularly if you're only getting one and a half% real and I think inflation will probably be higher than two and a half% over the next 10 years.
>> Okay. The argument there being pretty simple, saying, "Hey, at the end of the day, if people are investing in stocks as a way to hedge against inflation, then they're likely going to continue investing in stocks as a way to deal with navigating inflation." By the way, HKD, this stock is up 200% today. You guys hear the police sirens? There's been so many police over the past couple days. HKD 202%. Uh this is a holding company which engages in the development of digital solutions for the spideret platform. I have no idea what this company does but they are up 213%. I have no idea but there you go. That's making a move. Has this been around for a long time? Yeah, it's been public since 2022. Obviously has gone through a lot of reverse splits. Some headlines catching it right here. But HKD is going great. It's pumped before. Yeah, it seems like it has pumped before. Pal, she's going for it. She's trying to go for 204. What did I say resistance was before? Dude, 203, dude, forget 200. The fact that it's above 200 and holding 200, it's just incredible. 204 resistance is 13,000 shares. 13,000 shares. So, we're going to see if it can make that move. But you got Pounder right there trying to get there. Wow. SoFi below 29. Look, Sofa had a great earnings this week. It's good earnings. It just wasn't enough to get the street excited, which is crazy because I thought it was enough. I re dude, I really think the problem with SoFi is a narrative. And you know, I think I've talked about it for the for the past year. there's like there's not a ton of exciting reasons for the street to get on board with SoFi. Whereas with Hood, there's just so many different verticals they get excited about. That doesn't mean SoFi is bad. That doesn't mean not is bad. That doesn't mean they're not executing. It's just those narratives have to come into place. And you know, SoFi is still up 100% this year. So, it's not even like it shouldn't even be a concern. It's just, you know, people are greedy because they see some of the other names and how they perform. But it is weird on a triple beat with Ray cuts. For that to be read for the week is just weird to me. Meta, by the way, 658 back down to 658. That one losing 660. 654 would be where it has to violate. All right, here's another clip of Mike Wilson talking about why the earnings picture is continuing to make it a strong market in regards to the multiple expansion on the S&P.
>> No, I like your answer.
>> No, no, I'm saying that because because it's very off the radar of what most people are talking about and I would say and we've done a lot of work on this. So I think stocks have done really really well for two reasons. A, you know, growth in certain parts of the market have been quite good. We know those stocks and they've carried the ind indices higher. The average stock has not done particularly well. So that kind of speaks to this rolling recession which now I think is over. So the market is looking forward to next year and saying, "Hey, the Fed's going to be cutting. Earnings are actually going to be probably better than people think if we're in a new economic recovery." And so it's pricing in better earnings growth than what the market is modeling today, which is 13 14%. I think it could be something closer to 20, which is one reason why multiples maybe aren't as expensive as people think. That's that's one reason. The second reason, which is the one that people's heads explode on, is that stocks are basically an inflation hedge. Okay,
>> that was the part we just listened to. So, let's move this right here.
>> Like the thesis I just laid out has not really played out yet in the marketplace. So, that's why I think there's still an opportunity assuming these policies do play through into next year and we don't have any some other kind of accident. All right, let's go back to that 20% EPS growth uh for 2026 because I think we just glossed over that. Okay, but I'm saying they deserve to be rich if you think they're a good inflation hedge particularly relative to gold. I would argue the stocks might be a cheaper inflation hedge now relative to gold rel compared to history. Okay, so we can we can come back to that in a minute.
>> But that's fair.
>> Yeah. So, so anyways on the 20% it's really so if you buy into our argument that this is a new economic cycle that there's been many areas of the S&P or Russell 3000 that have been under earning for the last three years and I can prove that we show it in our research. So the last three years the median stock okay the median stock in the Russell 3000 that's large and small has had negative earnings growth okay for three years straight and it's just starting to turn up now in the second quarter was 6% growth year-over-year. That's the best growth we've seen in three years. So it's just starting to inflect. So what's going on? We're seeing better revenue growth and we're seeing operating leverage because these companies have gotten so efficient now. They've been basically hiring nobody for three years. I mean all the jobs creation in the last year has been government basically and healthcare and things that are subsidized by the government. Okay? So these companies are really really lean and they're going to stay lean because maybe they're using things like AI or other efficiencies. And if we get a new economic cycle and we get inflation which by the way is good for earnings. This is another different view that I have others. I think if we get if we don't get inflation next year, there's no chance of getting 20% earnings growth. I think we are going to have inflation next year in the right places
>> and it's going to be inflation wage inflation at the low end. Okay, pricing power through that channel now as they pass through the tariff costs and that is earnings power. The best year for earnings growth in the last 40 years by the way outside of coming out of a recession was 2021. Okay, because of the inflation. It was crazy good. Crazy good for small caps, crazy good for midcaps. I mean, that's when companies really
>> consumers, corporates, they had a lot of money slloshing around, right?
>> Well, they're going to have more money in there through the waste channel. That's the whole point is that and they're still at the the wealthy are going to be fine because they made so much money in asset prices. So, there there's still tons of money flying around out there. That's why the stock
>> So, the broader takeaway from that pounder trying to push 204 is that the wealthy have money. They're going to continue to have money. wage inflation, which was the real point of that podcast. His argument was that inflation is good if you have inflation in the right direction, is going to be good for people that are uh lower income as their wages will go up. And as a result, if you have earnings growth, healthy inflation, and you have the wealthy continuing to borrow against their assets that are doing well because of earnings growth, it's hard to say we're in a bare market, especially when we had a 30% draw down back in April, which created the new bull market. That's what Tom Lee and Mike Wilson have really been on in terms of this theory that the bull market started when we had a recession. It was a very quick recession, but it was indeed a recession. And then as we've been able to maintain the earnings growth, the momentum, that's what's allowed the market to continue moving forward. And then you have to ask yourself all the other different factors like the tariff revenue that could be very productive. The uh buy the dip mentality for people that want to use stocks as a hedge against inflation as you talked about as a hedge against different currency debasement. the idea that stocks could be better than gold if gold is getting a bit aggressive and stocks are still producing revenues and earnings that people can see. Like there's all these different caveats to how you could consider people wanting to buy a pounder at 203 or a hood at 148 or an Nvidia at 205 and as a result you know that is why this bull market could continue. Wages aren't going up. Why would companies increase wages? Well, his argument is that wages will naturally go up as earnings go up. Right? If companies have more earnings, they're able to pay more money to their employees. And you know, if if you if you don't have as many employees due to layoffs, you're able to pay more to the ones that are more productive. Now, obviously, that begs the question of what happens to the labor market, and that's a whole different question that, you know, I think a lot of people don't necessarily have the answer to yet, but it does mean that asset prices should benefit, which is what a lot of us care about given that we own these assets. I don't know why Hoodie is trying to push 150 right here, up 8%, almost 149. I mean that's a big move. Crypto is not moving. So that's moving independent of the market. Nvidia back to 206. And then Tesla also making a big move as well. 454. That's up 3%. Pounder surpass Netflix on market cap. Really? Is that true? Is that true? Um Netflix is at 477. What's Poundier's market cap? Poundier 483. Oh my goodness. We just That's crazy. Palunteer is now bigger than Netflix, guys. It is what it is. This is like I'm not saying it's cheap. I haven't said it's cheap for a long time, but the market is the market and the market will decide how they want to price these assets. We are three cents away from 204. Three cents away. Okay, let's see if we can break through. 204, baby. 204 for Palanteer. We'll ring the bell at 205 if we get there. 204 for Palanteer. Well, you know what's better than 204? We all know what's better than 204. Dude, it's really trying to catch up to Nvidia. It's trying to twin with Nvidia. Uh resistance at 205. 53,000 shares. 53,000 shares. This is wild, bro. I I don't know if I will ever cover a stock that does something like this again. I mean, Hoodie is the closest. Uh, and you know, maybe Hoodie can make a run up to to 200o next year if we continue a bull market. But I I Hoodie right there, 149. There you go. I don't know if I will ever be lucky enough to cover a name that does what this does. And this is why you got to cherish the moment and you got to really celebrate the journey because it it it truly might be once in a lifetime. It truly might be once in a lifetime. I mean, a stock that everyone hates at seven and not just hates, like vehemently hates. The media hates it. Investors hate it. Everyone hates it. Goes to 200 in less than three years. I mean, I you don't see that story often. You really don't. Really don't. But here we are. Here we are. 20417. Yeah, Jeremy is Jeremy short Hood and Palanteer and Tesla, right? He's short all three. So look, I don't know what happens in 26. Obviously, we can get a correction and all these names could take a 10 15% hit, maybe more than that. Like that's that's anything can happen, but I think he initiated those shorts like $30 to $40 ago for all of those names for Tesla. He's been short since like 350 or something around that rate. So shorts haven't really worked out yet. They were working out October 10th. I mean, that's when the shorts were. So, but if he didn't cash out, then it's still there. Oh, Jeremy sold his paler short. Okay, cool. So, he made some money on it. Yeah. I mean, probably. Dude, like a couple weeks ago, that's when it was time to The thing about these inverse funds and shorts, it's like when you get a dip, you got to you got to take the profit. You can't get greedy. Like once you're short a name, especially those inverse funds that move so quick against the name. Like once you get a even 4% decline, you get like an eight percent move up, that's when you take your profits. Like especially if it's a good company, you don't get that greedy. Now, Citron has not tweeted in three months about their pound short and they shorted at 180, which again was basically all-time highs and now we're at 200o. to Hundo. Can you put a link to the podcast? Yeah, I'll put a link to the It's actually a really good podcast. Mike Wilson, it's a it's worth listening to a lot of the analysis that he laid out about this bull market.
>> Um, again guys, look, it's an expensive name. It's been expensive for a long time. Streets paying a premium for growth. Uh, is this retail? I don't know. Could it be retail speculated before earnings? Sure. Uh, could it also just be the street coming in and saying, "Hey, we want to get exposure before earnings." They saw Nvidia's numbers and they were like, I mean, first of all, Nvidia had a massive palenture partnership today or this week. That was big. And then Jensen's going to get the most important software stack in the world. That's important. And then, you know, if Nvidia is saying there's a $500 billion AI opportunity, you would imagine that Palunteer is probably going to play a role in the software applications because none of this hardware matters. It's very important to remember, we've been talking about this for a year. None of this capex buildout matters unless there's a use case. Like that's the part people tend to forget has to be something that is uh productive for a business. And so all these AI models that you're training, if the use case ends up becoming a company like Pounder that is able to develop and build those use cases, then you know that's probably why they get the premium. Let me check hood resistance to 150. Let me check. Very weird to be honest that we're getting this move today and I love hood but I just I can't explain why outside of but earnings is not on Monday. So it's almost like someone knows something. I mean this is an $11 move on hood dude. This basically getting close to alltime highs and crypto's flat which is super bullish because it means it's not correlated with crypto. But I'm also curious why 150 has 67,000 shares. 67,000 shares. Roku had a good earnings. So it makes sense that Roku is getting a move right here 14% on the day. The price target on Hood was already raised last week or on Monday to 160. So I don't think it's a price target move. Let me check the average price target of Hood right now. Average price target is 143. Highest is 170. What about pounder? I think pounder is at like 180, not 158. Highest is 215. Lowest is 45 by our boy Richishy. Well, making a move. We are continuing to make a move. Uh, US energy secretary states that there is significant potential for mutually beneficial agreements in strengthening energy relations between China and the US. That is good to hear. That is important to hear. Oh yeah, I saw Chris's post this morning about Hood. I mean, the prediction markets. Now, again, I agree with that. I just don't know why today the prediction markets are being potentially factored in to the earnings. But Chris basically said Robin Hood should have a monster beat given the call she sports volume. Robin Hood being a a big player in that. Oh, Key Bank upgraded us today 135 to 155. Okay, that's good. So, you got a key bank upgrade and that could be playing a role. But this predictions market should be pretty massive for hoodie pounder just under 204 20360. Then you had hoodie at 14950. Um thoughts on Shopify? I like it. Tanner likes it. Shopify has been moving hardcore. And now shops shop's one of those companies that over the next 10 years is going to be around 176. Is this alltime highs on shop or this is close to alltime highs? Yeah, look at that. Shopify. No, it's alltime highs. Last time it got here was November 21. Dude, look at look at that chart, dude. Look at the [__] you have to deal with as a Shopify shareholder just to get to that level. There you go. Shopify Holding on. S&P is still 684. Still 684. SMCI is moving. Seagate, that one had a great earnings. That's down 6% now. It did have a really big move, so it makes sense that it's a bit down, but Seagate right there, 252 still after a good number. Robin Hood, she's going for it. She's going for it. Do we come back? Do we finally come back to 150? We are two cents away. Let's see. 150 resistance again. It's not too crazy. Now it's 70,000 shares. You're getting a little bit more stacking up there. She's trying. She's trying. She's trying. She's trying. I really wonder what Citron's going to say, bro. At some point they have to cover the short. either they double down or they cover here. Yeah, we were just at 120 last week. See, again, really good fundamental companies as the markets recover, they usually tend to recover and uh you know, now that they have earnings coming up, if they can just put up good earnings and by the way, all these MAX 7 doing well, that's really good for Robin Hood because that means people are trading that means their assets under custody are going up that means people in general are more bullish about the market. So, so like the market doing well, Hood is a proxy on that market. And so, Amazon, Apple hitting alltime highs, like that's really important for Hoodie. 150. There you go. We got it, folks. We got her. 150 Dolores after a long time. It's about a month. We are back. We are back. Not bad. 150 150 on hoodie app 111648 SoFi 2927 AMD 2.3 and then the S&P at 684 Google at 279. Nvidia 1.74206. Is Meta still dumping? Wow. Meta new low of day 653. They might as well take it to 600 at this point. Like if they're going to dump it, they might as well just dump it and give it to us. Alex has admit I got into Hood because of your channel now. The biggest position in my portfolio. Yeah, dude. Hood's been Hood's been a it's been a special one. It's been a real special one. It's just crazy. I mean, I really when I when I was buying it back, I didn't know it would be making a pounder type of move. I didn't know how motivated Vlad was to really turn the ship around. I just thought, hey, if it gets to 25 bucks, like, you know, I'll make some good money. But then it just it turned into like part of my brand like, and the company wanted to do an interview and a podcast and then it just, you know, got invited to the events and like it really was a retail story for a company that's for retail investors. And um the thing is they didn't need me as a ret like I think Palunteer needed me more to communicate the message because there was just so much misinformation. Robin Hood when I was covering it had 70% institutional holding. Palenter had like 30%. So the institutions already were on board with Hood. It's just you know we were in a bare market and so you weren't seeing that much price action. But the fact that it is a retail story and a retail investor got to tell the story to a lot of other retail investors I think is the coolest part about it. That's why it's dope. Marll making a move. Marll again that's likely because of Amazon and this one getting some love. Alab Marll wow 9% dude Marll fell to 60 on their earnings. Jose likes Marlla this was down last week 17%. Do they have earnings? I don't think they had earnings today. Did they sign some deal? They had to have signed some deal today. I don't see a single headline on ALAB. Maybe uh Krato earnings kind of pumping it up a little bit. They do have earnings next week. It seems like I feel like Krato CRDO is helping it. Wow. 17% move on Astera. My goodness, dude. My goodness. Chris YM says, "Aid, I held and continued to buy in because part of you you helped me understand the tech and the ontology. I sensed it, but I wasn't clear." Yeah. I mean, and you know, it really I don't even think it was me. I think it was me getting a lot of people to help me understand it as well. You know, codestrap suchin all these people my channel just became a curation mechanism to understand Palanteer because you know at 22 years old I definitely didn't understand the entire thesis. So I think that was the coolest part about the journey is just getting all these people but but when you do that that forms a community intrinsically and that's what makes it so much fun and you know is if you can reach an audience with that and and they become part of the community that's why you know the journey becomes so special. Very very cool stuff folks. Very cool stuff. Uh Dennis thanks for the super chat bro. All of this is out of touch with reality right surely you can see the countries and samples but stocks hitting alltime high. not a bear, but come on now. Look, I think it's a fair point. We've talked about it a variety of times on the channel. We have a bifurcated economy. It is a weird economy, but nonetheless, it is the reality of the world that we live in. There are people that are not holding assets and their wages have not gone up and the economy is not working for them. This is why you're seeing the the necessity of a mumani in New York City. Then you have people that over the past five years, quite frankly, thanks to co that made investing part of the zeitgeist of culture. You got a lot of people at GameStop, memecoins, all this stuff that got people thinking about the in I'm sure there's a lot of people here that because of GameStop and AMC just even downloaded a Robin Hood account in the first place. You have that faction of the economy, which is the retail part that decided to join the institutional investors and say, "Hey, we are going to allocate parts of our paycheck, parts of our stimulus checks into the stock market." And outside of 2022 with the Fed raising rates, you had easy money that made it accessible for people to understand what it means to invest. Then you had a crash. But then right after that crash, nine months after that crash, you had the greatest AI revolution or the greatest technology revolution in our lifetime, which has led to asset prices even with a uh restrictive policy that has just started to ease over the past year in terms of interest rates allow assets to be the way they are today. So I I don't think it's that hard of a story to understand, but it is nuanced. It's like, yes, the economy in certain places is definitely in shambles when you look at delinquency rates, when you look at people living to paycheck to paycheck, when you look at people that don't have assets, when you look at wage inflation, but then other parts of the economy because of the technology revolution and because of monetary monetary easing that is now just begun over the past year. Um, you've got resiliency in people that want to protect their money. Not to mention the elephant in the room, where else do you put your money if there is rampant inflation? And I think because we haven't had the type of inflation uh in the past 40 years that we had back in the 80s, people had to ask themselves, where do I allocate capital? And Bitcoin came up, gold came up, the S&P 500 came up, which is why these prices are able to sustain themselves even if they're not owned by the majority of Americans. Tesla getting a move right here as well. Look at that. Tesla 3.6%. So that's why I think, you know, that's why I think the markets are are holding on. Coinbase. Wow. Nine. Okay. So, Coinbase and Hood moving together basically. Even though crypto is flat, it's almost like the Coinbase earnings were good enough for the market to uh to give the brokerages a big a big return together. Oh, that's incredible. Uh here's our here's our guy Devin Ryan. He's one of my favorite hood analysts. It seems like he's also bullish on Coin. Let's get his thoughts on what you got for Coinbase. So, I would say good quarter, but I think the update from last night was actually more important just around the trajectory of the business and all the enthusiasm.
>> Yeah, let's talk a little bit more about that because our executive editor, Brian Sazy, spoke with the CFO, Alysia Hos, about the company's play for institutional investors in particular. Um, and we're going to play what she had to say and then we'll talk about it.
>> We rolled out this new white glove service offering that seen a lot of traction and we're able to retain and grow these advanced traders on our platform. However, another bright star was we closed the Darabid acquisition. So, our institutional trading revenues, they grew over 120% in the quarter. 120% growth. Phenomenal growth.
>> I mean, I guess that's in part because they went from very little to then buying this thing that caters in part to those institutional customers. But, um, how like I think of Coinbase as mostly a consumerf facing or retail facing organization, but I guess increasingly that's not the case.
>> Yeah. So on the trading side, um the majority of volumes actually come from derivatives, so options and futures and that's been an area that Coinbase has really accelerated growth over the last year and then this derbit exchange kind of step function that as well. So uh they're they're absolutely leaning in there and then building really the infrastructure around that. So that's you know lending and custody and other things that institutions are going to demand and so I think they're really well set up to participate in that. But then you more broadly you this theme of bringing other companies on chain whether it's through stable coins or I think the big story or the biggest story with Coinbase is the everything exchange where really using the plumbing of digital assets to bring other asset classes on chain. So it's everything crypto but then every other asset is going to get tokenized over the long term and Coinbase is going to be in the middle of all that. So traditional financial services is coming towards crypto and I think Coinbase is really well positioned for that theme. It's funny because Devin Ryan is bullish on Hood because they are a traditional financial company in regards to stocks that is embracing crypto and Coinbase is a crypto company that's embracing traditional financial services like stocks, equities, futures, etc. And the convergence between the two is very real. So, it makes sense why he is bullish on Coinbase. Look at that. 358. Coinbase was at 440 a couple months ago. So, it is still down a lot from that previous high, but getting a pretty big move right here. Coinbase is also just an exceptional company. I think uh Tanner did an interview with Vlad uh a few months ago and he said the only company that he's even like remotely worried about in terms of technology is Coinbase. Like Vlad's not worried about Schwab or Fidelity, but Coinbase actually they hire engineers, they pay them really well and you know they build really good products. So, I think Coin and Hood are ones to own for a long time. Obviously, I I like Hood more, but it seems like they're both getting a bit of a move right here. Coinbase up 9%. Tesla up 3.6. Palin still holding the 200s, got to 204, now at 202. And then Google still down on the day at 279. Um going back to the super chat as well though about what what Dennis is saying about um you know the the the reality of the economy is not the best but stocks are hitting alltime high. The best way to hedge against that as well is to take some profits like it's not that crazy to take some profits and I you know I haven't fully come to the conclusion of what I want to do by the end of the year because I would like to raise some cash. I think that's a healthy thing to do regardless of the market cycle. also because, you know, you're likely going to get some dips and you want to have some cash to buy those dips. And so, you know, towards the end of the year, I'm definitely going to have to tax loss harvest some stuff. I think Misti is definitely going to be a tax loss harvest because that thing just hasn't moved. Uh, now Bitcoin might be able to save it, but we're going to see. But also, I have to ask myself like, hey, like, do I take some profits across these names? And Palenter is the one company I really don't want to touch. So, then the other two candidates that are left are Nvidia and Hood. And I've got to ask myself, do I take some off the table and do I wait in 2026 if we get a better opportunity? So, and I think that's normal. That's healthy, right? If you're super overweight a position, I can't sell Rocket Lab. You guys would kill me. I was thinking about it, but I can't do that. But also, I'm not super overweight Rocket Lab. I'm really overweight. Hood pounder and Nvidia, but like I really don't lose sleep holding pounder even at these levels. I I mean I I I want I could argue I lose a little bit of sleep with Hood at these levels and the reason for that is because if we do get a bearish downturn or crypto downturn like it's just inevitable Hood is going to get hit and like that's just like that's just going to happen. Now granted those are dips to buy. 100% those are dips to buy. But I think you can I don't want to say time it but you can have a better understanding of okay if things are going red you know hood's going to as be as be a proxy beta to going red with it and you can buy that dip pretty easily because if you believe in the long-term vision but it also means you could probably sell a higher level and not be that worried. Whereas Nvidia and pounder it's not that easy to do that because they're not as cyclical as hood. Hood at the end of the day still if the if the S&P falls 10% tomorrow, Hood is going to get whacked way worse than a lot of other companies because their trading volumes are going to go down and they have some other ways to combat that, but not enough to to to replace their main source of revenue. So, it's just one of those things to to think about. But but again, it's a personal decision for everybody. And if you have a ton of shares of SoFi and you want to take some profits here, take some profit like like that. It always makes you feel a little bit better at night. You'll have some regrets in the long term. That's just inevitable because stocks and good companies tend to go up. But if you want to raise some cash just for having some cash, that is not a bad idea. We are in a bull market. It is okay to have some cash on the sidelines and not be 150% in as you can add on different opportunities. Hoodie moving higher 150.20 20 150 20 pounds here made me overweight. There you go. Hood is not a hold in 2026. I mean look, it really depends really depends on if we have a bull market or bare market. And I want to say given all the hyperscala earnings, we are going to continue this bull market. But it's not like it's going to be in a straight line up. I I don't think it's going to be I mean 2025 is pretty choppy. Not to mention, you've got the risk of Trump saying anything at any moment of the day that immediately causes a downturn, but I think it's okay to take some profits on your winners and then just hold them for, you know, different opportunities. Amazon losing 250, 246, still up 10%. So it's not like the street's taken away the 10%. Google back to 280 and then the S&P up half a percent. Everyone was saying these same things last year. Look, that's fair. That's also fair. This is why profit taking is very subjective, you know? I mean, dude, I don't know, but the tax bill is next year, but that in of itself is going to have to cause me to take some profits. I mean, I had I had to sell a thousand shares of Hood this year for freaking taxes, and that was at 40 bucks, which was not fun. not what you see the price today, but it's always a broader subjective thing. But if you're if you're worried so much about euphoria, then the fact that you invested in the market and you took some profits from your investments, that's also not the uh the thing to be the most scared about. Okay, what else do we have? What else do we have? Um, some of this Fed coverage, we talked about some of those comments. Let's pull up those and see what they're saying about this future rate cut
>> becomes ingrained in people's psyche. Policy he says should lean against demand with inflation running too high and above target. The labor market he sees is imbalance. Believes the economy showing some momentum. Inflation meanwhile he says is spreading across categories to both goods and services. He went on to note that the financial market conditions appear to be easy including equities being at re at record highs and bond spreads very narrow. He thinks the economy accelerated through the summer. And Dallas's Lorie Logan had a similar take, saying, quote, "The economic outlook didn't call for cutting rates." She thinks it's going to be hard for her to support a cut again in December unless inflation is falling faster or the labor market is cooling more than had been forecast.
>> Inflation's not going to be falling faster. The labor market will be. So, I think even if some of these Fed presidents think that we can't justify a cut, we're going to get a cut. Even though JPL tried to kind of tow the line of a cut, there's no way, dude, given the layoff announcements we're seeing, we're going to get a cut. Also, a lot of these Fed presidents, they're not realizing that the labor market weakening, guess what? That's deflationary because if people don't have a job, they're not going to be buying as much intrinsically. The labor market weakening will be a hedge against inflation running to the moon, which is like the thing they've been so concerned about. And then you've got the macro thesis of AI creating so much of deflation. So we might have a deflationary concern in the next five years over inflation if the labor market continues to weaken. And that might be another reason why we have to lower rates. And so at this point I think if you're a Fed president saying that we have to keep rates stable. I really don't think you're looking at the core levels of data which is why thankfully the majority of the Fed presidents are on the side of rate cuts. Chad in this chat says man the beard is nice and clean today. Thank you Chad. I appreciate it. I appreciate the compliment on the beard at the same time while Pounder is hitting an all-time high which is also super nice to see. Chad was on the channel a couple days ago talking about the Nvidia Palenter partnership uh and describing what's going on there. 20263 on Palunteer. This has got to be crazy for Chad too because Chad joined in uh June of 23. Chad joined about two years ago. So, and he joined when the stock was like literally just about to take off. Like like around that time is when the stock was like seven, eight bucks and it was just getting into profitability and we were never going to see those levels again. That's when he joined. So, one could argue, you know, correlation, causation, Chad's here now. The stock 20x's like maybe we can chalk it up to him. But just an incredible, incredible journey. Nvidia right there 206. And then Tessy 456 as well. Are you growing it out? I don't know. I think I I don't know if I'm growing it out to the level I had a couple years ago, but it is pretty fast, right? It's been like two weeks and it's like almost a full beard, which is crazy. But, uh, yeah, we are growing it right now. Uh, AMKR, is that moving? Amcor. Yeah, a little bit of a move right there. All right, so I guess the big stories of the day are essentially Amazon and Apple crushed. Earnings are good. Broader market likes it. S&P not at alltime highs, but close to it. Meta continues to get dumped 659. Halente 200, Robin Hood 150, Coinbase up 10%. And then next week we have a whole string of earnings to see where else this goes. I think that's pretty much it. I think that's pretty much it. I mean, what else? What else do we got right here? John, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate it. Uh, Aie, thank you for the super chat as well. Pounder did surpass Netflix on Market Cap. Uh, Prozzy, thank you for becoming a channel member as well. K Roger, thanks for the $50 super chat. Pounder at 200. Aids sister is gonna be like, "Wow." Okay, bye. Dude, I I really I ended up buying more for her at 180. I haven't bought for her since 20. And I was like, you know what? At 180, we're buying more. She probably doesn't even know, but we got that there. And uh Josh, thanks for the $5 chat. How do you keep track of all your trades for your taxes? Do you use an online journal or anything? There are some specific trades. I have an Excel sheet and I just keep track of if they're like larger trades. In general, I don't really have a journal or anything like that. Uh Robin Hood creates your tax documents for you. Every brokerage does this, but uh you can request them at any time, right? Even before tax season. And so you can get kind of like a Excel sheet and a CSV of all the trades you've made with your total P&L. But yeah, I don't I don't really have a journal. I don't write things down. TJ writes things down. He has a journal. He writes down almost every trade. And so for some people, it's very productive. But for other people, you know, they just track it in their brokerage. What management fee are you taking? taking a 0% management fee, doing it out of pure love, but also, you know, to be to be honest, it gives me more experience with managing money as well.
>> Like, I would never charge to to do that for my sister or for my family, but it also helps me just in general get some experience with managing money that's not my money because there's a lot of different psychology when you're managing someone else's money. Now, granted, it's your loved one, so you you almost think it's like, you know, part of your money. So you try to really take it seriously. But no, there is zero zero management fee. Uh yeah, legend at the very bottom shows your year-to- date profit and loss. That's true. Even if you charged her, you wouldn't notice. That's also true. That's also true. It's so funny, dude. My mom makes the joke every time. It's like, you could be stealing money from your sister and she would never know. So yeah, she wouldn't. She legit wouldn't, but you know, you don't do that to family. Siege, thank you for the $20 super chat. The race doesn't end just because the year is coming to an end. The race never ends. I would agree. The marathon we are on in this market never ends and it looks like the momentum from earnings is continuing to not show us an end. Meta right there 657 still down 1.3 very close to low of days but has not got there yet in the S&P at 684. All right, I think that's it, folks. I don't think there's anything else that's too crazy. I mean, I'm not seeing anything not seeing anything too wild. Uh there was some headlines about Trump and Nvidia yesterday and him talking to about Xi. Uh here's one thing he said on Air Force One yesterday. Let's just listen to this real quick about Nvidia chips.
>> What about chips, sir? Did uh did he agree did you agree to sell any more chips?
>> We did discuss chips and he's going to be they're going to be talking to Nvidia and others about taking chips. Look, we make great chips. Nvidia is the leader and uh I'll be speaking to Jensen from Dvidia, but they're going to be discussing that with Dvidia to see whether or not they can do I said that's really between you and Dvidia, but we're sort of the arbitrator of the referee. It's a little rough up here. The skies
>> the skies are a little rough.
>> And just to clarify, sir, that is the the downgraded Blackwell chips. You you would authorize those to be exported?
>> No, not the Blackwell. We're not talking about the Blackwell that just came out yesterday. Uh but uh a lot of chips, you know, a lot of the chips and
>> all right. So you got Trump talking about the potential of Nvidia getting to sell to China. I mean, look, all of Nvidia's guidance has not been with Blackwell or with or with China. So any level of China is just icing on the cake and obviously that would be very bullish for Nvidia long term.
>> All right, there you go. That's uh that's what we got folks. I'll be back on the market close. Congrats to everybody. Palenteer 200, S&P up half a percent on the day. Rob trying to get back to 150. It is a Friday, October 31st. Um hopefully we can end out on a good note. I will be back today on the close. No days off today for Friday. I think we'll get Steve on, maybe Matt on, and we'll have our normal uh Friday market close. That's pretty much it. That is pretty much it. Yes, I'll be back on the close. Not gonna not gonna have an excuse for this one, but we'll be live. It has been a wild week. Just a wild wild week. I would I would imagine a lot of people alltime highs in the portfolio this week as well. Crazy crazy week. We had that nine hour stream, but it was fun. It was a fun week. All right, word of the day. What do we got? Halon. Halon denoting a period of time in the past that was what the hell is this word? Idily, happy and peaceful. Idilicy means charming, peaceful, and perfect. Associated with a simple or picturesque scene. Hakon. It's also a mythical bird. Dude, what the heck is this? How do you say this [__]
>> Hian.
>> Okay, that that was that was a little off. Hian. Dude, the C and the Y look like a C sound to me. Dude, no one knows this word. No one knows this word. I know none of you guys know this word. No one's heard of this word. I miss those houseion summer days when life felt endless and uncomplicated. No one says that [__] bro. No one's ever said that [__] Houseyian summer days when life felt endless and uncomplicated. That's ridiculous. That makes no sense. Swinging a miss. There you go. Houseion admit, did you buy your $200 pound share? That is right. I do need to do that. Let's do that right now. Someone did send a $200 super chat yesterday. So, let's get that out of the way. Here we go. Palunteer first buy in the two hundos. The amount of times I've seen this screen. Palunteer order completed. It is just crazy. There you go. 200. I was looking at it the other day. The lowest buy I got was 640. But I was broke at the time and I was already down, you know, what was it? 75%. So it was like a 100 shares. So it was like the best I could do in 2022. Some of you guys got to load up tens of thousands of shares at that time. I was not in that type of situation. From 6 to 200. From 6 to 200. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Uh we'll be back on the market close. Great week. If I don't see you on the market close, I'll see you on Pounder Weekly. if you uh join then. If not, Sunday futures, it'll be a big one. Monday is going to be a Super Bowl. Monday is gonna be a big one. Monday's gonna be big one for two reasons. Number one, we have Palunteer, which is always big, and that's important. And now that the stock has run before earnings, we're going to see how the numbers come out and what ends up happening to the stock. So, that's important. And also because the newest addition to the name that I really associate myself with is Grab and that's going to have earnings as well. So Monday is just going to be a very anxiety producing day for me across the board and we're going to see how it turns out. But it'll be a big week. Happy Halloween to everybody. If you have more Halloween pictures, post them on Twitter and tag me in it. I would love to show everybody on the screen. AMD next week, Robin Hood next week. I mean, next week's just going to be massive. So, we got a lot of stuff. And you know, we had a successful week with earnings, successful Fed meeting. Now, if we can just continue that, it'll be very exciting to keep this going. So there you go. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I will see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Happy Halloween. Have a good one. See you on the market close.