Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Programs about education
We have published 5 issues.
Today's video
Let’s put the topic of education aside for now.
Let's talk about a question that many friends are concerned about.
Why should people insist on their own personality?
Before you begin
I want to say it again
If you need a transcript of the video
Basic members who can join my channel
If you have any topic you need
Want to discuss and consult with me
You can also contact my email
Let’s get back to our topic
A few days ago
A netizen shared her confusion with me
She works for an animation company in North America
The work is what you like
My colleagues are also very friendly.
She has a lot of free time.
You can explore your own painting and design style
Pursue other hobbies
Although the income is not that high
But she is quite satisfied with her situation.
but
Sometimes she doubts
Do you lack a sense of urgency?
Too leisurely
Because from time to time there are people around me who will say
The income of this job is not high after all
You should do it when you are young
Go do those high-paying jobs
Wait until you make enough money
Enjoy yourself in middle age
Others say
Being young means striving
Be prepared for possible risks and crises in the future
You should invest all your time in professional skills.
Others believe
The hobbies she pursues in her spare time
Currently not available for cash
At least you have to wait for a longer time.
Why not do some
There will be rewards soon.
But for her
Pursue a high-paying job
Being in the moment means temporarily giving up your own style
Choose to copy the most popular
But it is also mechanical and convergent
Even a bit kitsch style
I think this
This is indeed a very common dilemma.
It is the lack of short-term
Visualizing the case for rewards and feedback
How open can you be?
Keep exploring
certainly
The dilemma we are talking about here
It means that a person has clearly realized
The direction you want to explore
Your preferences and values
It's just this kind of self-exploration
It cannot bring much rewards and recognition for the time being.
You also have to face the judgment and misunderstanding of people around you.
But the parties can clearly realize
This is a conflict between self and environment
If a person does not have a clear preference
I don’t know what I like or what I want.
So their problem is
How to find your own interests and values
This dilemma
This is not the dilemma we are going to discuss today.
In the best case scenario
Do what you like alone
Meeting the expectations of others
You can also get worldly rewards and recognition
for example
We mentioned this in the previous video.
In the long run
The value and rewards of free learning
is much greater than
Short-term benefit-oriented learning
However, in free learning
Before accumulating enough practical ability
People will definitely experience loneliness
and the stage of self-doubt
Because it is difficult to bring clear output for the time being
and socially recognized achievements
In the eyes of people around
These explorations are a waste of time and meaningless.
In China
A similar dilemma is to consider family expectations.
Or the pressure of reality
Go with someone you don't like that much
Dating, marriage
for example
Parents will say
This guy has a stable job.
High income, seems to be a down-to-earth person
Education is also good
According to the Chinese dating rules
It's a very good condition.
It's worthy of our family.
However
The parties involved have their own clear judgment
For example, she might think
This object lacks a distinct personality and opinion
Too obedient in front of parents
For example
She thinks that although this person seems to have a high degree of education
But lack of stable values ​​and mature insights
There's no idea.
In the opinion of the parties
These unquantifiable intrinsic qualities
Better than any other job, with higher income
These quantifiable external conditions are important
However
Stick to your own judgment
It is inevitable that people around you will not understand you.
for example
Although the parties explained to their parents again and again
My true thoughts
But parents always say you are too picky
In a few years, I won't be able to get married.
Relatives would also say
It is more important for a woman to marry well than to work well.
Surrounded by these sounds
The parties thought
I do feel lonely sometimes.
And this feeling of loneliness does seem to be my own problem
Even feel
This is the surrounding environment
A punishment for being too individualistic
So these negative feelings
They all belong to individuals in order to stick to themselves
The additional cost
That's it.
Some people would say
Anthony, you are talking about sticking to your personality.
Although it is beautiful to pursue self
But it sounds too idealistic
Too much chicken soup
People always have to face the pressure of reality.
Well, I want to go off topic for a moment.
My understanding of idealism
First of all, different people
The understanding of this concept varies greatly.
In the eyes of many people
Idealism is a beautiful thing.
But it is not worldly.
Unreal things
Many people's ideal of freedom is purely abstract
It is also very fragile
They will feel
My ideal is unrealistic.
Only then can the brilliance and sacredness of the ideal itself be brought out.
therefore
Many people simply use their own abstract
Moral ideals to criticize reality
Point out how fake the real world is
Calculation between people
Money, power, these things are so ugly
Make this judgment and it's over
Then keep high
See through the world
They insist that ideals and reality are absolutely separated
Irreconcilable
He can't go into the micro details.
But this is not the idealism I understand.
I personally don't like that
Sentimentalization of freedom and ideals
and cynical expressions
In my opinion
Although it is different from the direct reality
However, the ideal that is truly alive
It will definitely become a reality
Rather than just staying at the abstract value
And in a state of innocence
That is to say
Ideals and reality should be unified in the end
As Hegel famously said
All that is rational is realistic
This sentence can be understood as
Anything that is rational
Will realize itself in reality
This means
We shouldn't presume
The conflict between ideal and reality is absolute
We need to learn to look at reality from a spiritual perspective.
Facing reality
That is to say, we need to have such insight and vision.
See the reality that most people understand
It's not really reality
Hegel in Phenomenology of Spirit
There is a passage that says this
The spirit is only in absolute fragmentation
When holding on to itself
Only then did he win his truth
The reason why spirit is such a force
Not because it is a positive thing
Ignore the negative things
Just like we are negative about something
Say it is nothing or false
Just forget it
And then it turns around like that
On the contrary, the spirit is this power
Just because
It dares to face the negative
and stay there
This kind of stay
It is to deny something
A magic that turns into existence
I really appreciate this sentence
This sentence means that
Spirit is to have a kind of self-confidence
Dare to face reality face to face
To delve into the details of various realities
To affirm yourself
The process of spiritual self-realization does not come out of nothing
Create yourself from the void
It is more like doing a proof question.
Prove that the real world is like this
The real world has realized
Pre-existing purpose
For example
The abstract and naive idealism of the former
Similar to what the ancient Chinese envisioned
In ancient times, the world belonged to all.
The ideal of selfless dedication
for example
Du Fu's ideal is to "make the king Yao and Shun
"Make the customs pure again"
He longs for the era of Yao and Shun
The state where everyone is very simple and innocent
Bai Juyi faced the officials' extortion and oppression at that time.
We can only hope to restore the early years of Zhenguan
There is an emperor like Emperor Taizong of Tang who is very observant
To rectify the administration
These ideals are completely abstract.
Failing to take into account the selfishness and complexity of human nature
Can only rely on moral education or individual awareness
The real idealism
can fully accommodate and understand the complexity of human beings
Such as selfishness, etc.
And propose a specific implementation path
Therefore, it has more realistic vitality
for example
Kant's theory of perpetual peace
is to explore the relationship between countries
How can peace be achieved?
In the 18th century, when Kant lived
European countries are still at war every day
Kant's Perpetual Peace
And the ideals of the ancient Chinese
It all seems out of reach.
However
Kant's specific path to avoid war
That is to establish a union of free nations
and the establishment of a republic
Today, this is already happening within the EU.
And make the EU
Becoming one of the most peaceful and developed regions in the world
Kant's Ideal
It is precisely based on
Humans have reason and free will.
Humans have free will and reason
Will disguise yourself
There is a possibility of doing evil
But Kant believes
Even if it's a group of demons
As long as he is rational
Eventually you will realize
The republican system is the best way to protect the interests of both parties.
So the real ideal
Will not just stay at the level of abstract values
Instead, we should face the contradictions and difficulties of reality.
Propose a more feasible and explanatory solution
Prove that you are more real
for example
We emphasize the benefits of free learning
It is not from the perspective of abstract values.
Freedom is more moral and better than despotism
Instead, look for a lot of empirical research and evidence
To prove that free learning is indeed more efficient
It is easy for ordinary people to see
Authoritarian education method works quickly
Although this is a reality
But it is the reality at the surface level
The benefits of free learning
This is also a reality
But it requires a certain perspective
The reality that can be seen
Therefore, I never thought
Human selfishness and utilitarianism are themselves shortcomings.
Care about your own interests
It is a positive force in itself
And those actions that are called selfish
This often goes against one's own long-term interests.
That is to say
Shortsightedness is the real shortcoming
As for human personality
We say that many people feel that developing their own personality
Will suffer huge losses
Choose to give up individuality
You will get a lot of benefits immediately
This seems to be a reality
But it’s largely an illusion
Because people can easily see
The tangible loss of self-assertion
But it's hard to see
The invisible loss caused by giving up self-exploration
Because of this invisible loss
It requires careful observation and thinking to discover
for example
A person doesn't like programming
I prefer humanities and social sciences
But he just thinks programmers earn more
Easier to find a job
He would simply take the difference between the income of these two types of work
As a benefit of his choice of programming job
But this calculation method is wrong.
here
We are going to talk about opportunity cost
“Opportunity cost” is an economic concept
It means that when we are in the two options a and b
When you choose option a
Should not only consider
How much benefit can plan A bring us?
You should also consider
The potential gain lost by not choosing option B
It can also be said to be a potential loss
If a person wants to grow a certain crop
The capital he has
He can only choose between planting corn and soybeans.
Select One
So if he chooses to grow corn
It means
He gave up the profits from growing soybeans.
for example
He invested 10,000 yuan in growing corn
Earned a profit of 12,000 yuan
But if he chooses to grow soybeans
You can get a profit of 15,000 yuan
The 3,000 yuan difference
This is the person who chose to grow corn
The price paid
The concept of opportunity cost tells us that
In real life
Whether choosing a career
Buy or rent a house
Every choice has a hidden cost.
We need to be concerned about the potential losses of the paths not chosen
In fact, choose a high income
But I don't like the job
The opportunity cost is much higher than expected.
Most people
Underestimating your need for individuality and meaning
Because this need is hidden and difficult to detect.
Therefore, it is necessary to reflect in order to discover
for example
Due to long-term suppression of personality
and lack of meaningful work
Individuals often seek compensation in other areas
To fill the emptiness in my heart
A typical example is revenge consumption.
Some people can't control themselves and buy luxury goods
Even beyond their financial capacity.
Some people seek special forces travel
Experience as many luxury hotels and restaurants as possible
And various popular attractions
Even though I didn't feel good
But in order to accumulate enough friends for the next few months
Still choose to take photos crazily in a short time
To create a refined living state
These behaviors
can be regarded as
Compensation for the sense of meaninglessness in daily life
Same reason
Some people because of their work
No real personal recognition
As a result, individuals will feel more lonely
This intensifies the pressure on those short-term
Dependence on superficial interpersonal recognition
They will also be more similar in their attitude towards life
for example
Although I don't like some fake
Superficial relationships
But I just can't refuse
Excessive participation in unnecessary dinners and drinking parties
Or spend extra money and time
To maintain meaningless social interaction
Another example is constantly buying some cheap recognition
For example, giving a reward to a female anchor, etc.
Because individuals fail to pursue bravely
and explore the meaning of one's life
So some people will do it in a wrong way.
To realize your ideal
A common phenomenon in China
that is
The ideals and wishes that you have not been able to meet and realize
Rely on children
The so-called hope that one's son will become a dragon
I hope my children will take care of me.
Fulfill your unfulfilled wishes
But it’s scary for kids.
For example, some mothers
Obsessed with turning children into child prodigies and child stars
By letting children show up
I manipulate my children behind the scenes.
Indirectly satisfy your dream of becoming a star
On the other hand
As we strive to explore in life
and your real interests
Live your own will
The potential to creatively express our emotions and thoughts
Even though it may be hard
and
Not many people will recognize and appreciate us for now.
However, since our living conditions are authentic
So once someone appreciates me
It means
This appreciation is for me as a person.
Rather than external labels
So the depth of the connection I felt
It's better than when I'm in a false state
Receive 10 times the appreciation
Even stronger
We say
The quality of interpersonal support is more important than the quantity
Only interpersonal relationships gained in a real state
Is effective
Some stars
Although in reality he has thousands of fans
However, he clearly realized
Fans like him only for the character he plays.
Therefore, this kind of like and appreciation
Not only for a person's personality growth
Not much support
It is even a kind of shackles and bondage
A sincere and deep appreciation
Better than 10,000 superficial likes on the Internet
Attention and praise
To bring more happiness and joy to people
This can be said to be a person who insists on self-exploration.
Hidden benefits you can enjoy
So we say
Self-identity
It is a person's most inner and essential need.
If we can only see people's economic needs
Physiological needs
I can't see because I can't know myself
Unable to express true self
The mental pain caused
would mistakenly underestimate the importance of personality
As a result, individuals are either in some hidden places
Paid an extra price
Or transfer this cost to others
When we consider this high opportunity cost
Will reconsider
Many choices that are common in Chinese society
That's it for today's video
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!