Everyone Today, we're about a in New York and it's about a time. On the United States, the United States, the U.S., and other media and other all the socials, and in Warrerjeet the report's very detail. This story from a by a new year to the child, can't cut out of 222 children and a big, a new, a new, Chinese, the they've in a chasas in a chide in the media, medit shun--mort-moh- quay- a new--quo-l across- quay-of- trade-e-lien- Arcadia in Los Angeles is a few-ythewy to city. This years, it's a big people have a people they've got many of money. In the New Year 6th, Losanchi a a year, a new year and when was un-heed-and- by "Lew-New-tru--ture-the- children's- getting to "merects the police, in the to the site, there's a a dot to a dollars and a house in the house in the and the city and that the other, he was there and found 15 youth they they they're taking and have people have and that that not not a not that they can't the people, I'm seeing the picture the picture, Pan-San School of the youth Pounde-Bow-Deghurt, by Bautum-Darine and beat-fah. The police saw in the Los Angeles in the city in the other six kids. And as Arcadia house in the 15 and the hospital and the young and the young two two children. This home house is a day a new people emin New Yorker, the new-sue person, 38-seye. In the book, was used his English Silvia John. Her name his Chinese is a man-jou-man is Hshen son, 65- in the report-tow- in his name, Kewan. His-Gun-E-N- his name his name his, his John She said these 22 kids all the he's he's the community people did he's the police did and he all and he wrote was his father is but you there and there was a These these kids are in in a few years and in a few years and in a different in a country from a country from say it's not possible. Zhang Nuss is not in a few years to send out of two years. First, the court the two years down to the two children only two two years is one of the time other are from both different in different in different women send to The police found 15 of the house not only is Zhang and Ms. and Huan Mr. and Hsuan's family, and also a guy named Mark Saregacy Investment, Marke, Dayun, the company's of the subpo. And Zhang is the company, the company, the chief person. The H.R.J. The Worldier's report said, he's from 2001, one of a one more than a one, and he was a child and emin to America. Then, two people, he went. Huan's from China. His farm-saint company and a company with a company, had in a company, had been, made, According to the camera The police confirmed the The Nourneux of the in-ear-e A.Bow-Moo-do-lawed Daughtered. Zhao-Sys-Bow-Mu is 56-year-Lie-Lie-Cruy, from the name's to find out of China. The camera shows, he's he's high-haw-haw-haw-haw-hack and chow-hack-hack-hurt. That way, the mom, in-tow-t --fong-tout-the-ccult "Tong-ststst "Tongue". But this clearly not a typical new-due-da-hye-hocan police and Thehue and Sir and the state-the-state the country also all-the-he-he- and-e-e-ya- These case cases'all and such-e countries and such-send fan-mai-en fan-mied-and-o , and it's pretty, and, and, over the different police's, the local security. So, the state, police, is FBI, please FBI, get into the trial. The trial of the chief, from New York Act, turned to find out of the people. Four days after, the court, the court, the court, Zhang's at the time when she's in the airfield's talk about her own. He said, we've never made our children, we've got them to be very. He said, he and the family just want to do you want to have a family. The police and FBI, it's not even not sure not think of this, For the To get-upy Theeuttee Atee's Atee's Auxe name called Vennettie's said, last year he in the name called Linhui's sent out of whether is if you for a of a due un-e-e-pru--cun-d--un-d--tru-t-tall- "Chang-N-Hu- In the first-touching in the Zhang Nuss by the she said a way to a child but can't make a mother he said he and he and he and he and he and he did he did he very high high-of $5,000 $5,000 and in the white-un- $1. And in he and his young and he can't be in $1 $1 $1 $1. And he's Vanitye agreed to The entire He had seen John and He said and he He knew and he And then And then he knew The two Mackett company He knew he came when he did he agreement and he was he came and he Mr. And then More than Vanity is in the In fact, in the in the way of the age of the age of the time, Zhang Nuss could have said that he had been in he, he had been seeing, he had a picture, and she had had already had been she said, that's his her Valetay felt was by Zhang was being he thought he was in doing he'd give you doing he's the one the one of the end up all right now and then by Zhang Mrs. Chalmoo's got a client and they've got found that Zhang Nus is he, he's not but he's wanting to he's like all people he's like everyone wronged it's the first at least the second time they're nobody who didn't know this day this day time and 20% and 20% people and signed the contract This sort of in the day-un industry in quite-hand-conn't. At least with two-three-de-three-de-un mothers work, it's been at least-selled, and at least, let 20-do-mean for their own-so-we-women. To understand why this thing will happen in Georgia, we need to get the American-wind-in-fraud and the back-oing law-lue and the world market. The American no, the country's un-uited, the "Dai-Unging of law""" "...withsince-concuiting""tend, and then, and, all kinds of ""toucher in other countries." And, "Govern.'" Some states' "South"gues' "Shin'"aaute"a "Songinghack"aun." Some of those are quite as quite-sue, and it's a lot of control, the country the country the country not that not even and in the and in the child before, can through and certain the name, that means, that means that the children, and never to make to In Giazzo, in the company, no need any job, no need any any of the and not need to like any other any other can be can do work. W. W. "Chair New York, and And the law says, "Eighter father's "'Thieless you have "'how many people are you "'withing how many of your own "'theirder's "'deeatheirn't is not "'ifes a free time "'theircould "'in's why "'in' "'in' "auntzoyed in New York "'Incues "'Iruching "'in' "'in' "'in' "'theirhue "'of "'Chiuadeadehue.'" American Emory University has a research found from 2014 to 2020 2020, American market market market market market market market and these high-wide and these high-wide customers, you have a percent of 1% of China. why do you know, why in the need of so much? There are three reasons. The first reason is that the law is in order for those "But-un' but-yue, but-yue, but you want to have a child's family, or more-hurt of a family' or to have a good-hout-house-house, The second reason is the Dut-Sendu's children's The United China's In fact the these years these years many many people have been a some family and then to turn to The third reason is is the American's the source. This is the great see-eatingly of the court. Any other in the people get made people get to get to people make people people's a people and the people people take and in the people people's and people by the people not that by the country by the world without make There's a need to have a conge. One is the need of great, can't out of the cost of the cost of law, the law, can't control, control, change, the jacue, the jacue, the social media, tiscom, the, good-shawn, and good-shawned, Zhang Nuis and Huan-Shen-Shen-Shen's Mar-Kead-Deging Prowse company put this system played to the end. Zhang Nuis to the keystser said, he's the country, and he's a big family, Huan-Sys-Nexam in the same when he said when he's also say-for. They said, "They have ability to up to have the 2nd of children. Though they're they're not they're trying to make up, they're for the way, and to build a family, but this this is not, this is not, this is They put 15-year-ar in a small-hazes all-tie-tring-pings, there's six-beau-bo-loin-law-cann-court. This, how-looking, it's not like the father, more like a year-er-cig-cig-ccouped of liu-sue-sue. They said, the child-all-the-court-the-court, but the-cuncourt-the-court-the-cuit-all-cuit-cuit-ttall-nue to do-nays-cue-nid-chuechewshe, "Tenming their' say of its' "'and's s'p'f' They also used Toeot Toeatheer Toean Not even It's Toehmann It's And inman While in Inman, Theecky For many Deyn's Fore's even Toeer's Parteuxe. "Hawr'Eye's New Court of the story. and...I. I'm sorry. You know, in addition, you know, and the story, but...a. You're not even though, and the story, in the same, but you know, you can't you're all the There a man in Florida's day-un-being-wean, and he had been a very bad one, he can't have a very health problem. Zhang, when did this is he told the day-unee-moo-min, let him say to find out of the child's "isphor'n't know how the child's "isn't.'"'Their man day-unee-mun-ma-twin' made a insan, "Their'n'a'an'a'a'an' "0'n'a'n'u'""""" From the report, from the Zhang Nuis and Huan Hscian said about 222 kids are for a grand family the way not not not much and their and they and they not fool. This is not not not FBI and According to H.R.J. The report, FBI's the trial is it in they're in their way, piling, send unar, and then, go-cap-fought-finding. F.B.I. The trial still still, and there's been due to forefew, if this is this day-foo-heed, in the court court in court court, we're still to get them is not going to be of the jury. The H.R.J. The World's report, through the police and and the court including and try to put up logic and to make and the of the now, the the the the the the first the and the They're also sawmoo a 20-do-month- and send at at least 20 kids. The 2nd is the business-in- from zaw-mood to Gu-Lew-Se-C-C-Cra--tack-t to-a-tall-e-t to-mut-e-tall-n-tall-n-l-a-e-o-eat-o-o-o-o-eweeus-ent-ssscent-ssson-tran. The third is that is Sheetain and Inman Zhang Nuis' Toeathe's to Daiming Mutu Kyi-Mu Kyi-un Is for taking-N-Di-Uin is For example, Like Degu's in-Mond, her piquing-ean-she's From these three Two-Syser to-Coh-Permost company more like to-ean-send-sum-sum-y not-kind-in-kind-in-a-ta-tie. If from the business's Toes' Toes' company's to look at John's'n't look at the way, at least in logic more can't be able to make sure, and more fit in the ching, and all right. So, to here, many people would ask, if Marke Daiming company, p. large, it's the cost, for the cost, then, then he's the person, That is FBI the heart-in, the most the possibility is that they're not going to through the or not not going through the state of the money, a family, one of the American country and in the country, at the same, in the cashed, can't FBI's and the data and show they're all in why I'm think they're trying to John and Mr. and Huan Mr. Bainer and the role of their role. They're using American free using the money, then then they make to their and then make to the Mark Dyeon, the company from 2001 started run back in now now now it's now it between there's some any new a new three three three three one a one three and and not to take and not not people not and she's and They're in hand to Zhang Mrs. and Huan Mr. Hschenst's special This incite the end up the jury's the jury. That way law and the lawyer never seen before this is she thought there's there's maybe there would be back to the police and and the police is for there's whether there's not there still At about at the time, Los Angeles'i lawian a man found he sent piqued many day-dye-dun documents all share the same-of-fum of the name, is Zhang, and Huan-Shen-Shen. A day-day-un- in-duty-n in-dun-of-scient-n in-o-lust-we-wit. This, in-in-of-cuh-an-cuit. He had a man-a-l-n-cuh-an-scent-eus to-chuan-sher-send-shan-shan-send-n't-all-hack-hack. This as a The is that the children's "Eye's - The police police report shows, 2024 7th there are police, says that that one house of there is some people and are people, there's people report said, not that's "t not really getting to the The American, though no one of the un-unyred-un-fraud, but a new, a whole-co-fand-souhye "obey'Faughan human-trafficking." "Fauntow people's trafficking, is with "Bowliscibrae, or shepherding, "'tallmoo'wet, 'weigh-songed, "'wetown, or get-sohulleran-sohung, "'and'hose people.'" Dayun by the way but by far but through by the time chiseling time, showmoo day and he's people and it's This case and in the case in the case in the case and FBI all have been we're still we're saying again. In the American in the court in the court all the court all the all of the but it but not not not not it doesn't and it and it can't the certain the fact of the and the the This case and in the media on out of the outside the way the the other the other not the and the not the and the 22-2-year- children's the people people are the two-two-of- children only one one of two two-two- is John-Nus were other are- they're- they're- they're- they're- There's a question and one of the question is that the 22nd of Dr. Zhang Nuis and Huan's isn't there are other kids? H.R. J.R.J. News said, they use English and language and many times asked but it got to the question to find. He was not. It's was the question and before mott. That the did they do they were how much how how much the can't get-b--of--the- m- "I can't be found out of the 222 kids, "'muchin' all in the "'the-down-systems' "tall in the "'Dong-Dong-Lewsays' "'From law-lure. "'In fact, because of day-un-un-huehruing "'and-send son-nue-sha-un-kindsher, "'aren't these kids "'were-cuh-cern-he-he-he-ean-law. if there's enough enough to evidence, they've got made a new or they've found a human rights, as if you have not the court, they're still they're not have rights, and these children, and these children, those children, but there's men, and then we were in the law, and the social conflict, and some day-y-womenu in de-z-true in the way to get them to be able to get them to grow up. But from law-law-lawed, they have no power. They're just day-un-bun-hocon-the-y-fonged-cime. And more becky the children, is that's the children their children. Their home's their child just to make a little a certain, a poor-sue to end, a point-of-e mother, said, this child and all about all right, it's all-gut- of-gues, the the right--niet-of- person, to- end-so- the time--she--and-se--s--sown-she- This case honed on the American, could be the American the entire trade-un-saint-in-saint-in change-true. Day-un, many-send-nob-nily-nigh-nobing women-of-noburned. In-wond, in America, had been in America, but, in-being-with- non-sum-sion-kind-of-combed. through the law, through the court's the court can get get these these two-fonds. But, it's in the young production, piece-and-scent-e so that's because it's because of the law-lust because it it's because it's it's a human-sher- The Chinese world There are many There's many people really There's a lot of people And so there also there Many people people Who do not the business To run to the end the time and the Caper Coup to cut to end by theerermort to play to market business run and run and can't be all can't all all all In the in the way of the trade, in the they've got all the all the all of the all of the people and then the whole around these years they've they started that the top FBI, to this case of, still in continue. In doing the in doing before, it's not not possible people to be put more the end-in- media in when it's and at being being being in yu'un to see and you and Mr. and Huan Mr. or if I'm being people, or even the people, and they are, they're going to be doing, they're doing, there's, but, Here, do the "Eutest not interested. More interested is, from the media the truth, we've seen what? We've seen what? We've seen what? We actually never seen how many things. We're in this case in the case in the case of the end of the world, in the German world, had been of the things, got over a few different things, and got to have been the Any other market market If we're at least-of-the-line To-Dat-Farrepan, Zun-Farrepan, get-to-the-counter, It's all the entire land. Do things, do you have to struly And, it's un-to-lis-lis- And in the end, there's one-the-counter Ones, whether it's in China or in America, there some things can't put, there some money can't run, there some money, there's-you-coup-to-do. Today's words said And next time and again.