Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are alive and well, we got a green pre-market and we have a green pre-market for one simple reason. Uh quite literally we went green about 20 minutes ago as you can see right here. S&P 500 is green right here up about 0.56%. Little bit of a uh source of relief. We were at 649 at one point in the pre-market on the S&P 500. We got to 647 on October 10th. So very close to those October 10th lows. ended at 652 yesterday. Yesterday we had one of the largest reversals we've seen in over a year. We were up two and a half percent and then we went down 1.5%. So 3.5% intraday on the reversal. But we are a big green right here. And the reason for the green quite frankly we're just going to get straight into it. And then we got BMR earnings. So we'll talk about that as well. You know yesterday we said what is the reason why we had that reversal? How did Nvidia go up 450 billion then go down 450 billion? Quite literally, the futures went higher after one of the Fed presidents signaled that uh they might want to get a rate cut. Fed President Williams said there is room for further adjustment to rates and noted easing inflation risks. Traders lifted the odds of a December cut to over 50% up from 37%. Williams also said that inflation has stalled near 2.75% partly due to trade policies, but he expected to move back towards 2% by 2027. It's kind of crazy, dude. I mean, we were looking for a lot of different reasons for why uh the markets reacted the way they reacted yesterday. Again, everyone was so excited and then everyone was not excited just because things completely collapsed. I mean, look at the rate cut probabilities right now, guys. Yesterday, we were at 30%. We're at 70% right now. So, we'll talk more about what's going on with the rate cut scenario, but but for those just joining that, that is exactly why futures have flipped. And now, will we sustain any of this? I have no idea. I mean, maybe, maybe not. Uh, but this is quite incredible that we are over 50% for a rate cut chance now that Williams signaled that yeah, I think we should cover rates. I believe William has a vote in December, which is why the market's also like leaning towards, hey, maybe Williams is going to be one of the deciding votes that gets us the cut. But the fact that the market is this hung up on just the rate cut, proves, at least to an extent, it proves that maybe it has nothing to do with AI bubble, GPU depreciation, crypto glitches. Maybe it's just literally about if we get a rate cut or not. I feel like that's too simple of an explanation, but if that is the explanation, then, you know, that could be the logic for why we are trading the way we're trading. So, that's what we got there. We'll we'll get deeper into what's going on with rate cuts in a second, but BMR earnings, let's get right into it. We do have the report right here. Yes, they have declared a dividend. For those that are asking, they declared a dividend. Yeah, Fed President Collins said the opposite. So, it's also just like, you know, it's weird because the market is so excited that one president said uh to do a rake up, but then the other president said to not. So, we're going to have to see how the market ultimately interprets it. Uh fiscal year 2025 gap EPS of $13.39 a share. Uh they are going to start staking in Q1 of 2026. Uh and they declared a dividend of 1 cent of 1 cent. Tom Lee, Bitine continues to execute at the highest level. The company is well positioned in 2026 and we look forward to commencing ETH staking with our Maven or uh made in America validator network in early calendar 2026. Uh so they're launching their own validator network for staking on the continued weakness in ETH prices states Mr. Lee. Crypto prices continue to suffer as the drop in market liquidity and function since October 10th which was the largest ever single day liquidation event in the history of crypto in 2022. The post FTX liquidity shock took eight weeks to clear, but similar to prior draw downs, crypto prices quickly recovered. History shows crypto prices stages V-shaped recoveries after a lingering and drawn out decline, and we expect this to be the case in this current draw down. Uh they had net income of 328 million. They're declaring a dividend of 1 cent a share. Uh they're the first large cap crypto company to declare a dividend and they will have their annual shareholder meeting in Las Vegas at the win January 2026. Now, Maven, the made in America validator network, is going to have safe and secure operations, performance and reward yield generation, ability to run dedicated infrastructure, overall service quality and support, and they plans to go live in the calendar year or the first quarter of 2026. Tom Lee says, "We plan to partner with one or more of these pilot partners, plus worldclass infrastructure providers to scale our made in America validator network over the coming quarter. Although many off-the-shelf offerings exist, we believe in building the premier destination for our natively stake ether and are proud to build with the best partners. At scale, we believe our strategy will best serve the long-term best interests of our shareholders. Uh, and that's what you got. That is what you got. I have nothing on the amount of shares outstanding. Uh maybe that'll be disclosed in a different um piece of news, but I'm looking at their their presentation online as well, and I don't see outstanding shares, so I don't know if we have that information. Um I mean, it's not like easily available to see. The dividend is kind of weird. I'm not going to lie. I don't know what's the point of 1 cent a share. I I kind of would rather them use that and buy more Ethereum. So, I I don't know what the one cent a share really does, but I don't know. I I guess that's their strategy of enticing shareholders to stay or to incentivize shareholders to to to come in, but I don't have the share. If anyone has it, let me know. Um maybe the 10 Q is not out yet, but it should be out like relatively soon. I I I don't see it on their website, but I tried looking in the morning. I didn't see any of the other SEC filings outside of this like PowerPoint presentation that I'm scrolling through right now. So, you have a dividend, you have a declaration to start ST, at least we know why they're not staking now. They're building their own validator network to stake. So, for anyone asking why they're not staking, it's because I guess they're doing it in their own proprietary way in 2026 in the beginning. and they made about $330 million of net income. To us 284 million shares. Yeah. The problem is the brokerages have no idea. Like Robin says something, Weeble says something. So, you can't really use the brokerages to kind of define the accuracy of it. We They really just need to show us on the 10Q. And so, I believe we should get the information soon, like today. But we're going to have to see ultimately when that comes out. Um, so there you go. That's what you got on BMR earnings. Not really moving the stock for for those that I mean were awake at least at all last night at crypto just went through a blood bath. I mean absolute blood bath, guys. Crypto got to Bitcoin got to 80,500 at one point. This was at like 2 a.m. Ethereum got to 2620. So I mean I this is I I don't know. This is quite incredible right here. I mean, we have an obvious deleveraging and disgusting sort of withdrawal on the crypto markets. The only reason they're getting a rebound, I believe, is because of these future probabilities going higher based on one Fed president saying that futures uh or that that the rate cut is more likely than not. Bit mine right there is up 1.64%. But Ethereum and Bitcoin still getting hit, getting a bit more of a rebound. S&P 500 up about 0.55%. Robin Hood's up 1.7. Meta's up a little bit. Nvidia's up a little bit. Today is going to be a really interesting day. I'll put the green or red poll in the chat. I mean, do we think we get even a sympathy rebound after a basically six to 7% decline we saw in the S&P 500 today or over the past week? Or does the bottom fall out? And it felt like the bottom fell out yesterday. I mean, it really did because, you know, there was just no bottom in sight. But um on a Friday where options are expiring, do you get any level of rebound? I don't know. I really don't know. But we're going to find out here today. You said the slide deck says 234 million shares outstanding. Does it? Um I don't see it on the slide deck. Oh wait, hold on. I think I do. No, but that makes no sense. Okay, I'm gonna have to go through this stuff a little bit more in depth to get the exact number. I'm sure we'll get it today. I I'm I'm pretty sure we'll get it today. We're just going to need to look through some of these numbers. Yeah. So, when we get it, we'll be able to have a better calculation of the MNAB, especially because we have the EPS as well. But regardless, the dividend is the most confusing to me. I'm not sure why they're giving a dividend. That is like that's the confusing part to me. I I don't know if the dividend is going to be attractive enough to get people to stay, but nonetheless, you do have that dividend. So, that's what we have on BMR earnings, and I think that's the only real earnings that we have this morning. Fear and greed index, we are at eighth, guys. We got to six yesterday on fear and greed. So, it's obviously been very close to the liberation. Liberation lows, we got to three. So, I mean, I don't know. I guess we uh I guess we're just that close to to getting to the absolute lows. But uh the problem with buying here is that everything has been a falling knife. So I mean maybe Fear and Greed literally has to get back to those liberation day lows for us to bottom. But we have been in falling knife territory. Every dip has been a tough dip to buy. So now the question is just going to be when we do end up bottom and how this fully plays out. Yes, Karp Schult sold shares yesterday. Shaman sold shares yesterday. That those were all scheduled sales. 10 B51s. So regardless of what the share price was yesterday, you were going to have insider selling a pound share and because that's how kind of their scheduled sales work. Also, November is I mean if you've just you know been around Pounder for the past couple years, November is when they tend to sell around this time going into Thanksgiving. So they sold for the past couple years of this time. I don't think Pounder got hit because insiders sold a couple hundred thousand shares yesterday. I mean, what happened yesterday was one of those days where fundamentally we saw a rerating in the overall equity markets. Um, and we'll talk about some of the reasons for why, but I I don't think it was because retail decided to panic sell or insiders decided to sell. I really think it was because the market basically decided if we're not getting a rate cut, we're going lower. And at 11:00 a.m. after having a bright green morning and you had two Fed presidents come out and say, "We don't think we need to have a rate cut." It just kind of flipped, in my opinion, the market from thinking, "Oh, the Fed's not going to be on our side. Why are we trying to fight the Fed? We need to get out of risk on assets until the Fed is ready to give us more liquidity." And unfortunately, that seems to be how this is playing out, which is, you know, pretty ugly to live through. But nonetheless, this is what's happening. Um, now the other thing that happened yesterday is also the idea of this Japanese yen carry trade that I've been looking more deep into. So, Japan officially unveiled a decent level of stimulus this morning. It's going to be double what some people thought it was going to be. It's going to be around um 21.3 trillion yen that they're going to be putting out. The plan includes 11.7 trillion in price relief like gas and electricity subsidies and 20,000 per child cash handout. I mean, you talk about Japan printing. They are printing. The government says the measures could pull down headline inflation by around 0.7 percentage point early next year and lift GDP by roughly 1.4 percentage points per year for three years. The package also boosts defense and crisis management spending, taking total new bond issuance close to last year's levels. The problem with the Japanese stimulus is that given they're printing all this money, the market is afraid uh of obviously bond yields because the bonds become a lot less enticing which means people sell off the bonds causing the yields to rise if people believe the rate of inflation is going to go higher or they believe that the government is debasing the currency. So, if you were borrowing yen short to be able to uh buy US assets and now the yen is going higher, which the yen has gone much higher over the past couple of days after this um this stimulus has been unveiled, then you might have to sell your US assets to cover your short on the yen. And then that is the sort of basics of the year, the yen carry trade. Now, what's really interesting about this is I think Bitcoin could be one of the lynch pins of how this entire ecosystem is playing out or how Bitcoin is kind of pegged to the yen. And as a result, I mean, like it's it feels kind of obvious that a lot of the Japanese markets were using Bitcoin as a form of either collateral or leverage in the face of their short or you could just say hedge funds were doing the same as well, even if they are not in Japan. And that's why Bitcoin was the first to suffer or at least it feels like that's why the Bitcoin was the first to suffer. Maybe that's not true, but nonetheless, that's that that could be an argument. I mean, it's either that explanation or Tom Lee's glitch explanation that crypto has a glitch in the system and that's why things have been so bad for crypto and that's why we've had those oldest deleveraging. Or you could say it's, you know, the lack of breaks, but one or the other has been kind of why we've seen some pain. You guys saying Robin Hood's not working. Let me I've not opened Robin Hood today, so let me open it up. I mean, my Robin Hood is working. Let me see if I can just buy a stock or something. Um, I'm going to buy a dollar of something. Yeah, mine is working, guys. I I understand if other people's is not working, but mine is working. Part of the reason I've been using Weeble is because Legend has been messing up every single day. But, so if it's on Legend, I understand. But the mobile app, at least for me so far, is working. We'll keep an eye on it if it's not working. It's back. It's working for me now. Okay. So, it seems like that got fixed pretty quick. It was down for five minutes. All right. Cool. So, all right. We are back. Um has special privileges as an analyst. Dude, the day where it was down for five hours, I didn't have any special privileges because of AWS. It was not It didn't start working till 3 PM for me, dude. It's kind of crazy. Okay, so that's what we've got going on in the context of BMR earnings and Japan. Again, yesterday was a pretty ugly day. The main reason it seems like is what is that we didn't get a rate cut and if you know we don't continue to get a rate cut, we might have to continue dealing with more pain. But this is what we've got going on right now. We are not going to be streaming the BMR call. I mean, we're just going to be doing the market open, but for those that want to listen to it, you can. I I I I didn't see on their um website that they're going to have a call either. So like I don't we should be expecting a call per se. Um but like I didn't see the link on their website to say that we were going to have a call, but if they do then we'll try to get some more details on what they say when that uh when that takes place. Let's get a little bit of coverage on the rate cut situation right here and then we'll we'll keep going from there.
>> Squeezed out. The argument on the fundamental side is that increasingly yes, they're having 65% gains in profits and see a pathway to $500 billion in sales of their premium chips. However, there is a question about whether it is worth it for some of the people who are buying on the other end. Not the hyperscalers, but people who are buying with debt. And then with the weak hands, those people are saying there still be a rally heading into your end. Nvidia down by close to 2% so far this morning. That's the stock story. That's the tech story. Let's talk about the Federal Reserve as well. Later this morning, about 90 minutes from now, we'll catch up with Governor Myin at the Federal Reserve. This is an individual pushing for
>> and at same not
>> I think we had Moran. Hold on, let me see. Did we have Moran? Um be very important to hear. Yeah, here we go. All right. So, we got Moran. Moran is our dove. Let's see if he's going to kind of combat what some of his other colleagues have been saying about cuts excess is a mirage. It's not indicative of supply demand imbalances. And so, for example, if you look at the housing market, right, market rents have been running at about 1% for a couple years. Measured inflation in the index is actually much higher than that because it takes a really long time for the index to converge down to where market rents are. That's a statistical artifact, right? That's an artifact of the statistical measurement process. It's indicative of a supply demand imbalance that was there in 2022 2023. Monetary policy works with lags. It has to be set now for 2027. So when you look at the housing data, right, you see market rents running about 1% for a couple years, there's no supply demand imbalance there. We should not be setting policy for 2027 based on a supply demand imbalance that existed in 2022 or 2023. That doesn't make any sense. There's other things too like portfolio management services which confuse quantities for prices. This stuff is all well known. If you look at market-based measures of inflation, they're much closer to two than they are to three. So I think that the excess, the overage is a mirage and it's a mistake to ask people to lose their jobs because of quirks of the statistical measurement process.
>> And you've got to put out new forecasts on December 10th as well, which is going to be complicated by the fact we've had limited data more recently. How relevant do you think the calendar actually is? Because I'll offer you the perspective on Wall Street at the moment. It goes something like this. The meeting is on the 10th. You don't get the data until the 16th. The Fed's kind of constrained by that. They can't do anything. What's your perspective on that?
>> Yeah. So, as I said a moment ago, monetary policy works with lags. It would be much easier if it hit the economy immediately, but it doesn't. It works with lags. So, you have to set policy based on the forecast. So, the data matter in so far as they affect your forecast. It doesn't make sense to be setting policy for where the economy was 3 or 6 months ago. We we should be setting policy based for where the economy is going to be 12 to 18 months from now. And so if we have data, it gives us the ability to update our forecast. But the lack of data doesn't mean that we don't have a forecast. We did have a forecast. And all it gives us is opportunities to falsify our forecast. And there hasn't been anything in the data, in the news, in media stories, in private sector data, alternative data that's available to us that would make us think that the forecast is somehow nullified and and there's been a big shock to it. So if anything, all the information that we've gotten the interim since since the since September FOMC has inclined to the other side. you know, we got weaker uh inflation than people expected and we got uh a higher unemployment rate than than folks were expecting. So, all of that information should push one in the dovish direction.
>> But there are still Fed officials that are looking for more data and they have said their data.
>> Again, Moran is a dove and also Fed President Williams came out today and was dovish. As you can see, the probabilities right here, 71 per one. This doesn't really even make sense to me. I don't know how one Fed president coming out saying that we need a cut when three of them yesterday said we didn't need a cut and another one this morning said we didn't need a cut pushes the probabilities to 71%. I mean, I'm happy because that's giving us a little bit of relief. But the only reason futures are green right now, folks, is because you have this rate cut probability U-turn. And I think yesterday's reversal at 11 a.m. was more systemic than just a rate cut story. I I I want to believe it was more than that. But if it was just the rate cut story and you know there's a chance to stabilize and maybe we don't go to 7,000 but we also maybe don't have to dump back to 6,000 if we get the rate cut then it would behoove the markets to get a rate cut. The question is are we going to get it? But if that's the reason for the pivot then uh the market obviously really cares about getting this rate cut.
>> The dependent they want that insurance that they're cutting right now and it's the right time. potentially the unemployment rate might be moving up to 4.5% on December 16th. Would you be in favor of just moving the me meeting if it meant others felt more reassured to cut interest rates in December?
>> So, uh, you know, I haven't really thought about that and it's not a conversation that that it's not a conversation that I've been part of. Um, I mean, I agree the meeting dates seem kind the meeting dates seem kind of arbitrary. Um but at the same time there's a lot of there's a lot of stuff that gets done as a result of those meeting dates and you know people have have investments and and and contracts and other decisions that are tied to the to the to the timing of the meeting date and I don't know to what extent moving those dates would be disruptive for all that. So I it's something that I'm not I'm I'm not I'm not sure about but the this ultimately comes down to the question of data dependence is what you do when you don't have a forecast or when you don't have any confidence in your forecast. Right? We should be forecast dependent, not data dependent. Being excessively data dependent is to be too backward-looking. And if you're too backward-looking, you necessarily are going to have the wrong policies.
>> Neil Dutter writes in. He says, "The only question that matters for you is, will you descend for 50 if you believe it means not being able to push through a 25 basis point cut?"
>> Yeah. So, ABS, absolutely not. Uh, I would absolutely vote for for a 25 basis point cut if my vote were the marginal vote. Uh, there's there's no there's no question about that. I I you know to to to to do otherwise would be to cause real harm uh to to the economy uh for for purposes of vanity and and that's not who I am
>> going into next
>> I I know sometimes we criticize Moran because he's very verbose but you see how we just answered the question compared to the to the hammock lady yesterday when she was asked specifically and she just could not answer the question of how she's thinking of jobs and inflation yada she like you know trying to stay middle of the road he's just like no I'm going to vote yes like he's just telling the American people what he's going to do and that I deeply appreciate because everyone deserves to know how the Fed is going to vote and how they're going to govern monetary policy.
>> Talking about the forecast of what's going to happen, a lot of economists who come on the show expect a reaceleration on the backs of the tax refunds and some of the other stimulative measures that could come early next year. How do you factor that into your forecast for ongoing weakness in the labor market and the consumer? Yeah. So I think that uh you know I have not been a uh what I would what I would think of as excessively uh pessimistic on on the economy. Um I do think policy is restrictive and I do think that it's too restrictive uh and we don't need to be and the longer we remain restrictive the greater the chances that we are the source of an economic downturn which we should not uh seek to be. Um, I think that many of the uh many of the factors that'll be kicking in over the next 12 months that might be supportive of GDP growth um are things that necessarily don't have hawkish implications for monetary policy because they affect the supply side. And when you think about things like relaxing uh regulations and I think that that has been going on at actually an impressive an impressive pace. Uh these are things that push out the supply side of the economy and therefore don't necessarily create a demand excess of supply. Right? monetary polic. So you I mean even with Williams who as Chris said in the chat is a little bit more of a proxy for how Powell is thinking which is why the markets are really excited and that's why you got this 71% rating you still have others coming out and fighting back. I mean, this looks like it's going to come down to like one or two votes. And it also looks like there's going to be a serious level of um ideological contention on December 10th when they actually release this decision on if we get a cut or not.
>> Should be tight if demand is an excess of supply. And if you push out the supply side of the economy, then that's not something you worry about.
>> There's a duration mismatch here, though. the idea that if you reduce regulations and you allow people to build supply, uh that it takes a longer time than say if you give people $2,000 checks right up front that they can spend immediately or if they get a rebate that's a lot bigger from their tax uh from the tax filings. How do you factor in that timing mismatch? Would you look through any bump up in inflation next year from both stimulative measures as well as the price increases that we're excite we're hearing from a lot of retailers that they're going to pass along? So, you know, I wouldn't look through I wouldn't look through bumps from uh from from uh checks like that, right? Uh you know, I don't think that I don't think that you'd be able to. However, a policy like that has been hasn't been formalized. It hasn't been introduced. We don't know the parameters of it. Uh it's too early to sort of think about basing a forecast on on on something like that. What we do know is that the is that the labor market data have been coming in not as strong as we'd like them to be and that policy is too restrictive. Governor, if we can stay on inflation, do you know when we're going to get some inflation data? When are we going to get that?
>> Because we've heard about the payroll schedule. I haven't really heard anything about the CPI schedule. You got any indication whatsoever of when it's coming?
>> Yeah, the BLS put it out on on its website this week. I think that we're not going to get the uh November uh CPI data until after the next uh FOMC meeting.
>> So, we've got to wait for that, too.
>> We've got to we've got to wait for that.
>> Did you see that, Lisa?
>> Yes, I did. I saw that that we have to wait and it's not clear exactly when we're going to get it, but there's a real question going forward about when we might get.
>> But we don't have the dates yet.
>> We don't have the dates.
>> No, the dates are the dates are on the left. Yeah, the BLS has a has a has a list of the release dates on
>> the payrolls one, but I've missed the CPI one, which doesn't just make it an even stronger case just to wait and have this meeting when we've got all this data. Why is it that we have to wait so much longer before it? Governor,
>> wait for the data.
>> Yes. Well, because the government shutdown introduced uh a whole number of snags into the data collection process and so that those snags mean extra time to collect the data, extra time to process the data. People have a log jam of work to get back to. I mean, we just, you know, sort of spent several years talking about uh talking talking about bull whips from supply chains, right? And you know, the demand gets gets pulled in at once. And when you have a government,
>> all right, so essentially Moran continues to be more bullish and optimistic on getting that rate cut. And then you have other Fed presidents, even if they're not voting members that are signaling to be against it. But those probabilities, folks, that's why we are somewhat green right here. 72% versus 28% or versus 30% yesterday on not getting a rate cut. Now, although we are green, I mean up.5% on the S&P is fine, but like there's a lot of room to go to see if this builds momentum. I wonder if on a day like this when options are expiring, it's a Friday, you had sentiment completely get destroyed over the past couple days. Is that enough to really build any level of a compounding effect on these names? So right here, 2480 in the pre-markets, Micro Strategy down 2%, AMD's up about 1.2 to at 208 or does it just become another liquidity trap and you know people take advantage of the profits and and they run for the hills because you know now the thing that we're dealing with is like I don't think yesterday's reversal was retail I think that was more systemic and CTAs and a variety of different funds that were selling. I think today if you see continued pain now you have retail come in and say you know what I'm still having a decent year I'm going to just take my profits and get out of here. So that could happen. Uh obviously if we have a nice reversal you might have a lot of people just buy into it thinking that we've officially bottomed which I think you know I feel like people feel we're close to a bottom than not. I mean do we have to go to 6250 to legitimately bottom or can we kind of bottom out around that 6500 6450 range? And if that's the case, maybe money starts coming in, especially for fund managers that have again been on the sidelines. But later today, we're going to have a more accurate picture on if that is if that is happening. By the way, money market funds yesterday, we got some data on that 15.74 billion decrease. Relatively inconsequential. Still 7.54 trillion on the sideline, but you did not see a substantial increase. two weeks ago it was a hundred billion increase that went into those money market funds. What's going on with crypto? Uh again Tom Lee's explanation yesterday was there is a code glitch. The platform that he was talking about that he didn't name but that most people are kind of referencing is Binance. People are saying Binance had an issue, like a literal software glitch, which caused market makers to liquidate a ton of crypto until the market makers could kind of like reverse the the sort of types of deleveraging that they're stuck in. Then you have the yen carry trade stuff that might be affecting it. But it's kind of crazy, dude. Bitcoin is down 44,000 in 46 days. Like I mean this is like this is just like like all of 2024 the fight was to get above 100,000. We got there randomly in December. I remember when it just like popped up above 100,000 and then it stayed there for the majority of 2025 until like two weeks ago and uh and then it just got destroyed. And I I think you got to ask yourself like did everyone who believed in crypto just wake up one morning and say we don't believe in it anymore? Is this I mean I know Tom's explanation is not the best but it it makes more sense than people waking up and saying I don't like Bitcoin anymore. You know most people that buy DCA and hold but I guess when things get rough it becomes the number one asset people want to liquidate which is fair. Um but you didn't have any crazy crazy geopolitical event or anything that would cause some selloff. It really does feel like a deleveraging and maybe that deleveraging is also rooted in retail investors that potentially were levered up on it and they had to get out of it as well. So, I guess we're going to see what happens. But Bitcoin right there, 83,500. It did touch 80,000 in the morning. We had some news on Open AI yesterday. So, this is also not helping the sort of AI narrative, but Open AI uh the information got a leaked memo from Sam Alman in an email that he sent to the company. And Sam Alman told colleagues that Google could quote create temporary economic headwinds for OpenAI as per the email that was seen by the information. Um, number one, if you're a Google shareholder, bullish, right? Because you can see Sam Alman is potentially getting a little bit afraid of uh Gemini as it continues to ramp up. But unfortunately for the AI trade, like OpenAI cannot have temporary economic headwinds. Open AI needs to like execute. They need to grow. They need to be doing hundreds of billions of revenue in the next four or five years in order to allow their spending commitments to be as legitimate as the market thinks they're going to be. So, as much as people hate OpenAI, I do think they need to do well. They don't have to become the biggest company in the world, but they definitely have to do well. It also muddies their ability to go public. I mean, like, dude, I don't know if Open is worth a trillion dollars anymore. Not after what's happened over the past couple weeks. And uh I think eventually they will obviously go public. Probably they're going to go public at a trillion or close to a trillion. Question is today if they want it to go public, could they get a trillion dollars of value from the market and raise like 60 70 billion? Might not be that easy to do. So I think the market's going to keep watching deeply what happens for uh for OpenAI. Yeah, rate probabilities continue to go higher. We are now at wow 75%. Okay. So, look, if if if if I was a betting man and I had to say, is the market going up or down today? This would be the stat I look at to say maybe the market, even if it's a relief rally, gets a little bit of reprieve for thinking that we're going to get this right. 75% is higher than we've had in three weeks. So, I mean, that's quite incredible just based on Williams comments. Again, William Moore being a proxy for Powell. S&P is not going crazy pre-markets. We'll see when it opens up in about 10 minutes if that actually reflects it. If the market So here's the thing. If the market goes down and we keep those 75% chances, then we definitely know this is something else. I mean, maybe it's just pure volatility, which by the way, the VIX right here is up 27% this week, but um but it it could literally just be the market saying, "Nope, we don't care. We don't care about the rate cut. We think there's something deeper going on if we continue to go red. Even with the 75% probabilities, 75% is a glitch. Oh my gosh. What about Japan? Japan could be playing a role. Uh that's not something to dismiss. I just think the reversal that we had yesterday, I don't think that was one thing. I don't think that was just rate cuts. I don't think that was just Japan. I don't think that was just because people woke up and felt Nvidia depreciation after 12 hours of 197 198 on Nvidia after a phenomenal earnings is like something to be afraid of. I I think there was either something deeper or there was a legitimate uh reversal in the way the market has been pricing in a lot of these assets. And that happened either through a confluence of narratives or through an overarching narrative that took place yesterday. But it doesn't feel like it was one or two things. It feels like it was many things that just caused a complete change in how the market conceptualized what was going on. Baron Trump dumped crypto. It also could have been Mr. Baron Trump uh dumping crypto. Here was a new interview with Jensen yet business and uh this was him talking a bit more about their earnings as well.
>> XAI now being uh deployed in Saudi Arabia. We announced a partnership with Humane and that those GPUs have been licensed and they're going to be deploying in in Saudi Arabia. And we also announced that AWS is going to also build 150,000 GPU AI infrastructure in Saudi Arabia. All of those are all net new and so orders are still coming in and so it's going to be a pretty pretty busy year for us the next uh next year.
>> It sounds like then the current quarter is going to be crazy good. Can can I say that? What do you think?
>> Well, we guided to a much larger quarter next quarter and so next the guidance that we provided is crazy good. I would agree with that. And u but you know we're in the beginning of a very long-term buildout of the fundamental infrastructure of humanity which is computing. As you know we reinvented computing for the first time in 60 70 years. And so all of the computers that have been installed around the world is being modernized to accelerated computing and video's GPUs and to artificial intelligence. And so this buildout is going to last us many years to come.
>> You know, it was exactly a year ago.
>> Jensen making the same argument around where he thinks this entire ecosystem is going. And again, I mean, like you can't you couldn't ask for a better quarter from Nvidia. You just couldn't. So I really do I agree with De Doug right here. the entire market doesn't reverse at the same second, which is what we saw yesterday at 11 a.m. And it's not like again, Nvidia gained 450 billion and lost 450 billion in the same day. I mean, Nvidia's had some crazy intraday swings, but I don't think we've ever seen something like that. And and that also made honestly like that also, we talked about this yesterday, that also made the selling feel fake. Like really, you go up 450, then you go down 450. like it it really made it feel like it wasn't real. It was just something that was happening and you just had to stay solvent to to navigate it. But it did not feel like oh this is the end of Nvidia, the end of AI. It's like no, it just felt like okay so we ramped up then we ramped down. There has to be some reason but it's not because of those Nvidia earnings. Yes, manipulation could definitely feel like one of the reasons. Now Kathy did buy the dip yesterday. Cathy went to town buying uh yesterday. So she bought Nvidia, Coinbase, Bitmine, Circle, Bullish, Robin Hood, Archer, Tempest, Crisper, um and some of the heard genomics plays like Beam and Pacific Biosciences. Very little selling, but a lot a lot of buying. Bought more Bitmine, bought more bullish, and sold just a little bit. So, I mean, yeah, you had some institutional investors say, "No, these are stupid prices, especially after these earnings, and we're going to be buying more." What about Nancy? Well, NY's retiring, so we're not going to know. But NY's Google worked out this year. Um, Nvidia worked out this year. Tempest AI worked out this year. Like, Nancy is uh ending out the year, ending out her career on a on a good stretch as she officially retires. Um 13Fs next time around will be interesting. Yeah, I mean that definitely 13 GS this time we saw a decent chunk of buying. I mean we did see some trimming of tech but I agree next 13Fs going into Q4 because if if a lot of this is institutional dumps and not just hedge funds and algos then you know maybe you are seeing some d-risking across the board maybe based off the fear of not getting a breakup but in the next 45 days we're going to know. Robin right there that's up 1.8% Dolingo's up a little bit. Meta is up a little bit and then Nvidia up 68%. Okay, we got about five minutes until the market opens. Uh in terms of the poll on the chat, uh I think the majority of you, let's pull this up. 56% say green. Okay, 56% still say green. And again, we have a little bit of that potential to go green based on the pivot on how the Fed rate cut potentially might take place. Are we still at 75? We are, dude. We're higher than 75. It's like going up every minute. 75.3. It's hilarious. Absolutely. I mean like that again if the market sells off on a 30 to 75.3 24h hour percent reversal that would be weird that would be very weird but nonetheless that could be happening yes there was insider selling by poundry yesterday again those were scheduled sales um they've sold in November every time you know pounder again pounder insiders have sold since $8 if you've been following Pounder Insider I in look when the market's going down. Everyone likes to get mad at insider selling, but again, if you've been keeping up with the company, and by the way, Nvidia, Jensen's been selling like 15 $18 million worth of stock over the past couple of months, almost every other day. So, like, yes, insiders will sell. That is the nature of the markets. The question is, do they deliver the results that allows regular shareholders to also engage in the selling? And yeah, I mean all these stocks that insider whether it's Hood, Nvidia, Pounder, like they've all executed pretty damn well. And if you didn't literally buy the top, which if you did, like you cannot get mad at the CEO for that. But you've had the same opportunity to liquidate and sell just like the insiders. So I I don't think insider selling is something that people should be concerned about, nor do I think is the reason for why we had a I mean insiders at the end of the day, a couple million shares does not change the dynamics of a $450 billion Nvidia reversal. Also, Jensen's been been CEO for 35 years. Like, he's gonna he's the reason he's the single reason this company is worth four trillion. He's going to take his shares off the table. And, you know, that's just not something people can get too mad about. Uh BMR already reported earnings for saying PE that they're going to report. They already had earnings. Again, we looked at it this morning. They declared a cash dividend of 1 cent a share. um $13.39 of EPS and they said they will be staking officially in 2026 fiscal year Q1 to 2026. Yeah, we got PMI in 18 minutes as well. So, we'll take a look at what some of this other economic data looks like, but BMR already at earnings. Again, I I I the earnings really don't matter that much. Ethereum's price matters, but at least we have some clarity on what they're doing. I don't fully understand the dividend. I don't have an update on the share count. I'm sure we'll find it later today in the 10K, but um have not looked through that yet. I don't get the necessity for a dividend, but I guess maybe they're thinking like dividend funds that want crypto exposure will buy the asset. But yeah, 1 cent. I don't know if that's the most exciting for people. Like I'd rather them just either buy back the stock or buy more Ethereum like giving me 1 cent. I don't know if that helps. I do not know if that helps. So, we're going to have to see. Meta is down year to date. That's correct. I mean, a lot of these Amazon's down year to date. A lot of these names have completely pivoted. We got six weeks. We got six weeks to see if Santa Claus comes to town. We got six weeks to see if the sort of overall market dynamics change, if the sentiment changes. um you know, is 7,000 S&P 500 still play? We're only 5% away. So, the question becomes a full-on rerating of the equity markets based on the idea of rate cuts. The problem is I feel like Bitcoin is the risk indicator telling you that the markets do not want to go green. And ultimately, we're going to have to see if that changes. And then on top of that, unfortunately, you have a shutdown that probably happens in January again if the Democrats Republicans can't negotiate. So, you do have some headwinds going through, but earnings are not the reason why we're down. Did some stocks get very frothy? Yes, of course. But Nvidia, Meta, Amazon, these are not frothy companies. These are companies that I think the market is just kind of exhausted of, especially with fears of the AI trade. If those fears die down, which again with Nvidia earnings, you just can't blame Jensen because he's done everything he can to get those fears to die down and we get the rate cut, maybe that entire scenario switches. But also, maybe we need like a real bottom to get people to be like, "No, these prices are just stupid. Are these prices stupid right now?" in some places. Yeah. But if we, you know, go down another four or five%, then I think they get really stupid and that's where money starts getting allocated. And that might just have to be something we write out. And as a result, it just might take some time to to navigate that entire pro process. All right, here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Friday, November 21st. It has been a wild, crazy week. 9:30 a.m. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 655 on the day. That's green. 65560 that's up about48%. Bit mine goes green as well. That's up 1%. Bitcoin 83,974. Bitcoin 84,000, Ethereum 27, Hoodie that's up 1.6, Nvidia that's up almost 1%, AMD is up 1%, Sofi's up half a percent, Nebius up 2.3, Google's up 3.3, Google trying to push 300. Palanteer is at 15750, that's up 1.13%. We've got some decent green across the board. So right there, 24.96. Cipher is up 1.4%. Open 3.25. UNH, that's up.34. grab back above $5. That's up 1%. PayPal's up a little bit. Into it's up. Oaklo's up. Oaklo did fall below $90 yesterday. Amazon still goes red. Wow. Amazon goes red. 216 on Amazon. That's quite incredible. Microsoft continues to go red. Coreweave up 1.9% and the Q's are up a little bit. The Q's are up even though Amazon and Microsoft is down. Weevil had a good earnings yesterday. They beat EPS in revenue by a healthy margin. Weevil still down about 1.82% 82% but they did have a pretty strong earnings yesterday. Uh but they are still down. S&P 500 up 34. So you do have some green on the S&P. I don't think people really trust any of this green right now. Poundter also losing 157. I think got a lot of people that are going to be very scared to buy into the strength immediately. Um and they're going to want to see a lot more strength before they buy in. Netflix right there 10572. Tesla at 400. Tesla breaking back above 400. It was at 380 or 392 yesterday. Micron, that's green again after falling 10%. Rocket Lab 391. Nvidia just went red. Nvidia just went red. 180.3. 180.3. Wow. VG under seven. Yeah. 693 on VG. That's red as well. What's wrong with Amazon? I don't know. That is weird. Very weird. Maybe the streets worried about their debt issu issuances or their capex spend something that is I mean or the streets just you know upset at the max 7 in general which is fine but I mean Amazon's already taking a pretty big beating. How about Meta? Meta still at 580. Meta's at 592. Meta getting a little bit of of a of a move. Uh BMR 2.6% are getting something on BMR as that's green again. That's at $26. right here at Google. I mean, Google's you got to give Google credit. They've been holding up. I mean, basically at all time highs through the midst of all the worst they got to was 286 yesterday. It just feels like the street does not want to hold down Google right here. 29790. That's up 2.92% on the day. Nvidia continues to go red. All right. So, you're not getting enough juice based on that data or based on the rate cut probability switching to the OP to the to the upside. Remember, 75% was the new probabilities up from 30% after a Fed president said that they're likely going to engage in a rate cut. So, or they they want to vote for a rate cut. Um, it's helping some high beta names like a hoodie up 1.5, helping SoFi try to get back to 25. I mean, it's stopping the bleeding in some parts of the market, but other parts are continuing to just get hit. Open de Shaw, David Shaw, he uh he took a um 6.4% stake in the company yesterday personally. So, that's why I think that stock is up 6.4%. And you're getting some green right there. And then Oaklo slightly flat as well. Fear and greed still at eight. Still at eight. So, you're very close to those liberation day lows. And then Bitcoin, a little bit of a candle. 84.4. I mean, even a even a move back to 90, I think, would be exciting for Bitcoin. But 84.4 right here. PMI, we should be getting in about uh 10 minutes. So, we'll take a look at PMI once that comes out. In terms of other macro data, uh we had Canadian retail sales in Canada, flat month over month. Flat month over month. So, nothing too crazy there in Canada. Uh, and then we also get Oh, we also get consumer sentiment today. Yeah, we get consumer sentiment. Okay, so we're going to get a bunch of different things in around 20 30 minutes and we'll see how that affects market. Last Friday, the consumer sentiment was like the lowest in a year and I think that's also why the markets weren't the easiest to navigate last Friday and why things went down. Meta right there 592. Wow. Nvidia goes down 178. 178 on Nvidia. All right, they're taking her down. Let's see the lows of October I think 17th was 177. So if it breaks 177, then we are officially lower than where we were in three weeks. Palenter also losing 157. Weeble goes red again. Google a little bit of a red candle but still holding on. Meta 592. S&P 32. If the S&P is green and Nvidia's red, that means you're obviously seeing other sectors benefit potentially like healthcare, Eli Liy, that's flat. UNH, that's up a little bit. How about Walmart, which ended up being green all of yesterday. Walmart continues to go green. So, the consumer defensives, Home Depot, that's green. All of those names are potentially holding up the S&P. the UAE to invest up to 50 billion in Canada in industries such as AI and energy. Okay, so you have some more investments coming from the Middle East into a variety of different countries. Now this one in Canada. Um, now Jensen knows how Karp felt on yen carry trade earnings. Yeah, I mean pounder reported earnings the day of the yen carry trade back in August of last year, which is crazy. You know, there's this thing that's been going around. I don't know if this is true or not, and let me know if anyone else has has saw this, but there's I think this was Bloomberg or this is one of these sources saying there was a leaked memo from Jensen. Um, uh, yeah. Okay. So, this is this is the quote. I don't know if it's fully accurate, but I I think there are some good sources saying this. So, this is what Jensen apparently said at an all hands meeting after the earnings. Uh, if we delivered a bad quarter, it is evidence there's an AI bubble. If we delivered a great quarter, we are fueling the AI bubble. Jensen said, "The expectations for Nvidia were so sky-high that the company was in somewhat of a no-win situation." He nodded to online chatter about the company's massive economic sway. And then he had another quote. If we delivered a bad quarter, if we're off by just a hair, if it just looked like a bit creaky, the whole world would have fallen apart. There's no question about that. You should have seen some of the memes that are on the internet. Have you guys seen some of them? We're basically holding the planet together, and it's not untrue. So, I mean, you do have some quotes potentially floating around from Jensen where he's acknowledging how like serious the market is taking their earnings and how he knows the responsibility of them delivering a good quarter, but he also knows that like it's a catch 22. If it's a bad quarter, it's an AI bubble. If it's a great quarter, it's fueling the bubble, which, you know, there's not much he can do about that at that point. Palanteer right there getting a little bit of a move up 1%. Bit mine 2.3. Um, and then S&P 655. All right, S&P making a little bit of a move right there. Hood got all the way down to like 101 last night. Hood trying to make a move right here at 109. Again, all this is contingent on that rate cut, which is why the market's getting some level of reprieve. Amazon still down. Google back to 300. Google loves that 300 level. It's been getting back there pretty much every day this week. Again, the Birkshire stake last week was also very big for the GooGs. Nvidia, are we still red? Nvidia, we are indeed still red. 1.6% down. 1.6% down. It only glitches down. Yeah. Why doesn't crypto ever glitch up? Why can't these glitches just make everyone buy it? Why do they have to make everyone sell it? The VIX is down. You're getting a little bit of that volatility die out. Tesla 398. Tesla down from 400. Aid, do you think it's a software bug? I have no idea, dude. I I I thought the explanation didn't make a lot of sense about it being a software bug, but then again, I'm not a crypto technician. Maybe it is. Um, it's a way to cope, that's for sure. And to say that we haven't topped in the crypto cycle, but I mean Tom is basically saying giving it, he says give it two weeks, right? Because after the FTX, it was eight weeks and there was a software bug. So he says we've only had six weeks, but in two weeks if crypto is still down, it's like at that point it can't be a software bug. Like it has to be that people just don't want to own the asset right now. So I guess in two weeks we'll know for sure because if in two weeks we get a reversal, all right, it was a software bug potentially. I I just I I think the explanation was enough to try to keep the opium alive that we haven't topped. Here's the thing, dude. Bit mine's down four billion on their Ethereum. I mean, they obviously got the timing wrong. Like, they just got the timing horribly wrong. So, uh, if it's not a software bug and Ethereum enters a bare market or crypto enters a bare market, which again, like I mean like if crypto enters a bare market and it's a risk-on indicator, I wonder if the broader stock market enters a bare market, which is exactly what happened in 2021. Crypto peaked and then crypto was the first thing to go. Remember, the S&P didn't peak until January of 22. Crypto peak or Bitcoin peaked in November of 21, which is almost exactly what's happening here. If Bitcoin peaked in November of 2025, you know, what happens next year for the stock market. So, I kind of want to believe that it's not crypto topping and there is a software bug and maybe that's creating some of the force deleveraging, but it's something that people are going to have to keep an eye on. Now, the thing is in 2022, we started raising rates. We're not raising rates in 2026 to my understanding. So theoretically, even if crypto is down for the next coming months, when more liquidity opens up with Japan and with with US rate cuts, that should be good for Bitcoin. But we're going to have to see if that helps the ecosystem long term. Uh Coreweave, that one's getting a little bit of relief as well. 70 bucks up about 1.2%. It did fall below 70 um at one point. Zalinsky says Ukraine is facing choice of losing the major partner or Ukraine's dignity. Uh Trump did send a peace plan to Zalinsky and Putin over the past 72 hours. And Zalinsky has commented that, you know, the plan requires Ukraine to give up a decent level of territory. and I don't know if he's going to sign it, but at the end of the day, it's definitely not something he wants to sign, but nonetheless, he might have to if the war is officially coming to an end. So, that is another thing that we're going to be looking for to see if we get any level of geopolitical stability from that perspective. S&P 655, ASST back above a dollar. Duolingo trying to get to 170, then pound here at 157 as well. Probabilities for a rate cut still at that 75%. Um, they still have that which is creating a little bit of a reversal on the S&P. Nvidia still red. Didn't didn't lose 177 today. That would be from three weeks ago levels it would be breaking, but it's at 178. Micro Strategy getting a little bit of a pump as well, dude. Okay, so Sailor's price of Bitcoin is $74,000. Bitcoin is $10,000 away from from from him going negative all time on Bitcoin. Um he's up six billion right now. That that would be really crazy. But maybe that's where you would actually see a bottom if we just kind of get flushed out below that level. Again, I'm not in the camp that believes he's gonna have to sell even if we get to his average. I think they have some level of financial engineering that's going to stop them from selling. But he also says, you know, Bitcoin coin can go down to a dollar and he wouldn't have to sell. I don't fully know if that's true. And I think at some point, given how levered they are on the prefer given how levered up they are on the preferred equities and the debt that they took out to finance all this stuff, at some point they might have to sell. But we're gonna have to see if it actually gets there. Yes, Tom Lee did say 77K would be the bottom. He said Ethereum 2500 would also potentially be the bottom. So, we're going to have to see. Pounder just flipped red. Pounder just flipped red. The hood looks like it wants to go red. Not enough juice. Not enough juice. Not today. At least it doesn't feel like that. Maybe we get a bit of a reversal, but I ran red. Nebia's slightly green. SoFi back below 2450. Grab back below five. Into it, they had a good earnings, so I understand why they're up 5%. PayPal still below 60. Microsoft, one of the most surprising things this week, seeing this thing fall below 490. That's down. Netflix barely above 100. in the Q's they were up two now they're up.3 no one's buying yeah no I agree no one's buying dude people are not excited for this like like think about how many times this year when you know you would see a stock down even 4% 5% you're like I'm buying that dip not I mean people are just not having that type of sentiment today or really for the past couple weeks Nvidia right there 17850 and the worst part about this is all the people that bought Nvidia after the earning at like 192 or 193 because they're like, "Dude, this thing's going to 210. Like, this thing's has like it's just that was such a good quarter and you know, now they're down because the entire market burst. It feels like zero optimism for the first time in a year." That is correct. And you know, at the end of the day, we like, you know, Steve and I were talking about this last night. We had six months of green. Six months of bright green. Yeah. Yeah, we got one month of red in November and maybe that turns into two months with December, but the the pain of this is real for a lot of people. It's just the S&P is down 5%. Like that like I mean for people that have been around for a while that is not impractical to be down 5% on the index. It's just all these names that ran up so much more than 5%. They're down a lot more than 5%. And that's the tough part of navigating it. It's not like he hasn't It's not like the market's doing something that is so unbelievable. It's not COVID or 2022 yet like like in terms of rate hikes and so the market's falling 3% every day like that. That's not what we're seeing. Just seeing a pullback after six months of grain. It's just ugly when a rocket lab goes from 70 to 39. And I think that's what's affecting people more than not. PMI. Okay, let me pull up PMI. Let's see what we got. Um, US non-manufacturing or November manufacturing PMI 51.9 versus 52 services 55 versus 54.6 composite PMI 54.8 versus 54.5. That's a beat on pretty much all of them or a slight miss, but it's a very very slight miss. So again, composite 54.8 versus 54.6. That's a beat. PMI manufacturing 51.9 versus 52. That's a slight miss. And then services PMI 55 versus 54.6. That's a beat. So you have three beats. Three beats. Does market hate that? Does market actually upset about that? The market hates it. Red candle. Boom. Why is the market upset about that's not even that bad, bro? Like that's not like I guess they need it to be a way bigger beat or they need or they're thinking the beat the fact that it was a a slight beat means no rate cut. Where's the rate cut probabilities? Rate cut probabilities went from 75 to 73. Maybe they're thinking the economy is healthy enough to not get a cut. Is that it? Michigan sentiment will get in 15 minutes. I don't know. Maybe that's it. Uh stock draft. Here's what we got on the stock draft. I am up 18. Matt's up nine. Chris is up one. Tanner's up seven. Steve is down five. So, I am in first place right here with Dolingo down 64. Again, the high beta of my portfolio has still been enough to make this a relatively strong year so far. But those are the updates on the on the stock draft. Um, okay, let's get some coverage on this PMI. Uh, market kind of reversing S&P going back to 654. A little bit of reversal right there.
>> Now, if we look at what's going on with services, a bit of a different picture. Here's the more optimistic view. 54.8 was our final last month. This moves to 55.0. And July's are wild. That's the best since July. And if we look at the composite, also a bit higher than our last look. 54.8 versus last month 54.6 also the best since July. And the other positive here other than two out of three are sequentially higher. The more important service and composite is the fact that all three are above 50 expansion territory. We're getting a little volatility in the markets on the numbers. Not a lot, but do keep in mind we're down three basis points on twos and tens for the day. We're down 11 on twos for the week. We're down seven on tens for the week. And the percentages after Williams from the Fed comment this morning, well, they've gone wild. They went from 30% to 70% for a D cut, currently sitting at 68%. The low water mark is a mid 20 percentile. Squawk on the street will return after a short break.
>> All right, so market hated it as soon as it came out. Market doesn't hate it anymore. We reverse that immediate red candle. Consumer sentiment in 11 minutes will definitely be something I think the market reacts to. But 654 right here on the S&P. Now, here's the other thing that could be happening right now. I mean, there is a world where institutions are just swallowing up shares of a lot of these names right now and potentially there is a trade-off from retail to institutional investors. I just given the systemic level of selling I really find it hard to believe that every Schwab, Robin Hood, SoFi, Weeble, and Fidelity investor is waking up and just selling everything. Like if you didn't sell in April, and we know retail didn't sell in April. They bought the dip to the tune of almost hundred billion dollars. Why are you selling here? Now, are some people selling? Sure. But to say that this entire sell-off has been retail transferring to institutions and institutions are buying it up. I just find it hard to believe. I really do don't think everyone would wake up and just say, "Yep, I'm going to panic sell and get rid of my shares." Some of that is happening. I don't know if it's happening to the level where we could see the reversal that we saw yesterday. By the way, BMR now below 26. Below 26. Yeah. And this is not even worse than April in terms of the reasoning for the for the downside. Right. April, everyone thought there was going to be a World War III based off the tariff situation that I mean if anything that would create more panic to to get out of the markets and most of us even with the draw down I would imagine are still like our portfolios are doing pretty better than the April lows. Like I know this has been bad past couple weeks but I think most of us are still significantly above the April lows just because these stock prices are not at April lows um even if they're not at October highs. But I is the panic in April enough or worse than the panic that we're having over the past couple weeks. I would think so. So then why would retail be selling as aggressively over the past couple weeks? Doesn't feel like that would be the case. Nebas right here getting a bit of a move. That's up 4% as well. 88 8817. The glitch is glitching, dude. If Ethereum goes like to like 2,000 or something, glitch is going to be the word everyone uses at this point. Um, Iran Iran right here that's up a little bit 4373 and then open door making a move again. We will get the the um the consumer confidence in a second. Going back to the stock draft, we were talking about this last night. This is what I mean by I think most people should still be up. I mean, if you, this was as of June, if you bought in April or May or even in July, anything that's high beta, which I know a lot of us have, you know, definitely picked one or two stocks that are are kind of core names, like you're still up. Like this portfolio, the fact that it's up, I mean, if I didn't have Dualingo in this thing, this thing would be up way more than 18%. So the fact that it's green with a 64% draw down because of a Grab or a Nebus or a JP Morgan or AMD or Tesla hood pounder is incredible. So if you bought a Rocket Lab at 25, yeah, it's not at 70, but it's still at 40, which is, you know, pretty damn good, almost 80%. And I think that's why the portfolio is holding up. So I I do think that I retail might not be the sellers here. is more potentially something systemic and eventually we're going to have to see what that systemic reason is and maybe it's just the the the fears of not getting a rate cut. S&P 655 again we're going to get consumer confidence in about five minutes. We'll see how the market reacts to that. Last Friday was the lowest in a year on consumer confidence. Pounder 156 and Micro Strategy at 180. Google is 300. Back to 300o. Um, why is open door up 10%? I think it's because of the billionaire that took a stake in them, David Shaw. I don't know why he took a stake in them, but he took a 6.4% stake in them. That's why it's up. Stock draft was something that me, Chris, Steve, Tanner, and Matt did. It was kind of just like a fun competition that we're having for the next year. So, it ends in June of 2026 next year. If you type in emit stock draft stream on YouTube, you'll find like the whole two-hour stream, but we literally just drafted stocks and yeah, it's it just shows different portfolios and how they're kind of performing against the entirety of the market. Um, okay. Let's see if we can pull up some other pieces of data right here. Yeah, like kind of like a fantasy stock draft thing. Um, we talked about the OpenAI updates. Oh, here's another one. OpenAI partner Foxcon is planning a 5 billion US expansion. The company told Bloomberg it expects to assemble up to 2,000 server racks a week in 2026, about double its current output for partners like Nvidia and OpenAI. So again, the data center buildout continues to take place regardless of how the market thinks of it and you're getting a seasoned company like Foxcon from a manufacturing perspective that is continuing to grow. Uh layoff news on Amazon. Amazon's filing showed that nearly 40% of about the 4,700 job cuts that happened uh were engineering roles in Washington, New York, New Jersey, and California. The 14,000 layoffs announced last month also affected gaming, visual, search, and advertising teams with further reductions expected in January. It should be another 15,000 coming in January as per their entire 30,000 plan for layoffs. So about 40% was engineering of the 4,700 jobs they cut in November. And again, when you see headlines like this, it becomes impossible to imagine that we shouldn't cut rates, but it's going to be up to the Fed. S&P making a high of day right there, trying to go for some green. Nvidia back to 180 as well. Nvidia back to 180. Nvidia will glitch to 220. Oh my gosh. Um, Bitcoin, that one's moving a little bit. Bitcoin back to 85. All right, so you got a candle right there. Bit mine still down. Bit mine new low. Weeble, look, Weeble had a good earnings. I I I don't know what's necessarily wrong with the stock. The earnings are actually really good. And so you you would think it gets a move, but it's just not. The market is not the most excited to give Weeble some some love here. Um, Eli Liy, is it is Eli Liy one trillion? Eli Liy stock. Did they just get there? 986 billion. Very close. very very very close to a trillion but not yet very close. I think it might have touched it a little bit. First healthcare company, first pharmaceutical to get to a trillion. Bloom down 7%. Yeah, Bloom Energy is again, it's hard to trust this green when you see it. S&P just had a little bit of a red candle right there from 656. Consumer data in three minutes. We're gonna see. Yeah, J&J's been having a great dude. A lot of again, a lot of the rotation has gone on to the healthcare names and the pharmaceuticals, but I don't know if that's going to, you know, continue playing out. I do not own Weeble. No, I don't own Weeble. Again, I I think Hood's the winner in the space. I I don't think Weeble's super expensive, though. So, I understand why people are attracted to it at a $4 billion market cap. problem is like for some reason the street is not excited about it. Um 806 on Weeble open door right there it's up 9.9%. Uh pounder 155 Nvidia just went red dude 180 to 178. goodness cannot find a trend. Cannot find a just choppiness back and forth. Open doors up because a billionaire named David Shaw took a 7% stake in the company. That's why that's green. Hoodie right there 107 Walmart 107. UNH goes green. Meta went from 596 to 589. Dude, you cannot trust any of these candles. Even Bitcoin could barely hold above 85.
>> Yes, Lily very close to a trillion. It is super cool to see a company like them get to that trillion dollar market cap. And it makes also sense because I mean they're they're the beneficiaries of a rotation out of tech right now. Lily year to date is up 35%. 35% as well. The bare market was like, "May I meet you, dude?" 1,000%. Literally said, "May I meet you?" Target is up. Yeah, Target, Walmart, Home Depot, all of those are up. Target reduced their guidance on earnings last week, but that one's still green. All right, consumer confidence in one minute. Let's keep our eyes on the S&P 65460. Let's see if we gap down or if we gap up. Uh expectations on consumer confidence was 50.3. 50.3. We got 51. That's a beat. That's a beat. 51. Okay. green candle right there on the S&P. Let's see if it actually holds at all. 51 versus 50.3. 5-year inflation expectations 3.4 versus 3.6. That's better than expected. That's lower. Um consumer expectation final 51 versus 49. That's a beat. Current conditions 51.1 versus 52.3. That's a miss. And then inflation expectations final 4.5 versus 4.7. That's a beat. So you have about three beats, two misses. The two misses are very slight misses, but the three beats are relatively decent beats. Market's flat. Uh I don't know if it's enough. It's not a super big beat. It's not a miss either. So it's not enough to tank it, it feels. But maybe it's not enough to have it really make a move higher. Yeah, market red candle right there. It was green candle for a second. Red candle down. Don't know if consumer confidence is going to be enough here or PMI. Palunteer goes red. Nvidia back to 177. Hoodies ready to go red. Tesla 394. Wow. Oracle's under 200. That's cra Oh my 19970 on Mr. Oracle no cut because it's not bad enough. Well, let's see the probabilities. Uh you can make that argument that maybe if it was worse then we would get a no probabilities went to 75.5 75.5 I mean I think it would be worse if like the confidence was down because the market would be thinking wow like earnings actually going to be bad. So I think that's why it's kind of at least a little bit more stabilized here. University of Michigan November final reads and 50.3 on the headline was our midmon read. That was uh pretty much one of the close to the all-time low which was 50 and this comes in at 51.0. So uh it moves up but it's still quite weak in the grand scheme of history. Now if we look at current that moved down from 52.3 to 51.1 and that is a new low. Uh if we look at the expectations, what may lie ahead, it actually improved a bit from 49 up to 51. 51 would be the best read. Well, just since September when we were at 51.7. So mixed bag, but at least all three just like we had S&P Global are above 50. Now, if we look at the inflation side, 4.5 replaces 4.7. 4.5 equals July. to find a lower one. You're going to February of this year at 4.3. And finally, if we look at 5 to 10 year inflation rates, it moves from 3.6 to 3.4. 3.4 would be the lowest uh second lowest of the year outside of 3.2, which was January. So, not bad. We see that yields aren't responding much. It's mixed on actually the the numbers themselves on inflation. That is an improvement very quickly. inventories wholesale August final read moves from minus 210 up to zero and on sales that's a fresh August number kind of old uh uh final last month was 1.3 this is only up onetenth of a percent that would be the weakest on the sales side since it was down 4/10 in May very quickly we're hovering at 350 in a two-year two-year close yesterday at 353 last week at 361 and on that 10 year you reference 406 for the session is down three 415 last week is where we settled and percentages we're hovering in the high 60% for a D cut David back to you Rick thank you let's get to Bitcoin now the crypto sell-off continuing touching the lowest levels that we've seen at least since early April McKenzie Sagala has more on what exactly is behind this move
>> Microsoft below 470 S&P very close to going red Again, there's not a ton of news that's helping this market right here. The trend seems to continue being bit more to the downside.
>> Mac,
>> hey, David. So, before bouncing off session lows this morning, Bitcoin was pacing for its worst month since the crypto collapse of 2022. More than $2 billion in leverage crypto bets were wiped out in the past 24 hours. And the big institutional buyers, at least so far, have not been stepping in. US spot Bitcoin ETFs saw their second worst day of outflows since launching nearly two years ago. And this isn't just a knock-on effect from macro headwinds and concerns that we won't get a Fed rate cut next month. The sell-off actually traces back to a flash crash in early October on US China trade tensions. That was triggered when a major stable coin lost its dollar peg, sparking a $19 billion liquidation cascade that broke the crypto market's core plumbing. Those key market makers who act like the central banks of crypto never fully recovered. They have been pulling back, shrinking balance sheets and that has made liquidity razor thin. Even modest selling can now move the market in a big way. Open interest in perpetual futures, a key gauge of leverage has dropped 35% since October. And that signals traders are either too spooked to re-engage or simply tapped out. And you've seen that sell-off spread to the digital asset treasury names like Strategy and Tom Le's Bitmine Immersion. both sharply lower as hedge funds use them as proxy hedges. UBS in a note this morning warning that Bitcoin's collapse in spending power amounts to the equivalent of 800% annualized inflation. And of course, the last time we saw a cascade like this was 2022 and that ended with the collapse of FTX. Guys, Mac, I'm curious. We've seen a whole slew of crypto regulations this year. Have they done anything to maybe stem some of uh you know potentially further to the downside that we could see here or have they had any uh impact on as you mentioned the the central bankers uh for the crypto universe? So earlier this year we had that Genius Act passed into law and that really opened the you know the door to people wanting to launch stable coins and so provided hard and fast rules from Capitol Hill which was a net benefit to the industry and of course stable coins are the main uh you know proxy that those institutional traders were will use and those corporate holders uh in the crypto space when they're moving money around. So that was certainly um an upside to the trade over the summer. But since then, we've been waiting for the crypto market infrastructure bill. And that's really what has been uh you know, holding back banks from being able to custody cryptocurrency. Something that was technically made possible when the SEC rolled back uh SAB 121, this niche accounting bulletin. But people have still been on the sidelines because they want uh more direct uh you know, more direct rules from Capitol Hill saying that that's fine. And what I'll say is in terms of where that stands, we're getting markups from Congress in December, but it's been pushed into Q1 of 2026. and people were really hoping to get that bill passage into law by the end of the year.
>> Mac, appreciate that. Such an important story. A lot of things revolving around it at the moment.
>> Again, that argument about deleveraging is kind of the uh core reason some of the people are guessing why Bitcoin is getting hit. S&P right there 655, Oracle below 200. Uh Google's at 296, Nvidia kind of just oscillating between 177 and 180. And now right here at 179, Nokia planned investment over multiple years in addition to Nokia's $2.3 billion investment in US manufacturing. This stock pumped after the Nvidia investment. Nokia is at $6. It did get to $8 at one point when they had the GTC Nvidia investment that came out. Uh, Zalinski is expected to speak with VP Vance on Friday, today. So, you have that happening later. And then you have this Nokia $2 billion investment. Six bucks on Nokia Oracle right there below 200. Um, quantum stocks, that's a good question. Are they getting hit? Yeah, DWave down five, NQ down one, and then Regetti down 1.6. The The thing I found out about NQ, there's a South Korean YouTuber who's dedicated his entire channel to NQ. So, uh, the the the South Koreans are very heavy in this. The guy's like 100,000 subscribers and like every video he makes is aboutQ. So I think South Korea has taken the biggest hit on this name, but it is a heavy heavy retail name and probably the reason the stock ran up is because we had so many South Koreans buying it. But Quantum obviously getting a tough draw down over the past couple weeks. You know him, right? Yeah. There it's a I found out yesterday it's this like big channel that's just like IQ to the moon. like he's the guy in South Korea forq. So that's helping or at least that was helping the stock at the time. Mastercard right there 536 and then Visa right here at 327.99. For those asking on like is anything a buy, I I really think the problem with buying these dips is it feels like everything is a falling knife. That's the problem. And it's I mean like quite literally anything for the past three weeks if you bought has been a falling knife. And I think we just need evidence that the knife is not falling. So I would rather wait to buy something at a higher price knowing that I'm not catching a falling knife. But you need confirmation and there has been zero like zero confirmation. I mean literally I thought bit mine at 32. It's like nope that wasn't going to bottom out. For those that hood at like 115 down from 140 it's like now you're at 105. So just like could stock prices go lower? Yeah, they could. And I think until you get real confirmation, it's hard to be excited. Now Nvidia, I think people bought the day of Nvidia earnings or the night of Nvidia earnings because Nvidia was so good. Everyone thought, "All right, this is our reversal." And that just didn't happen, which is why I think it's tough to be super super excited to buy here. Now, if you're buying for the long term, it doesn't matter, right? You're buying Google, you know, you're not going to sell for the next 10 years or any other stock, then that's fine. But if you're trying to get like a decent entry on your DCA, you know, maybe waiting is not crazy. Oracle right there at 199. Yeah, this could be just an early Black Friday sale. That could also that could also be the case. I will catch a following knife as long as they're max seven. Others I won't touch. That's also very fair. I mean, if you buy Amazon at 217 and it goes to 200, like at the end of the day, it's Amazon. But some of these other names, you know, they might have a lot farther down to go and their moes are not as strong as Amazon, which is why, you know, people might be wanting to wait. Austin says, "I just bought Apploving at 506." Dude, app loving this thing. The growth that they have in the advertising space is phenomenal, but they've just got it destroyed over the past couple months. 750 down to 508. Like it feels like four years from now, apping at 506 is going to seem stupid. So then the question is do you have that four or five year trajectory or you know if it goes to 480 in the short term are you going to be really annoyed and I you know that's an individual question that everyone kind of has to ask themselves. TTD we haven't looked at that in a minute. Tradeesk 38.89 that's up one and a half um down from 120. That was 120 back in uh in February. Weeble flat Nvidia lows of the day 177.84 84 17784 I mean what are some of the names that don't deserve to get bought? Well, I mean I think the quantum nuclear stuff like I don't know dude I just don't know if that stuff comes back. Now granted they had such a bad draw down. I feel like when the whole market pumps they're going to pump as well but again do you want to hold them for the long term? Like some of these names are just really really high beta. Do they des like in Ancore? Like this is where I mean I think this is a very simple name to buy. The multiple is dirt cheap. Jensen has said their name for like the past five interviews he's done because he's referencing American Entro Manufacturing and they got an upgrade to 62 bucks. They were at $38 two weeks ago. It's actually been holding up pretty well. I mean, we started talking about at 28 29. Now it's at 30. So do I think this thing's going down to like 15? No. Just like the like at expensive. So maybe it doesn't get multiple expansion, but it definitely doesn't get multiple compression, which is why, you know, it's not really that scary to to buy a name like that. What about Meta? Yeah, Meta I mean it's it's freaking Meta right now. Granted, is a is it a falling knife right now? Yeah, Meta is a falling knife. Like it absolutely is a falling knife, but in five years, do we think Meta is not going to be more valuable than it is today? No. So, are you okay with DCAing and being a bag holder or do you really want to get the best entry? And, you know, no one's going to get the most perfect entry. So, that's when you have to ask and a lot of us, you know, at around 620, 630, a lot of us are like we we're not going to wait for 550 at some point. We got nibble, but and I think metal will be above 630 in 5 years, but obviously it does feel like a falling knife right now. Rock Lab right here 3901. Again, this one got cut in half from 70 as well as this one took a pretty ugly hit. But again, Rocket Lab's also going to be a very important company over the next 10 years. So, it really comes down to just your overall conviction on what you feel about some of these names. And that's what that's what I think determines a DCA or not. But I think if you have to buy Rock Lab at 45 instead of 39, it's like, yeah, you're missing out on that dip. But at least you know Rock Lab's not going to 33 and you can sleep better at night, which is not horrible. Um, what else? What else? What else do we see? AMD, is AMD below 200? Is it actually? Wow. AMT losing 200. Oh my goodness. That is crazy. Well, okay. There you go. Below 200. This thing was holding 260 like a champ for about two months. Not two months, about call it five weeks and then it just got hit. Meta right there. 587 Oaklo 8471 an AMD a 200o as well now again we are in extreme fear right so it's also just like but then again this is why I bought on Monday because we were at nine and I was like okay at nine it's time to buy now we're at seven so again is seven that different from nine not that much so if you're going to buy you're going to buy at some point it's just a question of do you think this is max pain and on Monday I thought it was I was wrong. Two days later it's worse and I was wrong after in the best earnings in Nvidia's history which is why it makes you just be like all right I guess I got to wait and see and let this play out. But I do think if if you were thinking of buying the dip, I mean, and you haven't really deployed capital, if we're going to extreme fear at two, that's fine. But at some point, you know, you got to you got to at least nibble here because if we somehow reverse, then we get back up to neutral. Like that's not the time to buy. At that point, things have made the run, right? And that's where the institutions got screwed this year because they started buying in June and July when all of us bought in April and May. And that's what really helped continue to create that that rally. Ethereum right there at 2740. Bitcoin right back below 85. Right back below 85 at 84. VIX is up. Yeah, the VIX also I mean if we get a real spike spike on that it would give us a better indicator. VIX is up, dude, 46% for the past month, which is also kind of crazy. For the year, you could have gone long the VIX and you're up 45% for the year. S&P is up 12%. Which is kind of hilarious. What if it's a market correction and not just a dip? Well, I think that's what people are curious about, right? If it is a full-on market correction, then we've got another 5% to go. We're only down 5%. Corrections are 10%. So we've got S&P 6000 basically coming up if it is a correction which again like that you know then extreme fear is probably going to go from seven to like one but those prices would be way more attractive than prices today. So, you really have to ask yourself, you know, if you have 10 grand you want to allocate, do you put in five right now and then five when it gets horrible, if it ever gets horrible, or do you put in two grand right now and save the other eight grand for when you think things get really bad? And if they don't get bad, then you deploy the other eight grand, you know, as things start moving up and you kind of have the clear. But I think that the biggest question the market is trying to figure out right now is like, is it a correction either? When will Trump pump again? That's the other dynamic here. I mean, Trump has not really said anything about the markets. Dude, yesterday he tweeted some [__] about the White House had to clarify that the president does not want to execute members of Congress because he tweeted something about about something being punishable by death. and the White House has to come out and say, "Yeah, Trump does not, we're just letting you guys know Trump does not want to execute members of Congress." And I was like, "Thanks for letting us know. Can you do something to stop our portfolios from being executed, but it got it got his comments got so misconstrued on Truth Social or whatever." He said, "Uh, this behavior is punishable by death." And he was quoting someone that said, "Uh, this is really bad, dangerous to our country. Their words cannot be allowed to stand. They're a traitor. Should we lock them up? This is punishable behavior that should get the punishment of death. I don't even know who he's referencing, dude. I don't even understand the context of this. But then the White House was like, "Yeah, he doesn't want to actually kill people." Like, okay, thanks. That's nice to know. But can he like actually kind of help some of our portfolios? Meta right there. 588, Rocklab 39, Amazon 217, then BMR down 2.8%. Bitcoin back down to 83. Let's hear from uh let's hear from Brent Thail and his thoughts on what he thinks is going on with some of the broader tech weakness that we're seeing here. uh Microsoft a number of those names and you've seen Microsoft, Oracle uh extremely weak. So we think there's been a fund rotation at least what we see on our trading desk uh out of some of those names into Google again was a lagger at the beginning of the year playing catchup and I I think in AI um many have described Google showing up to a drag race in the Toyota the Camry against a Ferrari. Uh but when they popped the hood there was a a engine that was even stronger than a Ferrari. So I think as we've seen more of the details of the AI engine inside of Google, I think we've all realized that they are in a way better spot. Um that this this conversation around losing uh search share to chat GBT and Perplexity uh has been stalled out and that uh Google's keeping that with Gemini. Gemini is now the number two downloaded app on the Apple uh eye store. Yeah, that's a
>> Oh, I was just going to say that's a pretty preient uh analogy there. How how far into that rotation that you described do you think uh you know Alphabet has been able to to benefit from? Is there uh enough you know room to run I guess to kind of continue that that Camry analogy there uh for Alphabet at this stage?
>> Yeah, we we think there's a lot of room uh to run still. I mean the stock is cheap. Um if you look in in at the at the stock right 1617 times I Ebida uh when you look at our price target to get to 320 you you still have a lot of room uh left uh and you could actually stretch that multiple especially when considering companies like Palunteer trading at 70 times revenue. I mean this is again a multiple that is really cheap. Uh it is higher than historic and has obviously been been on on a run up but we we think there's still room on the multiple to run. We think on the fundamentals there's still room to run because of the position that they're at. And then if you look at the cost basis uh you know there's been uh numerous reports about uh giving YouTubers and other uh people inside the company the ability to to leave and we think again from a cost structure perspective uh there's ability for them to shift from the old world to the new world and uh there's a lot of cost savings still. So um you know big big opportunity in the top line bottom line there's still a lot of cost initiatives. Our friends that work at Google have suggested that they could let let a lot of people go and it still would run uh with much higher margins. So uh again I think overall it's it's tough to get you know pretty negative on on a multiple that's pretty cheap and you've got all these dynamics that are alive.
>> We could have Gemini 3 running a lot of stuff going on at the company at some point. Brent, you know given you you have been around for a little while covered technology. I'm just curious as to your reaction to yesterday. I'm sure you got a lot of calls just people trying to understand the movements yesterday and the price action. I know you don't cover Nvidia per se, but obviously the AI ecosystem overall. You have any ideas for us as to what happened or what's going on right now?
>> Yeah, I think uh one I think kind of the AI trades a little tired. Uh David, I think you're having a little bit of a timeout. It's not a it's not a you know full full penalty box where we're getting a mini timeout on on AI. I think secondarily I think there's u many of our clients are are looking for new ways to invest outside. So how do I create a capex life trade where I don't have to invest in all this capex that Oracle and Microsoft are having to invest. So looking at other businesses and getting positioned for 2026. Uh I think uh there's kind of numerous factors that are going on, but I think most of this is just a mini timeout. What we'd say is that we're we're three years into what many people call a 20-year cycle,
>> right?
>> And our friends in the data center business have line of sight on five years of build. So this is sold out for three to five years. This could go as long as 10 and the cycle is going to go 20. So, we're really early, but I think again we're having a little bit of the AI fatigue and then you're seeing again the Google being the anti- open AI trade where it doesn't matter what happens to open AI, Google's going to survive. Uh, but Oracle, Microsoft, and the rest of the ecosystem tied to Open AI, if something goes wrong, and again, I'm not suggesting that's happening. Um, so I think you're just seeing a little bit.
>> You are talking you are talking about the competitive position of Alphabet being perhaps enhanced by Gemini 3. We've been talking about it. What does that mean for OpenAI given the enormous commitments they have to some of the companies you just mentioned? I mean that may be part of what's going on right now at least in terms of a bit of a rethink, right?
>> Absolutely. I think you're seeing a diversification. We've seen this and we've seen this in all of our work. They're going to be multiple models that win multiple AI stories. But the companies that have the data, the users, and the capital will win big. Google has the world's data. Uh they have an incredible data set on YouTube, on on search. And so we we think they're just in a great position.
>> But you don't see this winner or take all though, Brent, right?
>> No, not at all. I mean, we're seeing again in this concept of agents we're going to see doing the work forces digital labor. You're going to have multiple agents that win. You know, with Salesforce, with Workday's agents in HR, you're going to see uh Google have agents. Microsoft, again, this whole week, we met with the CEO of the M commercial business at Microsoft. Multiple agents. That was the whole theme of Ignite here in San Francisco. this week. So we we believe this is again uh a simple investment thesis which is few win but they're going to be m they're going to be multiple people but it's going to be the list is narrow. Um it is it is very narrow who will win big. Google is among that those names that win. Amazon, Microsoft, uh Oracle you can count on one hand in our space which is software and internet who will win.
>> So you
>> all right so the same argument from Brent around the AI trade. I mean, he's been analyzing tech for a while. He's been following this entire AI rally. Has not been the most bullish on Palunteer, but nonetheless, I mean, to him, his argument is the AI trade has some fatigue. And and quite frankly, I I think he's right about that. I mean, it does feel like there's just a level of fatigue is the best word, I guess, for the AI trade. People are just kind of tired of it. And that doesn't mean it's over. That definitely doesn't mean it's a bubble, especially the way he's describing all the different verticals that companies like Google and Microsoft are expanding into. But it might mean that the market needs a relief and to take a break. And maybe that's maybe that's why it's happening here. Uh, by the way, California is considering a onetime 5% wealth tax on billionaires per fortune. So you have that headline that just came through. California considering a one-time 5% wealth tax on billionaires. So you got that there. And then you have this headline. I mean, this kind of continues to explain why crypto is getting hit. Uh, ETFs, crypto funds, asset fund flows as a percentage of fund AUM, 2 billion in outflows last week, the largest since February. Bitcoin had 1.4 billion of declines. Ethereum had 689 million. This is the third consecutive weekly sale, bringing the total to 3.2 billion of outflows. So, you got the institutional guys that are getting rid of their crypto and, you know, they'll probably come back in, but they're probably going to want to see a need a reversal before they continue to allocate back. So, you got Bitcoin and Ethereum right there still trading downward based from the highest levels in February. S&P's flat 653. Meta's down. Rocket Lab's down too. AMD now pretty much losing 200 197. Where is Nvidia? Are we even holding 170 176 lows? Officially new lows for Nvidia. Um, Amazon 21675, Dwave down seven, BMR loses 25. My goodness, dude. Oh my goodness. Ethereum is not even down as much as BMR today, but nonetheless, it is going down. 10:30 sell-off potentially starting right here. S&P still a little green. PaloAlto getting hit. Amcore holding up a little bit. Intel down 1.3. ESTS, this thing was 102 down to 50. And then Apple right here at 270 kind of holding a little bit of the green. Yeah. Let me check if you're in green. Are we still at eight? We are at seven. I don't know, dude. Like is what's what's after what's below zero? What is below zero here? Chris says BMR MNAV is definitely lower than Chris. Can you check if they've disclosed the shares outstanding? Like, can you look at the um the SEC filings? Cuz I just didn't have a chance to pull it up today. Or can anyone see where the shares are like? But yeah, I agree. We we can capture the MNAP pretty easily once we get the shares, but it's got to be below one. That's for damn sure. Chris says they haven't already looked. Um, dude, if we don't get that share count, I think you're going to have some issues. I really do. Nvidia 175. Nvidia 175. All right, selloff's intensifying now. Palenteer 150.9. Palenteer is a dollar away from losing the 150s. a dollar away. SoFi losing 24. Oh my goodness. 2393 app. Love and loses 500 for this. What this is that whole falling knife thing, right? Like again, you're never going to be perfect on on the price, but just it really does feel like every chart wants to go lower. There's not really a a trend for a reversal. S&P somehow holding green with all this red. You would imagine the S&P will go red soon unless we get a little bit of a reversal, but still red across the board. Weeble below eight. Weeble does not deserve to go below eight on those earnings. Like those were pretty damn good. Weeble's already down a ton. What it deserves goes to $5 after those earnings at this point. This is what I This is not retail just selling all their Weeble. This is systemic selling across the board causing Weeble to get hit. Bloom Energy down 15. Where's Nebius? Is that even holding 80? Nebius barely 83. Let me pull up the heat map. Um I mean we're still pretty red. You have you have consumer defensives that are green. Apple and Google are holding up. There is some green here. A lot of it's in industrials. consumer, Home Depot, etc. McDonald's, utilities, but tech is the one that continues to get hit. Can you get Tom Leon? Dude, even if I had Tom Leon, he's not going to say anything different than what you've heard him say on CNBC. Like, I first of all, I would love to have him on the show again, but like, he's just not going to say anything different than what you've heard him say yesterday. It's not like he's going to tell you guys something different that he said on CNBC. He believes it's a crypto glitch and he's still bullish. So, you either believe him or not, but I don't think there's going to be a different perspective. He has counter there 151 on the day. Here's another heat map showing where the green is going. Definitely more in defensives today. Tom Lee should blame the Wi-Fi like Zuck. Dude, he basically did by saying it's some glitch by saying it's a software bug. He he basically said the Wi-Fi is bad. It's just when Zuck said it, you know, the stock was down like 3%. Dom Lee's stock's down like 50%. which is the difference. So if I little bounce off 2390, I mean are they taking it below 23? Are they taking Nvidia back to 170? Like how low are we going? How low are we going? That is the question. Corey also down. That's correct. There's a glitch in my portfolio. Again, look, at the end of the day, and Steve and I and Chris were talking about this yesterday, if you are not on margin, if you're not heavily levered, you're going to feel less wealthy. Like, that's inevitable, right? Because your portfolio is down. But five years from now, even two years from now, potentially two months from now, these prices are not going to be the same. given the companies continue to grow, given they are solid quality companies, given they have moes and even if we have a recession, like even through that over the long term, you don't want to bet against America. And so, I mean, like, as as annoying as it is, this has got to be a mentality around, all right, these are prices that I'm going to look back on five years from now and say maybe SoFi at 23 today was SoFi at 12 two years ago. And when SoFi's at 50, I'll be very happy that I bought some. But is it painful to buy here? Yeah, of course. Absolutely is painful to buy here. 2386 on SoFi. That one continuing to get hit. Nvidia 174. Nvidia 174.86. Grab. Are we at 480? 486. I mean, Grab basically at the same price it was at three months ago after two quarters of strong earnings. Again, like this, does Grab deserve to be at 486? Does SoFi deserve to be below 24? Does Meta deserve to be below 600? Like, no. None of these stocks deserve any of their prices right now, which means they should be relatively strong buys if they continue to execute on earnings and we eventually reverse. It's just no one knows when we're going to reverse and no one knows if this rate cut is the core reason for the pain. But these are highquality companies in my like these are not you know would I buy openoro here? No. Like I just I just don't think it's the highest quality company personally. But would I buy SoFi here? Yeah. Like I I don't think I'm afraid to buy SoFi. It's just a question of if SoFi is going to 20 maybe you want to chill out a bit if you think it's a pure falling knife. But the idea that it goes even lower than this, you know, you said that on Friday. All right, at 25. That should be the low. Well, no. In fact, we're at 2375. Everything feels like a falling knife. That is the problem. That is the problem here. Oracle 196. S&P officially goes red. All right. Now, we might really see some actual selling. 65170 was holding on to 653. Now, we are actually going red. Where's Tesla? Tesla 386. 386. Yeah. The the fact that they're taking Nvidia down just means that like this market wants to go lower right here after those earnings to go from 197 to 173. There's no way a Grab or a SoFi or a pounder and an apploven can get any room if the world's largest company is down 570 billion in market cap. like no like no stocks are going to go up when Nvidia is down like that. So everything's on sale. It's just a question of is everything on sale enough for you to get excited to buy. Pounder loses 150. There you go. 14. We haven't seen the 140 since uh August. Early August. That one's down four and a half%. Oaklo loses 80. Meta loses 585. And then Rocket Lab losing 39. AMD is the one that's crazy to me today, dude. AMD that was holding 200 very nicely amid. Have you tried mushrooms? No. But if I eat them, will everything go green again? Like will it will it psychoanalytically make me see green if I eat them? Um, Nvidia is still down. AMD is down. Cheesecake Factory is up. Well, we can all eat some Cheesecake Factory. I actually went to Cheesecake Factory the other day because I was like getting my sister a slice of Cheesecake for her birthday. So, I contributed to their earnings a couple days ago. But at least that's green. Your portfolio might not go green, but you will see little green men. Aid, are we also moving back to our parents? Yeah, everyone's moving back. Everyone's moving back. Oh my gosh, dude. Ugly, ugly, ugly. All right, so now we got to see when we get a bottom. I mean, I feel like this is a decent chunk of pain. Either the bottom falls out again and Nvidia is going to 165 or we get a little reversal here. I mean, we got to see this PayPal right here. 58.98. PayPal 58.98. Douche rooms and you'll buy Bitcoin for the first time. You know, the the funny thing about Bitcoin is like there's all this orange pill content around Bitcoin and like how important it is to have it in the portfolio and then when it actually goes through the volatility that is crypto and then it you gets destroyed. Everyone's just like h I don't really want to buy it, including myself. Like it's just human nature, right? Like when it's down the way it is, it's tough to get excited to buy. 82,000 low of the year for Bittycoin. for Bittycoin. Did we lose 173 on Nvidia? Wow. For a second. Yeah. 17294. 17294. Um, PayPal's up a little bit. Again, PayPal sold off so much that makes sense that it's at least getting a little bit of green. TLT, I haven't looked at TLT in a while. Well, TLT obviously is not doing that well because rates are I mean, yields are going up. Um, the 10ear's at 4.05. I mean, realistically, the tenure has not really got to the level, especially because the idea of rate cuts, you know, are not as prominent anymore for December. You need the tenure around three and a half to get TLT to move past 100 or at least get, you know, into that 105 110 range. And that has not happened. Probabilities for a rate cut are now 73.3%. Gold is up. Barely up, but it's up. It's green. 4,63 for gold. So, that one is still still holding on. Uh JK thanks for the super chat. Bitcoin Ethereum will lead the way into the end of the year. Rally tech needed cool liquidity is the issue for these markets on a global level. You will see a return to Bitcoin Ethereum for us. I do agree with that. I think if liquidity is the issue on a global perspective and markets are eventually going to rebound and we if we do get this end of year rally I really I agree with that. I think Bitcoin and Ethereum lead the rally and Bitcoin's kind of been the leading indicator for the downside move. But if it's not just a liquidity issue, if it's something else, you know, which I don't know what it could be, there's a variety of theories that are out there. But if it's something deeper, then it begs the question of how these assets will perform. Rock Lab right there 37 84. Um, Micro Strategy. Wow. 170. Yep. that one loses that key level. Let's get some coverage on Nvidia. Let's see what else we're seeing. But now we are getting a more violent reaction as we have the S&P get hit. So again, this has nothing to do with uh PMI or consumer confidence. Like again, none of these ancillary headlines matter. This is all just feels like this is all much more algorithmic and the algos are upset about something potentially rate cuts that's causing a lot of this pain.
>> Again, somebody's got to own every share of stock that's out there.
>> Um, we've had this conversation many times in terms of value and when it's really going to come to the four, if ever. I mean, you've been playing in a tough market for a long time. Bill, do you continue to anticipate that will be the case? Well, I think something that's unique about the market this year, David, is just how strong a factor momentum has been. Uh, you think about momentum over a long time series, and it's kind of like a sine wave. It goes up sometimes, it goes down sometimes. But so far in 2025, if you just bought the top quintile of names, uh, and held them, you you'd be up twice as much as the S&P 500. You know, about 36% instead of 18%. I think investors have kind of been taught recently that that's normal and it's really an an unusual thing and we think much more likely to revert than than to continue. If if we're right on that, it would be a very good environment for the singledigit PE stocks that we own that uh have been kind of left behind in the market.
>> Right. And why do you think that will be the case?
>> We never we never know the wise. Uh I think even when we look back 25 years ago on the popping of the internet bubble, it's really hard to point to any one thing and say that's the reason that was when they were ringing the bell. But at Harris Oakmark, we just we invest for a five to sevenyear time period and we wait out these periods where what we're doing is out of favor.
>> Y remember that period. It just stop.
>> All right. Growth continues to get hit. You know, you do have some of these other fund managers that are deeper into the value names potentially seeing a rotation. I mean, I mean, PayPal kind of clear example, Cheesecake Factory, clear example. Some of these names that are getting a bit of rotation. SoFi bouncing off 2350. So is Tesla. So is Palanteer off 148. Bitcoin 83.2 and then Nvidia 175. So there's your bounce off 172. Put in the chat, does anyone trust this bounce? Like right now, this green candle you're looking at from 17294 to 17520. Do you trust that? Or do you look at that and like you're you just you can't you can't engage with it. Can't actually think it's real. I feel like it's hard. If we violate 17297 again, then the entire market's going lower again. Every time Nvidia bounces, you see pretty much every stock bounce at the same time. And then when Nvidia gets red cand, look at that. Nvidia getting a red candle off 175. Palenteer getting a red candle off of 151. I mean, it is literally clockwork seeing these things trade handinand and Nvidia obviously being the leader of how these things go up and down. It's it's actually quite incredible. I mean, if you're a day trader or something and you're using these patterns to decide when to get in or out, you're definitely getting signals that are almost obvious to see when something's moving up or down. By right there, 17520 still down about 3%. Um, okay. Let's see. Do we have any other headlines? President Trump says Ukraine is losing land and Putin is not looking for more war. We will not pull off Russia's oil sanctions. Thursday is the appropriate deadline on the plan for Ukraine. I don't know who who he gave these comments to. He might be on Air Force One or something. He might be giving these comments to a few reporters, but he says Thursday is the deadline for this. Let's get some coverage on Bitcoin. This is the Bitwise CIO Matt Hogan. Here is what he has to say about Bitcoin right now.
>> The DAT trade unwinding, global riskoff sentiment, some fallout from the October 10th volatility event in crypto, but you're starting to see long-term investors nibble at the asset at these prices. I think it really comes down to your time frame. Could this go a little bit lower? Could it go down to 70K? That's of course possible. But long-term investors like the Harvard endowment, the Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund are looking at this thing and saying the long-term trend is up. Regulation is up. Institutional buying is up. The debasement trade is on. It really just comes down to your time frame.
>> Right. You mentioned this the mid I guess mid or low 70s I guess. Is that is that a discussion about the cost of production right now?
>> It's X is not working. Again, X is not working. I don't know if this is another Cloudflare thing, but you got X that is not working. Maybe some other websites could be affected as well. Maybe this is just the next thing.
>> Mostly focused on we had this huge move up following the election of Trump, right? And the idea is maybe we retrace all the way back to those prices. When I talk to people in the field, a lot of people are looking at this particular level around 84,000 as a potential bottom. That was where we retraced to in March, what was the last pullback in crypto. Some people are going all the way back to the Trump era election and saying maybe we need to retread that ground before we base and go up. Anytime you have a big bull market move in crypto, and we did from 70 to 125K, you get a lot of new investors into the market, some of those are diamond hands and they're here forever. Some of them get shaken out when the first volatility occurs. We're seeing that shakeout, but again, I think we're closer to the bottom than we are to the beginning of this pullback. I think it's a great entry point for long-term investors looking out into 2026 and beyond.
>> Matt Tomley uh of Fundstrat came on CNBC yesterday and said uh there may be a software glitch or some sort of bug that contributed to the sell-off. Do you have any evidence of that?
>> Sure. I love Tom. He's an extremely great analyst. I think pointing to any one factor for driving this is missing the boat. You know, I think crypto is b down because global liquidity is down. Risk off sentiment is emerging in the market. As I mentioned, the DAT trade is unwinding. What Tom was referring to was a specific coding at a at an exchange called Binance during the last major volatility event on 1010. I would consider that a very minor contributor to what happened. Uh I think the bigger story is global liquidity. It's the DAT trade. It's riskoff sentiment. It's Nvidia being down and other risk assets following. And again, I would just point the long-term story is up. So Tom's not wrong. It's just one small piece of a bigger puzzle for why we've pulled back, you know, nearly a trillion dollars in market cap across crypto.
>> I wonder if you'd take a crack at at a take on strategy or at least the notion that all right, the the core coin sentiment may rebound, but there's still questions about investors willing to pay a premium for any kind of leverage. Yeah. Well, let's take it at two different levels. From a crypto investor perspective, from a Bitcoin perspective, am I worried that Strategy will sell its Bitcoin? I'm absolutely not. It's traded below its net asset value. So, from a Bitcoin perspective, I'm not worried at all. They're in this for the long haul. I think they'll have to pry Bitcoin out of Michael Sailor's dead hands before he sells it. Do I think Micro Strategy itself could trade below its net asset value of Bitcoin? Absolutely it has in the past. People forget this, but during the 2022 bare market, it did in fact trade at a discount to NAV. That's natural when you have a levered position. So, is there downside there? Absolutely. Is it going anywhere? No. Will there be another period where you know the industry is holding up uh Sailor as as a leader in this space and the stock is doing well? Absolutely. Again, just like I said at the beginning, I think it comes down to time frame. We've seen this story before in crypto. short-term people may step out of the market, long-term investors are rewarded. I think that's true in Bitcoin. I think it's probably true in Micro Strategy, but of course, we could see more downside pressure there. It
>> isn't there a certain pain threshold though for strategy where they'd face margin calls uh on some of their leveraged holdings. I mean, they'd be forced to sell essentially, right? Uh uh yes in theory, but if you look at the details of those of those debt covenants of that income, it's really a tiny fraction. This is still a company that's sitting on, you know, 4050 billion dollars of of debt-free exposure to Bitcoin. The first convertible bond comes due in 2028. It's only a billion dollars. These are relatively small levels. I think people overstate the degree of leverage in Micro Strategy. If I were looking for risk in the DAT market, which I do think there is some risk, I would look down the chain at the smaller names that sort of followed Micro Strategy into the market. I don't think Micro Strategy is going to be forced to sell its Bitcoin because the scale of its debt is small to its net Bitcoin holdings and there's ways to monetize those holding, but I do think there may be some risk in some of the smaller DATs. That's where I would look. I wouldn't focus as much on Micro Strategy itself.
>> Interesting, Matt. Good insight. I appreciate it. Important week. Uh Matt Hogan, thanks very much.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So Matt's going the opposite direction of Tom. I mean, he basically said he doesn't agree with Tom. He's like, "Yeah, Tom was making a point about October 10th, but that's a small reason for why." I mean, like, you're getting other people who are pretty influential in the crypto space, like Matt Hogan, um, again, CEO of Bitwise, saying, "I don't agree with Tom. I don't I don't think that this glitch is the reason he he's he's blaming it on global liquidity, which quite frankly I think is a much better explanation, not a software glitch. So you're getting some real divergence there of thought leaders in the crypto space that are that are not um sort of uh underscoring Tom Lee's argument. I mean, they're acknowledging it, but they're not ackn they're not doubling down and saying that it's the reason for this pain. So back below 24 2388 then Ethereum 2692 2692 The thing about global liquidity though is that again Japan is printing a lot of money which should be increasing global liquidity which is good. The problem is if it's unwinding the yen carry trade it's bad especially for risk on assets. So you do have liquidity going up. Unfortunately the US central bank isn't cutting yet. Um, but is it just a liquidity issue if we do have another major country like Japan printing money? Like it it feels like there could be more things associated with the the nature of that liquidity and what it means on Bitcoin. 82,683 on BTC. Are we at six on fear and greed? Are we actually at six? I think this is the lowest we've been in since April. Yeah, guys, I think this is the absolute low since April. Uh, April, we had three on April 8th. On April 8th, we were at three. We were at six today. And the S&P 500 is still up from April 3rd or April 8th. We're at what, 650? We're up 35%. Remember, we were up 4,800 that day. So, we're up 35%. But fear and greed is just couple of points away from the same levels that we were at on liberation day. Nvidia right there 17492. Palenteer back to 150. Nebas lost 80 for a second. And then Tesla 388. Could we go back down to 4,800? That's a great question. I personally would say no. I don't think I mean that would be that's not just giving up this year's of gains. That's giving up 2024 and 2023 and all of 2022 even though 2022 was a down year. So about last time we were at 4,800 was January 2022. So I mean we're talking about four years of G. That's why 4800 was so stupid in April because like really do we deserve to lose four years of gains? But then again, what caused the reversal? It wasn't the market thinking that it was stupid. It was Trump reversing the tariffs. Like, as soon as Trump said buy and that we're going to like give a 90-day pause to negotiate reciprocal tariffs or whatever, that's when we rally 10% intraday. So, could the markets go down, you know, without an excuse? And and if they don't have a sort of uh catalyst like a Trump tweet that says buy, could they stay down? I mean, yeah, that's what we've been experiencing. Would that be 4,800 again? I don't think so. But nonetheless, this is more tricky because last time we knew why we were down. This time it's not as easy to understand. For people saying, can Trump step in? I don't even know what what could Trump possibly say. I mean, put in the chat, what do you think he could say that would reasonably get this selling to stop here? Which, by the way, he has not talked about the market in two weeks. So, it's almost I don't think he care. He's been talking about affordability. the Epstein stuff and Ukraine a lot more than the markets. So, I kind of think he's like, "Guys, S&P is still up 10% this year. You shouldn't be too upset." And he's not acting like it. No, but why would you say buy the dip? Like, the reason he said buy the dip last time is because again, we were down 30% in a month. We're down 5% in a month, right? Like, and and the reason we were down 30% a month is because of his tariffs, which is why he said buy the dip and then he did the reversal. like him just tweeting by the dip. I don't know if the market's going to care. He has to say the White House is partnering with a company called Rock Lab. Lots of people are saying it's the best space company in the world. And maybe that would help Rocket Lab, but
>> maybe reversing the tariffs, but he's already started doing that on coffee and bananas is like I don't that's the tough putt about and the the one thing he could do. Chris mentioned this yesterday, fire Powell, guarantee a rate cut. The problem is I don't know if the market would be that excited if the independence of the Fed completely was compromised. Dude, I don't people saying the crypto I don't think the crypto bill matters right now. The they could pass the Clarity Act. I don't think Bitcoin cares about the Clarity Act or Ethereum when things were going good legislation and a framework for legislation around crypto made sense. Now that things are not going good long term, that will help. But in terms of a sharp reversal, I don't know if legislation is going to be enough here. I feel I really do feel like it's more a global liquidity thing as Matt Hogan was saying. Wow. Fear and greed five. Two points away from three. Do they have a negative rating? Like what happens when it goes negative? What happens when we go negative? We just keep breaking records. This is kind of wild, bro. All of this happening within a week. All of this happening within a week. I mean, really the past couple weeks, but the beginning of this week is when the pain started. And right there, 175 again. Google's still green. Yeah, Google holder. You know what's going to make this worse next week potentially? Michael Bur's uh launch of I think it's a blog, maybe it's a podcast, I have no idea, but November 25th, he's been teasing this date. I mean, if you have Bur just start putting out content every day about how everything sucks and it's all a bubble, it's going to have an impact. Just there's going to be retail investors that take that seriously and just decide, you know, maybe everything is fake. So, you do have a media onslaught coming soon from Bur potentially. I mean, I don't know if he's really going to bring back a blog or a podcast or something and he's going to be open sourcing his research. And again, he should be allowed to do that. You know, obviously everyone should be able to have different perspectives, but just it he's a very heavy voice whether you like him or not. And now that the market's already down, people are already saying he's right, even though I don't think the markets are down because of GPU depreciation. But that's going to be more compounding narratives that are out there. April lowest fear and greed was three, not four. There's three. Wow, small caps are up. That is kind of weird. Why the hell are small caps up today? I mean, I know their earnings have been better than the S&P, but goodness, that is on a day like today, you would expect those to get hit. you would expect those to get hit. We don't know if he closed his shorts. I mean, some people are saying he did, some people are saying he didn't. He doesn't have to disclose anymore because he doesn't have the fund. So, I no one really fully knows to be honest. Micro Strategy down five, Rocket Lab down three, Nvidia down two. Um, equal weighted S&P that's up one. That makes a little bit more sense. Equal weighted is actually green. Lot more Twitter outages. Is Twitter still working for people? Let me try it again. Um, no. No. Okay. Just started working. Just started working for me. Okay, there you go. All right. So, that should be back. PayPal 58 at 67 and then Nvidia getting a little green right there. 17590. Little bit more love. Potentially trying to break 176 at the same time. Everything else is still red. AMD is well 19670. Where is the VIX? The VIX is at 27. Yes, let me make sure. Let me confirm that. Um, and at some point the VIX should give us our signal that things are ready to move higher. VIX is at yeah 27. So what at 30 2650 at 30? Is that like the absolute worst of it? 28 triple QQQ is down 2% right here. Again, this is leverage Q's. I mean, where is the Bitcoin money going to? I think it's going to cash or it's going to gold. I think it's going to cash or it's going to gold. It's one or the other. It's one or the other. It's not going into stocks, that's for sure. So, I think it's going one way or the other. Uh Chris Patel just tweeted and a lot of people have been asking about his BMR spreads. There it is. Posted on Twitter. He's down about 200 grand on those spreads. Now, he's up 64 grand on his calls against those spreads, but he is down 200 overall on those spreads. Takes a man to post the losses. Everyone can post the gains. Takes a man to post the losses. So, you're seeing that right there. Now, again, if Bit Mine has a reversal, he's going to be able to mitigate a lot of that pain just by selling those calls and collecting that premium. But obviously, you got to get a reversal back into at least the $50 range for that to play out. Again, I said yesterday as well, if you weren't on the market close, I'm down about half a million over the past couple months. Probably call it two months. So, my portfolio has also been decimated. Still up from the April lows, but you know, seeing half a million disappear is not fun for anybody. And I would imagine for a lot of other people, obviously you're seeing that pain. It is what it is. This is the game of being into high beta names and riding them up. The the one good thing is again, if you're early on these names, you have a cost basis that gives you a margin of safety that also allows you to kind of weather the storm. If you're buying these names at the top, it's obviously a lot tougher to navigate. Um, but I built a healthy position on Nvidia in DeepSeek. Obviously, Pounder and Hood have been early. Now, if Nvidia goes back to 90 during Deep Seek and takes away all the all the like, all right, dude, whatever. I guess I guess Nvidia was just not going to work out, but I would hope that's not not going to be the case. Um, I ran down as well. Where is I ran? Yeah. Wow. Wow, I ran down 8%. Oh my 8% on Iran as that one is continuing to get hit. Um, oh, we got some fat stuff. Pull this up. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's get some coverage on this as well. Um, how does that sway the the folks who are in the middle in the in the green portion of the the chart you just showed there?
>> Well, there's like a pre It's a great question, Leslie. There is a predisposition, I think, for the governors to follow the chair. That said, we don't know exactly how the chair feels. Uh, assuming Krishna is right, that this was a leadership steer that uh um Jay Powell kind of signed off in his words on what John Williams said. It may not have happened, but we don't know exactly where where uh uh the Fed chair is is positioned on this. Um but you could imagine he would get a couple votes. I just have wondered, Leslie, how much tolerance Powell has for a large descent. Would he accept an 8 to4 decision in favor of a cut or would it be a 7 to five decision in favor of a pause? That's the kind of thing that Powell has mostly to this point worked very hard to avoid having gotten I think at most a couple dissents on on a couple votes over the course and as we've reported he has the lowest descent percentage compared to Bernanki and Yellen and even Greenspan that we've seen in the modern era here. So he'll have to work hard and again the problem is they don't have the data. So they're going to that that those jobs reports come out a week later. So the thing that would bring everyone together is the data but we don't have it. Yeah, I was going to say is a split uh vote essentially inevitable at this point that you're you're kind of looking at many many denters regardless of which way you go.
>> It does seem to be the case. You have the Waller and Bowman. I'd say now Williams uh and there's other people who would who would favor a cut there. Um and obviously Steven who wanted 50 basis points. He definitely wants cut. So there you got four votes there. you need two more or three more to get it over the top and not have a tie. Um, look, we got to watch. We're we're fast approaching though the blackout period. So, they're only going to have a couple days left to to steer the market. You may go into this at a even 60% for the Fed funds futures for the current month is a relatively low rate. The data show uh Leslie that despite all the talk and the cacophony around Fed speak, the Fed funds futures market is very good at predicting what will happen. But it does so with, you know, 75 80% numbers. It's rare to go into a meeting at a 60% level for what the Fed's going to do.
>> Yeah. 40% just yesterday. Steve, thank you.
>> Again, Williams gave us a little bit of hope for that rate cut and the market liked it in the pre-market, but obviously market's not really caring anymore. Palanteer below 150, Tesla below 390, Nebius below 80, Grab 484, App1ven still below 500, SoFi still below 24, Meta below 590, and then Oaklo at eight bucks. Google still holding on is incredible, dude. I mean, the shows the resilience of money potentially leaving other names and just piling into Googs. So, if you own Google, I mean, you just that is that is a real hallmark of the portfolio. that's probably keeping you afloat. But many many other names just getting wrecked and getting hit right here. Nvidia as well 196 or sorry 176. Little bit of a green candle. Not really leading the market by any sense. S&P still pretty red. I mean no S&P is about to go green. Okay. So you got to bounce off 651. There you go. S&P is green. Maybe that means Nvidia goes green as well soon, but still pretty much down on the day. Yeah, buybacks could be obviously occurring right now as well. Um, corporate buybacks and so you would have m you would imagine a lot of these companies are thinking, all right, they're cheap. I mean, I would bet Robin I mean Robin had bought back a million of their shares at 104. It's at 10370. I think the uh the new CFO, which by the way, shout out to Devin Ryan. He's officially on X. He was one of the only analysts that was bullish on Robin Hood uh at $8. I'm putting his Twitter in the chat if anyone wants to go follow him. But he had a interview with the new CFO. Um and this is a two-minute introduction video. The guy's name is Shiv. And um he will be the new CFO of Hood. Maybe they're buying back stock.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, as I mentioned on the call, I've been here about seven years. When I joined, we were couple hundred people, a few million customers, about five billion of assets, and I've kind of seen the the true hyperscaling in Silicon Valley fashion. Um, I started as a team of one to build up the treasury team. I then scaled up the finance team. A few years ago, I took over our what we call strategy teams and also corpdev. So strategy is benchmarking, NPS, competitive intelligent, bisdev, and also our lean6 sigma team. And then corp dev is is corp dev m&a plus integration. Um I've worked with Vlad and Jason incredibly closely. I'm one of the few people that can walk into Vlad's office and tell him exactly what I think. He may not always listen, but he'll hear me out. And that's that's seven years in the trenches together. I sit in our leadership team. I've attended all of our board meetings since we've gone public. I also sit on our auditor risk committee and just feel super fortunate to work with this amazing team. Uh before joining Robin Hood I was another fintech called opportune and helped them get ready to go public and before that I spent about a decade on the buy side. I was a portfolio manager and trader at Pimco Franklin Templeton started my career as a structured credit banker JP Morgan pre-inancial crisis and uh in college I worked for the Oakland A's uh doing Moneyball for Billy Bean which is a great story over beers for another time. Pretty dope guy. He's been in the trenches with Vlad for the past seven years. So I am excited for him as the new CFO. Nvidia right there getting some green candles. But um it is cool to see some of the institutional analysts get on X and you know start building their brand on that platform. So you got Deon Ryan there. Applovin 494. Uh BLS just said October CPI is not happening. Wow. I knew we weren't getting the jobs report, but we're really not getting the CPI. Surprised the market's not going red on that news. I mean, maybe we're about to go red, but I'm surprised the market's not getting hit on that. BLS says there will be no October CPI report. That might be a good thing. I I think lack of data transparency can never be good. There's no way it can be good. Like, if the data is bad, you got to just put out the data and let the market figure out what it what to do. But hiding it, I mean, that's just I feel like that's just way worse. Wow, we're really not getting the October CP. Like, I mean, maybe their excuse is that because the government was shut down, we didn't have the ability to calculate it, but there were certain factions of the BLS that were working. And even if it's not perfectly calculated, there's definitely some parts of data they can get. That is that is kind of h that's kind of crazy. Uh the next FOMC meeting is scheduled for December 9th. BLS says there will be no October CPI report. Consumer price index for November to be released on December 18th. Okay. So you have a FOMC meeting on December 10th. We have no jobs data or CPI data for November until eight days after. I mean like the Fed should still cut obviously. It's just If they don't have the data, then I don't know. Is Trump holding the data to create max stress on the FOMC and markets to force a cut? Well, here's the thing. If the data was bad, which I mean, we're assuming October data is not good, then wouldn't they want to put it out so that there's more likely of a chance for a cut, right? Like if the job if we lost 100,000 jobs in October, wouldn't the Fed be like, "Oh [__] maybe we should be cutting." Yeah. The problem is, and this goes back to something we've been talking about for the past couple months, I really do think Trump's ego is getting in the way here because I think he doesn't want to be a president that just lost 100,000 jobs. And maybe they're hoping November is better than October and so they don't have to report a crappy October. Like, that could be one situation going on right here. Another argument could be that inflation is up in October or November or sorry October. So that's why we're not getting the CPI because if inflation's up a lot, the Fed's not going to cut. But at the end of the day, you got to put out the data. Like what? No, inflation's magically going to go down in November from October to the point where the Fed's going to think that they need to like No, if anything, JPL is going to be more afraid that inflation is so bad and we don't have the data that we're definitely not going to cut. I mean, that's another reversal of how that plays out. So, it's either the jobs data is bad, which would give us a cut, but Trump doesn't want to release that jobs data. I mean, someone else gave me another reason why they're not releasing it. Like, I'm very open to hearing another theory why we're not getting that data. Again, it's not that it's like we're going to get it. It's it's not coming out. It's not that it'll happen later in November. It's we're not getting it. It's just it's not happening. I find it very hard to believe that if the job numbers were good, we would if we added 100,000 jobs, I'm pretty sure Trump would be fine with releasing it. But we're not getting that, which could be the lynch for why we get a rate cut if the labor market's down. But if inflation is up more than the labor market, let's say we lose 100,000 jobs, that's bad. But what if inflation's up? Like I'm being I'm hyperbolic here, but let's say it's up 2%. It's probably not, but let's say it is. Then the Fed has to weigh between, okay, do we care about inflation being up a lot, or do we care about the labor market being down a lot? And I think based on everything they've said, they're probably going to care more about inflation. Now, let's say we lost like 250,000 jobs, which is also hyperbolic because we probably didn't. Maybe that would be enough for the Fed to say, even if inflation's up a little bit, this labor market stuff is worse. But without the data, there's no calculation they can make. Even though I still obviously think they should be cutting that. Yes, they're correct. That is called stagflation, which also might mean we don't get a rate cut. But nonetheless, like we all deserve to know the data so that we can see if we're headed into a stagflationary environment, which again, I think inflation's up. I don't think it's up as much. I think the labor market's down. I don't think it's down to a recessionary level. So, I think there's still room for a cut even if inflation is higher. The best case scenario is the labor market's down, which I think we all think it is. And then inflation's up, but it's not crazy up. And there you get a cut. But then you have to have an ideological assessment from the Fed to be like, "Hey, people getting paid is better than people losing their jobs, even if they have to pay a couple extra dollars for groceries, which does hurt on an aggregate basis when you're paying that much more for groceries. But maybe it hurts less than losing your job. And we just we just don't know how the Fed is going to interpret that. So right there at 24, Meta 584, Oaklow still at 80. Visa and Mascard actually green on the day. Quantum still red. Bit mine 2460. That's basically low of the days. It got to 2430 at one point and Oracle below 200. The Mandani meeting is today. That is correct. I feel like it's going to be streamed based on what Trump said yesterday, but we're not fully sure. Um, I don't see any live streams for it yet, but it should be up. We got we got our boy. We haven't heard from him in a while. We have not heard from this guy in a minute. All right, here we go. Mr. Lutnik, what do you got for us? What do you got for us
>> in America into the workforce for these great paying jobs? And I I think really America the golden age which Donald Trump talks about, he is literally saying we are going to build manufacturing in America and these jobs are going to blow the numbers away.
>> How should the Fed be cutting interest rates right now?
>> Of course they should. I mean, you've got really a beautiful economy. The economy can grow with lower rates. You know, these rates are high because of the inflation of the Biden administration. You've seen them all come off. Now, you've got the president cutting prices across the board. We're going to drive affordability across the board. You know, he's focused, razor focused on affordability and driving it down. You're going to see inflation coming off. You're keeping energy prices low. You've got tax numbers coming in next year. I think rates should be at least a 100 basis points lower that will free up affordability in housing and that will help America really reach its full potential.
>> What's your take um on this tariff dividend distribution next year? It's it it's not spawned a lot of enthusiasm on the hill. Uh president continues to mention it. Uh what does Harold Lutnik think? Well, I look, the president wants to make sure the American people understand that the tariffs are there for their benefit, right? That it's yes, it's going to drive down our deficit. Yes, it's going to make the country stronger, but he wants the people of America, the American people to appreciate these tariffs. And he knows if he puts money in their pocket and says, "Look, this was paid for by the tariffs," they'll better understand how important this is for America. And so that's why he's talking about it and you know he understands the American people the best and uh he's easy to work for. I mean today and every day it's really amazing to work for today. He had all the freed hostages up to the White House. I mean imagine that all the freed hostages up to the White House. There is no president who could do the things that he accomplished.
>> You know that's a point.
>> All right we got Tom Lee here. Just posted a video on his channel. Let's see what Mr. Lee is saying. peaked and staged a pretty sizable decline with a three and a half% decline into the close and that took us down 1.6 for the day. Now again, I think many people are disappointed because Nvidia had great numbers. So what caused this reversal? Well, it's not always clear why stocks fall, but we do think there are five possible explanations for this. First, I think one factor behind the meltdown was that there were some tweets that that created a little bit of outrage on social media and it was President Wow, this was the stuff I was talking about in the morning. I didn't know Tom would reference this. Okay, so he's referencing Trump's tweets as a possible reason we had a little bit of pain yesterday. Trump responding to some Democratic uh veterans suggesting that they can ignore orders from Congress. And uh and that first tweet was at 9:17 a.m. The second one came at 10:21 a.m. He said, "Sedicious behavior punishable by death." Now, notice the time stamp. That's 10:21. And the market turned down just a few minutes later. That tweet led to Democratic Congress members and uh leaders protesting the death threats against Democratic members. Now, the second thing that I think did contribute to the decline is the Okay, so when I referenced that tweet in the morning, I did not connect that to the market decline. I was just someone asked, has Trump tweeted about anything in the past 24 hours? And I was like, well, he tweeted about this thing from yesterday, but I didn't connect that to the market turning at 10:20. I don't know if I agree with Tom Lee there that that tweet led to the market selloff or potentially was part of it, but that is one of his arguments that he's making. And it looks like now there's an Epstein argument from him as well of the uh Epstein files. So, President Trump signed the Epstein Files Transparency Act into law and now has ordered uh these files to be released. There's going to be a lot of people in those files. In fact, um for instance, here's someone pointing out that it could even uh embarrass uh many donors, billionaire donors. So, you can imagine there might be investors who are just nervous who's going to be on that list and it's revealed does it do something to markets. I think that contributed to some of the nervousness today. The third factor is crypto. Um, Bitcoin has been selling off recently, uh, and generally has led the equities, but you can see at the open, Bitcoin peaked and began to to weaken at 9:30 and the S&P followed basically an hour later. This has been the case for some time. It's something I've pointed out that Bitcoin has been leading the S&P. For instance, Bitcoin peaked on October 10th. Um, that's right before we had that liquidity shock, which ended up being the biggest liquidity shock in the history of crypto, wiping out more than 2 million accounts. and and Bitcoin's been falling since. But as you can see here, this has led to um the S&P spider peaking on October 29th. And uh you know, it's something I I I was interviewed on CBC today and I mentioned that since October 10th, there was this feature called ADL that caused a significant amount of liquidations and it was really due to a pricing error. But that pricing error has not gone uh has created significant holes in the balance sheet. In other words, the reason crypto has continued to have lingering weakness is that market makers who play a critical role in crypto have weakened balance sheets from that liquidation bid on October 10th. Now market makers are central to crypto liquidity. They're essentially acting like central banks because they provide liquidity and they're pulling back is the equivalent of QT for crypto. So you can imagine crypto is suffering from tightening conditions along with a hawkish Fed. Now in 2022 when a similar event happened because of FTX, it took six to eight weeks to recapitalize those market makers and for market function to recover. So we're about 6 weeks into this process. The fourth factor is Oracle um and CDS because there was quite a lot of chatter about this. As you know, there's many skeptics of AI, people even questioning Nvidia's numbers, but what's catching people's eyes is Oracle's credit default swaps are rising. This could be investors hedging against um Okay, so that's the most we got from him there. Does anyone agree with that? Anyone agree that the Trump tweets in the Epstein files could have been the reason for the I I don't know if I think that was the reason for the reversal yesterday. Maybe, but maybe not. Yeah, I don't have a subscription to Fund Strat, so I guess we don't get to finish watching the video. Uh 178 on Nvidia. You are getting a reversal right there, which is nice to see. S&P is holding up its green from the morning. So, you're getting a little bit more momentum right there. Some of the bleeding is stopping, which is good. AMD pushing 200 again. Pounder pushing 150. Maybe 1130. Market's turning a little bit. Again, we're going to have to see in the next few hours if this can continue. VIX down 5%. Where's the VIX? Yeah, 27 to 2590. I mean, it's it is down, which is probably why you're seeing things go up now. Again, we've seen this story literally every day this week. We pump, we dump, we really dump, then we pump a little bit, then we pump a lot because the VIX goes down, and then we end up I mean, sometimes it goes flat, sometimes dumping, and maybe we end up a little bit green. So, I mean, we'll see by the end of today how it plays out, but we're at that part where we are pumping as the VIX is going down. probably people buying in right here thinking that we bottomed and maybe we did at least for the day as you have the S&P at 655. All right, that's what we got folks. That is what we got. I think that's it for me today. Be back on the close. I don't see any other crazy headlines. Um I mean what is your plan from here? Do you sell to save further bleeding or hold? I I I me and Steve were talking about this last night. It is so contingent on your individual personal life, right? Like and your bills that you have to pay your family, etc. For me, I'm holding a lot of these names. I got in at a lot cheaper than the prices that they are today, even though they're down significantly because those are positions you've been building for years. Um, I think covered calls are way to at least generate some level of cushion during a time like this. And second of all, it's just like I don't know if I like, again, Nvidia, I'm at 122 on an average. Am I selling Nvidia 178 after the best quarter they ever had to try to buy it lower than 122? It's like I just find that very hard to. And if I'm wrong about that, I'll just be wrong. But the idea that I'm going to get Nvidia below 122 after all the work I spent this year building out a position, it's like, no, I just like I'm just letting it stay. I'm like, yeah, it's not going up to 200, but it's also still way above 122. And I think a lot of us are in that same position. If you load it up on Rocket Lab at 20, it's like, okay, it's not at 70 anymore, but you really sell at 39 because you think it goes back to 20. No. So now if you need the money, if you need to delever, if you're on margin, like those are all different things where you might not have a choice. You might have to get out of some of these positions. And I think the most important thing is to stay solvent in these times because if this really is just some nonsense liquidity, Fed rate cut, crypto glitch, yada yada, and we're reversing over the next six months, maybe even sooner than that, then you just you got to stay solvent and not get margin called so that you at least have the capital and the ability for the portfolio to get back to those levels. But if you don't need the money and you're happy with just letting these positions ride out and you're not actively trading it, then no, I think I think holding is not the I think at this again the time to sell was just like a month ago, right? So it's like do you really sell after a 30 to 40% decline on a lot of these names? It's hard to imagine that unless you fully lost conviction, then it's then it's a different question. BMR right there back above 25. Then you got Google at 300. All right, folks. That is it. I'll be back on the close and uh we'll see what we got. I think we have Jason on the close today. We're gonna have Jason on. I know we didn't get to do a lot of technical Tuesday because I had to leave early. So Jason will be on today. We're not going to do the basic names that we do. Maybe we'll do some of them, but we'll get into all the other names like an Oscar or a Lemonade or the names that people didn't get a chance to see on Tuesday. So, we'll have Jason on and uh we'll take some requests and and we'll try to do some TT. I don't think there's going to be anything else. I mean, we'll go through the headlines. We'll see how the market turns out. But for those that really wanted some TA on a lot of specific names, we'll try to do that today. on the uh on the close. All right, word of the day. Um, paraclete. Pariclelete. A guide, advocate or counselor often used in the theological or philosophical context to mean someone who offers deep support, wisdom or protection. In moments of uncertainty, everyone needs a paraclete. Someone who can steady their thinking. Well, I uh I would definitely say at this time we all would need a paraclete to uh to navigate the volatility of what's going on.
>> Say correctly this word.
>> Okay. Power Clate. Why doesn't Google just have the regular? Google should Google doesn't have Oh, I have a better one. This is Okay, here it is.
>> Paracquet.
>> Okay, there you go. Paracquet. That's our word of the day. That's our word of the day. All right, that's what we got. I'll be back on the close. We'll do some TT with Jason again. We're getting a little bounce right here. The thing in the morning that was the most important was the potential rate cut. And uh yeah, maybe we're getting it, maybe we're not. I mean, for those that don't want TT in this market, that's totally fine. You know, I mean, if you don't care about technical analysis, that's fair. I I would suggest if people want more of an in-depth discussion of this market, listen to the market close yesterday with Chris. We talked for about an hour and a half and I think that was a really good discussion on just navigating a variety of different fundamental things that are going on. So if you don't care about the technicals, which I totally understand, not caring about them at this moment, yesterday's market close is definitely um worth watching with Chris. And so we'll keep going from there. All right, I think that's it. Thank you everybody for being here. Again, we will get through this. It is ugly, but nonetheless, we're going to have to get a lot more answers soon around kind of why this sell-off happened, how it's playing out, and if we are closer to a bottom than not, and if we are, then this will be a blip over the coming months as we look back on it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. See you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.