Hello my friends. Today is April 25th and this is Markets Weekly. All right, so last week was another crazy week in markets. It seemed like the stock market could only go up and indeed we did have new all-time highs in the S&P 500. At the same time, the straight up moves remains closed. Oil continues to tick higher and we have Jared Kusher and Steve Whit off to the Middle East to discuss peace. In the background, a third carrier is moving into position. I feel like I've seen this movie before. All right, so today, let's talk about three things. First off, let's talk about what happened at Kevin Walsh's confirmation hearing last week where he revealed his newest tactic to get rate cuts. And secondly, and related, uh, Kevin Worsh has a narrower view of Fed independence, and that's opening up some very interesting potential uses of the dollar swap line, whereas the UAE is now requesting a dollar swap line. Secretary Besset seems to be willing to grant it. And so, we may have a new uh diplomatic tool, at least a new way of using dollar swap lines that's opening up interesting possibilities. All right, the last thing I want to talk about is of course the absolute bonkers price action in these semiconductor stocks. The market seems to have come to the conclusion that we don't have enough compute. So all these semiconductor stocks are surging. Intel up 25% in a single day, finally exceeding its dotcom boom highs. All right, starting with Kevin Walsh. So guys, to be totally clear, Kevin Walsh is super wellconed. he is going to be confirmed as Fed chair and it looks like he's going to be able to sit at as as Fed chair for the June meeting. Now, he was nominated by the king with one job, that is to cut rates. And so, over the past few months, he's been going around telling everyone that we have this tremendous, tremendous AI boom that is boosting productivity. Of course, that's disinflationary. That means the Fed can cut interest rates. Just one problem with that. When you look at the official inflation indexes, they don't seem to be going lower and actually they are ticking higher. As the trade-off remains closed, oil prices can continue to increase. And if fertilizer is not able to flow, it's possible that we could have some, you know, food shortages in the coming months that suggest higher food prices as well. So that's a big problem if you have to cut rates. So Kevin Walsh has a new tactic to get what he wants. Let's listen to this exchange between him and the senator of Nevada.
>> I think the data that's being used to judge inflation is quite imperfect data and among the projects that the economics profession and if I'm confirmed as chairman of the Fed, the Fed needs to do is to try to use our new understanding and new data sources to see what's really the inflation rate in the economy. We used to use core PCE core measures. So we'd exclude food and energy because it was sort of a rough swag as to what was going on. We don't have to do a rough swag anymore. What I'm most interested in is what's the underlying inflation rate. Not what's the one-time change in prices because of a change in geopolitics or a change in beef, but what's the underlying generalized change in prices in the economy? And my broad sense is that these inflation uh uh risks and the inflation damage the last several years is improving somewhat. It has improved somewhat in the last year. The measures I prefer are looking at things that are called trimmed averages where we take out all of the tail risks, all of the one-off items, and we ask ourselves whether the generalized change in prices is having second order effects on the economy. Again, they're not where they should be, but I think that the trend is quite favorable. So what Kevin is saying is basically that Yeah. Yeah. So these inflation indexes they look like they're they're kind of high but you know there's another way to calculate inflation. Now the thing is if you take out the prices that are going up a lot inflation doesn't look so bad. So let's take a look at this uh trimmed mean PCE. You know it's it's above 2% but but just by a little bit. And if you look at it it's trending lower. So, you know, maybe we could cut rates, right? And guys, this is a very common tactic uh by governments. Uh if you look at it historically, for example, once upon a time, uh the CPI in the US included mortgage rates. Um but as the Fed raised rates aggressively to combat inflation, that also pushed up mortgage rates and that actually uh had the unintended impact of actually pushing CPI higher as well. And so they redefined CPI and took out mortgage rates. So again, if uh you want to do something and the official indexes aren't cooperating, redefining it is a strategy that governments all around the world and throughout time have always used. Now Kevin also has floated another idea. He, you know, mumbled something about the billion price project maybe collecting inflation data in a different way. So for those of you who don't know the billion price project was something that was very popular after the great financial crisis uh it is basically a project started out in MIT to scrape the internet for all sorts of prices to come up with an alternative measure of inflation. After the great financial crisis, the Fed was doing Kiwi, printing massive amounts of money. And so at that time, a lot of people, let's say, call them monitorists, had a view of the world where if you printed a lot of money, inflation would go higher. So those people were totally freaking out. Gold prices were going higher and they were telling everyone that, you know, inflation or even hyperinflations was right around the corner. The problem was the official inflation indexes just didn't show it. And indeed for the next 10 years inflation was below 2% for for most of the time. So in order to justify their uh I guess their philosophical beliefs they were desperately looking for alternative measures of inflation and at that time it was something like the billion price project which seemed to show a higher rate of inflation which ultimately of course as we uh looking back was also not true. So in any case, what Kevin is also suggesting is that hey, maybe we could collect inflation data in another way and I suspect that if he were to do it that way, he could find a way to collect inflation data such that it looked lower than the official PCE data. So again, this guy has a heavy task of trying to cut rates and so he's finding ways to do so. Now, some of you may say that this is a committee blah blah blah, but at the end of the day, these people on the committee, they they don't really have any political power, and I suspect that they can be squeezed. I think the real constraint to cutting rates is the public. Now, if we look at uh spot oil prices, they continue to move higher. If you look at say jet fuel, it continues to move higher. So, unless the straight off moves thing is resolved, inflation is going to continue to rise. And no matter how dovish a Fed you are, no matter how much political pressure you have, you're you won't be able to cut rates if the public is feeling inflation and become increasingly worried about it. So I think that's going to be uh the real constraint for for the Fed, even a Kevin Walsh Fed. Remember there is a path here where the short of moves is not resolved. inflation takes higher and and maybe the Fed has to hike rates and that would be a situation I think would be very bad for for financial assets especially since they seem to be so elevated. Um as an aside another interesting exchange that I found during the Kevin Walsh hearing uh is this one.
>> Would you answer my question please? I ask you have a hundred million dollars in undisclosed assets and what I'm asking is are any of those with uh this outfit that invests in um uh companies affiliated with President Trump or his family companies that have facilitated money laundering, Chinese control companies or financing vehicles set up by Jeffrey Epstein? It's a yes or no question. Uh, Senator, I have worked tirelessly with the ethics officials at the office of government ethics and you have not come to an ethics agreement and have agreed, senator, to sell all of my financial assets. Question, Mr. refusing to tell us
>> if you have investments, for example, in vehicles set up uh to advance Jeffrey Epstein. Is that what you're telling us? You just won't tell us. Uh, Senator, what I'm telling you is that those assets that you represent at Juggernaut will be sold if I'm confirmed before I take office and sign the oath of office.
>> Let me
>> And now again, Kevin has asked about his ties to maybe investing in the Trump family or maybe with Jeffrey Epstein. I would think the standard answer to that is of course just to say no. But he can't say that which I thought was very interesting. All right, the second topic we want to talk about is of course Fed independence. So everyone is concerned that well not everyone a lot of people are concerned that Kevin Walsh may not be independent. He may be uh the president's quote unquote sock puppet. And so um I think everyone including the president acknowledges that Fed independence is a sacred council that they cannot just openly say that we don't believe in an independent Fed. So what seems to be happening is that Kevin Walsh is redefining what independence means such that in effect the Fed is becoming less independent although parts of the Fed remain quote unquote independent. So in his opening statement he openly asserts that the Fed has independence over interest rate policy. So whether or not the Fed hikes or lowers rates, it's up to the Fed and not to the president. But then he talks about the other things the Fed does, you know, maybe for example banking regulation which is actually even by Democratic administrations acknowledged to belong to the White House. So when you have a new president, that president nominates a new vice chair of supervision. So that's already happened, right? And and there's a huge deregulation effort for banking regulation. But he also talks about um international finance and that has to do with the FX swap lines. So historically speaking the FX swap lines is something that the Fed did it basically itself and it only came out in times of extreme emergency. So for example during the great financial crisis we had huge FX swap lines to try to uh support the global dollar system and again in 2020. Now to be clear the FX swap lines have a longer history. They were used as a way to manage the gold standard at the time. But in the modern era, they really came uh into being or actually more actively used as a way to backs stop the global dollar system. Now there we have standing swap lines with our best friends say Euroland, say Japan, Canada and so forth. But in times of stress, we also open up swap lines to people who are still good friends but not as close. So you think like Korea for example. Now it seems like the but of course this is something that the Fed basically used uh for financial stability. Now if Kevin Walsh is saying that you know this is an international finance thing and it's not something the Fed has full control over that means that the White House would be able to give swap lines uh give Fed swap lines to whoever they think best in the nation's interests. Now, in I guess last year, we had the Treasury give swap lines to Argentina to bail them out, and that was very successful. That wasn't a Fed swap line that was used using the Treasury's own um cash that there's something called the exchange stabilization fund. It's not very large. Most of it is illquid stuff like IMF um IMF reserves there. It does have, I believe, 20 or 30 billion, just not a lot of cash. But if the Treasury were able to instead offer Fed swap lines, well, that's basically an infinite amount of cash. Now, at the moment, rumors suggest that the UAE is actually asking for a Fed swap line. And you have Treasury Secretary Besson posting on X basically supporting the giving of swap lines to the UAE. Now, Powell is not their guy, but if you have Kevin Walsh there and Secretary Bessa gives him a call, I see no reason why the Fed wouldn't be able to offer the UAEA swap line. Now, this is an interesting case because the UAE actually has a lot of dollars. So, this good work from Brad Setszer shows that over the past, you know, many decades, the Gulf countries have accumulated a lot of dollars. Of course, at the moment they're not making as much money and they're spending more, but cumulatively over the past few decades they've accumulated, say a few trillion dollars worth of assets. Some of that is in liquid stuff like treasury. Some of it is in equities. Some of it is in less liquid stuff like private equity and so forth, but they have a lot of dollars. And also, it's worth noting that they have their currencies pegged to the dollar. So, it's an interesting question why they would want a dollar swap line. Why can't they just liquidate their dollar reserves? They have so many. So, one reason to give them a dollar swap line could be just as an extra boost of confidence. I think that's the most benign reading. So, these guys, they have their currency pegged to the dollar. You don't want that peg to break. One way to have unlimited confidence in that peg is to say that the Fed is supporting them. So that's one thing that would basically uh tamp down on any any fears of a breaking of the peg. Secondly, one way they could uh one way they they could support the peg themselves is they have to liquidate their dollar assets. Now if they were to do that, that would have some impact on US asset prices. I don't think it'd be huge, but you you would probably would see some upward pressure on Treasury yields, maybe downward pressure on stocks depending on what they sell. And so it could be that the administration would like to avoid any disturbances to asset prices and we know they are sensitive to that. So dollar swap line could uh could be helpful for that. But another reason that this is super interesting is that a swap line is basically direct access to the money printer. Now let's say hypothetically of course that the US says hey Mr. Arab chic, can you please uh support investments in the US? You know, it could be power plants. It could be, you know, semid companies. It could be, you know, uh the new drone company by the Trumps. It could be the Trump coins, right? And how are you going to finance that? So, hey, why don't you just borrow from our dollar swap lines? So, in a sense, it could be a way for Treasury or the White House to conduct fiscal policy with unlimited money by laundering it through these third parties uh through swap lines. Now, this is something that they wouldn't be able to do with a country like the European Union, for example, right? Or Japan. These countries are, you know, democratic and they are transparent and so forth. So, it's difficult to pull something like this off. But if you have counterparties like the Gulf countries where it's opaque, it's basically, you know, something like a dictatorship and you're good friends with the ruler there, then this is something that you could definitely pull off and it would uh it would be something you could hide. The Fed, historically speaking, discloses their swap lines outstanding, but you know, that's something they could change as well. though it does potentially give the White House basically unlimited money through these third party countries. Now, I don't I'm not saying this is how it can be it's going to be used, but it's a possibility here. It really just depends on um I guess I guess the institutional arrangement so forth. Oh, bonus segment I have to show is that um Senator Warren asked Kevin Walsh her favorite question, her favorite test of fed independence. Here it is.
>> Start easy. Mr. Walsh, did Donald Trump lose the 2020 election?
>> Um uh we try to keep politics, if I'm confirmed, out of the federal.
>> I'm just asking a factual question. I need to know. I need to measure your independence and your courage.
>> Senator, I believe that this body certified that election many years ago. That's not the question I'm asking. I'm asking did Donald Trump lose in 2020?
>> I'm suggesting you in 2020 the answer your huge inflation problem and you certify the election
>> basically. So she asks a lot of Trump nominees this question and they all kind of struggle. It's kind of funny. Kevin Walsh is like, "Oh, 2020 election." Um, what' you say? All right. So the last thing that we want to talk about is the absolute boom in semiconductor stocks. So this past week we've had well actually the past few weeks we have new AI models released, new chat GBT, new cloud and even a new Deep Seek. All these models being released are showing good improvements in the in the AI models and honestly it seems to be more of a commoditized product now. But what it's also showing is that there is just increase in unsatiable demand for compute. So everyone wants more compute, more GPUs and even more CPUs. And that is leading to a frenzy where everyone is bidding up these semiconductor stocks. AMD going to the moon, Intel, as we mentioned earlier, just absolutely surging everything. So there seems to be this real rush and that seems to be a big force that's driving the NASDAQ higher. You know, when I look at this, it obviously obviously looks like some kind of blowoff top, some kind of frenzy. Yes, the semiconductor socks are going to make a lot of money. Uh whether or not that means there the prices have to go to the moon, well, that's another discussion entirely. Now the AI ecosystem now is looking super interesting in that um all the big uh so all the hyperscalers the guys who buy compute are basically actually financing that compute out of their tremendous profitable businesses and also by trying to save on uh employees. So you have Meta and you have um Microsoft basically firing people and taking that money to buy more GPUs and trying to build out their AI compute structure. Uh but the thing is that even though AI is super great, it's it's not really clear whether or not these guys who buy the chips, who buy the compute will actually be able to monetize their investments. So I use AI a lot, but obviously I'm not paying that much money. I play $100 for cloud. I don't pay anything for Gemini and I use it. And so I'm deriving benefits from that. And it's basically benefits that are subsidized by the huge cash flows of these companies. So it's not really clear if they were able ever able to recoup their investments. That's still good for the chip companies because they're still buying chips. But eventually you could think of a scenario where um these guys become more profit-minded and so they actually have to charge uh for usage of the GPUs according at least at their costs and the question is once they start charging for the use of compute will there still be the same amount of demand for compute and logically speaking if they start charging more or at least so that they at least don't make a loss on the compute you know people are going to use it less and that suggests less demand for uh for the GPUs and all that stuff. Not to mention of course everyone is developing their own computes Google and and so forth. So eventually you could have uh at least for the pure chimp companies less demand for their products. So that's something to think about and also you know I think it's really interesting that the Chinese model for AI is very different from the US deepseek even the newest one is going to be open source. So the models, they look like they're going to be commoditized. So it's going to be very difficult for anyone to make money off the model. So it's looking increasingly like that at the end of the day because of competition the the the model layer is just not going to make that much money. Uh the apps of course they're going to be fiercely competitive as well. Not sure they're going to make money. It's really the chip makers that are making tremendous amounts of money. So the market is correct in identifying that. Whether or not that persists, whether or not it justifies high prices is another thing altogether. So very bubbly, very dolike, and we'll see what plays out. Again, historically speaking, something like this always, always ends in some kind of implosion. Now, this week is a Fed meeting. Uh market isn't pricing any move. I expect it to be a very boring meeting. The only thing that I'm looking out for is for Chair Pal to really just kind of maybe more concretely tell us whether or not he's going to stay at the Fed uh after his chairmanship ends. It's looking like he is going to do so and there is some possibility that he just stays through uh maybe resigns later on in the year uh say maybe when the Republicans lose the Senate if they lose the Senate and then that could just be an empty seat. Who knows? But um it looks like it's going to be more difficult for for President Trump to take over the Fed unless of course something changes and Chair Powell leaves and then uh leaves in time for a Trump point to be confirmed. All right, so that's all prepared for today. Thanks so much for tuning in. I'll talk to you guys this week.