If you had $100,000 to grow your software business, would you invested in ads or in a sport? When all eyes over the past couple of weeks have been on Lovable's hackathon and the team that built and sold a startup in 20 hours, Lovable made another announcement. The announcement that did not get as much media attention, but the one that shows how drastically AI companies are changing the technological landscape. Lovable is now the official sponsor of the company called Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take Take the company that happens to belong to one of the best chess grand masters of our time, Magnus Carlson. In 2010s, the typical growth path for any software business was SEO, paid ads, and a neverending cycle of optimizations. But 15 years later, we're entering the age of culture native growth, which will replace spray and prey ads faster than ever. Why did lovable do it? Of all possible communities, why chess? Stick around to find out why, because this video will blow your mind. We're starting a series of videos exploring the fundamental changes and how tech companies grow in the AI first era. And today's episode is dedicated to the economics of growth and distribution and why the way companies grow has changed forever. Let's dive in. Let's talk about distribution and why it's so incredibly important for a software business. Distribution is basically various ways through which an app or a software platform is delivered, sold, or how it gets into your hands. Historically, distribution has always been marketing's problem. And marketing had plenty of tactics in their possession on how they could distribute a product. Distribution could be owned, meaning that it was the marketing team themselves who owned distribution channels. A marketing team would pay for SEO. They would write content. They would create landing pages with examples and use cases on how to drive traffic. In other words, it was done through everything that marketing could buy and control. Distribution can also be done through partnerships. For example, if you put your app inside somebody else's app. Examples, Trello and Slack, Sneak and GitHub, Zoom and Salesforce. Another variation of partnerships are things like conferences, influencer collaborations, and organic referrals to gain users without paying for ads. And lastly, distribution could be done through product native channels, meaning the product itself has a built-in organic sharing with other people. A great example is Zoom. Remember how Zoom took virtual call space by storm in 2020? I got to admit, they hit a combo. Yes, they were very heavy on viral product features by nature, but also the timing. Pandemic was an ideal time for them to capitalize on their growth, but the point still stands. Products that have organic mechanisms that can create virality by design become their own distribution channel. If you were a founder in 2010s, prior to co all of your growth was heavily focused on a combination of paid marketing content like blog posts or videos, partnerships, and direct sales. Everybody was growing their businesses on Google ads and LinkedIn ads. Some companies were different. HubSpot and Salesforce, the legends of B2B world, were pioneers in content distribution. They started creating educational posts, webinars, white papers, and even those flywheels that were circulating LinkedIn. Dropbox came up with what would later become a staple, the refer a friend mechanics, which at the time in the B2B software space was a revolutionary technique that brought the massive adoption. But then we hit a turning point and that point is called productled growth. PLG arose as a response to those traditional sales and marketing heavy growth strategies. In simple terms, when a product follows the PLG model, a user can onboard themselves. They can invite others. They can pay for the product without having to call the sales team. The world's top tech companies that you have definitely heard of Mero, Canva, Figma or Pendo either adapted to that growth or built with the PLG model from the start. But most of software market was still stuck in hardcore sales and marketing. The pandemic caused a dramatic change when remote work exploded and offline services closed. The only remaining option for most businesses was to go online. Paid events and field sales dried up and businesses had to shift to online first model. So the very productled growth became a staple. This is the point that fundamentally changed the growth of software. Let's compare the economics of software businesses pre- pandemic, post pandemic, and AI first economy. Now, we're going to go through some numerical comparisons, but I promise it won't be boring. The math is mindblowing, so stay with me. In 2010s, the cost of customer acquisition was between $100 and $300 on average, and it was largely driven by Google and LinkedIn ads. and sales team costs. But during pandemic with the adoption of the PLG model, these costs began dropping from 30 to 50%. Why? Because instead of hiring a ton of people to onboard you, you could now do the self-s serve. You did not need sales or anybody else to try the product. The concept of PLG also gave rise to so-called growth loops, user invitations and referrals, collaboration features, content sharing and templates, and the rise of the whole community engagement in B2B. Dropbox's referral program, for example, led to almost a 4,000% growth in user base over 15 months. Figma's collaborative features drove a 20% month-over-month increase in active teams during 2020. And then in the AI economy, the already reduced customer acquisition cost gets reduced even more through AIdriven targeting. Now, let's talk about the margins, the metric that is the foundation of profitability. In 2010s, B2B software businesses had 80 to 90% margin due to minimal variable cost because there was very little support and maintenance that had to be done after the product was built. Remember the analogy from the previous video? It costs almost nothing for Shopify to have you as a customer. The same margins held up through a pandemic and postpandemic. But when AI blew up, businesses that introduced AI features on top of their existing platforms maintained the margins. But AI first businesses where the core product is an AI application that doesn't work without AI, doesn't solve any problem without AI, doesn't exist without AI, 60% at best. I'm pausing here to show you evidence on margins in AI native B2B. Multiple resources confirm that it's between 40 and 60% with 60 being best-in-class. The key drivers of costs in prepandemic software, it was always sales. In pandemic and PLG era, it's always infrastructure because like I said before, the cost of acquiring a customer went down. But in AI first, it's computing costs. And finally, the key metric that quantifies the return on investment for every dollar spent on a new customer. In 2010s, it was the ratio of the lifetime value of a customer to the customer acquisition cost. This was the most important metric and the number one reason why SAS businesses collapsed. The golden standard was the 3:1 ratio. There were plenty of examples when software businesses collapsed because they couldn't fix this metric. One of the most notable and recognizable examples was actually not a software business, but still the Smile Direct Club. In the software world, a good example is Outreach, who by the way managed to recover. Early on, they aggressively spent on sales and marketing to acquire enterprise customers, but their cost of acquisition was far too high relative to their lifetime value. Later on in late 2010s and moving into post-pandemic absolute northstar became the net revenue retention or NRR was the metric in product management still is but in AI first it's contribution margin contribution margin is the amount of revenue left after subtracting the variable costs. Do you see how the narrative has changed? You can feel the turbulence and the massive shift that happened over the past 5 years by looking at the metrics that mattered the most. We went from retention-based goals to revenue goals to let's hope we stay afloat goals. The economics of an AI first business is a different beast on every level. So if this is the situation we're dealing with, how do you as a business make this math make sense? What did Lovable do? Lovable quickly realized that the traditional growth doesn't work in AI. Let's come back to what we started this video with the sponsorship of an online chess company. With this move, they invest in the so-called tentpoles where their ideal customer already is. And they do it in a very creative way. They're not betting on casual users who just want to play around with lovable and build a quick prototype they can show at work. They're betting on a community of potential founders. The trick here is to recognize where the potential founders are. They're not just investing in a community. They're investing in a culture. The chess community isn't just passionate. It's analytical and niche, but global at the same time. It is a highly engaged cultural ecosystem with a massive monetization potential. Sponsoring Carlson's company taps into a niche but incredibly engaged and what's even more important monetizable global community that is highly aligned with their culture. Lovable's target audience is ambitious, analytical, aspirational developers and founders. On top of that, they create a very strong campaign around the moment of aspiration. That hackathon they run is another example of a new age marketing investment because their brand already attracts people with massive ambitions and the ones who challenge the notion of impossible. I mean, can you believe it? During that hackathon, they had a team of four people, I think, who built a product in 20 hours and sold it. No marketing tactics, no flashy demos or graphics can beat that. Did they know it would happen? Of course they didn't. They had absolutely no idea. It was a bet, not a blind bet, but still a big ambitious bet. And the fundamental difference in the growth motion for AI companies is that they don't really do optimization. For traditional software companies, marketing and optimization was their bread and butter. And AI native, they don't do optimization. Well, actually, let me take it back. It's not that they don't do optimization. They don't have time for it. And another thing, Lovable is embracing the creator economy, which is becoming a major factor in the growth strategy for B2B software. The whole point of these partnerships and the community-led growth is the high lifetime value and retention potential, which aligns perfectly with the imperatives of AI SAS unit economics. As I was preparing for this video, the head of growth at Lovable, Elena Vera, posted an article about how growth is different in AI companies. and she wrote a very interesting observation saying that marketing can't keep up with the shipping velocity because marketing teams were never designed for that kind of velocity. That is exactly where that fundamental difference is. This isn't to say that all marketers are slow but anyone who works in software business knows that marketing especially for B2B SAS takes time. But when you are AI native, you can't afford to wait until marketing finishes their research plan, does the whole planning for the quarter and only then starts executing. Another trend that is huge in AI native software is founderled sales and the whole brand around the founder. For me personally, a fantastic example of a founder growth is the company called June. I have been following the co-founder of this company, Enzo Aviggo, for a long time. And what blew my mind back when I started following him is that he was basically documenting how they were building a business and they were documenting the whole thing on LinkedIn. If you go on his LinkedIn page and open his post, you'll see that it's a manual on how to build a software company. I remember being so shocked that somebody was actually writing everything and making it public on LinkedIn because it's the kind of content that I once started creating on Substack. Yes, I had a Substack very long time ago where I was writing down my observations as a PM working at a hyperrowth company that was going through a massive scale, but because I was an employee, the data was not mine to share. So, my content wasn't particularly interesting because because it wasn't juicy. I could not write about the actual numbers. And then after Enzo, I started noticing that a lot more founders are doing the exact same. And Anton, the founder of Lovable, is no exception. He doesn't document how they're building Lovable per se, but if you study Lovable as a company, if you study them closely, you'll see that Anton himself is a big part of the brand. Since our last video on the economics of AI blew up, I got several hundred people follow me on LinkedIn. And for that, I truly thank you. And because I can now see with my own eyes what kind of people watch us on YouTube, I know for a fact that a lot of you are founders. And I don't know who needs to hear this, but if you're an early stage founder and you're building a solid software product, a product that has a strong AI component, and you are dependent on LLMs, your product and your branding have to go hand in hand. I don't know if this comes as a surprise to you, but do not rely on marketing because they're not built for the speed of LLMs. Your marketing will have to ramp up and match you in speed, but you cannot afford to lose the momentum. a founder sales or a founder brand, you are the brand and that is because the culture always wins. We are in the age when anything and everything can be generated, deep faked or reproduced and that is exactly why authenticity is the highest currency. The data proves exactly that. The cost of acquisition is lower through organic advocacy. Compound and network effects amplify growth and creator economy enables scalable brand storytelling because each creator will have their own take on your product and will open new channels to put your product to use in ways that resonate deeply with their audience. It's the channels that you might not have thought of yourself. Content and especially founder content drives up to 13 times higher return on investment compared to non-blogging businesses. So if you're a founder, a growth leader, a sea suite member, ask yourself in the AI era, will you spend your next $100,000 on ads or invest in a culture that turns users into advocates, creators, and founders? Lead with culture. Lead with your brand. Lead with you. As always, we hope this was helpful. We'll see you next time. Bye.