Remember the can of Nutella that flashed on camera during the Aremis 2 mission? A $5 500 g jar of chocolate spread? To get that thing into lunar orbit cost roughly $75,926. Thank you very much the author of this post for the calculation. And I agree with this comment. I really hope it was worth every penny for the crew. But if a single jar of Nutella costs 76 grand just to hitch a ride around the moon, how did we get to the point when we're seriously saying, "Yeah, let's put data centers in space." data centers with thousands of chips, power systems, shielding, radiators, networking gear, tons of metal, all launched into the orbit before we figured out how to make data centers work sustainably on Earth. All you need to know about the economics of space data centers, why we're getting them into space in the first place, and whether it's an economically viable business to begin with in the new episode of the series, The Business of AI. Let's dive in. Terrestrial AI data centers need three things in gigantic quantities. Water, electricity, and land. All three are now critically constrained. Starting with water. A typical large data center needs about 300,000 gallons of water per day for cooling. This amount of water, for context, can suffice for about a thousand households. The largest data centers for hyperscalers at Google can use up to 5 million gallons of water per day. The ones around Phoenix, Arizona use 385 million gallons per year for cooling. And this is not counting the water required to generate the electricity. As AI data centers grow, water used for cooling is projected to skyrocket by 870%. The second thing is electricity. AI data centers are hitting similar hard limits on the power side. The case of Northern Virginia is probably the most staggering case of the system reaching its limit. Northern Virginia hosts nearly 600 data centers and handles approximately 70% of the world's internet traffic. A voltage fluctuation in 2024 almost triggered a regional blackout and caused 60 data centers to disconnect from the power grid. Local utilities and regulators warned that without massive new transmission lines, residential electricity bills in the region can climb toward $380 per month because households will be competing with data centers for the same power. And number three, land. This specific bottleneck is simply about finding more physical space to put all this hardware in. To house tons of metal, you need a lot of real estate, acres per site. Most regions that are best suited for data centers with cool climates and stable geology, proximity to fiber routes and power plants have already been used. and local governments that once competed to attract data centers with tax breaks, for example, are hitting pause because farmland is paved over, housing projects are stopped and residents push back against sprawling industrial jungles on their doorstep. In more and more jurisdictions, the cheapest land that also has grid, water rights, and community approval simply no longer exists at the scale that AI builders wanted to. And so people started looking elsewhere and that elsewhere is off the planet earth. They looked down and saw the water which yes is a thing as well. We're going to talk about it a little bit later but today is about looking up the space. Why put a data center in space? Let's come back to the three things that data centers need in gigantic quantities. Water. Space is the only place where water supply is not part of the equation. In orbit, heat can be rejected directly into the vacuum through large radiator panels. This doesn't make cooling easy because those radiators must be huge and very carefully engineered, but instead it breaks the dependency on household or farmers fighting for the same rivers and water sources. electricity. Solar power in orbit doesn't care about heat waves or winter storms or regional power grids. A satellite in orbit sees the sun for roughly 95% of the time, regardless of clouds, day or night, or atmospheric losses. What this means is that you get far more usable energy out of solar panels in space rather than on the ground. And again, this also removes the competition for power plants with factories or homes or farms or electric vehicles for a share of an already strained grid and land. Yeah, it's kind of obvious that land is unlimited. But what's even more important is the absence of politics around the land. On Earth, every new data center is a political fight over zoning, noise, views, jobs, tax breaks. But in space, you don't need acres of flat and cool fiber cooling and power adjacent land. So let's see what it takes to build an orbital data center step by step. You're going to need four primary components. Component number one, the satellite. To build a flying data center with its own power generation, computing cluster, cooling system, and communications network, you need a physical piece of equipment that would house all of it, a satellite. In each satellite, just like in a terrestrial data center, we're going to store clusters of AI chips. However, there's a problem. If we send the chips that are currently being produced for terrestrial data centers, we will inevitably run into several problems. Problem number one, cosmic radiation causes bit flips. On Earth, the atmosphere and magnetic field block the vast majority of high energy cosmic rays and solar particles in orbit above 500 km, which is the minimum altitude for Space X satellites. As an example, there is no such shielding. High energy particles fly straight into the chip circuiting. When a charged particle hits the memory cell, it can flip a bit from 0ero to one or one to zero. Here is an example. Imagine a chip storing the number 22 in binary. Then a cosmic ray hits the chip and flips a single bit from 0 to 1. And suddenly the number isn't 22 anymore. It's 150. This is the bit flip. One tiny change at the hardware level can cause completely different data. And this error is going to propagate through the entire neural network without triggering any visible flag. For example, Meta's training of Lama 3 on Nvidia H100's experienced 419 unexpected interruptions in 54 days on Earth. And these failures were happening every few minutes in a fully protected terrestrial environment. In orbit, this system would face all those failures plus radiation induced bit flips. So, you may ask, why don't we just use radiation hardened chips? Radiation hardened chips do exist, and they're typically used in military satellites, nuclear power plants, space probes, but they're typically much larger and a lot older. They're more resistant to radiation by nature because the transistors are physically bigger and harder for a particle to hit, but instead, they lag generations behind leading AI chips in compute power. The latest, the most advanced Radhar chips contain between 500 million and two billion transistors. In contrast, Nvidia's flagship H100's contain 80 billion transistors and Blackwell chips around 200 billion. The solution to this would be a combination of triple modular redundancy, running at least three parallel computation pipelines and comparing outputs to catch errors, radiation tolerant wrappers around the chip, error correcting memory at every level, and new firmware designed specifically for high radiation environments. Triple redundancy means launching three times as many chips, three times the cooling, and three times the launch cost. Meaning the economics of this simply will not work. Google in fact tested their trillium TBU chips on the ground and projected only five years of reliable orbital operation. But the problem is that the ground radiation exposes chips to only one particle type while space has continuous hail of cosmic rays at a far wider range of energies. The second big problem is that chips wear out and cannot be replaced. On Earth, data centers swap out GPUs every two to three years as those chips degrade from use or as newer generations arrive. In orbit, you can't swap out the chips. You're not going to hop on a rocket and magically fly up to the satellite and take them out. Chips do not get brought back. It's a one-way trip. They run there for about 5 years until solar panels and chips start to degrade and then burn up. There's no retrieval of satellites back to Earth. In contrast, for terrestrial data centers, old chips get a second and sometimes third life. They can be cascaded to lighter loads. They can be sold to smaller cloud providers. The secondhand market for chips is actually quite big. But in space, recovering and refurbishing those chips would require a whole additional class of vehicles like space tugs or cargo return capsules, which nobody has at scale yet. Moving on to the second component, power. A solar plant on Earth receives sunlight filtered through the atmosphere. Only when the sun is up and only when there are no clouds. In space, the exposure to the sun is approximately 95% compared to roughly 30% for a solar panel on Earth. And it all sounds fine and dandy, but the risk here is that generating power in space requires very large systems of solar panels to feed a sizable chip cluster. We're talking solar structures on the order of a football field folded inside a rocket and then somehow autonomously unfolding into 170 m wide wing. These structures should also be able to survive thousands of cycles between minus 120 and plus 120° Celsius temperature fluctuation. Component number three, cooling. On Earth, data centers keep chips cool by pushing heat into air or water. In space, there is neither air nor water. So, that trick doesn't work. The only option is to let the hardware dump heat as in frared light into empty space using big radiator panels. The problem is the size. To get rid of heat from a data center, those panels have to be massive and work for several years with no maintenance or somebody being there to fix them. As you add more compute, those panels have to get larger and larger. And component number four, networking. For a cluster of satellites to function as a distributed data center, they need to talk to each other and they need to send results back down to Earth. This satellite to satellite problem is solved with laser links that are quite literally shooting laser beams between the satellites. However, for those lasers to carry enough bandwidth for AI computation, the satellites must fly in formation from hundreds of meters to a few kilometers apart to stay in each other's area of visibility. That means that every satellite must hold its exact position relative to its neighbors or be able to correct its position autonomously to maintain connectivity. So let's sum it up. To put a data center in space, you need satellites that bundle four things. Power, compute, cooling, and networking. Each of these things need massive physical structures to be supported. The chips need atmospheric shielding. we have to somehow bypass the whole flip problem. And while radiation hardened chips exist, they're generations behind H100s. So, this pretty much sums it up. Now, let's come back to the economics and see if data centers in space is a viable business model. Everything about data centers in space lives or dies on how cheap it is to put each kilogram of hardware into low Earth orbit. It's the cost of the launch that determines whether the effort to launch orbital data centers can compete with terrestrial alternatives. Whatever you do to solve the radiation and cooling and power, you still end up with a ton of stuff that needs to be carried to the satellite. Chips, shielding, radiators, structures, propellants. The heavier the load, the more fuel the rocket burns, the more expensive the flight. To get it into space, you have to pay for every kilogram that you put into the orbit, regardless of whether that kilogram is a gold chip or a steel bolt. To deliver the chips to the orbit, you need three things: a rocket, a satellite, and payload. Payload is the actual cargo, the chips, the radiators, the coolers that go on the satellite. The rocket is basically a delivery truck. It burns fuel to accelerate whatever it is carrying to up to the orbital speed. The rocket has multiple stages and each stage fires, runs out of fuel and gets dropped. Only the top stage plus the payload make it to the orbit. The satellite is what will stay in orbit once the rocket is done. The satellite carries the structures, propulsion, power, cooling, communications, and compute hardware. By compute hardware, we're talking racks of GPUs or TPUs or any other kind of chip. When someone says put H100s in space, they literally mean bolting H100 boards inside a satellite and putting that satellite on a rocket. So the rocket carries the satellite, the satellite carries the chips, the chips sit on boards inside the satellite. Now who supplies the rocket? The rocket company. SpaceX, Blue Origin, United Launch Alliance mainly for US military and government or area and space in Europe. They sell you kilograms to orbit. Now, for the economics of this to work in favor of data centers, the cost per kilogram has to go down to about $200. Why $200? Because this number is roughly the point where the cost of lodge stops overpowering the cost of compute. And the math starts to look similar to a good terrestrial data center. As of today, SpaceX is the only one openly targeting $200 per kilogram goal with more or less promising plan on how they're going to get to that number. But again, it's a future projection. At today's launch prices, space power costs five to 20 times more than the ground. And the cost per kilogram sits around $3,000 for the cheapest widely used rocket. Who supplies the satellites? StarCloud, Axiom, ADA Space. These guys decide what the chips are going to physically sit in. They design the chassis, panels, radiators, thrusters, and build the actual satellite with those things. So, how much does a satellite that would be compatible with AI hardware cost? There's no publicly disclosed number, but StarCloud raised $3 million precede and with that, they designed, built, and launched StarCloud 1 in 21 months. And the $3 million figure well covered the engineering and manufacturing costs. So, speaking of how much it costs to build a satellite like that, we're talking in the ballpark of $2 million for a StarCloud class satellite. But on top of that, add the GPU costs. Speaking of chips, it is increasingly becoming in the interest of semiconductor manufacturers to start producing radiation hardened chips because it's a massive growing market. Project Suncatcher is Google's attempt to step into payload territory. They design the rad hardened chips, their own TPUs, and the space compute concept. And then they partner with launch providers that actually put that hardware into space. And this is what the cost of a space data center more or less comes down to. So to sum it up, are we about to see AI infra getting into space? Yes. At first, it's going to be for AI inference and then probably within the next 10 years, we will most likely see AI training as well. But as it stands, it is not a justifiable business. You can see the numbers. The math ain't mathing. So the industry is not going to blow up overnight. But it is something that we're actively marching towards. Another big reason why getting into space would be a huge step towards decentralization of AI is because putting data centers in space would in theory give countries that are unable to run AI workloads an opportunity to build their own AI tech market. AI infrastructure crisis in the global north is defined by 7 years of grid cues. In the global south, the problem is either unreliable power or no power at all or power too expensive to run compute heavy workloads. As a result, we're dealing with what researchers call compute deserts, countries where there is no public cloud AI hardware at all, compared with compute north, the US, China, and the EU, where GPU data centers live, and compute south, which is most of the developing world, where you can use but not train AI, and where you pay US cloud providers the dollar prices on local wages. Space-based AI compute would change the situation, but again, it would do so in theory. A country with no functional grid, but sun overhead could theoretically access AI inference from an orbital data center, beam results down, and bypass the entire landbased infrastructure. So, let's see where this goes. As always, we hope this was helpful. We'll see you in the next episode of the business of AI. Bye.