A lot of companies stall, not because of external conditions. It's because maybe the market like isn't large enough. If your market is too small, very little else matters. There's like in math this thing of local optimum, right? You're climbing a hill and you reach the top, but you're not getting to the mountain. You can get to like 50 million, 100 million, right? You're not going to reach like a billion. Which market do you play in? That's like more than anything [music] else. We've built the system over 10 years. There's a lot of complexity. You know, you can't provide code there even like with 100 engineers. Otherwise, why are we not seeing one right now? Why are we not seeing like a competitor? If you're in an early market, which we are right now in AI, there are so many possibilities, why would you like try to like one up a competitor, right? There there more. Just just go and keep looking. Why don't go where all the other kids are going. Competition should be more like like an Easter egg hunt than like a football match that you're you got to match like every play that the other opponent is doing. It's not a zero-sum game like in in the early stages. Hi, I'm Amit Bendov, co-founder and CEO of Gong. Gong is the leader in revenue AI, which help company maximize their revenue potential. We saw an opportunity in [music] automating revenue with AI. That was like in 2016 before AI was like all the rage and today we're one of the fastest-growing company. Our growth rate is over 50% every quarter. We're actually growing faster than the previous quarter for almost like 12 consecutive quarters now. So, pretty incredible times. I grew like in a very humble background. I mean, great family, loving family, but most of my family like did not even like go to college or university. So, from my family's perspective, if I was like seller at a retail store, it'll be just fine. They'll love me still the same because it's a job and that's what you do. So, my original dream as a teenager, I wanted to be a guitar player at a rock band. I was pretty good, to be honest, but not like not top 1% and I was like in a small country, Israel. It's not you can't even if you're big, like it's not all that big. That's a miss, but I started my career actually selling professional audio equipment at a retail store like like a guitar center. I was hoping to get close to the the showbiz, but I realized, "Okay, maybe like you know, I don't want to play in weddings when I'm 40."
>> [laughter]
>> To pay the bills. And I was really intrigued by [music] computer science. So, I signed up. There was a fork in the road for me. My first job was an engineer. I wrote code. Many people don't know that. Then I led an R&D team. Then I moved from Tel Aviv to the US to start my first company, ClickSoftware. It's now part of Salesforce. And I became the CEO of a company called Sisense in business intelligence. We're growing pretty fast and then all of a sudden we had a quarter that wasn't great at all. I've no idea what was going on. We're analyzing a lot of data from the CRM that everybody says, "Oh, this is the way to manage customers. It's a single source of truth." There was nothing there. It actually relies on people telling it [music] what happened and that didn't make sense. So, only 1% of the information ever
>> [music]
>> actually makes its way to the CRM. It's all in people's heads. Now, what happens at the companies, only half the sales people are making their numbers. Nine out of 10 opportunities are not won without the company ever knowing why. And I thought, "Wow, this just totally doesn't make sense." Like there was the year that AI was already beating the world champion in Go. You remember like AlphaGo and DeepMind. And [music] the thought was, "Can we create like a system that will relieve people from the needs to update CRM?" That was the idea that when I left Sisense, I thought, "Hey, maybe we could build a company around that." The idea was like an autonomous system that automatically captures context from conversations and uses AI to turn it both to insight and in action. Are you using like a meeting assistant today? We invented this. This was from my background in the music industry is first. If we capture a meeting, meetings that we have usually have like multiple people, but we didn't want people to listen to like 45-minute meetings, right? We wanted them like hear like the interesting points out there. So, things like markers, topics. Today is pretty standard, but that did not exist. So, we have first drew and I plagiarized a little bit from SoundCloud. There was that the play buttons and where we put in and you have those like tracks. If you use like GarageBand or something, you'll see like there's a drum, guitar, bass, right? So, if you look at Gong, you'll see those tracks. All the concept like listen-to-talk ratio. It is the first application that was like measuring how much you're listening versus talking. How it tracks competitors. We invented this thing. That was pretty pretty innovative. And we went to raise [music] money. I said, "Let's start a company." I was pretty sure it's going to be a walk in the park, but it was [music] a far cry from that. It was like very frustrating and almost nobody wanted to invest in us. They obviously took a meeting and like another meeting and what about this and what about that? And people thought that sellers are going to hate Gong because they're going to see it as a big brother. Google and Amazon are going to own this space. That the technology is not there. They could When we started like AI was nowhere near where it is right now. So, it was it was a hard job. So, we struggled to raise money, but finally we found like a couple investors that gave us the money and that allowed us to start the company and it was pretty smooth from that point on.
>> What if your CRM kept up with the conversations that matter for you? Meet Attio, the AI CRM for modern businesses.
>> [music]
>> Connect your email, calls, and product data, and Attio instantly builds your CRM with complete context. [music] Then, ask Attio anything. Spot a deal at risk, draft outreach, uncover new prospects, spend less time in your CRM and more time building relationships. Whether you're running product-led growth or enterprise sales, Attio adapts [music] to how your team sells and grows. And if you're building with AI agents, plug any MCP client straight [music] into your CRM, so your agents always have the context they need to act. 9,000 companies build with Attio, including Granola, Modal, and WhisperFlow. [music] Try Attio free at attio.com/eo.
>> At Gong, we have our number one operating principle of raving fans. We're not happy with just happy customers. Happy is like, yeah, I could be happy with a with a chair, right? That's not. We want something people talk about that is a level above, right? What if I sit on the chair, like here in the kitchen, and all of a sudden it starts to give me like a back rub, and it just at the temperature of What just happened here? Right? I mean, that's you get people to talk about it, and it surprises you for the better. It does something that you don't don't expect. You got to understand your mission is not feature or AI or all of that. That's like what people buy. That's what they ultimately want to accomplish. First, we focus on value, not just features. So, we say, "What does it do?" So, we have like two things that that Gong will try to do. First, like 75% of a seller's time is non-productive, all right? It's like updating CRM, it's like doing forecast, doing training, doing like sifting through a list. So, what can we remove out of that? Second, [music] when they're with talking with customers, how do we help them be better on their job? So, these are the two North Star metric. People move from like somewhat reluctant to use it like, "Ah, is it like invasive?" They go, "Oh, wow, like she just did that, right?" So, you get that that wow all the time and the product surprises you in what it does and it needs to work well and it needs to be above what you expect. We did have like a rough patch in 2023 because that was the post-COVID growth, right? The hangover. A lot of our customers have over-hired people and got into financial stress. So, we saw like higher churn. We also had competition that went in and and bought like a a bunch of competing products and they're going to our customers and consolidating. They said, "Oh, we're going to do like all three or four products in one." The products were not very good, but at that time customers were just looking at a spreadsheet and said, "Okay, like yeah, one, two, three." And so, our growth slowed down substantially in '23. I wouldn't say existential, but it was definitely like not not fun days. So, we raised a lot of money, but we barely touched it. We just saved it for if and when we're going to need that. So, that gave us a lot of confidence and and the ability to execute. And we knew that if we struggle right now, all of our competition's struggling. If you're in an early market, which we are right now in AI, there are so many possibilities. Why would you like try to like one up a competitor, [music] right? Just try to go like in a different direction and there are so many options. It could be like way better. I'm stealing from Jeff Bezos, right? Who said it like and most people say they're obsessed with customer, they're not. They're really competitor-driven. They look, "Oh, they did this. I'm going to do that, too. And I'm going to do better, right?" That's the wrong thing. So, what do you do? We step on the gas pedal, right? So, we know that everybody's going to struggle. We have the cash and we're going to invest in engineering. I'd much rather invest in people and engineering than than in office space. Cuz like I remember like in '99, I was stuck with like an office that was like all like steel and plastic bags all the area and chairs and like, you know, millions of dollars. It was like giving goosebumps even to watch it and say like, "Why did we do that?" I mean, we we we spent money on real estate and not on people, all right? Is there anything that I could have done, right, that would have like changed the outcome? So, we only do like two to three-year leases, right? I think for now, for the first time we did like a four-year lease in an office, but generally we've been in WeWork at WeWorks like since day one and we still are. Offices like either they're too small, you grow so fast that they need to move out, or if you don't grow, then you're stuck now with a lot of space. So, we built like two more products. Now we are in about four. Then we started like consolidating and now they're they're behind. I'm an amateur cyclist. When you're climbing, right, you know, everybody's exhausted, then you attack, right? You just give it like all your energy. Just psychologically it breaks your If you're good, right, if you're able to accelerate, then everybody just gives up because they know that they're barely breathing and now you're charging ahead. And that's exactly what we did. Competition should be more like like an Easter egg hunt than like a football match that you're you got to match like every play that the other opponent is doing. It's a zero-sum game like in in the early stages. Just They're They're more Just just go and keep looking. Why don't go where all the other kids are going. A lot of companies stall not because of external conditions. It's because maybe the market like isn't large enough, right? So, there's like In math, there is, you know, everybody suddenly knows there's this thing of local optimum, right? You're climbing a hill and you're you're climbing and at first it looks like very very exciting and you reach the top, but now you're you're not getting to the mountain. The most important thing is the market, like which market you're in, like which market do you play in? That's like more than anything else. If you get it right, then you could be okay on the others. There are two choices. Is there a join an existing category? Let's say the advantage it's already established, people are buying and you just need to explain why you're better. There's already budget for this. Starting categories like uh is very compelling people. Oh, I'm going to start like a whole new category of of music or whatever, right? It's also hard because people don't have budget, they don't know how to think about it. So, there's a lot of education and if you want to be precise, you can start a category. Categories by definition like a number of companies doing the same thing. If it's just you, you're not a category, you're a unique product. So, you start by creating a unique product. If you're If you're not successful, then nothing happens. If you're successful, it's guaranteed that other will try to like either copy or do something better than you or like something different. That's when you start to have a category. It does take time. Today Gong is considered or something like Gong, revenue AI, most companies say we need that, but it wasn't like a must have when we started. Like people had to find budget for it, it didn't exist, right? It wasn't like a CRM or a contact database. [music] So, creating a category sounds very exciting and I'm I've no regrets, but if you're an entrepreneur, don't just think that oh, I need to start like a new category. So, first understand if you're stuck, understand if it's just like uh intrinsic to your business or something that's happening right now. There are a lot of companies that are, for example, oh, we're developing solutions for SDRs, right? That's something don't do that. If you live in the Bay Area, you you think like everybody has SDR. Companies in Wisconsin don't have. So, this is example of a small market. I mean, you can get to like 50 million, 100 million, right? You're not going to reach like a billion. So, understand if you're stuck uh because you've reached a local optimum of your market. Also, if it's a small market and it's very competitive, that that's that's the worst thing. It's like five hungry dogs like fighting for a very small piece of meat, [music] right? For us, we understood, "Listen, we have like a trillion dollar opportunity. Like if we don't succeed, like it's not the market, it's us." The noise that's happening right now with AI, I know it's very confusing. Just just make a bet and just keep going. Ignore the noise. Right now, people are very emotional. It's almost like when, you know, people fall in love with someone that, you know, it's more like the hormones thinking versus like the brain. The dust will settle. At some point, it'll be clearer. So, if you have a direction, hopefully it's good, just keep going, keep plowing, do your own thing. Look a little bit like to what's going on, but don't be enamored with like things around you. If I have to distill it to one, this is it. Like, who do you cater to and what do you offer? Let's say it's apocalypse. There's some truth in that, but it's like a way like overreaction of the market. Right now, it's like investors are worried like if AI's has this like power of God, anybody can do software. So, what what is the moat? It's a natural question, but it's way way exaggerated cuz most companies will probably like open source their code and it will still be difficult for someone to compete with them. The code is just a part. What about like running it? Like there's like security vulnerability that you need to patch, a package, a library. Like who do you call it like 3:00 a.m.? Just writing the code is one part of a software company, but actually like running it, right, and supporting production, driving adoption is extremely hard. So, even if like where their salesforce's like code was out there on the internet, it would still be extremely difficult for anybody to compete with them. CRM and HR are incredibly complex, right? People just underestimate it. They think, you know, you can't vibe code it like uh even like with 100 engineers or otherwise, why are we not seeing one right now? Why are we not seeing like a competitor? We have to understand that sales is asymmetrical engagement. So, buyers don't necessarily tell you everything. They might even lie to you. I don't have a budget, all right? Or I am the decision maker, even though you're not. We're looking at a few of our competitors. They might not tell you what they are, and they might not be looking at anything. So, this is like already like AI needs to have like excellent context or data, right? When you negotiate, like you want to lower the price, you want to increase the price. So, that's like uh one thing. Second, at least for us, like we help mostly with B2B sales, which is complex. It's like multiple people selling to multiple people. Understanding the power dynamics, the political power structure, all of that is something that AI will struggle. Ambiguity is not where it's good. Reading the room and judgment, creativity, right? AI is very straightforward. It's trained on um being plausible. Sometimes the creative moves aren't the ones that are plausible. It's just doing something like that seems unreasonable, but still like um a winning place. When you're alone, like nobody cares. Once you're your head, there's a crosshair on your back. So, everybody wants to kill you, right? And that's like we take it as a compliment. We've built the system over 10 years, and and again, it's there there's a lot of complexity. Our vision was we thought of it as a self-driving car, right? So, when we started Gong, we wanted to build an autonomous system. Our inspiration was a was a Tesla. Self-driving car like five levels. Five is like full self-driving, and one is getting like lane keeping alerts. And we thought, if you want to build a self-driving car, and this is a self-managing customer management system, you need three things. First, you need the sensors to capture all the data. In a car, it'll be the radars, the lidar, cameras. So, this is our revenue graph. Second, you need to make sense of all of it, right? So, you see like a red light blinking. Is it a traffic light or is it a car or motorcycle? Is it accelerating or decelerating, right? So, this is like the AI level. And then there is the application layer. So, we always thought about like the five levels. And we said, "Okay, today we're like 2017, we're like at level one, right? And when can we get to level five?" So, we built even though something like a lidar didn't exist or the AI wasn't strong enough to be full self-driving. So, we built the framework so we can plug in like the technologies as they mature. If you could vibe code it like overnight, then then we have a problem. But it's it's not it's not easy. There is a lot of nuance and details that goes into especially deploying at a large scale. So, I think it's like a underestimation of what it takes to really run a company. All right, the fire me, not an investment advice. I think it's a good good buying opportunity for the companies that are real.
>> [music]
>> From the outside, when you see a company growing, right? It looks like this. But from the inside, there are multiple revenue sources, right? And you need to layer them in a way that it looks smooth from the outside, but each one is kind of like S-shaped, right? At some point it'll hit the glass ceiling. You know, you asked me about the people getting stuck because you're you're doing one thing and and that's it. Like it's not it's not growing as fast anymore. So, you always need to layer those things. You need to think about like two or three years in advance cuz when you realize that you need it, like it's already too late.
>> Mhm.