[music] From the New York Times, it's the headlines. I'm Tracy Mumford. Today's Friday, July 24th. [music] Here's what we're covering. Just after midnight, the Trump administration imposed new tariffs of 10% on more than 80 countries, the latest move in its aggressive, controversial trade policy. For years, President Trump has argued that higher tariffs are necessary to encourage domestic manufacturing and protect American industries from foreign competition. Since retaking office, he's used them repeatedly, but that's often resulted in court challenges. In February, the Supreme Court struck down one major set of tariffs he'd put in place. So Trump turned to a different trade law as a stop gap that had a strict time limit though that was set to expire today. So now Trump is using yet another trade law to put in place these new tariffs. Technically the law he's basing the latest sir charges on allows the president to impose tariffs on countries the US says are engaging in unfair or discriminatory trade practices. But this is the first time this particular provision has ever been used to slap tariffs on dozens of countries simultaneously. Critics say the administration's new claims about unfair trade, including that other countries aren't doing enough to stop forced labor are simply a convenient way to reimpose levies that had been struck down in the courts. In the coming weeks, the administration is expected to roll out additional tariffs on top of other recent sir charges like a new 50% tariff on many goods from Canada that Trump announced earlier this week. The flurry of new sir charges echoes what happened last year when Trump first started rolling out an everchanging list of tariffs that royled the global economy and sent businesses scrambling to understand how they'd be affected. for consumers. If Trump's full slate of new tariffs survives expected legal challenges and importers have to pay the new fees, an analysis by the Yale Budget Lab found that American households will face an average of about $1,100 in additional annual costs. Now, a few quick updates on the war with Iran. First, global oil prices hit $100 a barrel yesterday for the first time since May. The spike came as the US and Iran have returned to daily attacks and after the Iranbacked Houthi militia said it hit two Saudi oil tankers in the Red Sea. The group has been threatening a partial blockade of those waters, potentially choking off what has become an alternate route to the Straight of Hormuz, which is effectively closed. The cost of oil is now roughly 40% higher than it was before the war started. Also, the Times has learned that President Trump sent a new ceasefire proposal to Iran through mediators from Iraq. But according to Iranian and Iraqi officials, Iran rejected the deal yesterday. Details of the proposal are not clear, but Iran's foreign minister told a state media outlet that quote, "The problem is America's outlook, which is illogical, greedy, and controlling." With no new peace deal in sight, [music] strikes by both the US and Iran continued, with explosions reported across Iran this morning, and Iranian officials saying they'd launched new attacks on US military targets in the region. Meanwhile, in Washington yesterday,
>> on this vote, the yays are 214, the nays are 208.
>> The House of Representatives narrowly passed a new measure pushing back on Trump's campaign against Iran. Democrats along with four Republicans directed Trump to either end the conflict or get congressional authorization to continue it. The House and the Senate passed similar measures last month, but they don't have the force of law, and Trump ignored them. Still, Democrats continue to push these kinds of votes as they try to convince Republicans to stop deferring to the president and demand an end to the unpopular war. According to a Washington Post Ipsos poll released last week, just 29% of Americans support the conflict [music] in India. Protests led by a growing group of angry and frustrated young people have been spreading for over a month and this week they reached ahead with thousands of people gathering in the capital and police cracking down with force.
>> The epicenter for the protest movement which is growing and multiplying happens to be virtually across the street from the New York Times South Asia bureau here in New Delhi. We could hear the pop of tear gas cannons going off right outside the office building throughout these days.
>> My colleague Alex Travelli covers India for the times. He says the protests first erupted in May after a kind of messy administrative disaster when the answers to the nationalized exam to get into medical school were leaked, forcing millions of students to retake the test. But that fed into more widespread anger about what protesters say is government mismanagement of the education system and a lack of opportunity under Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
>> The movement is being called a Gen Z movement. That's a term that all of these youthled protests around this part of the world especially have been called in recent years since Nepal protesters brought down their country's government. They are distinctive in being young, being very savvy with their memes, having a sense of bitter, sometimes dark humor. And they are also the Indians who are most bearing the brunt of a certain kind of crisis that pits very educated young people with a job market that just doesn't have room for them. You can see that when you look at how the unemployment statistics break down. The more educated and the younger people are, the less likely they are to have a job. 40% of India's youngest university graduates have nothing good to do. That's been going on for a long time. But the proportion of the country that is educated and young keeps growing bigger and bigger. And the amount of money that they've piled into these educations has become much much greater. So the number of Indians who are stuck in this position and the leverage on them and their families is like it's never been before. Some students I've talked to when asked about test administration or some of the smaller and concrete demands of the protest movement start instead by saying we feel like we're living under a dictatorship. They start off by talking about democracy, not about test results. There's a sense that this moment, this chance to make their complaints heard is a kind of thing that they've been waiting for. Modi has been in power now for 12 years and it's becoming hard to remember a time when the country felt like it could stand up and say no to the government. [music] And finally, in the US in the past few years, there's been a lot of talk about movie theaters struggling, but there's been one very unexpected bright spot.
>> This is the Cinemark exclusive Grou popcorn bucket. It's so [laughter] cute. This is
>> popcorn buckets.
>> Are you wearing the Devil Wars Product 2 popcorn bucket purse? Yeah, I am. [music] It's called Fashion Sweetie. The bag also comes with a little charm of like a stiletto heel. The elaborate plastic creations have kind of inexplicably hit it big with people losing their minds for the $70 replica of a Trojan horse for the Odyssey or a soonto-bereleased Harry Potter broomstick that holds your buttery snack in the bristly end. The precise industry term is collectible concession vessel and they've become astonishingly lucrative. AMC Theaters estimates that buckets will generate $100 million in revenue this year. And other chains have seen big merch bumps, too. When the designs are good, they can sell out super fast. So, good luck trying to get a $50 bucket made to look like the IMAX camera Christopher Nolan used to film the Odyssey. Those were gone almost immediately. Not every design hits, though. The Beaver Dam buckets for the Pixar movie Hoppers were not a fan favorite. One AMC executive told The Times, "The whole thing has been wild to watch." Quote, "I would never suggest that popcorn buckets are the reason people go to the movies or that movie themed merch is saving the industry, but over the last few years, they've become a big part of the conversation. [music] Those are the headlines. If you'd like to play the Friday News quiz, stick [music] around. It's just after these credits. This show is made by Will Jarvis, Margaret Kadifa, Jake Lucas, Yan Stewart, and me, Tracy [music] Mumford. Original theme by Dan Powell. Special thanks to Isabella Anderson, Sam [music] Dolnick, Miles McKinley, and Zoe Murphy. Now, time for the quiz. Every week, we ask you a few questions about stories The Times has been covering. Can you get them all? We're kicking off this week with a speed round that will put your memory to the test. How closely have you been paying attention to the news? Here we go. This country got a new prime minister on Monday, its seventh in just 10 years. [music] That's Britain. This group in the Middle East said it's launching a partial blockade of the Red Sea. The Houthies, the food born parasite at the center of an outbreak in the US is called [music] cycllospora. Wash your produce. On Wednesday, the US signed a contentious nuclear agreement with [music] Saudi Arabia. Also this week, the White House said that this will be temporarily taken out of service soon for quote upgrades and enhancements. [music] They were talking about the new Qatari donated Air Force One. Last one of the speed round. [music] The musician who played the iconic saxophone part on this classic movie theme died this week at age 94. Name the movie. [music] That was the slinky theme to the 1960s classic The Pink Panther with Plaz Johnson on saxophone.
>> Okay, next question.
>> Nowadays, if you want to go to Olive Garden and get unlimited pasta, you got to This isn't complicated stuff.
>> Recently, Republican lawmakers across the country have been talking a lot about Olive Garden. Heck, you even need to present a to utilize the Olive Garden neverending pasta pass.
>> The chain restaurant has been invoked in interviews, House committee hearings, and even on the floor of the Senate, all for one specific reason.
>> In other words, Madam Chair, we're protecting our bread sticks more than our across this country. Your question, what hot button political issue are they using Olive Garden to try and make a point about the answer? Voter ID. Republicans are drawing the comparison because the chain restaurant just announced a new rule around its popular neverending pasta pass. In order to use it, customers must show photo ID. That quickly became a talking point on the right as some rush to claim that Olive Garden has tighter security than US elections. The comparison's a little apples to oranges though or linguini to tortillini because three dozen US states already do require voters to show ID and the remaining states verify people's identities in other ways. And last question, this unusual yet adorable furball is none other than Jimothy. Recently, a very oddlyshaped raccoon prowling the streets of Seattle has become something of an internet icon. The creature joins a storied hall of other animals that have gone viral in recent years. We're going to play some clips here. You name the kind of animal that became a star. First,
>> when Neil comes to town, everybody knows about it because this big boy is revved up. This ginormous marine mammal made headlines this summer in Australia for his unruly behavior. What is Neil?
>> Neil the seal loves a wrestle and will break anything in his wine.
>> Neil is a 2200 lb southern elephant seal. Ready for the next one?
>> He's very picky when it comes to food. Um so black walnuts are probably his favorite thing. Um, next in line is definitely avocado.
>> This bushytailed critter named Peanut was a social media sensation before his story took a sad turn in 2024. Peanut was a squirrel. He'd been kept as a pet for 7 years before authorities in New York seized and euthanized him to test for rabies. That set off a complete uproar. The state agency involved faced a wave of bomb threats and conservative politicians jumped on the story saying Peanut's death was an example of government overreach. And last viral animal here,
>> the hottest hottest new [music] it girl on the planet. She's got chubby pink cheeks, a distinct [music] potato shape. [laughter] We're talking about Muen. This mammal named Mu Dang became a worldwide sensation a few years ago, turning her zoo in Thailand into a major tourist destination. Mudang is a what? She's a hippo, specifically a pygmy hippo who got so popular the zoo put out a line of hippothemed clothing, said it would trademark her name, and even released an official Muang song.
>> [music]
>> That is it for this week's news quiz. If you want to tell us how you did, our email is the headlines@ny times.com. I'm Tracy Mumford. We'll be back on Monday.