[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. This is Bloomberg Business Week Daily, reporting from the magazine that helps global leaders stay ahead with insight on the people, companies, and trends shaping today's complex economy. Plus, global business, finance, and tech news as it happens. The Bloomberg Business Week Daily podcast with Carol Masser and Tim Stenbec on Bloomberg Radio. All right, we want to stay on this story. Joining us right now is Mona Yakubian and she is director and senior adviser Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. She joins us from Washington DC. Mona, should President Trump be taking a victory lap here? I think the president does deserve to take a victory lap considering what has been accomplished today. uh the release of the last 20 remaining hostages uh who were alive uh are alive in Gaza. Uh the the sessation of hostilities for now uh the flowing in of much needed assistance into Gaza. These are important uh milestones. However, I think the president is perhaps premature in saying the war is over. the difficult steps ahead are the ones that we will have to watch closely to see if in fact his aspirations become reality. And Mona, how does that play out? If you were going to say that this is presumably some form of a stop gap and not necessarily a conclusion and marking a next chapter, what plays out? How does this play out? And kind of what's your view on that? Well, what will distinguish what happened today from ceasefires in the past is if the various points that are laid down in President Trump's 20point plan are in fact implemented. Critical among them is the disarming of Hamas. Uh hard to know how exactly that's going to happen. The the uh the agreement itself is very short on details. There's also the envisioning of an international stabilization force that would surge into Gaza and be responsible for security. Not at all clear how that's going to happen. And of course, questions around governance and the constituting of a committee of Palestinian technocrats to be overseen by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. I mean, there is there are so many details that have yet to be ironed out, let alone implemented. And I think these are the key potential sticking points uh in the coming days and weeks and and likely months. Mona, and I think it's fair to say, right, a conflict like this that has gone on not just in the last 2 years uh of a war, but it's been going on for a long time between uh Israel and and and Gaza and Hamas. What is Hamas though in a world where there is no conflict between Hamas and Israel? I mean, they have been designated terrorist groups. So, I'm just curious, what is Hamas potentially going forward in if there's real peace in this region? Well, I think you point to a really important issue here. I mean, Hamas's rea is resistance. Resistance against Israel and against Israeli occupation. Now presumably if all of the various elements that would bring actual peace between Israelis and Palestinians come into fruition then that would indeed sort of I think dramatically undermine the rationale for Hamas to continue to exist. But I do think it's really important Carol to note this agreement talks about and calls for the disarming of Hamas. does not call for the destruction of Hamas uh as Prime Minister Netanyahu has called for and made a centerpiece of his policies on Gaza. So, okay. So, that's an important distinction. Correct. Very much so. I mean, we're already seeing reporting that as uh Israeli troops withdraw from limited areas of Gaza, there is reporting that Hamas is filling in and is taking over. And so again, the this just gives you a sense of how daunting this challenge is going to be going forward. And Mona, you have about you have more than 30 years of experience in the Middle East and North Africa. With that in mind, what do the next weeks and months, years look like? Well, I think immediately what's going to need to happen is more meat on the bones of exactly how it is that this agreement that all of these various leaders just signed off on in charlie, how will those how will those points actually be implemented? So I think the first order of the day is going to be figuring out how to establish security on the ground as Israeli troops withdraw and not at all clear how that's going to happen. What are the mechanisms by which Hamas is going to be disarmed and to whom? Whom will they give their arms to? And then of course the other key element of any postconlict stabilization is governance. You've got to have governance. You've got to have authorities on the ground. Who will they be? M how will that structure be set up? Those are really critical questions and we're a long ways from understanding what the details are that will will govern those various arrangements. Does a disarmed Hamas just to kind of tie this up? Does do they want a Gaza a Palestinian state that actually thrives? Presumably they have called and and would be in agreement with that. But as always, the devil is in the details. For example, they are saying that Israel must withdraw 100% from Gaza. That is not envisioned by the plan. And ultimately, what does a Palestinian state look like? Uh is there a way to actually uh build a Palestinian state from the current set of circumstances that we see on the ground? That is also going to be extraordinarily difficult. As long as these questions remain, there will be space for resistance. There will be space for groups like Hamas or its successor to cause trouble. Yeah, it's fascinating, right? And you you talk about, you know, the building of a Palestinian state and then there's just the actual build of a land that has just been uh devastated. Um so much more to come and I know we'll lean on you in the future because I'm sure there'll be more to come. I'm Mona Yakubian and she's director and senior adviser Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Business Week Daily coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Business Week Daily podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 2:00 to 5:00 Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube. Well, big Aon uh is a big market story as well today once again driving the trade pushing semi as a group semiconductors that is higher today led by Broadcom whose stock jumped after openai agreed to buy the company's custom chips and networking equipment in a multi-year deal part of an ambitious plan by the startup to add AI infrastructure. So we wanted to just dig a little bit deeper into it. Amy talked about it. We certainly are seeing it playing out in the market. Got a great voice though to walk us through it. One of my favorite people. I will say Billy must have said Mandep's name about five times on the call this morning. Immediately was like we need to get him in studio. So perfect timing. And that's why we're joined now by Bloomberg Intelligence global head of technology research Mandep Singh here in the studio. Mandep walk us through this deal because it feels like every other day Open AAI has a new agreement with some chip manufacturer and the terms are slightly different whether it's an ownership stake or front buying chips. What's up with uh this broad compact? I mean they are really going after uh you know data center capacity right now and the way they are doing it is by diversifying their supplier base. So it's not just relying on Nvidia which everyone does right now uh for compute but really uh leveraging Broadcom which is a custom silicon maker. So think about you know Nvidia giving you a generic chip where you can run your AI workloads whether it's training or inferencing custom silicon is used just for uh you know the specific workflow that open AAI has to run for its proprietary model. So no one else has any benefit of using a custom silicon because open AAI is not looking to sell its own chips to compete with Nvidia. is looking to use its chips for its own chat chip app or any other custom app that it has developed in-house and Google is a prime example of what a custom silicon looks like because they have their own TPUs which when you compare it to Nvidia GPUs is more customized in nature but it does a terrific job of running YouTube or any other AI workloads that Google wants to run on its chip. So that's what OpenAI is doing and it has a tremendous cost advantage because it costs a lot lower than the Nvidia price tag of $30,000 on an average for a GPU TPU tensor processing unit. I just want to make sure I understand. Um what's interesting though is I do feel like there's this move trend to get chips that maybe don't cost as much, maybe don't use as much power, but do exactly what we need. Is that fair? Yeah, I mean look, one one gawatt requires up to 500 to 600,000 accelerator chips. So we're talking.5 to6 million chips for 1 gawatt data center. Imagine if you can save up to $5,000 how it multiplies, you know, in terms of cost savings. The real constraint right now is power. It's not as if you get a cheaper chip and you are all good. You still need the performance per watt which is why Nvidia is so good because it gives you five to 10x more performance per watt than the nearest competitor. Right. Exactly. I want to show there's a graphic um and uh one of our producers made it Elizabeth Cedron and I think it you know we've all been looking at this. It's about OpenAI and all of the companies that they're doing deals with. And it's not even been a month, but they have done deals with Nvidia, Oracle, Coreweave, AMD, now Broadcom. And again, it's just late September to midocctober. So, is that what this is? Is just giving them a smarter supply chain and having access to what they need? Is it as simple as that? Well, it's not as simple because they're going across the stacks. Think of, you know, how AI applications are deployed. You need the chip, you need the infrastructure, you need the cloud because that's where you're doing your inferencing. So they've cut deals with different parts of the stack here, not just the chip makers, not just the power guys, uh also the cloud guys. So from that perspective, coreweave, right? Coreweave. Exactly. And and look uh I mean to my mind they are going uh aggressive in terms of adding more capacity than they probably need because they think if they get market share they get the companies or users to use their product then they will be able to monetize and probably drive some companies out of you know competing with them because of the scale involved here. Well are are XAI and Anthropic striking similar deals or is this the open AAI show? I I think right now XAI must be thinking and they are doing a $20 billion deal uh with some private financing. But look, when OpenAI announces a 10 gawatt deal, we're talking 500 billion, not 20 billion anymore. So it's the numbers are getting bigger and bigger. Well, is OpenAI in this moment in time on October 13th the most important company in the world? Well, when I look at Mag 7, your Broadcom is not in MAG7. It's a $1.6 $6 trillion company, you know, Open AI probably, you know, it's and they're up 10% because of this. I mean, also they the whole space sold off on Friday, so I don't want to downplay that too much, but like they're not even public. They're not even profitable as much as we know, right? No, I mean look, so right now their gross margins would be negative if you factor in the training costs inferencing wise. Yes, they they they are making some money, but clearly if you include everything and just to compare it with Google, Google has an annual cost of revenue of around 100 billion that powers all of their apps, you know, Google, YouTube, everything that they run. Open AAI's compute costs are probably north of 20 billion right now. And if they're adding 26 gawatt more capacity, we're talking, you know, uh compute cost to multiply at least 25 fold. So from that perspective you have to ask yourself how much incremental revenue do you want to see from open AI to justify this you know 1 trillion potentially1 trillion dollar in compute infrastructure spend and that's where Google's infrastructure is so efficient because just you know less than 5 gawatt of compute gets you to over 400 billion in revenue. That's pretty cool you know to say the least in a nonfinancial analysis uh terminology. Um Mandep thank you always a gem. Bloomberg intelligence global head of technology research Mandep Singh uh AI spend and the buildout is one read on the US economy and certainly the tech economy. Now to another great read uh Bailey on US economic activity and we're talking about the industrial supplier Fasinel which reported earnings earlier this morning and shares I think they were the worst performing the S&P 500 at one point. Yeah, right now down about 6% and keep in mind this is a $50 billion company. So this is no small uh small fish in the again in the industrial space. One of the first reads we get every quarterly earning season missing Wall Street views broadly speaking. So interesting what's driving that? Well, let's ask uh the CEO Daniel Flores is with us. He is uh chief executive officer of Fasinel. He joins us from Winona, Minnesota. Um Dan, it is great to have you back with us. um talk to us about uh the quarter because it does seem like analysts were noting that the pricing during the quarter was weaker than expected uh and marks the second straight quarter of softer pricing and maybe that's why we're seeing the stock down. What do you want to say to investors? Well, u part of the reason our stock's down is it's priced to perfection if you look at what it's done, you know, year to date and where the multiple has gone. But, uh you know, we had we had a really good quarter. We had uh we had a double- digit quarter. We hadn't seen that for a couple years. U double- digit growth, sorry. And uh pleased with the outcome. One of the one of the uh challenges we had this year was there's a lot of fluidity around tariffs and what it means for pricing. And we will raise price to address costs in our customer supply chain. Um we we really don't want to raise more than that because we believe it impairs our ability to grow as fast as we'd like. And uh you know coming into the quarter we estimated you know X for uh for impact of pricing came in a little bit less. We lowered our number for the four fourth quarter but the most important aspect is on a price cost basis we are neutral and that's what we aspire to be. We'd rather just grow. M and Dan to your point uh fast and all even with the pullback today returning 22% year-to- date so outperforming the S&P 500 and uh comparable uh stocks in the industrial space but just one more question on pricing in terms of expectations would you want to raise pricing like do you get the sense that consumers and customers would push back just given how you've been shifting into bigger customers spending much more money? Yeah. Um customers always push back on pricing. Doesn't matter the size customer. Uh we will uh we we we are having conversations with our customer. We will be doing some price increases in Q4. I suspect we'll be doing some price increases as we move into 2026. But again, our first discussion with the customer um they understand it. They're willing to move on price. Our first discussion is always what are alternatives to this product that maybe doesn't mean we have to raise your prices 5%. Maybe it means it only has to be two. And we we'd rather go to two cuz that's what a that's what a supply chain partner does. Well, Dan, how do tariffs fit into this just given that according to analysts across the street when we look at certain industries now is when we're going to see tariffs showing up in the third quarter in guidance as it go as it relates to 2026. what are you seeing and how are you kind of attacking or addressing any pressures from tariffs? Yeah, so for us tariffs been um in the in the equation uh since the you know early part of the second quarter, a little bit of first quarter. I think in the the individual that handles pricing um historically he will provide us an update once a month. He had gotten to the point where he was not only providing us updates, he he was up to video number 14 as of July that he was serving out to the field, giving them guidance into what we were seeing in our supply chain and u and so we've been adding price as we've gone through the year and these have been discussions with customers and I hope that answers your question. No, I think it does. But I think the big thing is are you mitigating the impact of tariffs? Are you shifting your supply chain? is the expectation that you can have some kind of knock-on effect as it relates to pricing if we do continue to see threats from the president going after countries like China or others. We are going to talk to uh one of the members of Levis's management team and they called out that they had to dial up their expectations for the impact of tariffs from other countries. So, how is that impacting when you look at your supply chain and when you look at the potential for pricing impacts in 2026? We've been moving supply chain around the planet in earnest since 2017 2018 time frame. Um, as our name would imply, we sell a lot of fasters. And most of the fasters in North America come from either mainland China or or Taiwan. And the automotive industry took the production there back in the 50s and 60s. Actually took it to Japan and South Korea and it migrated from there. If I look at our resources, we now have a sourcing team in Shanghai, but we have a sourcing team in Bangkok. We have a sourcing team in Northern India. And we have worked to diversify our supplier base around the planet and a little bit more in North America, but really around the planet. So to have diversity in supply so you're not caught off guard by some price change or or a tariff change. In addition to that, we've taken supply chains coming into North America, which traditionally came in through the west coast of the United States, and then we would redistribute from there. We have moved supply chains, so they're bringing product directly into the West Coast of Canada or the West Coast of Mexico because those two countries represent about 14% of our revenue. Now, you bypass the tariff. However, it's more expensive to break shipments down over in Asia and bring them in, but it's a lot less than a tariff. One of the things I want to ask you, you know, you you talk about supply chains. Is the endgame um Dan, we're talking with Dan Flores. He's chief executive officer of Fastenol. Is it about though largely reducing your exposure to China, which has been a pretty big one? It's it's reducing our customers exposure to any market in this case uh China and or Taiwan but to any market that are on the receiving end of some of the political winds and create an unstable supply base for our customer. Here it happens to be China. Another month it might be a different country. Another year it might be a different country. It's diversifying your supply chain so your eggs are not all in one basket. Got to be ready. So that's for a customer. Yeah, whichever way the winds blow. Hey, one of the things I want to ask you just big broadly, uh, the earnings update today, you talked about the industrial environment still sluggish. We've heard similar commentary on this persistent sluggishness, uh, elsewhere from manufacturers, as well as caution around project delays. At what point does this become something more worrying than just sluggishness? For us, it's been sluggish since November of 2022. Okay. when the we really key on what the um industrial um institute for supply management puts out the PMI index and that's been sub 50 which really plays into our customer base other than January and February of this year that's been sub 50 since November of 2022 so we've been in a sluggish economy for a long time from our perspective and you other than living through the first part of it where you had customers that were downshifting what reason our growth is shining through a different way. A I think we're executing at a higher level but B once you get through that downshifting now you're just even if your customers are at a subdued level you can grow in that kind of environment and that's what's shining through in our numbers right now. All right. One thing I want to ask you because as you would imagine, I don't know how much of this is pervasive in your world, but AI is like the non-stop conversation that we are having um certainly when it comes to activity and market impact. To what extent is AI maybe sucking up the oxygen in the economy? Are you seeing any signs of that or your world they're going to still need what you guys supply no matter what's going on with the AI spend and enthusiasm? Well, first off, we have a lot of we have a meaningful improvement in our revenue as it relates to things like data centers because we sell into a wide range of of customer needs and endmarket needs, whether that is the actual construction. I I visited many data centers being built where we have people on site there. After it's built, we're supplying into that facility with things like air handling and maintenance equipment. In the case of a customers that sell into that sector, that's actually a strong business for us right now. And then as a organization, we're we're increasingly making use of AI in our own business and how we go to market and how we help our employees be more efficient in what they do. And Dan, about 45 seconds here with in with keeping in mind uh data center construction, where are those products sourced from? Are those also heavily sourced from China and exposed to tariffs or are they different supply chain altogether? there, you know, they're it it mostly a different supply ch source. Um, but uh it it depends on the component. If it's facility maintenance types products, they're coming from anywhere on the globe. And so they're they're subject to the same type of issues any product would have. But a lot of the components, I know a lot of the manufacturers that we sell into, I visited one about a year ago in Michigan where they were purposely avoiding China and they're selling directly into the data centers. You've been at Fastel for a long time. Um, you've seen different cycles. How do you describe this one? And again, just got about 20 seconds. If you could be very quickly, very quick. Oh. Um, odd in the fact that, uh, you know, similar to what we saw in 18, but odd with the fact of it's just so damn fluid and and and there's so many things that occur from week to week, monthto month that are outside the norm, but the fundamentals still work. All right, serve your customer in a high level, you'll grow your business. Love talking with you, Dan Flores, CEO of Fast and Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Business Week Daily coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Business Week daily podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 2:00 to 5:00 Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business app or watch us live on YouTube. All right, folks. Levi Stra shares, they are trading slightly lower today after dropping as much as 14% on Friday. This is after the company's upgraded earnings guidance still fell short of higher investor expectations following the stock's more than 40% rally heading into that earnings sprint. Now, one key disappointment, at least according to analysts out on the street, is earnings growth failing to match the pace of sales expansion due to tariff and distribution costs. Meanwhile, got to say Bailey, you did have TD Koin raising its price target on the stock to 26 from 22 a share and they've got their buy rating. Yeah, staying bullish and you look at the street 13 analysts, 10 of them buys. So, is it a sell the news event price to perfection? We see it's a really good point. So, let's see what uh one of the company's members of the seauite have to say. Hermit Singh is with us, chief financial and growth officer at Levi Strauss. He joins us from our San Francisco bureau. Harit, it's so good to have you here with us. How are you and how is the consumer doing? Well, thanks for having me Carol and Bailey. Um, it's great to be here again. Um, you know, we had a real strong quarter, four consecutive quarters of high singledigit growth and record gross margins as well as the fact that we were able to raise our fullear guidance as well as gross margin and EPS expectations. U overall as a company we're a stronger and a higher performing company defined by accelerated growth, expanding margins and higher return on invested capital. to your question about the consumer, the consumer is largely being resilient. Um, you know, our products are really well segmented. Uh, you know, we have blue tab which we which is our premium high pinnacle product and that's doing well. We've introduced that in the US. Uh, so far so good. We have a red tab product that is basically marketed to consumers who earn between 100,000 and over. And that's you know based on our results really done well. And then we have a you know a signature product sold through Walmart that again had a banner cord and that's for you know lower income consumer. So consumer strength really strong. That's where we were able to raise the full year guidance and our product pipeline hasn't been stronger. Now if you go outside the uh the US and international business was up in the high single digit and so Asia had a strong quarter consumer strong Europe had a decent quarter consumer in a better place and so is Latin America. Well I'm just going to lay it out for you. I think I bought my first pair of Levis's uh in a long time just a couple of months ago and my daughter who's 22 so much younger than me has been buying Levis's for a while. So Bailey I mean they're back. I go into the store in downtown in uh uh in the village and yeah, it's packed. Well, you get a partnership with Beyonce, all the marketing you guys are spending in terms of targeting both young and older generations. But Har, I want to ask about tariffs. So, Levi expects tariffs from China about 30%, but increased expectations to 20% from the rest of the world. Where are you sourcing your genes materials? Is it more are you more exposed to that doubling in terms of are you getting materials from Vietnam in place of China? Yeah. So overall we're taking a holistic approach as we are able to offset the tariff impact. Um you know as you think about this year we raised guidance in the top line and the bottom line and gross margin. So you know we've been able to withstand that. To your specific question, Bailey, um we source about 1% uh we import into the US from China, a little over a percent from India. Most of and Vietnam is in the mid to high single digit. So most of our imports are from the Southeast Asian countries. Think Bangladesh, think Pakistan and and and uh and the rest of Asia. The way we think about our supply chain, it's fairly well diversified. We import from about 20 countries into the US. 60% of our business is outside the US. And so we're well positioned to mitigate and offset tariffs. And the way we're thinking about the holistic approach given that volume is driving a big piece of our um you know revenue momentum and we have tenured um vendor relationships. We're working with our vendors. We're looking at different cost uh efficiencies across our organization as well as you know being very thoughtful about pricing. So let me just ask you though you guys did you know you mentioned you raised your fullear um outlook. You did warn that tariffs are starting to bite profit profitability to measure by gross margins improve. So these are the good stuff but again that tariffs are starting to bite. Um Hermit can you tell us what that means? what the bite of tariffs um when when how much you know any color around that. Sure. So you know overall you know we were able to raise topline and bottom line uh guidance despite absorbing tariffs and so we are able to mitigate it. Uh to the question about tariffs um u you know tariffs were introduced on liberation day. We normally buy our products you know 6 months in advance and so um you know we're working through um you know our efforts and we've got different levers u to kind of position it. So you take quarter three, the the quarter we just reported, gross margins are record. So we're able to offset tariffs because we got other things working for us. You know, as we grow our women's business, our direct to consumer business and international, all of which are accreative to gross margins and allow us to uh you know mitigate and and offset some of the tariff exposure. uh quarter four we did guide gross margins to be slightly down versus a year ago and had it not been for tariffs you know we'd have grown gross margins but overall as we think about the year we'll we'll report again another year of record gross margins so we're working on levers for 2026 the good news is we'll end the year stronger and we believe we're well positioned to have another strong year in 2026 and Carol we've talked with a good friend Peter Atwater for quite some time K-shaped recovery where people who are well off in the bottom quintile when you look at your goods when you look at the ability to raise prices from the impact of tariffs which products are you able to more easily raise prices where you aren't going to see consumers push away and how are you thinking about that strategy as it relates to say the jeans that you do sell through a Walmart where you don't have that gross margin going direct to consumer and you do have likely uh at least when we look the data a consumer who's feeling the pinch of inflation broadly speaking. Yeah. And so the first thing Bailey to your question is our products are well segmented depending on the um income profile of different consumers. I talk blue tab, red tab and signature. Uh signature is what's uh sold into the lower income consumer. We've been very thoughtful about pricing. We're leading with product innovation rather than price. And so we're doing what we can to maintain a price point. It was evident in quarter 3. Signature, for example, I think is up in the low double digits for the year. As we think about, you know, our other products, the good news for us is our product pipeline has never been stronger. You know, we're leading with loose and baggy while at the same time selling a lot of slim and skinny. Uh both for him and her. you know, we've got wonderful uh you know, waist up uh products to think trucker jackets, think linen shirts, etc., etc. And so, as a company, we're making this uh pivot to be more of a denim lifestyle uh retailer going forward. Our past was all about denim. Our future is going to be about denim lifestyle. I just want to know, do you really have a pair of baggie barrel jeans? I I can't get my head around them. I'm trying. I'm trying. I'm just I haven't done it. I haven't done it. Um Arid what I do want to ask you too is you guys have had kind of a mission a goal to get to 10 billion in sales by 2027. I think you may have adjusted a little bit. I think also a 15% EBIT margin. Could you reach 15% in the next few years even if sales have not hit that 10 billion? You know talk to us a little bit about that mission. Yeah. you know u you know we gave out the expectation of 10 billion and 15% um on our investor day in the middle of June 2022 u since then you know there's been a lot of change um and a lot of uncertainty as a company we've kind of you know navigated our way through uncertainty we haven't given a new date on the 10 billion and the 20 and the and the 15% our our thinking is we'll probably do that sometime next year but to your question the company that we are uh building and the company that is uh got the foundation given where we ending this year so you take 20 2025 we'll end at about 6% organic growth last year it was 3% the year before that it was flat um if you think in EBIT margins this year we'll end about mid 11s last year it was in the mid-10s the previous year it was about nine so we've seen a steady progress and our view is we probably get to the 15% faster than we get to the 10 billion but uh but really a company that is steadily um delivering mids singledigit growth uh in a category that probably grows a little you know south of that so our view is that we will we are market leaders now in the US number one in men's number one in women's and really resonating with the youth and so the question is if you're able to uh stay at you know, and implement our strategies. Our view is we can continue to be market leader and probably pick up a little bit of share, especially because the denim category is accelerating. We've seen the acceleration in the US. We've seen the acceleration outside and that's largely driven by the world becoming more casual. Yeah, I have more jeans in my wardrobe than I've ever had in like since high school. Like, it's really kind of wild. Anyway, Bailey, I know you've got another question. I was just going to ask in terms of geographic expansion when you think about China, what's going on with China? And also, what products do the Chinese consumers want? Is it that high-end good or is it more of a bargain purchase? Yeah. So, China for us is still underpenetrated. Um, China represents about 2 or 3% of our business. Um, you know, our business in China has been slow and soft. The Chinese consumer right now is going through a you know a bit of a macro uncertain climate. Um uh but the the good news for us is they love the brand. Um our brand equity scores are really solid. We think China can be you know a business that grows double digit over the long term. But to your specific question, the Chinese consumer is fairly discerning on the brands he or she gravitate to. There is a high-end consumer as well as a consumer that li the mid-market consumer. What we call the core product. So if you think about our Asia strategy, we really, you know, our products are relevant for the mid-market consumer while we also offer products for the um higher premium end consumer. 30% of the Asian denim category is uh premium uh and you know premium for example a highest pinnacle product is largely Japanese uh you know fabric Japanese denim and um inspired uh by salvage and so that's what we are selling and I think over time we'll be able to start growing our China business back into in the low double digit range. Yeah, interesting. Seth, I will say, Carol, I know you mentioned you have more jeans than ever. I have been buying the sherpa jackets, the denim jackets like crazy. I don't know why I have three of them in different colors. I bought a bunch of denim jackets. That's what I'm in. I'm like I don't wear jeans. I wear chinos, but I wear the the denim jackets like crazy. I know. I just I don't know. I love it. I love it. It's like everybody I work jeans every morning. Yeah. And Bailey and and Carol, now we've got the blue tab. It's um it's it's a fuller jacket. Um you can definitely wear it to office depending on the on the on the uh you know uh dress uh environment uh at Bloomberg. I walked in here fairly casual. So you know something that we are now beginning to offer which should make your wardrobe at some stage. Um hey one last question. Does it feel like God har the it's been a crazy year uh and a lot of stuff coming at everybody investors the world at large. Does it feel like things are starting to calm down on a day when we've talked about what seems like progress in a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas? Yeah, you know, um, as I mentioned earlier, you know, we have lived through uncertainty. Um, you know, the good news for us is the category strong. We have real business momentum. The brand's never been stronger and we have a product pipeline that is never been fuller especially as we head towards holiday. You know, our focus right now is making sure our product is on the on the floor when the because what we have seen, Carol, is consumers gravitate to newness and gravitate to what's relevant and um you know and you know um our view is if we can offer the right product and build a brand experience and that's why we've got real focus on our direct to consumer business while complementing growth with our wholesale business. So this quarter um you know both DDC and wholesale was up. We had in the US five consecutive quarters of high growth and it's fueled by both the channels. All right. Well hermit when you talk with your design team I like high waist buttons kind of slim through the legs and then a little flare. I'm just going to put it out there. A little stretch in there too is kind of my favorite. My favorite my favorite. Um and you are Jeff. Thank you. Yeah. What I and I'll take that feedback Karen. You know, I I sincerely believe feedback is a is a gift and getting feedback from consumers like yourself is something that I'll take upon myself to feed back to our designers. All right, I'm going to hold you to it. All right, good stuff. Thank you so much. Armit Singh, chief financial and growth officer over at Levi Strauss joining us from our bureau in San Francisco. This is the Bloomberg Business Week Daily podcast available on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. Listen live weekday afternoons from 2 to 5:00 p.m. Eastern on Bloomberg.com, the iheartradio app, TuneIn, and the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube, and always on the Bloomberg terminal. [Music]