All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. Let me know if the audio is okay. If not, I will change it here. Um, we got a lot to talk about. We got a lot to go through. It is one of the ugliest days, rather I should say ugliest reversals that we've seen in the global capital equity markets in the past year. S&P 500 is down 1.39%. In the morning, we were up 2% on the S&P 500. So, you're talking about almost a three and a half% intraday reversal. And I mean, it's ugly. It is very, very ugly. I'll have Chris joining in about 20 minutes. He'll give his thoughts on what's going on in the macro. You have a lot of theories going around from a variety of different people on why we are getting this much pain. But Tesla losing 400 down 1%. Nvidia after one of the best earnings in history down 3%. Robin Hood $5 away from losing 100 down 10%. Palunteer lost 160, lost 155, 15461. That's down six and a half%. Cipher, which was up uh 18% this morning, is down 2%. Rocket Lab loses 40. I haven't looked at Rocket Lab in a little bit. Just lost 40. That's down 10%. Oaklo down 13%. Bit mine absolutely disgusting day for Ethereum and crypto that's down 10%. Nebia is down 10%. Google even down 2%. Big Bear AI down 4%. Broadcom down 2.5. Microsoft now in the 470s down to Meta at 580. Amazon at 217. Micardo Libre very close to those liberation day lows from April. Bitcoin 86,000. I mean, it's just an ugly day. It is just an ugly day. I have some theories on why I think it is this ugly. At the end of the day, uh none of these theories necessarily have to make sense. I think the velocity and magnitude of the rugpull, if that's even what you want to call it, from the highs this morning, it's quite incredible. I don't I I don't think, you know, we've witnessed the choppiness, we witnessed the selling, we've witnessed up 1%, then down half a percent. we have not witnessed up 2% after a bombastic quarter by Nvidia uh which you know essentially controlled the entire market and then almost systematically a complete reversal and any little bounce you had on that reversal which there were a couple obviously did not hold through and you know you got extreme fear and greed it's a couple points away from going back down to those April lows it really does feel like there should be a bottom that is forming too but then again uh That's usually when the bottoms fall out. And obviously this morning uh throughout the entire day, we've seen this bottom fall out. And you've got a lot of different narratives going back and forth making people really question what happened today. Which begs the question, what actually happened? I have some theories, but let's hear from Tom Lee. Here's his perspective on what's going on in the crypto markets and how that's affecting the equity markets today.
>> Uh well, I think I'm I'm gonna kind of add to what Steve said. You know, I think the crypto market has been limping along since October 10th because on that date was a negative shock. I mean, today's stock market looks a lot like an echo of what happened October 10th. But on October 10th, that liquidation was so big, Brian, it really crippled market makers. And now market makers are critical in crypto because they provide liquidity. I mean, they act almost as the central bank in crypto. And if they've got a hole in their balance sheet that they need to raise capital for, they need to reflexively reduce their balance sheet, reduce trading. Um, and if prices fall, they've got to then do more selling. So, I think that this drip that's been taking place for the last few weeks in crypto reflects this market maker crippling. And so, in 2022, it took eight weeks uh for that to really get flushed out. We're only 6 weeks into it. So, I I I kind of concur. I think crypto, Bitcoin, and Ethereum are in some ways a leading indicator for equities because of that unwind and now this sort of limping and and weakened liquidity.
>> Well, that and that was that was the point that my my very very smart team behind me, we put together for the top of the show, which was showing that that Bitcoin turned down today before the market did. All right, take us back. So October 6th, I think it was October 6th or 7th,
>> Bitcoin hit 125,000. Yeah. A couple days later, it was still around 120,000. Now, obviously, Bitcoin's at 86 and change. So, what specifically occurred on or around October 10th that would lead us to where we are now on what, November 20th?
>> Yeah. Well, Steve actually pointed this out. There's a lot of what they call automated processes in crypto. One of them is called ADLK and that's an automatic liquidation feature that would take place if someone's account or their collateral drops in price. It's essentially like a margin call. Um on a specific exchange, a stable coin's price varied from other exchanges. It actually stable coin should stay at a dollar. It dropped to 65 cents. But that only happened within the exchange quotes within this exchange because of liquidity. That triggered an ADL, an automatic liquidation across many accounts. It wiped out as that spread across other exchanges, right? Because liquidations cascade, almost two million crypto accounts got wiped out even though minutes before they were actually profitable accounts.
>> So who who is behind this? Like who's the they in the
>> essentially Tom Lee is blaming a software glitch inside of a market maker for why we're seeing the uh exceptional levels of crypto deleveraging which is his thesis for why the equity markets are also being hit as well.
>> The market makers and they got hit. Who's the they? Well, you know, Brian, I'm I I am aware of names, but because uh you know, I'm not someone who wants to name names, uh I think what you should keep in mind is that the this error is actually essentially a bug, you know, a code error because they I think in retrospect they would have pulled pricing from across exchanges to set the price for that stable coin rather than rely on internal quotes. Um so but this has resulted in a lot of market makers and traders having less capital and as you know as crypto prices drift lower because trading volumes drop they need to then have more capital available which means they shrink their balance sheet further. So this is then that reflexive okay
>> weakening.
>> Um
>> I hate let me go I want to go back to this point Tom. I hate the term glitch. I can't stand the term glitch because you know things go down at the airport and they say, "Well, a glitch cause your flight to not take off." That's that's not a glitch. That's more than a glitch. It's a word that is used to describe pretty serious automation issues, software problems, crashes for some reason that they try to minimize. Is this some kind of a a software bug that's causing part of this? I'm trying to follow exactly what you're hinting around about. Uh yeah, I mean Brian it is. I mean uh for instance in 1987 portfolio insurance was the quote glitch and that triggered the cascade in 1987 and so the industry learned uh and then never offered that again. You know in 2009 it was really that the collateral wasn't secure in real estate in these package subprime mortgages. Now the industry learned and they recoded that. I'm talking about Wall Street. But then regulators came in and like overregulated. That's that was the negative effect of that. In crypto, this code of ADL and the way they pull prices never going to happen again. The good news is we're not going to have overregulation in crypto. But but now we have to deal with that liquidation effect. 2022 was a big liquidation and it took eight weeks. Um but it it that is not kind of you're right it is the nature of DeFi where there is going to be code and there's going to be an error found and you said it leverage is what's dangerous and so investors should not be using excess leverage in crypto. So that is Mr. Tom analysis right here on why uh the equity markets are getting hit. are getting a painful residual impact from the crypto markets and the crypto markets are getting hit because of a glitch. Now, I am not as educated on Mr. Tom Lee S&P lows of the day right here 65294 on if a glitch is enough to explain the pain that we've seen. I think there's a lot of other people that will say it has nothing to do with the glitch. It just has to do with the fact that crypto has topped. Um, but that's his argument and he's using a historical argument from 1987 where that he's not wrong about around how there have been other certain glitches that have existed. If he is correct that it's just the glitch and that's it. I mean theoretically we would imagine there would be a bottom soon and that deleveraging would be done and then things would kind of move forward and and maybe that is what happens but I'm not sure if a lot of people actually think that that is the reason for what's going on right here. And so as a result you're seeing some pain. goes on further in that interview to say that one of the reasons that Micro Strategy, for example, is getting hit as bad and he wants people to, you know, uh, watch Micro Strategy very well is um that once this glitch has occurred and you have all these market makers that now need to hedge their positions because they just got out of leverage, they can't kind of use leverage to go short Bitcoin or short Ethereum again through these professional futures contracts. So, they're looking to liquid options markets. One of the most liquid option markets in the world is Micro Strategy. And what is Micro Strategy correlated with Bitcoin? So the reason MSTR is and probably Bitmine, I mean he didn't mention Bitmine, but I would imagine you have tons of market makers saying, "Hey, let's just go short BMR as a way to get some hedge exposure to the downside of Ethereum." That also could be taking place, which is why Bitmine and Micro Shai are getting hit as bad as they are. So I mean, let me know in the chat if you think that evidence or that that that explanation is enough evidence to be a argument for why the equity markets are getting hit. But quite frankly, I mean, if you don't want to believe the glitch explanation, which is fine, what other explanation is there? And we'll go through some different theories. I I I talked about some theories this morning, but take a look at this chart right here. Nvidia gains 450 billion in the first 12 hours since their earnings and then they lose 450 billion in the next 12 hours. I mean, this is just like I have never seen something like this before. I mean this is absolutely insanity and the the the craziness of how this move has taken place makes you believe well maybe there is something going on that is more algorithmic more uh programmatic and and maybe you know maybe that's Japanese yen carry trade maybe that's deleveraging maybe that's systemic selling maybe it is a glitch but it doesn't feel rational that after Nvidia gave those earnings everyone was like yep let's buy Nvidia Nvidia's the moon or it's going to the moon it's probably the moon as well um there's no issue with this AI bubble yada yada And then 12 hours later, everyone's like, "No, we think Nvidia is a scam. The earnings aren't good. They didn't really deliver and we're going to sell off the most important company in the S&P 500, Nvidia, and now down 3% on the day." And yes, there have been a lot of theories today about circular financing and people looking at their accounting and all that stuff. And I think those are valid concerns to have and those are reasonable concerns. It's just do we really think $450 billion in market cap decided that oh the accounting for Nvidia seems off given the accounting for Nvidia has been the same accounting for the past 10 quarters. So like maybe there's some minute differences people are finding but not enough to the point where you would have that entire reversal of a market cap move which then affects every other stock in the market feels more like a yen carry trade to me. I mean we'll talk about a variety of different theories but it feels more like something that is happening in the macro. Obviously, you know, I know people are probably getting tired of me saying this, but the rate cut disaster that we are in right now. This is a heat map, by the way. Walmart has been kind of the only green that we've had today. Is Walmart actually up 6%. Is that true? Walmart? Yeah, Walmart. Wow. 6.5%. Unbelievable. Walmart is your hedge today. Um, uh, you had two Fed presidents come out this morning and basically say, "We don't need a cut." And then you had Goulsby, by the way, who doesn't have a vote on the next meeting, but Goulby is one of the more important members of the Fed. He came out an hour ago and says the the 2% inflation target is sacred. [laughter] It was like, we made a promise to keep inflation at 2%, so we can't violate that promise. I was like, well, I think people might want to, you know, pay a little bit more for their groceries, but keep their job to at least have enough money to pay for the groceries, even if they have to pay 3% inflation versus 2%. I mean, it is quite incredible. But every single Fed talk that we got this morning was rooted in this idea that we're not getting a rate cut. Um, and as a result, I think that's why the Fed is, you know, or that's why the market is reacting the way that the market's reacting. So, I wish I had better reasons. We'll we'll try to explore throughout the show some other stuff that's going on. But at its core, if I had to give one reason for you guys, I think it would be the lack of a rate cut and then something systemic happening from a market maker perspective, from a option expir perspective, you have a lot of options expiring tomorrow. Um or from this programmatic glitch that Tom Lee is talking about, that could be the reason. But it feels more rooted in a combination of macro, whether that's yen carry trade, uh, programmatic glitches, and then obviously the rate cut, uh, scenario that seems like it's playing out for December, which would entail not getting a rate cut. Netflix 105, Bitcoin uh, touched 85 for a second, very close to 85 again. Coreweave below 70, 150 to 69. The Q's down two and a half%. AMD $5 away from losing 200. SoFi below 25. I mean, at some point, you just sit back and you're like, "All right, I I guess if that's what the market wants to do, then that's what the market is going to do." Thursday, November 20th, 4 p.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now closed. [music] There are two companies that have to report today. I mean, you talk about bad days to report, but these two companies have to report. Weeble, which somehow was up today. I guess the market was enough to say that gave Weeble enough pain that they decided to keep it up. Weeble moving a little bit after hours. And then you have into it that's also reporting today. We'll get their earnings in just a second. We'll see what they have to report. um into it right there down about half percent after hours. It was down about 2% on the day and then you got Weeble. We'll get those numbers and we'll see what's going on. S&P 500 652 ended 1.53% on the day. And was down 16%. D-Wave Quantum Stocks actually absolutely got destroyed 12.5%. Carnival Cruise down 3%. American Airlines down half a percent. United down 1.4%. app loving this thing was 750 a couple weeks ago 520 down 1.74% regretti from 50 to 22 that's down 10.4 and NQ down 14% on the day everything high beta really got flushed out today Oaklo down another 14% obviously very ugly getting a little bit of a move after hours and then Nvidia again down uh down three and a half%. Triple V, thank you for being here. Thank you for the $200 super chat. I was talking to Triple V this morning as well. Obviously, he is feeling some of the pain from these companies as they're going down. And you know, the one thing he did say to me, which is, and I'm curious, this leads me to my question in the chat. I mean, let me know if he bought or sold anything today. The one thing he did say is that his younger self would have panic sold a lot of these stocks. The reason he didn't really sell anything today uh is because he thinks a lot of the selling is fake and a lot of it is not a emblematic form of people running away from this market because they think we've top but rather something deeper that's causing this type of panic sell. So let me know if you sold, you took profits, you bought stuff. I would love to see what people kind of did today to manage the portfolio. But nonetheless, you did have someone like Triple V saying that he was holding long and strong as he didn't think the selling was as justified as it was. Walmart right there that's up six and a half%. Weeble getting a 4% move. Let me see if I can pull up these numbers in a second for Weeble. That one is moving after hours. Uh Street wanted 3 cents. They came in at 7 cents. That is a beat by 133%. That's a pretty big beat on EPS. Revenue 137 versus 156. That's a beat by 14%. EPS is up 275% year-over-year. revenue is up 55% year-over-year on Weeble. It's a good beat. It's a good beat. Triple digit beat on the top or on the bottom line, double digit on the top line. That's not something that a Weeble shareholder should be too upset about. Obviously, the stock has been getting hit over the past couple weeks, up 2.9%. The fact that it's even green after hours on a day like this, uh, I think is pretty impressive. So you do have a 133% beat on EPS and a 14% beat on revenue. In it is also out 334 on into it. They beat on the top and the bottom as well. Beat by 8% on EPS by 3% on revenue, 3.885 billion versus 3.76 billion. EPS is up 34% year-over-year. Revenues up 18% year-over-year. So you got two decent earnings from a into it and a Weeble. Weeble now up 5.2%. 2% into it, which was down on the day, is up half a percent. It's up half a percent. And that's what you got. That is what you got as we're seeing some of the pain. Walmart somehow held 6.5. I mean, I know they increased guidance, but still on a bloodbath day like this, the fact that people ran to Walmart as safety is quite incredible, especially if you put the narrative together that the labor market would mean that consumers would get challenged. Now, obviously, they would go to Walmart over other stores, but still, you would imagine Walmart gets hit in a consumer-based recession, but the street loaded up on Walmart, which again makes this day so wonky. Like, you just had a lot of different weird things happening back and forth after an hour of blistering green. And then you had a full reversal. Nvidia right here still red after hours. The S&P 500 also read after hours at 65256. PayPal, which I think a lot of people thought bottomed at around 63 58 down three and 3.3%. Grab lost $5 at 498. I mean, pretty much every single stock that has any level of beta towards it or even if it doesn't have beta towards it, if it's not seen as a defensive, I mean, it got wrapped up in the algos and they took it down. Duolingo down another 3.7%. You would think 190 185 was the bottom. Nope. Another 3% down. Verizon even was down 1% on the day, which doesn't have much beta at all attached to it. Goldman Sachs was down 1.56%. UNH actually ended a little bit of green. So there was some safety there. And then Palo Alto down 74% on the day. Ross also had earnings. Let me pull them up. Ross Stores, they are up 3.55%. Another company in the consumer space. Ross beat by 12% on EPS. 158 versus 141. Beat by revenue on 4%. 5.6 versus 5.4 billion. Revenue is up 10% year-over-year. EPS is up 7% year-over-year for Ross. So, those were some of the earnings that we had. Ross, uh, Weeble and into it, not the most important companies in the world, but nonetheless, uh, those companies did have some relatively okay earnings as we get into the market close. Feds Goulsby says it's okay to disagree with other Fed leaders if he feels strongly, and he believes one more rate cut in 2025 after September cut is enough. again, you're just there's like Waller and that's it on the Fed uh board that is actually saying we need to cut. I mean, we we all watched if you were with me on the market open. If you didn't, you can go back to it on um on the morning show. I mean, we we listened to the Fed president Hammock from Cleveland explained to us why she doesn't want to cut rates. And the the explanation was laughable. I'm sorry. It was just laughable. I mean, you're listening to someone talk about how they're so excited for their conference where they're going to have a Wharton School professor speak to everybody about monetary policy and then not answering very specific questions about inflation versus the labor market. And it just I don't know, dude. It really made you think that these guys are not going to cut rates. JP Morgan, by the way, took away their rate cut forecast for December. Uh they still believe the S&P 500 can have a good end of year, but they said that we don't think the Fed's going to cut rates based on the jobs data we got this morning. And as a result, the Fed probabilities which although they were lower yesterday at 27%, they're now at 39.6%. They're down from 42% in the morning. So once again below this 50% level and obviously that's why we're seeing a lot of or that is one of the reasons potentially we could be seeing a lot of pain in the equity markets. Let's get a little bit of coverage on the tech selloff and crypto and then we'll have Chris join the show and get his thoughts on what's going on as well. high today and closed down roughly a hundred billion dollars. For context, that $330 billion swing today, roughly the market cap of Home Depot and closing down by around 3% on the day. The hyperscalers, which initially started the day higher, also reversing gains likely tied to concerns around capex and whether these companies still need to shell out more to buy uh AI chips from Nvidia. Verdive Eden and the industrials that are involved in the cooling the electrical equipment used inside data centers whips as well. Melius research Jake Levenson telling me the move is really tied to valuations. He says there is more room to fall from here though reiterates that the fundamental story remains strong. All these companies continue to see big positive order surprises from the data center suppliers. Those broader concerns by the way around how to value some of the high-f flyers that hit Palunteer. It was down another 6% in today's trade. Even companies like Paulo Alto Networks that delivered a strong quarterly beat on earnings and news of an acquisition that the street widely sees as positive fell by over 7%.
>> And that's also why this feels more systemic. PaloAlto is not trading at some aggressive multiple. So PaloAlto having a good earnings, decent acquisition, the fact that they I mean Uber, why was Uber down 7%. Like is there a bubble in Uber? You just look across the board and you see everything getting hit. It really is reminiscent of liberation day. But in that case, we had a clear reason which everyone could point to which were the tariffs. Today, no one fully has a reason that is defined and no one knows when that reason could reverse with a Trump tweet that changes the decision on tariffs.
>> So, Piper Sandler raising its price target on the stock to 230 a share, maintaining its outperform rating. Morgan.
>> All right, Simma Modi, thank you. The crypto market, the first is makers, the ones who usually keep trading going smoothly. Without that support, even small sell orders can move markets. Now, we've been in a slow unwind ever since. Bitcoin is now down more than 30% from its recent all-time high, and the fallout is hitting crypto adjacent names the hardest, including exchanges like Coinbase and Robin Hood. But one name that is taking the brunt of that pressure is Strategy, the most liquid public proxy for Bitcoin. It is down 40% in the past month. When hedge funds can't hedge their Bitcoin exposure directly because derivatives markets are too thin or contracts too large, they short names like strategy instead. It has become the release valve for hedging pressure across the industry. John.
>> All right, Mac. Thanks. There is
>> All right, let's get some other perspectives onto the show and see what some people are thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chris Patel. I never should have got into crypto, bro. [laughter] Never. To go back to the finance junkies days where I used to make fun of Carlos and Vitali be like, "F you crypto geeks." And then I was like, I got into crypto because I'm like, "Oh, stable coins. I bought into the Tom Le of course. They're super useful, dude. Everyone's talking about them. Duh. Ethereum. That's where all the money should go." And bro, Tom Lee, he's Asian. Asian people know how to how to do crypto. I can't be wrong about that.
>> You know, it's funny. There's this bit there's the viral video of another Asian guy who went short uh 1.5. Have you seen this? Oh, he went short 1.5 million worth of ETH like a month ago and he posted it
>> and it's been going viral today because he's probably made a lot more than 1.5 million. But um yeah, man, it's ugly. It's very ugly. I mean, I let's let's get started with crypto. Just in general, what are you thinking about this? Do you think we've topped in crypto? Do you think there's a systemic glitch like Tom Lee saying? And how are you dealing with this?
>> I mean, by the way, that was just a joke. All right. I don't necessarily care that um that like, you know, like crypto is going down. I mean, when you sign up, when you get into crypto, it's an asset class that has a lot of breath, but it also has a lot of volatility. So, um, whenever you have these volatile assets, you just have to remember that, hey, this is what you're signing up for, right? So, risk mitigation is supposed to be on every investor's mind, especially when it comes to crypto, because the the underlying fundamentals of crypto are basically built on what the next person is willing to pay for the most part. Yes, there are some utilities out there like with Ethereum um specifically that do provide value, but you know the market's not necessarily agnostic to the fact that it could be dumped on wholesale. So I think we have to kind of start off at October 10th, right? Once you once you get an understanding of what happened on October 10th, you can kind of see how a lot of this stuff makes somewhat sense what we're going through right now. So, you know, I'm not sure. I mean, do you you want me to explain what happened October 10th real quick?
>> Got it. Go for it.
>> So, October 10th was one of the largest liquidation events for crypto ever. Okay. I don't I think it's actually the the biggest crypto liquidation event. So, basically what happened was everyone was talking about crypto including myself, you, every you know, all the YouTubers, whatever. And even among the crypto bulls, there's just this euphoria um around stable coin. Um same thing with legislation around making uh crypto an like a legitimate class that people should allocate capital towards. So a lot of people what they did is especially this on the speculative side, they rushed in and they bought a lot of Ethereum, a lot of uh Bitcoin and they did it with a lot of leverage. So when you apply a lot
>> especially with these perpetual futures contracts which allows them to go up to 250x leverage.
>> Yeah. So a lot of people went in with a lot of leverage thinking that you know what like yeah the things can move but it's not going to move like crazy amount in one day which is completely wrong. October 10th we get that infamous tweet from Donald Trump saying we're going to send China you know we're going to tariff China 100%. And when he did that, it sort of triggered um markets to go down. Now, here's the thing. There's usually a lot of people that can kind of step in and buy up that liquidity. But uh that day because of that massive dip, a lot of people got margin called. And the way that the the brokers, they kind of protect themselves is that when you go, you know, when you lose when you hit your limits, they start automatically selling. The problem is if they all start selling at the same exact time, it causes like this giant flood of people going through out the exit door. Right now, if that was the only thing, we could chalk it up to, hey, you know what? Whatever. This like one time flush out of leverage, it's okay. Things happen. The problem is once you do that, you you're basically taking away this giant pool of liquidity from that specific asset class. And to get confidence back, it takes time. You know, it's not one of those things where it's just going to happen automatically where people are just going to say, you know what, I just lost a whole bunch of money doing leveraged ET uh leveraged uh crypto plays. I'm going to get back in now. Like no, like a lot of these people, they have to, you know, they have to get back in, but they'll get back in slowly after they start believing in the underlying asset again. So the key here is time will eventually fix this because the the reason to be bullish especially on Ethereum is that there actually are some use case catalysts that are coming up in the next few weeks. Um I'm not necessarily 100% if the market is going to recognize it to the degree that Tom Lee is saying where Ethereum is going to go to like 7500. uh because I think a lot of times companies and asset classes they don't just run on fundamentals they also run on uh sentiment and sentiment right now is really bad for crypto. So you know you're seeing this extended selloff in crypto some people of course saying that this is a uh a start to crypto winter you know that fouryear cycle. So
>> do you do you think that's do you think that's the case? there's a
>> I I'm in the Tom Lee camp when it comes to that where I don't think that's the case because I do think the institutions are a lot more present in the market now, right? So I I'm not necessarily like 100% in on in agreement with okay, now we're at the top and the end of a cycle. I'm not sure so sure I agree with that whole cycle debate. Um yeah, so that's that's a short-term thing. today when we when we look at the market I think there's some crossasset like bleed over of people saying you know what I need to get my risk um risk uh uh what is that they call risk down so that's why you're seeing a lot of high beta getting sold off and you're seeing low beta it's not it's not getting sold off but you're not seeing it like go down nearly as much so there is a rotation like I think I think the healthcare stocks were actually up today uh health insurance no They were down too. Uh up slightly.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, so, so, so that's the perspective on crypto, which I think is fair. Let's transition to the equity markets and kind of how you're thinking of it. Nvidia, best quarter ever. Uh, everything's green, including crypto. And then at around 11 a.m., it all dumps. I mean, you've been around markets longer than me. You lived through 2008. You your dad lived through the do-com bubble. You kind of saw how that played out. What do you think your gut reaction is that happened? And do you think there's a lot more to the sell-off that we saw today?
>> Um, I think people have to I think take a step back sometimes and just say to themselves like what is the market sentiment, right? Like what is the market saying? Not necessarily like what are the numbers saying because the numbers could be saying one thing and the market sentiment says another thing. So I think Nvidia even though when they came out with these numbers the initial reaction was holy crap like there's tons of AI demand. we're we're literally like on the cusp of a revolution. There still is a lot of uh fear out there when it comes to this sector and seeing some of the financing deals that you know the hyperscalers are doing in order to support this buildout and the Nvidia Nvidia's revenue is tied towards a lot of that a lot of that buying. Um so people are getting nervous and people because they've lived through multiple um multiple bubbles like this they've called it a bubble you know and the thing is when consensus becomes the norm then people are going to rerate rerate the stocks. Now here's the thing if you still believe fundamentally that there's still a lot more room to go with crypto then I mean not crypto sorry with the AI wave then by all means like right now is a great time to pick stuff up. But if you feel like, hey, you know what? I think that we're at a near near-term peak, maybe maybe you want to avoid it. But the point is, I think this selloff in in AI is both good and bad to to a certain degree. There's a lot of people, and I kept asking Sam this. I said to Sam, Sam, you know, why why do you want to invest in these AI, you know, AI companies? And he's like, well, they're great companies. they're doing X, Y, and Z with AI. And I'm like, you're not afraid that at some point all that demand is just going to dry up and growth rates going to come down and blah blah. He's like, yeah, but I'll deal with that when it comes. And I'm like, interesting.
>> The reason why I say that is because the market tends to always catch a lot of people off guard, right? Where you think that you have enough time to get to the exit door before the market closes it right before you. like you could literally be the second to last person about to get out the door and it'll close the door on you. So, a lot of people, especially maybe on the institutional side, they're because they're playing with billions and billions of dollars, they're not waiting around to to sell at the absolute peak. So, I think what we saw today, and this is something that I saw in the reports, which was um there was a lot of liquidity in these names with a lot of people FOMOing into Nvidia this morning. volume was absolutely insane. So while retail and a lot of FOMO like people who were FOMOing into the to to Nvidia, a lot of institutions were selling out. I don't know if you saw that by any chance.
>> I saw that. I saw that. Yeah.
>> You know, so that's why you saw this absolute giant reversal in Nvidia. So when you have these moments of high levels of liquidity, bro, it's, you know, they're like, whoa, this is my time. This is like a great place to exit. Not to mention, it's the same thing with profit taking. You know, I think a lot of times people are if you've done really well on the position and you kind of want to lock in some of those gains, like what better day to lock in a profit right before uh right before you know you think that it's going to come down. So, I think there still is room to run for the AI um AI trade. Uh but I will say this, the level of fear that's out there with regards to future growth prospects for companies like Nvidia that are heavily tied towards the the the story. I think it's going to be it's going to be a it's going to be they're going to have to basically climb a wall of worry.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, and I think that's what kind of blindsided people. They because like everyone knew that the bubble fears are getting intense. And if Nvidia even kind of missed earnings, meaning they beat earnings, but they didn't really beat earnings in a in a in a high margin, then uh we would tank. But they did what they needed to do. And so that's why everyone felt pretty happy, right? Portfolios were up. No matter what asset you were in, Nvidia kind of pumped the entire market. Which is why it's like if there's more room to run on the AI trade, there's more room to run for the market because the AI trade has become the market. If there's not more room for the AI trade, then we're topping out of the market, right? Because at the end of the day, you can't have these AI companies, capex companies, Nvidia be 40% of the S&P 500 and imagine the market can meaningfully make a gain next year or like any sizable gain um that's worth investing in if those companies don't participate in. So, I guess here's another question. Uh, do you think the earnings from last night justify this type of sell-off or do you think there was something else to the sell-off besides the profit taking? Like, are you thinking yen carry trade, rate cuts? Is there anything else in the macro that you think is leading to the sell-off?
>> I mean, from a macro side, I think that there has definitely been a giant rerating of the level of rate cuts that we were we were thinking that we were going to get versus what we're actually going to get. I mean, sentiment's been flipping since Pal came out. I think the last uh meeting and said, "Look, we're we're I think the Mar basically Pal kind of screwed us a little bit and saying, "Hey, listen guys, December, there's no guarantee that December is going to have a rate cut and then all of us, you know, and then now we're also dealing with this blackout period where we don't have any data. So the Fed is just being cautious and saying, "Look, in the absence of legitimate data that can prove out the need for another cut, it's better that we just kind of wait it out." And so a lot of what the other Fed speakers have been coming out and saying, they've all been saying the same exact thing. Now, one of the things if you if you go back and you listen to some of Powell's um commentary around how how important Fed messaging is, he said he's he's been very um clear in that he doesn't like to surprise the markets on the day of FOMC. So instead of
>> like, "Hey, listen guys, we're going to cut. We're not going to cut," it usually is like a giant, it's like a leaking leaking uh leaking pot of information that just keeps coming out. And it comes out through these various interviews with all these other Fed Fed um Fed officials that basically doesn't make uh doesn't create a situation where on the day of the Fed meeting that the market just gates like crazy because like what the market was expecting what they're not expecting. So that that level of uncertainty ends up going away. So, I think what we're seeing is this this notion that we're just going to, you know, like like I said, I think at this point the odds are more in favor of no uh no cuts and we're actually going to get a pause. But to me, when I look at this, I'm just like, yeah, well, that just means that they kind of pushed it to January because a lot of the fundamental data that I'm seeing that's been coming out from the private side is showing a deteriorating labor market. You know, you've seen all these private companies already announced that they're going to be doing layoffs, X, Y, and Z. So, I would hope that the Fed isn't as dogmatic as they are, where they have to have data from BLS, where they can't necessarily look at other sources of data. Why do you why do you think the Fed and these Fed officials are being so aggressive on the idea of the lab inflation versus labor? Like, do you actually think they feel inflation is like a a 2022 concern again, or do you think there's something else going on?
>> I mean, it is reacelerating. you you like no one can say that inflation is not accelerated. I mean it literally went from 2.6 six I think in May to now almost 3% again right so the thing is like people are looking at history and saying well look inflation reared its ugly head in the past it could do it again for us so we don't want to be in a position where you know we get we start getting another um another um cycle of inflation and now in order to kill that inflation we have to start raising again you know and the thing is the Fed would lose a lot of credibility if that happened so I think they're just trying to get ahead of Um I mean there are people in the in the on the Fed uh um board voting FOMC board that are basically saying like they're looking six months out, seven months out and saying look we're starting to see all the hallmark signs of a deflation disinflationary environment and we should be preemptively cutting before [ __ ] falls you know like things fall apart. Right?
>> As an example, you're looking at, like me personally, when I look at this market, I'm looking at shelter prices are coming down, right? Rent is starting to come down. You're seeing a rollover everywhere. You're starting to see a lot of companies announce layoffs, right? You're starting to see AI starting to creep in. And so, companies focusing on efficiency. All of those data points are are being there. And then now you've got from a political side, you've also got all of these policies that are going to be coming in next year that are are um counter to a supportive uh a supportive federal government side when it comes to spending. So, a lot of the labor cuts on the fed like uh employee what is it called the federal employees a lot of them have been you know taking that buyout offer not what is it called the early retirement or layoffs or whatever on the federal side all of those numbers are going to be hit be hit private side you're seeing come down unemployment is starting to go up while there is a little bit of like liquidity support here and there I think a lot of the liquidity that the Fed the federal government used to spend is gone and so a lot of that liquidity is coming out. So now the question is you've got one you've got mass deportations and and all of these other things happening and a lot of that liquidity that was supporting a lot of these people when they come were coming into the to the country. All of those liquidity supports are gone. Student loan memoratoriums all those are gone right housing moratoriums and all that stuff all of it is gone. So, at this point, you're starting to see all the impacts of of that support system pretty much 100% done. So, 2026 is going to be that year where the consumer is going to have to stand on on their own two feet again, you know, in which case you're definitely going to see like a reset of expectations. So, the question now is I can see it six months ahead. I think Stephen Moran has kind of like highlighted that. I think even some some of the Fed officials like Waller are saying look we we don't want to risk unemployment getting out of control because inflation will go down if unemployment goes up but that's the wrong reason why you want inflation how you kill crush inflation right
>> right
>> so I mean not to mention if you look AI is also very deflationary that's like that's not even a a question at this point so a lot of these things are are coming in and and I think the Fed is in my opinion In the short term, the Hawks are correct in saying that um you know it it's probably prudent to just wait a little bit. Like a quarter basis point cut in December is not necessarily going to do anything from a liquidity standpoint. That's going to help boost stuff, but it definitely like withdrawing it right now is sort of like taking away the punch bowl while everyone is having a good time at the party. And so right now the party is, you know, we're at the party right now and someone just turned off the music for a little bit or the music is starting to slow down and some people are taking that as a sign of, hey, I better I better get out of this party. So some people are starting to leave. You know, the question is, do you want to keep dancing?
>> So let me ask you this question, and I I think this is really strong analysis going into 2026. and and you reserve the right to change your mind as you get more data, but if you had to give me a preliminary view based on what we've seen, you know, Morgan Stanley says 7,800 by the end of 2026. All the kind of core basic bullish arguments go into that analysis. Do you think 2026 has a shot of being a bull market if the labor market collapses, if inflation doesn't slow down, like if the AI trade gets wobbly, or do you think it's a flat year? Do you think it ends up being a 2022 repeat? How are you thinking of it at this moment after past couple days?
>> I mean, I think there's going to be a point where things get oversold again and we see like uh we see like a 10% plus correction in the markets. But I think those are like opportunities to keep to add rather than trying to sell things off and try to call a top. And I'll tell you one of the reasons why is because you're literally going into a rate cutting cycle, right? From a business standpoint, a lot of companies, you know, their profit margins are directly linked to how much money they can borrow, like how much money they can borrow and at what rate. So, if you're a business that's levered up, you know, and you're borrowing money and the cost of capital is 7, 8, 9, 10%. And then all of a sudden now the Fed is giving you, let's say, 100 basis point cut, you know, and and your borrowing cost shrink by two like 100 200 basis points. That's pretty good for you, you know. That's it's not bad. Not to mention from an equity valuation standpoint, it does support valuations. Though we are at a outside of the Mag 7, I don't think that there's a giant quote unquote bubble. You know, the Mag 7 is definitely getting a crazy premium rather than But but then again, the the Mag 7 is also got growth and they've got profitability going up. I mean, it's just like I said, no one no one can stop the Mag 7 except for the Mag 7. So, I do think that there's opportunities for the rest of the market to sort of catch up a little bit where people do say, "You know what, with rate cuts, I think this business is going to do well or that." Like, I'll give you an example. Um, Norwegian Cruise Lines, right? Um me, I've I've been into cruise lines. I've been doing really well on them. Norwegian took a hit recently. Um, they're loaded up to the boat with a lot of debt on the balance sheet, right? So, they've got about almost 13.5 13.6 6 billion in debt. Um the cost to borrow is about 4.1 4.2%. Now the thing with Norwegian is that you know it has it's right now in the middle of a capex cycle where they are spending money on a lot of these new boats and they're generating significant amount of cash flow but that debt load is high. So the thing is for them their stock is going to be rated based on the ability for them to kind of refinance that debt at attractive rates. So if you're telling me that right now I have 13 billion in debt and every year I'm going to pay down let's say 500 million of that debt but the thing is the cost of interest keeps rising higher higher and higher that means that now the EPS that you can show keeps going lower and lower and lower. So, even if you're paying down the debt, because the cost of that debt refi keeps going higher, it's going to impact your EPS. So, some people are saying, well, I'm not going to pay a premium for a company that has a ton of leverage on a balance sheet while interest rates are higher than they were 5 years ago when all of that debt was uh issued. So, because of that, a lot of companies are getting rerated. Now, on the other hand, if you're telling me, hey, guess what? Norwegian can refinance at, you know, 100, 200 basis points less than what they're paying right now. That's amazing. People be like, "Hell yeah, this we we want to be in this." That means that their EPS is actually going to be higher in 2026 and 2027.
>> So, the the the underlying structure of of an easing cycle, you're saying is inevitably bullish, not to mention all the money on the sidelines that probably Which speaking of that, let's go to money market funds. I would say it's I wouldn't say it's it's bullish, but I'd say it's supportive, right? It it lets you support these valuations for a longer period of time, right? So, if you're telling me like, hey, listen, you know, in a rate cutting cycle, you're not going to see equity equities rise. It'd be very hard to hard to see how that could happen. You know,
>> that is a fair point. That is a very fair point. Money market funds decrease by 15 billion to 7.52 trillion. Nothing too crazy there. Mac 7s. Um, outside of Tesla and Apple, do you think the other five are really trading at an aggressive premium? Google, Nvidia, and Meta or do you think the rest of them are relatively priced in a reasonable way?
>> No, I think I think right now it's just people are people are scared that this AI thing is not real. You know, Michael Bur really did not do anyone justice by putting out a lot of that information and getting the market spooked. You know, a lot of people look at this and say, "Wait a second, the guy that called 2008 is saying that there's a bubble." And the the challenge is even if you you personally don't think that there's a bubble, you could have a lot of clients that are reaching out to you and saying, "Hey, is there a bubble? Michael Bur says there's a bubble. Hey, is there a bubble? Did Michael Bur say there's a bubble?" So, you know, you as a prudent manager of risk are going to say, "You know what? Maybe I don't want to have 60 to 70% of my portfolio locked in these AI trade, you know, in the AI trade. Maybe I should turn my allocation down to let's say 40 50%. So, I told you like I think it was last time or was it with Sam right now? I'm 60% of my portfolio is like fixed income, right?
>> Yeah. Now, the thing is, if the market dips hard enough, and I think it's getting to that point, I'm actually a buyer of a lot of these names that sure, I could see some additional weakness. Like, right now, I'm very attracted to to Meta. I think Meta has got um a great business. It's not going anywhere. Could they have a couple of bad quarters where they have to kind of digest some uh digest some down downward moves? Yeah, sure. But long term, I mean, it's a cash flowing business. like there's no disruption in meta that I can see unless you can see like hey there's a new product out there that's replacing Instagram reels like I I don't see it. So I I think this AI buildout um data center buildout it's getting to the point where it is causing a lot of people to you know put some fear into the markets but I think this is just another opportunity to find these great companies with great businesses expanding profit margins that are going to keep expanding with the adoption of AI and you know the growth rates are look if the growth rates are starting to slow down for these companies then it's something to worry about. If you see margin pressures, like significant margin pressures, it's something to worry about. Now, there can be some argument around the fugazi nature of how depreciation works with, hey, you know, there's been some there they went from three-year depreciation to four to five to six. And somehow [clears throat] somehow that's not necessarily like um uh kosher, you know, even though technically it is kosher. Um, I I can't say like like that I I'm in 100% agreement with the idea that you can keep extending your useful life thing, you know? It's just seems artificial to me. But at the same time, I'm like, dude, it's not going to materially add to their to their earnings like Bur is saying where overstating about 20% of their earnings and 30% of their earnings. I'm like, no, I mean, their useful life is their useful life. The one thing that I have been reading that I'm not so sure um people are taking into consideration is the same monetization rate that they were making on original cloud compute may or may not be there. So where original cloud compute like AWS and stuff it was high margin and so you you got paid back relatively quickly the AI compute the profit margins are not necessarily like out there yet that would justify that additional premium that you're getting. So, a lot of people are looking at purely on, oh, look, this cloud provider's revenue is growing at X. That means it's great. But then I'm like, okay, but what's the margin on this new additional um revenue, right? Especially when you include depreciation and all the other stuff that that's supposed to go in there. So, the monetization rate on AI compute, unless that gets broken out, um I don't know. We'll see.
>> Uh real quick, headline, guys, or two headlines. Um, billionaire David Shaw, uh, who I've heard of in the past, but I'm not that familiar with him. Um, he's a former hedge fund manager. He just took a 6.4% stake in Open Flat after hours, but he bought 60 million shares, and that's him, not his hedge fund. It looks like it's personally him. So,
>> guys, just be careful, man. And a lot of a lot of these guys, they come in, they're like, "Oh, I'm a billionaire." But they have they have no um they have no intention to be in some of these things long term. I mean, you remember Ryan Cohen
>> 100%.
>> So, I think sometimes we we take we take a lot of these entries by quote unquote big people in and we think like, oh yeah, you know what? I'm being smart, too. You know, it's like, no, sometimes these guys, they they understand that this is a trade for them. So, so just like I said, do your do your research. You know, if you have some risk you want to take it, by all means. I'm not saying no, but just understand that just because a rich person goes into something doesn't mean a rich person is not going to get out, you know, before you can get out,
>> right? And then Verizon after hours says it's going to record a 1 billion 1.8 billion severance charge in Q4. Plans to eliminate over 13,000 positions by next month and expects a significant reduction in outsourced labor costs. That's actually got the stock moving after hours. It goes back to the argument we were having about layoffs. I mean, these companies are not hesitating to increase margins with a lot of my cousin gonna be out of a job in India, bro. What's going to happen to all the call center bros? Huh? Now you Now, now we're gonna Damn it, man. Now I'm going to get a lot We're going to get a lot more Walmart um what do they call gift card calls again. You know, it's like [laughter] this is Steve calling from the IRS. you have to pay your taxes now. You have not paid in a while. I'm like, yo, bro, what's up? How do I pay you? You have to go to Walmart and give me the coupon code, [laughter] bro. Why do people Why do our people scam so hard, man? What's going on, huh?
>> I I I I uh I don't know. But nonetheless, that is
>> a big part of the economy that's likely going to get replaced, which are these call centers, and that's inevitable. So, I don't know what Trump's going to do about it, what the next administration is going to do about it, but AI is definitely getting ready to take.
>> By the way, it's not just us. It's also the Philippines, too. Okay. So, I mean, they're not the scammer. I haven't I haven't come across any scammer um Filipinos. Indian scammers are all over the place, but the Filipinos, they do have a lot of positions that are outsourced out there. Like half the time I call um if I ever have to call, I have T-Mobile. If I have to call, it's usually someone from the Philippines, you know? Who have you got as a customer agent? Like what's the nationality that you typically get? The
>> amount of times I I've got scammed by an Indian who's calling you like [laughter] like it is more often than not.
>> Bro, AI it's kind of scary because they you can't even tell that they're scammers anymore because the accent's gone, right? They they sound like a British gentleman like, "Hello, sir. How can I help you? Would you like to pay your taxes and Walmart gift cards?" You know, you're like, "YES, OF COURSE. I TRUST A BRITISH ACCENT. You know, Nigel wouldn't lie to me. I don't trust Nessh, but I trust Nigel. You know,
>> you're good at the accents, dude. I'm really bad at the accents. You're good at it. Here is uh here is Dan Ies on the selloff.
>> Okay.
>> To discuss is Wed Bush's
>> It speaks and you've talked about a lot on the show like worries about circular financing like where this is going to go. Can the data centers going to bu get built? Is there capacity issues? Look, I just continue view when you put the pieces together of the puzzle as well as you know our you know three weeks in Asia. This is third inning top of the third one out of this AI game and that's why I just think name like names like Nvidia days like today you buy names like Oracle, Microsoft Nvidia because I believe this techful market has another two years left. I mean, as a baseball numbers guy, you know, they now we now know sometimes the third inning is your high leverage inning where you got to kind of bring in the the best arms and try to put down a threat. Uh, and I'm wondering right now if if Nvidia's numbers, and I've been kind of puzzling over this all day, as great as they are, and as much confidence as Jensen has about the next four or five quarters, you wonder if everybody can have equal confidence in the customers that are giving him all that money and allowing him to earn those margins on on their spend and when they're going to sort of uh get clarity about the payback. Look, it's a great point, but I would just say look in the US 3% of companies have gone down the AI path. Europe zero. You look at you know in Asia exchina minimal less than 1%. Sovereigns Middle East just starting. I mean my whole point is that you know right now demand of supply is 12 to1 for Nvidia chips and of course AMD and others are going to play. But the reality is that we are still early. I mean you're talking more money is going to be spent in the next two to three years in the last 8 10 years combined. So, I get some of the worries, but I believe the Bears will continue to watch this AI party from the outside looking in as they continue to prove it out. I think streets underestimated numbers anywhere from 15 to 20% right next.
>> But is that not the bold case for Nvidia and the whole food chain for the infrastructure buildout? Can it not also be the bare case for the metas of the world and the Microsofts that feel like they're on this unending treadmill of having to spend hoping that they get the return.
>> Yeah. And I think but I I do think it's a little more than hope because the reality is that the use cases if you almost put the fees together look at Palunteer look at MongoDB look at Snowflake. So you see the use cases are exploding look and it's an arms race that they have to continue to spend on and you're going to see the same in the Oracle. But I think Meta we look out 12 to 18 months. This was a table pounder moment just like we saw with Alphabet as table pounder.
>> Well, I was going to get to Alphabet because that's a really fascinating situation how it's gotten revalued higher. Tremendous amount of sponsorship all of a sudden of this name that people really had a lot of skepticism about not that long ago. Now their new model is getting raves I guess in terms of its performance, the new Gemini. Uh and also they did it you know kind of with their own processor. So how does that play into the whole you know Nvidia at the center of this question?
>> Look Nvidia obviously fueling it centerpiece in terms of one chip in the world but the reality is alphabet you go back six eight months ago New York City cap drivers bearish on it right so it's one AI that is ultimately going to destruct the model the opposite's happened. I mean I think now you see Sundar and what's happened at Google they're on the offensive. I mean, you look at what they've done with Gemini. This is just the start because the reality is in Certino for Apple. Who they going to for AI? It's just a matter of time until they do the Google Gemini deal as well. So, that's why you've seen that stock at continue rerating bullcase $400. You know, my my colleague Scott, Dev, and I, we've done a lot of work. Look, I believe this is one. This is a name you continue to own just still early days.
>> And then,
>> any thoughts on the overall comments by Dan? Chris,
>> I mean, I'm in agreement with Google. I think Google I mean the one good thing about my portfolio right now, it's being held up by Sundar, bro. Thank God for Sundar. [laughter] I mean, it was hard all through this year. Anyone who was in Google, guys, dude, it is it was it was horrible watching the entire market run and people were just like, "Google is shit." And then Brad Girtzner would come out every other week and be like, "Guys, there's no more search mode. No [clears throat] one's going to use Google in like five years, you know." And so I'm like, "Brad, stop. Like you're just being way too way too hard on
>> called them the next eBay." I mean, there was a lot of lot of FUD.
>> Yeah. And it was just like, y'all realize that that Google still has a lot of assets behind. to mention unlike the other companies they don't have to pay the the Nvidia tax as hard you know yeah they probably use uh Nvidia GPUs here and there but they have their own infrastructure that saves them a whole lot in in marginal cost so I think even from a long-term perspective like which one do you want to which of the hyperscalers do you think is going to benefit the most from the current uh current wave of uh AI number one the biggest beneficiary is going to be Google because it controls its TPU ecosystem, right, by itself. Um, it controls all the models by itself. It has the financing that, you know, it doesn't have to rely on debt in order to in order to pay the NVIDIA tax, quote unquote. So, I think Google is fine. Not to mention, they have other drivers of growth like Whimo. I mean, you see how many cities that they've expanded in now, right? They've got partnerships all over the place with advertising with YouTube that's outside of the AI AI craze that like I said that can support their margins. So all of these things lead me to believe Google is going to be fine. I would say number two is Amazon because Amazon is you know it's just on another level in terms of like where they are with uh with their overall cloud exposure like they are entrenched in so many businesses. Um, so a they're going to be fine. Not to mention now they're starting to launch their tranium chips and everything else is going to be there. Then I'd say probably Microsoft and uh Microsoft like I said they're like dominant in enterprise. The only thing is I don't necessarily hear a lot of uh a lot of like AI related products that come out of Microsoft. But that's only because like maybe they don't highlight it nearly as much. And I know that people I know they have co-pilot, but you don't hear like everyone like raving about, oh my god, did you guys hear the next co-pilot is out? You know, like just
>> not there. And uh last but not least, you've got Meta, which technically isn't a hyperscaler. Um but I do think that Meta is going to end up somewhere down the lines as a hyperscaler. I I can't say that they're going to be definitely like an infrastructure play where they're like renting out compute or whatever, but I do think that there are software libraries and everything else like that uh the meta controls that it's going to license and uh I think I think that's the way that they're going to go, you know, and the and like I said, the one thing I never have a doubt about is Zuck being pragmatic enough to make money. This dude, he will fire half the company if he has to to make money for shareholders because he is one of the largest shareholders. I mean, his entire his entire um uh what is that thing called like
>> reputation reputation is one one company,
>> you know? He's not a he's not he doesn't inherit meta. He is meta. So, in terms of like survival potential, bro, he is the only one of the mega caps like outside of Nvidia that is the founder that's still running [ __ ] you know?
>> Yeah. And he also has a a majority of the the voting class shares as well. Okay, let's do this. So, given everything that has happened over the past couple weeks, and obviously opinions can change in the coming weeks, uh five stocks to construct a portfolio for next year, whether you own them or you don't own them. Put it in the chat as well. put your five stocks separated by a comma in one comment. Given where we are today, what five do you think could protect you, grow, beat the S&P in 2026?
>> Um, I'd say Google is definitely one of them. I think Google has a clear path to 5 trillion. Um, I think what we saw the other day is just the start. So, I'd say Google. Now, does that mean that right this second is a greatest entry price for Google? Probably not. Um, but if there is a meaningful pullback, then definitely want to buy Google. You definitely want to have Meta exposure. Um, Meta could take a little bit of a hit, but it's going to do fine. Um,
>> UNH,
>> UNH may not be that great of a investment for 2026 because 2026 might be a transition year for UNH where they're they're knocking off old cobwebs, right? So basically they flushed out a lot of their problems but you know the market it's one of the challenges that you tend to one of the challenges that you tend to run into is that um you know you have this year where you just kind of have to rebuild your existing businesses. Now have they started restarting uh resetting a lot of their pricing pricing on their insurance plans? Yeah, absolutely. But that also means they're probably going to you know lose some uh lose some members here and there. So their total revenue might actually come down slightly, but their margins might recover. So the market might reward them for margin recovery, but might also punish them a little bit for um you know, not as much topline growth. So that's something to just keep an eye on when it comes to UNH. But I would say
>> yeah, so I'd say that
>> I'm actually bullish on Norwegian Cruise Lines, NCL.
>> Okay.
>> Verizon, would you put that up there? uh Verizon will benefit but only under under certain circumstances. The primary circumstance is probably um rate cuts. The challenge with Verizon though, it is a very low beta stock. So if you think that Verizon can go from like $50, I mean $40 to like $60, it ain't happening. The most you'll see is like a maybe a 20%. I I I'd even caution to say 20%. I'd say probably like a 10 to 15% move on Verizon plus another 6% from the dividends that you get. So, I don't know like is this is this supposed to be constructed for total portfolio returns or for
>> if you if you had to pick five stocks to go long next year? That's it. That's it. That's the question.
>> I understand not wanting Verizon because it's not going to be enough growth in the portfolio.
>> I mean, it'll protect you against the downside. Remember, the the portfolio construction isn't just about, hey, what is going to like go up? It's also going to be like what's not going to go down significantly. [laughter]
>> But would you put it in your five if you had to make that choice?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I'd put it in my five. That would be worth you. You got one more. Google, Meta, Norwegian, Verizon.
>> And I'm just going through this exercise just to I don't know. You know, we're at this we're near the end of the year. I know we have a lot more data to come out over the coming weeks, but just to kind of walk through a mental model of how people are thinking of 2026 given everything that's happened.
>> Huh. I mean, it's not as easy to make the same picks you made last year this time for all of us.
>> Yeah. I mean, I'm like I said, I'm still doing my research on what to kind of like pick out next year. And one of the things that I'm really leaning towards is is uh is um mean reversion with a lot of value names that may have may catch a bid now. Uh
>> Amazon.
>> No, no, no, no. Put Novo Nordisk on there for me if I if I had to say.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. I think Novo Novo has the ability to kind of reacelerate its revenue growth if oral comes out. And then also um GLP1s like because like they're getting cheaper. So even though you'll see like compression on margin but the volume of GLP1s may end up you know exploding next year. So that the key is you know if you expand the to total addressable market by significant margin then you're going to see that rise up. Now the challenge with Novo Nordisk is that Eli Liy has a superior product. So, you know what? Take Novo out. Put Eli Liy on there for me. Sorry.
>> I don't hate that. I do not hate that at all.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um, all right, guys. We're going to end it out in about 20 minutes, but uh, here's Jensen. Brand new interview just now. Came out 20 minutes ago. Let's take a look at what he has to say. This is after his stock got cut by 5% after going up 7%. So, we'll get his thoughts and we'll keep going from there. And so so u I I don't know exactly which one but one of the things that that is really great about Nvidia's architecture is that we're so diversified. You know we run all AI is not just one thing. It's not just one language model or one chatbot. AI is a system of models and you could use it for of course chat bots, but you could also use it for physics and biology and chemistry and of course robotics and self-driving cars and and even within language models. There's so many different architectures. NVIDIA's architecture is the only one in the world that runs literally everything. And yesterday we announced a big partnership with Anthropic. And now we're the only architecture in the world that runs every single premier AI model as well as every single open- source model and of course every single version modality of model. And so our versatility makes it possible for us to have a lot of different customers and for all of those customers we can bring them a lot of other customers that ultimately use their cloud capabilities. Yeah, it feels like all roads are leading to Nvidia. How are orders for your next generation ship, the Reuben trending? And are you still on track to ship them at the end of 2026?
>> Well, I announced at GTC that starting this year because we started shipping uh Blackwells over the course of this year through the end of next year, we have visibility of half a trillion dollars worth of Blackwell and Vera Rubin. And we'll start shipping Vera Rubin in Q3 time frame of next year. The silicon is back. It is working wonderfully. People engineers across Nvidia are bringing up this system. It's doing it beautifully and uh we're on track to for volume production in the Q3 time frame of next year. In the meantime, uh I announced that we have half a trillion dollars worth of visibility, but in the last 30 days, we announced some major new wins that were not included in that half a trillion dollars. So, we have we're adding, of course, the anthropic opportunity. We're adding uh Elon's XAI now being uh deployed in Saudi Arabia. We announced a partnership with Humane and that those GPUs have been licensed and they're going to be deploying in in Saudi Arabia. And we also announced that AWS is going to also build 150,000 GPU AI infrastructure in Saudi Arabia. All of those are all net new and so orders are still coming in and so it's going to be a pretty pretty busy year for us the next uh next year.
>> It sounds like then the current quarter is going to be crazy good. Can can I say that? What do you think?
>> Well, we guided to a much larger quarter next quarter and so next the guidance that we provided is crazy good. I would agree with that and u but you know we're in
>> pretty much Jensen saying the same stuff he said yesterday. Chris, do you kind of think like Jensen did his job and you can't really blame him for this type of a sell-off?
>> Yeah, I mean I don't I can't blame Jensen. The challenge that Jensen is running into is that he a lot of people think that he's trying to engineer um like these sales of Nvidia chips, right? Which technically that's his job as CEO, right? But I think a lot of companies they see what the possibilities of AI are, but they don't have the capital to build it, right? So Jensen is saying look I don't mind financing your early early investments right and the thing is if you think about it from an Nvidia shareholder perspective I mean what's his name Jensen is basically seeding the next generation of AI companies. So even if let's say nine out of 10 of them go completely to [ __ ] they don't never work out whatever and Nvidia loses all of their money investing in their equity. Even if one of them becomes the next Google, who gives a crap, right? Like the challenge that Nvidia is going to have in my opinion in the long run is always going to be tied to the cyclical nature of their industry. There are points where semiconductors are super hot and then there are points where semiconductors just aren't needed as much. Then there's all the issues around um capacity around electricity that they that um that in Nvidia is inevit inevitably going to run into as much as the next generation of chips are really good if there's no electricity to provide that grid hookup then what the hell is the point right so there are challenges when it comes to the AI AI infrastructure side where I think it's something that's out of his control you know unless like in unless Jen son's like, "You know what? Let me I mean, he can't even do that. He can't even go out there and be like, "Let me buy a power plant company and start building power plants." Now,
>> the time to really started to build out these power plants before the AI wave gotten charged was five years ago,
>> you know. So, right now, I think we're hitting the upper limits of what's possible with the um the current electric current grid that we have. And I think it's this is not a bottleneck of need in my opinion. I think it's a bottleneck of capacity from the from something that Nvidia is doesn't control. And I think that's one of the reasons why you're seeing just so why everyone is so euphoric on these AI data centers um that were formerly Bitcoin companies like the two that I think are going to benefit significantly and they were up today. I don't know if they they got rerated down.
>> All of them got hit bad.
>> Uh they were up like almost 20% most of them in the morning. So, one of the two that I would say are probably the most interesting to me outside of Irene and Nebius because I think Nebius and I they're I mean not necessarily IN as much but Nebius is like trying to become their hyperscaler themselves also but Terowolf and uh Cipher have some major contracts with uh Google and they also have uh contracts already with
>> Yeah. with I mean they have contracts not see the thing is everyone is focused on the hyperscalers that they have partnership with look at their partnerships with the electricity companies because they have the hookups already so they have the infrastructure already which makes them more valuable you know like right now if Google goes out there and says I want to build a hypers I want to build a data center in this location the first thing you run into is okay where's the electricity going to come from you know
>> that's why the US government gave a billion dollar loan to CEG two years ago as well, right?
>> Yeah. So, I think the electricity bottleneck is the one that is going to be slowing down growth in the sector, not necessarily demand. So, do I think that we get a period of digestion? Probably, you know, doesn't mean that it's like, oh my god, the AI trade is dead. That's why I'm saying like next year if if a lot of these companies get rerated lower, it's not a bad time to buy, you know?
>> All right, two more questions for you, Chris, and then I'll probably stay on a little bit after. and uh then we'll be done for the day. The the the first question is um
>> and I I see a lot of people asking about this in the chat. I I can't give anyone an answer because I honestly have not looked into it, but there's a lot of posts on X going viral about Nvidia's accounts receivables, unpaid bills, inventory. I don't know how much you looked into it, but do you think these are solid concerns, people now questioning their accounting practices, or do you think this is nonsense? No, I think they look whenever you have these massive buildouts, okay, and like massive amounts of demand, the first thing you have to do as as someone who's a supplier is what? You have to expand your your your existing supply, right? That means that yes, your channel is going to be stuff because there's just so much demand. So, you're asking for more upfront because you know that when these chips are coming out, people are already going to be buying them up. So, it's kind of like Christmas, right? Oh my god. EVERYONE BOUGHT ALL THIS STOCK IN OCTOBER. YEAH, BUT THEY bought it for Christmas because they know Christmas shopping season is around the corner. You can't order all this [ __ ] December 1st and expect that it'll be on the shelves to be sold, right? So all the people looking at this, they're they don't understand the basic concept of of inventory management. If you see demand coming for December, like let's say right now you're planning just just indulge me. You're planning for Christmas sales. Christmas is your busiest time. When do you start ordering and putting stuff in the warehouse? Do you do it on December 1st or do you do it in October?
>> So all this demand,
>> all this demand Nvidia can already see coming in for their next generation stuff. What do you think that they're going to do? They're going to order a lot of it right now so that when the time comes, they'll be ready to go. Do you know who didn't do that? Who got screwed over by that? Novo Nordisk
>> Novo Nordisk did not anticipate the amount of demand that they would get for the GLP ones, right? What happened? They didn't have enough supply chain. Then the the the compounders got involved because there was a shortage. You know what Novo Nordis did now? The oral pill hasn't even been approved yet by the FDA. They're already starting to print that print those out there right now. They're literally building them out. The fararmacies are already like printing those pills out waiting for that approval to come in. because they're like, "No, we're not going to get caught like uh in the same same uh same problem."
>> So, I think people are trying to smart going through the 10K and the 8K to be like, "Look,
>> everyone is so everyone is looking for a reason to sell." That's in my opinion, so many of the arguments that people are making right now are based on trying to find that smoking gun.
>> Yeah. to be honest with you, I'm trying to find the smoking gun. And I I can see some things here and there, but I wouldn't necessarily say like, "Oh my god, this is like the end of Nvidia." Like Nvidia is a fraud. Like some people are really going hard and trying to call out like this thing. Yet, bro, I'm using their products every day, you know? I'm literally going into these different LLMs at work. Do you know like the last four days what I've been doing overnight? I've been upgrading client ser like application servers because we're loading in all these additional AI um AI uh programs that we're using in in my hospital. You know how boring that [ __ ] is? But at the same time clients I mean what do you call doctors are asking for doctors are saying I need this I need that I need this. this, you know, all the vendors are going to the doctors and saying, "I have this AI product that this guy, it's gonna save me x amount of time. It's going to make me a more efficient radiologist." We're paying these guys like hundreds hundreds of dollars an hour, right? If it makes them 10% more efficient, bro, it saves us millions at the back end. So, we're all about, hey, listen, whatever tool we can provide you guys that makes your life easier and more productive, we are willing to make that commitment and spend that money. Now, that's reoccurring revenue for the company that's all built on this AI environment that all goes back to AWS. Like the program that I'm uh I I can't really talk about it too much, but basically all of this stuff runs on AWS. So, all the money is out there. Now, some people are saying, you know, they're using really dumb metrics. I I and I don't want to call call it out, but they're saying, "Well, $20 a month, you would need like half the planet to be subscribed to to make money." And I'm like, "Look, that's not where these guys are going to make their money." Okay? AWS is not relying on Prime member. Like, Amazon does not rely on Prime memberships for their profit, dude. Does it help? Yeah. But do you know where Amazon makes their money? On enterprises. That's where enterprise like the margin of the highest. So, I think this notion that people are trying to do like, oh, you need like half the population of the planet to sign up for Chia GPT for Chad GB to make money. I'm like, bro, good luck with that thesis because everyone who's using an API right now, they're all linking to Gemini. They're all linking to AWS. They're all linking to ChatgPT and OpenAI and everything else, man. So, yeah,
>> that's a fair point. I ran, by the way, guys.
>> Chris does not work for WellStar. Chris, that's the wife. My wife used to work for WealthStar. So, she got actually a new job. He works in Cobb County. I don't work in Cobb County. Huh. I'm glad people don't know.
>> Iran down 5%. Not sure why that Nebus and Cory are not down. So, there has to be some news on Iran, but that one specifically is getting hit after hours.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, all right, Chris. So, so last question for you is, uh, emotionally, do you have any advice? You are a bit older. You've been through these cycles for people trying to navigate a draw down like this.
>> Peter Lynch, use the Peter Lynch model. Find the companies, the stocks, whatever that you know five years from now you're going to be using. So if you think that you know what, you're invested in a stock that you're not going to be using in five years or it's not going to do well in five years regardless of what other financials are, then don't be in it. You know, if you think that you're smarter than the market, you think that you can get in at the bottom and get out at the top, good luck. That doesn't very work out very well, you know. So, I would say expand your investment horizon to five years from now. Go from there, you know, and and don't think about, okay, what's overvalued today, what's overvalued tomorrow, like think about five years from now. That's it. Essentially your advice is it is really easy to handle a draw down if you have very strong conviction on the names you hold and if you truly believe in them aka you use their products or you you know just feel very passionately about their products like it's hard to get that afraid when they go in fact you get more excited when they go down right
>> yeah you get you get you sometimes the market overcorrects like like I said you remember Meta Meta had no business going into the 8090 range in 2022, but we got there, you know, and that's the thing, like you could cry about it and be like, "Oh my god, no." Like, "I've lost all this money." And I'm like, "Bro, it's to real investors that was just like, oh man, that's an opportunity to add more, you know, as long
>> So, when what is when is when do you've been trying to get hood for a long time? Is there a price you're looking for? 75, 80. Is there something that gets you interested?"
>> Uh, it's getting there. [laughter] I'm not gonna lie. It's getting there. It's getting there. Um, I've run out of capital to be honest with you.
>> That's fair. That's a fair point.
>> You know, that's the honest truth. I just don't have like I I have to right now pay taxes and my taxes are going to be gigantic. And now I'm looking at losses on top of my tax and it's like
>> I I had all this money that I was like, "Okay, this money is only for tax." And I had put it to the side and then I got greedy because it's really hard to keep money out of the market. And I was like, "Ah, let me put some of it in there." and I'm down a bit on some of the positions, so I'm like, "Ah, whatever. It's f it'll be fine." So, um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right, Chris, thank you so much. I think people really, really appreciated having some of your insight on a day.
>> Guys, listen. Guys, listen. The market is going to be the market, okay? Long term, everything is fine. If you can you pull up the S&P 500 like and do like a 15-year chart for me?
>> I mean, we could definitely Yeah, we could definitely go max and just see what it looks like here.
>> Okay. Do you see those small blips down? Do you see how short they are?
>> Yeah.
>> Look at that. Some of them are literally like months, like maybe six months apart. Okay. Unless there's a giant credit crunch and a credit cycle, you don't have to worry about a long period of uh of um of what is it called? Like a a long period of a draw down. Okay. So, if you're telling me right now that this is the the same as the year 2000, it's not. Like you're the year 2000 is more reminiscent to me of 2021 than it is what it is today.
>> Yes.
>> Okay, y'all. If you if you remember and you were around for 2121 so you'll know we had we had Energy Volk company that was moving blocks you know generating electricity. You had uh the amount of [ __ ] companies that were out there. You had valuations like $10 billion on a bird scooter. You remember that [ __ ]
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. So that's more reminiscent of what we saw in 2000. So 2000 like the.com bubble was literally like very similar to the spack bubble where you had these valuations on companies that were not profitable. What we're seeing right now is you're seeing profitable companies getting value like high valuations. To me that means could there be a correction of about 10 20%. Sure maybe. But at the same time, you when you when you consider that these businesses are growing 10 15% per year anyway, that correction ends up getting rerated in about six months, maybe a year,
>> right?
>> You know, oh my god, Google is down 20%. It grows 20%, it's earnings 20% per year anyway. So whatever it moves down, it just means that the share buybacks will probably end up eating that that draw down alive and just create creating a a higher path moving forward, you know, not to mention the entire planet right now is investing in this market. Like tell me right now if there's anywhere else on the planet that you would allocate capital towards. Dude, it's hard just to be able to understand the US markets. I can't even imagine trying to understand the Japanese markets or the Indian markets or the South Korean markets. How would I
>> The Europeans are taxing themselves to death. The Japanese, they've gone off the rails with their they've gone off the rails with the printer, right? And basically they're they're dealing with inflation finally after like
>> I think like 30 years of of of their issues. The Chinese are hitting deflation like there's no tomorrow. Their growth rate is absolutely slowing down. There's a possibility in India to be in some Indian markets, but to me they're still probably in like the most early part of the of the of the what is that thing called the the the cycle that there are pro probabilities that you could make some money on Indian stocks but the thing is like they don't necessarily have a presence outside of India. So it's really hard to analyze a company that's in India for the f future growth. And not to mention India is always mired in politics, you know, where and I'm talking about like this isn't like oh Republicans get in charge and Democrats like go after them. I'm talking about in India politics are like on another level, bro. You know, so there's just not a lot of places where you can park your money um outside of the US. So I think naturally a lot of capital just flows back into the US anyway. I mean, for God's sakes, look at the White House yesterday. We had the crowns prince of Saudi Arabia. The guy that literally is sitting on a printer like ATM and what is he doing? He's smoozing around with the CEOs of the largest companies in the US. You really want to bet against America, you know? I wouldn't.
>> It's a hell of a point.
>> It's a hell of a point. And at the end of the day, there are no there is not a single country in the world besides the US that has the tech companies that we have that are so international in their business. Like you can't go to Europe and find an Amazon. It's not easy to do that.
>> So then eventually an oversold company like Google was will get the capital if they can put up the earnings. And we know given the size and scale and magnitude of a business model like Amazon, Meta, Google, Microsoft, they will put up the earnings which means the capital will find them.
>> Can can you do me a favor? Can you put up that video of like AOC criticizing the AI bubble thing? I think I think that's one of the biggest problems that I see in the current market where I think some young people are so like if you're if they're not invested in the stock market, they're sort of getting disillusioned with how the economy actually works here in the US. You know, we're we are a bunch of goddamn risktakers. We are pioneers. We will put our capital where you know where the ideas are and we will risk things but at the same time that is exactly why we are always perpetually growing. Now look at what this idiot has to say
>> today about the deadly consequences of some of these AI chat bots are pretty extreme and horrifying. [clears throat] We're talking about suicidality. we are talking about um people entering AI psychosis in some circumstances and I think it's important for us to take a step back as to why and what is driving the openness to these models allowing this to occur in the first place. Um and I want to also shed light on what that means about an economic story about AI in addition to a psychological story about it. Um Dr. King have can I just pause that for a second companies change or evolve?
>> Listening to her makes me want to kill myself.
>> [laughter]
>> Literally the stupidity that she comes out with sometimes makes me want to kill myself. Does that mean that AOC should should be her freedom of speech should be taken away because I get suicidal listening to this idiot? No. That's how personal responsibility works. Continue AIT. Sorry.
>> Their privacy policies or other kinds of policies as they seek greater profitability models.
>> Certainly we've seen them change their privacy policies as they rolled out AI products.
>> Yes. And and I imagine some some of this has to do with their business model. Correct. Uh yes. And I think this when we talk about why AI models are going to such extremes and some of the extreme outcomes that we are seeing in terms of how people are using AI in terms of emotional companionship to again uh extreme cases of suicidality or psychosis. This also I think tracks with the pressure that these companies have to turn a profit that they have not yet proven. Just this morning, uh, the Wall Street Journal reported a significant drop in the US stock market with the headline AI bubble fears hit stocks. Now, this also contrasts with what we've been hearing from the Trump administration that the economy in general is thriving. And he's been saying that the economy is booming, but it's only seven tech companies that are booming. Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and Meta. And they're driving this growth in just one sector, AI. So the entire US economy growth can be tracked down to seven companies and their AI growth specifically. At least 40% of economic growth this year is attributed to these companies alone. And 80% of stock gains this year came from AI companies. But people are justifying these levels of investment because of the promises that the CEOs make that there will be a return on that investment. So for a company like Open AI, their value is based on the expectation that they're going to figure out how to make a profit out of it and they haven't. And so generating this increased human dependency that can be mined because it's not subject to HIPPA. Is that correct, Dr. King?
>> Right. It's not subject
>> it's not subject to HIPPA. So people's deepest fears, secrets, emotional content, relationships can all be mined for this empty promise that we're getting from these companies to turn a profit. Can you can you pause for
>> And the reason I bring all of
>> she's she speaks all this garbage while look at her hand. What's on there on her index finger?
>> It's an aura ring.
>> It's an aura ring. The one that tracks your you know your health monitoring. [laughter]
>> Like come on. you don't see the you you're worried about people talking to to you know getting getting your data over to these big companies while you're wearing a ring that does exactly that. I mean,
>> yeah. And not to mention, if these seven companies didn't exist, I mean, you can paint an ugly picture, but the picture of them not existing, I think, is much uglier.
>> Yeah.
>> This up is because the exposure of this industry and this investment, I fear, has reached broad levels potentially of the American economy. When we're talking about 40% of stock growth in the United States being attributed to these companies and the AI sector alone, and that sector has not turned to profit, we're talking about a massive economic bubble. And we've seen the depending on the exposure of that bubble, we could see 2008 style threats to economic stability. Um, and that pressure is reflected on the extreme lengths that these companies are going to to allow unethical human interactions with these chat bots. Um, like what is that? I don't understand that. Like, so what do you unethical interactions with chat bots?
>> Yeah. I I think I think she's critiquing the investment in data centers for things that to her are invaluable. Aka like, you know, Sam Alman says you can have an AI girlfriend, all that type of stuff. But it so misses the point. It's so because as you said, you're implementing AI workloads in your hospital. I mean, that's stuff that could technically save lives if it makes the hospital
>> It is already saving lives. our our time to like our stroke times are down almost like 40 50%. Literally, it's it's one of the greatest things that ever happened. But whatever. Sorry.
>> Very myopic view that she has. And I think that's also a fear, dude. Me and Steve have been talking about this. There will be a politician that comes to power just by saying I mean Roana suggested it this week that we should have legislation that stops AI from taking your job. And so you're going to have a variety of responses.
>> Yeah, I agree with that. I think that there's definitely to there definitely needs to be some protection for workers from being completely uh replaced with like AI bots and all that stuff. But I mean to to what I hate about what she said is basically oh 40% of the the stock the gains this year in the market have basically been attributed to these companies and they're not turning a profit. I'm like spoken like someone who's never ever opened a business herself.
>> Yeah,
>> dude. If you've ever like anyone here in the chat, you guys know when you open a business, whether it's a lemonade stand or it's a gas station, any business, if you think that you're going to be instantly profitable the day you open, good luck. That is not how business works, especially when you're doing it from the ground up with a brand new industry. Do you think do you think that
>> she is trying to find an argument to convince the American people that we should tax the Mag 7 a lot like inhabit a specific AI tax? Do you think that's the angle?
>> I think she just sees a whole bunch of these guys with Trump and is like, "Okay, how do I attack these guys?" You know, basically
>> Jimmy up fear and this is the one thing that I post posted on Twitter yesterday. I said, "Look, I like the fact that the Trump administration is very aligned with the tech sector, but I think the challenge that you run into is that it's still bad optics because these people are billionaires, right?" So, when you have people hurting um you know, in their personal lives, they don't care what the stock price of Nvidia is.
>> You know, if you're someone struggling because you lost your job, you know, you can say like, "Oh, good look, the economy is doing good. Look at the stock market." And you know, it's what's to someone who has money in the stock market, you might, you know, be like, "Yeah, I'm on line with you." But the vast majority of people, especially at the bottom half of the spectrum, you know, the income and wealth spectrum, bro, they don't have that excess liquidity to buy stocks. They don't have that asset. They're living paycheck to paycheck, you know? So, if you told someone at that level like, "Hey, Nvidia just did 20% this year." It really doesn't mean anything to them. Well, let me ask you this question because I've been hearing some people struggle with this uh mental model as well. Uh, oh, I should have sold in October. How would you advise someone who's going through that mentality of looking at their portfolio, seeing the top of it, being like, man, I should have sold. I should have sold in March. I should have sold, you know, February of 20200. I should have sold February of 2020. I mean, markets go up over a long period of time. So if you got caught up in the in the the downward move just unless and this is where you really have to take your own personal um personal life into consideration. I mean if you get to the age where you're 50 years old you should be in mostly risk off stuff. You know the challenge is when people are like in their 50s and 60s and they're like yeah I still want to get that double digit equity like return. That's when problems start. Time is the most valuable thing an investor has because you can wait out the storm. The challenge is when you're old, the one thing you don't have is time, right? So that's where I would say this is where everyone here in the chat, you have to be very responsible what you're going to be um doing in your in your personal life. So if you're in your 50s and 60s, you shouldn't have been in this market so hard anyway. You know, you should have been a lot more like, you know, you want to do that 8020 portfolio. If you're in your 60s, you kind of want to dial it back down. If you're young, um it for you, bro, you should be like 80 90% equities most of the time. Now, there are periods of time where valuations if they get really high up there, that may not be an bad idea to, you know, to to be a little bit more defensive, right? But that's because like you're an active participant in the market. If you're one of those handsoff people, then just chill. Robin Hood should take away the sell button. You know what? I I had to just uh stop the That's what I did today. I stopped the notifications from Robin Hood. I was like, "Bro, you don't need to keep reminding me that crypto's down 5%, crypto's down 10%, crypto's down like stop. Just you don't need to do that."
>> Yeah. I woke up and it was everything's up 5% in the middle of the day. It's just But no, look, I agree and and regardless of age, I think everyone has to have their own person. I mean, if you have kids, you don't have kids. There's so many nuances to it. I think generally if you look back to October and be like man I should have sold like this is why the markets are tough because yeah of course right like as you said in March before the liberation day but this is also what makes a career as an investor of how do you stomach these situations? How do you navigate these situations? How are how do you act as a person during these situations? You know are are you going to be a dick? Are you going to be pissed off? Are you going to be mad at your significant other because your portfolios? Are you going to let that enter into your personal life or are you going to be a responsible adult, realize, yeah, I should have sold, I didn't. It is what it is. I have conviction in these companies. I'm going to ride it out and not let that affect the other parts of your lives. Because if if the market ends up affecting your personal relationships, your per like if you can't enjoy, I know I joke about enjoying Thanksgiving, but if you can't enjoy a meal with family because you're down on the portfolio, it's something that everyone has to mature and be able to navigate over time.
>> Yeah. I mean, and not to mention the the more draw downs you see in your life, the easier it is to swallow them. So, it's okay. Like, for someone who if you're in your 18, 19, 20, like let's say early 20s and you're seeing your portfolio draw down 20%. Bro, you're going to see that way more often than you think. The question is, do you have enough balls to hold through those door uh those 20% draw downs? Because at the end of the tunnel is usually a 40 50% rise, right? Just like I said, look at look at what happened with Liberation Day. If you sold out in April and said, "I'm going away," you missed a 40% runup, you know. So, I think it's a very similar thing. I think I think we're getting to the point where things are we are eventually going to get to capitulation zone. I can't say for certain when that's going to actually happen, but I do feel like we're getting somewhat close. you know, do I think that this AI bubble narrative is is gonna bring the market to its knees like it did in the year 2000? No, probably not. Um, I think people who are investing in a lot of these companies, they'll be fine. I think there's there's could be some choppiness uh throughout the rest of this year. Um, but yeah, I mean, not to mention, guys, you're literally you're probably we're probably gonna get the most dovish [laughter] dovish chairs ever, dude. I'm talking about you're probably gonna see this.
>> No, this is going to be our next Fed, bro. This is going to be the next Fed chair.
>> Is it the ponytail, dude?
>> No, no, no. This is literally going to be the next chair.
>> Zavros dove that. That is We're 100 basis points down. day one like
>> it's going to be like we're too tight, you know? [laughter] We're too tight,
>> dude. If we can look, if the markets suck for the next six months, if we can just stay solvent and survive, we know those rate cuts are coming. When they come, you would imagine the market's going to get ready,
>> bro. Stephen Moran came in the first meeting. He everyone's like, "Hey, should we cut 25? Should we cut, you know, keep it the same?" He's like, "No, we're going to lower 50." I [laughter] was like, "Bro, what the hell?" It's like, "Bro, this is your first meeting and you're already like, yo, go 50." You know, this guy doesn't even stop. It'll be curious to see what he does. Um, again, you'll probably like, you'll probably see the the the breakdown be like steady, steady, 25% rate cut, 100% rate cut, and you're like, you won't even like they do it anonymously, but you know exactly where Stephen Moran is. [laughter] He's the one that's always like cut cut hard, you know.
>> Negative rates.
>> Negative rates. [ __ ] We'll start paying you. Go ahead. Go borrow that money.
>> Oh my gosh.
>> All right, brother. Well, you have a good one, man. Good time.
>> Chris, I appreciate you. Chris's Twitter. At the end of the day, all you got is community, right? All you got. So, appreciate you, man. Thanks for
>> hold on to each other. If you ever if you need to borrow money, remember did really well on Robin Hood, so just call him. All right.
>> Later, guys. Have a good one. Bye.
>> Later.
>> Oh, boy. [sighs] What a day, bro. What a freaking day. A week before Thanksgiving. Literally a week before Thanksgiving. Bitcoin trying to get a little bit of movement. Everything else though, Bitcoin is the only thing that's kind of holding on after hours. Everything else, Nebius 80 bucks. Hoodie 103, Nvidia 178, Google 287, S&P down another 0.1, Grabs down another 1.2%. Why not? PayPal down even more. Of course, it's not like PayPal can get any lower. Nope, it can. Walmart's down a little bit. Amazon's down. Microsoft, I mean, just the after hours, it's almost like these ALOS or whoever's selling or buying, they don't care. they would like to continue de-risking, deleveraging, and you're seeing that pain after hours. But that that's also at some point you sit down and and you just look at your portfolio and you laugh, right? You laugh because you're like, "Wow, if if this is that is if it's going to be this dramatic of a sell-off to the point where even after hours you're not getting any relief when there's no volume, then okay, I guess this is what the market's trying to do." the the number one point that Chris made I think was at the end which is that um these are the only markets that are investable. I mean like yes there's other markets that will attract capital but the United States when we're talking about growth technology actual returns like these are the stocks that are going to attract capital and if they get to really really disgusting multiples like if SoFi gets below 20 or something like like capital will find these names because they will continue to grow unless we get into a recession which yeah that's possible and maybe there's some dynamics of how the Fed is thinking of rate cuts and the labor market etc. But absent that, these companies are going to grow and their valuations are going to get cheaper if they grow, which means they're going to become much more attractive. So, it's ugly, dude. It is absolutely ugly, but we all have to navigate it right here. Razar, thank you for the super chat. Q3 2025, 82% of S&P 500 companies that have reported results beat analyst earnings estimates. Yeah, about 80% of them beat by an average of almost 9 to 10%. So, I mean the earnings are not the mistake. I mean, look, here's the other thing that you know this question of just like, hey, I should have sold um I should have sold in October, right? Like in October, remember what was happening? Companies were beating. Jensen was at GTC describing a a half a trillion dollar opportunity. Um the government was shut down, right? So if you if you thought, "Oh, I should have sold because I should have seen the labor market like destroying," it's like, "Well, you don't have the data." So you got to give yourself a little bit of grace right there because the government entirely was shut down. Um, and the equity markets were being incredibly resilient. By the way, in October, we had a draw down. We had a $20 billion crypto liquidation that ended up being a buy the dip. So once again, uh, the markets conditioned people, especially retail, to believe that buying the dip gets rewarded. And it's really tough if you've been buying the dip all year. I mean, it's just human nature, right? Whether it's right or wrong, it's it's been seen as right over the past four to five major dips we've had over the past year and a half. You have been rewarded. Yen carry trade, liberation day, October 10th, there's a dip, you buy, you get rewarded. It's really tough to look back on yourself and say, "Oh man, I should have seen it coming in October." Because the next time we get to a local top, you're probably not going to see it again either. I mean, maybe you do, but most people don't. Not even the Bill Amans of the world or the Buffets of the world. So, I mean, from that perspective, it's like I don't think you can beat yourself up too much over not selling at the highest, but it's also a question of do you believe the Now, if you're in some random nuclear quantum thing that you don't think is ever coming back, that's a lot tougher to hold than a Robin Hood or a pounder or a Mardo Libre or something, right? Like, if if you really don't think this stock is, if you don't think Oak is ever getting back to 195, then it's like that's a different question. But if you think Amazon will eventually be back to 245 if you bought it after earnings and you know right now it's at 219. It's much easier to hold. Much much much easier to hold. Yeah. And you know we talked about it in the morning as well. We talked about it in the morning. I mean you had exit liquidity in the morning if you really felt that you know you're starting to get nervous about the markets trimming a little bit on uh on days like today in the morning. I I did, you know, when I said that, I didn't actually think we would get the worst reversal we've seen in over a year. It's kind of just a gut feeling of like, all right, market's giving people an opportunity for people that really do want to get the hell out because they're just feeling nervous. But again, it was so green, like so green. It was It's hard to even take that seriously because you're like, "No, Nvidia crushed earnings. We are back to doing what we have to do." And then the Fed started talking. And as a result of the Fed started talking or as a result of that Fed speak, you know, you had this lack of a rate cut narrative and then we end up getting hit more or there's more than that. I'm blaming it on the Fed not cutting rates, but I in my gut I think there's something else going on. I don't know what it is. No, I didn't I did not buy anything today for those asking. I did not buy the dip. I just saw my portfolio. I mean, this was not a day every I said this on Tanner stream. It's like in the chat. I was just like everything feels like a falling knife. everything. And I'm not the biggest TA expert, but I mean, based on the after hours action, everything was a falling knife today. So, just looking at these charts from the little TA I have, I was just like, no, this doesn't look like it's rebounding. Doesn't look like there's any bounce here. It just looks like it keeps going down. It kept going down. And I really didn't expect that. I thought I would regret not buying today, but no. I bought on Monday, and today just continued getting hit. So, it's ugly. Bitcoin's just playing with my heart right now. Yeah, Bitcoin's actually making a little bit of a move here. 88. Everything else is getting hit. It's a very I was talking to my cousin. She has a a relatively smaller portfolio, but you know, she's been getting hit as well. And she's coming over for Thanksgiving next week. And I was saying, dude, we were we were going to celebrate Thanksgiving, have some fun. Now we can we can eat some food and cry together. We can do that together. So, but no, she this is this is uh this is one of the first times she's seen also like a really big I mean she saw April Liberation Day, but she wasn't as invested. Today was like a ugly day for her as well. So, it's across the board. Across the board it has been it has been really, you know, taking a toll on people. But again, I also agree with Chris, which is like it just feels more like we're near some level of capitulation. Now, maybe we're not. Maybe Nvidia needs to go back to 110, maybe. But it also feels ugly to imagine that's the case. The other thing that's really ugly here is the derivative play. So, like a micro strategy. Again, I think the argument that Tom Lee made about, hey, uh, MSTR is going to be the core argument that is shorted or the core stock that is shorted in order to feel like in order to feed liquidity concerns for these hedge funds that are market making because they're down on their crypto and they're having some systemic glitch that they need to get out of. I mean, obviously that is something that we have to keep an eye on. But the fact that he's saying that stocks and their option chains are being used as a mechanism
>> [laughter]
>> to be able to cover the shorts that these hedge funds need to engage in. It's disgusting. Yeah, Hood down 10% today. I mean, down $13 when you look at the after hours gain, after hours loss, and today. How much are you down over the past couple weeks? It's about half a mill on my portfolio. It's about half a million across the portfolio, which is ugly. It's obviously very ugly. I mean, I think I told you guys like last week on Thursday it was down 184 that day and then we recovered. No, it's probably Tuesday and then Wednesday got hit, then Thursday went up. Then Friday got hit, but then Friday it reversed and it was almost break even. And then Monday got hit, Tuesday a little recovery and then obviously Wednesday got destroyed after hours recovery and then today nuked again. So, you know, for some of you guys it might be much more than half a million. For those working with a lot more money, for some of you guys it might be 20,000 and that might be a ton of money. But I think for all of us it is I mean it's unless you sold at the top which I did not or you uh um are not in anything high beta, which there's no way you know anyone would have the types of returns that we had this year if you were not in something high beta. whether it's 500,000 or 50,000 or the proportional level compared to the to the type of risk you're taking has to be aggressive. I mean the S&P down 4% obviously the high beta names even the AMD when AMD is not the most high beta in the world right like AMD is not as high beta as Oakllo but AMD was just people are buying it at 265 AMD is at 203 right now so let's say you bought it at 235 instead of 265 because you thought that was a dip from 265 I mean you're down another 30 bucks that's ugly right so it's like if you're in anything that gave you the growth that gave you the up half a million in like two months Well, that'll give you the down half a million just as quick, if not quicker. So, I think the broader question here is like where does this go? And again, look at it. You know, it is it's I I recognize it's even a privilege to be like, "Oh, you're down half a million, right?" Like, it's just like because at the end of the day, that's paper money. That's money that was potentially profit, but it's not. that's not like an actual $500,000 that you're losing uh out of your personal cash because technically that's part of the gains that you had for the year. So, it's like it's it's disgusting. But going back to what Chris said, it can also come back. Now, maybe it doesn't come back overnight. We are more used to this stuff coming back very quickly, sometimes intraday, given all the Vshapes that we've seen throughout the past year. But it's in the companies that I believe in. It's in the Nvidas of the world, the hoods of the world, the pounders of the world, the Amazons of the world, the meds of the world. Like when you're when you're in those types of names. I mean, I think the two most speculative names in my portfolio are Grab, BMR, and Nebius, which maybe all three of those go to zero. I don't think that's the case, but like the far majority of the portfolio is in the stuff that I believe 10 years from now I'll be happy that I held on to these stocks. And I think that's the only thing you can you can hang your hat on when [ __ ] like this happens. But nonetheless, it is ugly. What about Oracle? I mean, Oracle, I don't know if anyone can touch Oracle right now. Like their credit default swaps are Look, if Oracle gets to a certain price level, I think it gets attractive. But like the reason this one's been getting hit is because this is the poster child for debtfueled um what do you call it? debtfueled growth. And so like this I I just narrative-wise I would not be of that one. BMR does have earnings tomorrow morning. I don't know if we're going to get anything new from them. But I mean even even Paler dude like again Paler and Hood I've been buying from the single digits for a long time. So a day like today where Pounder falls what like 14 bucks, Hood falls 15 bucks, those are huge draw downs on my personal portfolio just because those have been the cornerstones of my portfolio for a long time. And so but but also they've also created the majority of the gains that I've had for a long time. So it's like you got to be able to navigate and uh mentally handle those type of draw downs if you are deep into those names. Nvidia has actually been holding up the best to be honest. I mean, Nvidia, I know it's at 180, but like, you would think with an epic collapse, Nvidia's going to 150. And like, it's not there yet. Maybe that ends up happening. I I do think Nvidia will get stupid cheap anywhere near. I mean, Steve ran through the numbers this morning. Like, I I don't think we are all crazy, guys, when we look at Nvidia's multiple and say, "Oh, analysts expect 870 of EPS in 2027, trades at 21 times earnings. Oh my goodness, that's expensive." Like none of us are like it's not like we are not a YouTube channel from 2021 that was trying to justify continuing to buy the dip on GameStop. Like that's not the community that we built. Got a lot of smart people in this community. Matt Money, Chris, Steve, Douggee, all these people that come on to the show look at the actual numbers are not just trading based off vibes. You know, we're not this is not like AMC the apes. It's like no, they're like we're looking at earnings estimates and be like this is not expensive. This is this is not some scary thing where it's like the end of the world. Unless the whole AI thing is fake. It's like, okay, maybe that is. None of us know. But from the best of our ability, we're trying to figure we're trying to rationalize that that is not true. Yes, Matt is full porn GameStop. So, no, but I saw some dude, the thing about the thing about starting a channel in a super bold market is that it's it's temporary, right? I saw a lot of these channels in 2021 that started on the the COVID pandemic run and they're all like almost all of them are gone. There's like three or four left. The majority of them that tried to make a name for themselves during that time, they did not have the stomach to deal with the bare market. They did not have the consistency to be uh present when things were going against them. And then at its core, their stocks didn't work. Like GameStop and AMC did not work. I I would imagine a lot of the names that we've talked about over the coming over the past few years uh are legitimate companies even if they experience draw downs which is inevitable. I mean look at Tesla right I would say Tesla's a pretty legit company even though it's experienced draw downs you know that is where you get your longevity and also you know I started building my channel in the depths of the bare market of 22 so we I kind of started building every day waking up to red and it definitely humbles you. Then we had an amazing bull run and hopefully that bull run continu continues. But even if it doesn't, the question is, you know, did you pick a GameStop in 2022? It's like, no, we picked a pounder, picked a Robin Hood, we picked an Nvidia, you picked a Sofa, you picked a Rocket Lab, you picked companies that are legitimate and that will continue to grow. So now we just have to see where where it plays out. Yeah, I agree. Now is the time to really do some deep dives. You got to start really looking for value in these watches names. Again, I think all the Mac 7, obviously Meta, Amazon, Google probably not because that one is up a lot year to date, but Meta and Amazon. Do think a year from now we're going to look at it and think that they're going to be good names and that's important. N is it time to buy Hood? It really depends on I I said this in the morning, but do you think crypto gets hit next year? I don't know. I I I really don't. But I I can confidently say as someone who understands Robin Hood, if cryp if Bitcoin goes down to like 50,000 or something, Robin Hood's not going to love that. Robin Hood will survive as a company, they're not going to deteriorate like these digital asset treasuries that are levered against Bitcoin. Um they will survive, they just might not thrive. And so if they're not going to thrive as easily, then no, maybe it's not the best buy right now. Granted, I think if we have Robin's also proxying the bull market. So the bull market continues, Nvidia keeps doing well, the AI trade does well, crypto kind of stabilizes, then yeah, robinet at 101, growing at 40% a year is stupid. But a lot of this is contingent on external variables that we just don't have answers for. This is the uh bottom half of that Tom Lee interview where he goes a little bit more deeper into this algorithm that's selling. So we can uh finish listening to this. think we are in a wash out period in an overall bull market.
>> Uh yeah, I mean I I can tell you a few things. Whether we're talking to macro funds or to crypto funds, they are sitting on piles of cash. People are sitting on their hands because they know there are these plumbing problems and these crippled market makers. They're not going to try to be heroes and step in here. So when we look at those prior corrections, even Bitcoin in the last few years, Bitcoin last year had some really ugly corrections, each of them had the recovery, right? The rise from the low was faster than the than the drip to the bottom. So if if we've been suffering through 6 weeks of Bitcoin falling from 125 to 88 and maybe it goes to 77, right? Maybe that's the low and Ethereum bottoms at 2500. The recovery from there to all-time highs will be faster than the decline. That's what happened in every crypto decline because what what you have is all this spooled up energy. People are sitting and waiting and there's panic selling forced sellers, but the buyers are being patient. Um, that's what will happen. And again, you guys kind of hit it on the head. Micro Strategy is probably the most important stock to watch right now because that is the Bitcoin proxy. It's the most liquid name. I I it seems to me that when in the crypto world when they're trying to hedge their longs in Bitcoin and Ethereum,
>> they can't find any other way to hedge it except shorting the liquid stocks that
>> anybody who has a sizable Bitcoin long position. Okay, let's say it's more than a billion. they have very limited ability to hedge it in crypto derivatives like calls the ch you know the max they can do is maybe 5% of their holdings and then if you go to traditional CME exchanges their contract sizes prevent someone from hedging a billion dollar portfolio however someone can use Micro Strategies options chain which is so liquid to hedge all of their crypto so Micro Strategy is essentially absorbing all the hedging pressure that the crypto industry is trying to do to protect their Bitcoin longs. So the reason Micro Strategy is a leading indicator, it's actually the only convenient way to hedge someone's long is to short Micro Strategy or buy puts. That's what we're seeing today.
>> This this is the kind of stuff Tom was one of the
>> that's kind of the extent of his analysis. I don't know guys, maybe this glitch thing makes sense. I heard a lot of takes after uh Tom Lee made these arguments and people said he's just coping and we've topped unfortunately and you know this is a uh uh what do you call it? This is a essentially a a denial phase that he's in that he's not you know he's denying that he's wrong because it's some glitch but he might actually be wrong. I don't know. I really don't know but we are going to find out together if it ends up being like that. I mean if there was that much leverage in the system through these glitches where it needed to now get liquidated. You would imagine we bottomed here but it'll take time to see. Doug says if crypto drops hood price will come down below is going to keep grinding 1000. This is why I have my Robin Hood position like at the end of the day and I feel like I was pretty transparent about this when Robin Hood got to 150. I mean you guys if you if you even remember the day it got to 150 there was excitement in my voice and there was also nervousness because I was like this like even with Tanner we were talking about it on on our tech bros but we were just like this is this is a lot bro and like we're really happy that people are getting these games but this is a lot and we don't think it's natural. And so if we come back down to 85, which would suck, and we're not that far away from it, do I sell because I want to protect whatever gains I have, or do I continue to hold because I think Vlad's going to keep executing. It's like, well, I know Vlad's going to keep executing. I know that that's rid Like the one thing I can say confidently about Rob about Robin Hood is in a bare market Vlad's not going to care. He will keep working and he will not give a [ __ ] about the stock price. He will make sure that the company keeps executing so that when things turn around, they will be in a prime position. And so this is what you have to live with if you're going to have a stock go from 30 to 150 or 7 to 150 in two years. Like yeah, you're going to see moments where uh they're not 150 anymore. They take a hit. I can't say the same about Weeble for those talking about Weeble. Like I I don't have the same type of confidence in Weeble's execution. Now, if you do, that's fine. If you like the valuation that Weeble's at, that's fine. And I know they had a good earnings today, but I cannot hold on to Weeble. Remember, Weeble went to $83 when they IPOed, bro. There are bag holders from 50, 60, 70. That thing's at eight bucks right now. So, I personally, it goes back to what Chris is saying. Can you hold on to a name when [ __ ] hits the fan? And uh with Robin, it's very easy for me to hold on to that name. Davis says, "I'm glazing." Well, Davis, you're uh your Wall Street Journal cover right here, which by the way, take a look at who's in the background of that Wall Street Journal cover. Not only is it legend, there's someone else right there. Your uh your your post right here ended up getting a comment from someone that uh I would imagine you you've been glazing as well. So there you go, Mr. Vlad Tennvive. Congrats, Davis. Great setup. Vlad's going to keep working. Vlad's going to keep working. This is actually a good piece. This was a Wall Street Journal piece on retail investors. I think they have another one coming out as well about how retail investors are just navigating the markets. And so you got our boy Davis right here that got included in it. But yeah, I I I know Palanter is going to keep working. I know Vlad's going to keep working. I know Carp's going to keep working. I know Elon, Jens, all these guys are going to keep working. And quite frankly, you know, when [ __ ] hits the fan, they will be more motivated to prove that they can win, which is why it's going to be exciting. Spencer, thank you for the super chat. Here's for your rent fund. Guys, I didn't move out just to move back in with my parents when the market collapsed. Obviously, I'm going to be okay. But next week, if you see me back at my parents house, just realize it's an extended vacation. And sometimes your boy misses home. And so if you see a different background, it's not really it's not me giving up on living on my own. It's just, you know, sometimes you miss your fam. So just have to be a little uh cognizant of a different background. You know, if you see the exact same background as last time for or at least for the past two and a half years when I was at my parents house again, sometimes you want to have an extended vacation with the nostalgia of the previous setup, even if your old room is deconstructed. So, you know, that's that's all that's [laughter] No, in all reality, I know people joke about this stuff, but I'll be okay. I'll be okay. I moved out understanding my quite frankly, I move. So, when to move to to live in the place I'm living in, you have to give your taxes, your net worth. You have to like prove you can afford to live here. my portfolio was significantly lower than what it was today when I even got approved to rent out this place. So, I mean, I think we'll be okay. I think we should be all right. And, you know, I I I took a bet on myself back then. Uh continue to take a bet on myself, but just financially, I've done the math many many times on, you know, can I afford to move out? And I've taken into account, hey, like what if the portfolio is looking like this, looking like that? It's like, you should be all right. You should be all right. But again, if if if if you want to have an extended vacation with the family, it's not it's not a bad thing. Just realize we're back home. It's just an extended vacation. That's all. That's all it is. Oh boy. [sighs] Ugly, ugly, ugly. So freaking ugly. Is there a call she keeper of a mid moves out? [laughter] Oh my gosh. That's hilarious. That is hilarious. Yes. AMD is down after hours. Grabs down after hours. Micro Strategyy's down. So Sofi's down. I wouldn't take any specific name being down too seriously. Everything is down. So for anyone saying, "Look at this stock. Look at this stock." It's like everything's down. Like, and there's no point of being toxic and being like, well, people should have sold at this price. It's like, dude, like, yeah, everyone should have sold on October 6th. Not a lot of people did. So, it's like, yes, everything is down. Some names are down more than others, but pointing out that Dualingo should have been sold at 300 versus 160, it's like, yeah, Oracle should have been sold at 350. like if if the IND if everything was mooning and there was like one or two stocks that were really getting hit, we'd be looking at those one or two stocks. That is not the case. This is a bloodbath across the entire market, everything. Which is why Chris said and why Doug is reiterating right here. This is when you buy your favorite stocks. If you are going to buy something, this is when you buy your favorite stocks because everything's on discount. Now, again, if we get a 2022 type of year next year, then everything is going to keep being on discount. But it's not like anything is hit that much worse than everything else. I mean, the fact that Nvidia went from almost 200 this morning to 178 right now is very very ugly across the board. Gold is up. Was gold up today? Actually, you know, Ray Dalio. Yeah, gold's basically unchanged. Ray Dalio continues to be so excited about gold right here. Gold 477. I think I think one thing that this this experience will teach people and I think this is you know something I had to deal with years ago and I've noticed just based on the DMs I get with screenshots and stuff. Uh and you know do you guys remember in October I think a lot of you guys remember this. There was a couple of market opens where I was going on these rants about Oaklo. I think I think the majority of you guys remember this. Like it was like a 25m minute rants. It was to the point where some people got mad that I that I kept talking about it, but my and it was about quantum. My core argument was like these stocks are really stupid. Like let's just be honest about it and they don't deserve their multiples. And the screenshots I've been seeing are people levering up weekly calls on these stocks. If anything, I think this experience is going to tell people like you just can't do that. You can't get away with it. You cannot get away with buying weekly Oaklow contracts. like it might work for a little bit but eventually you get hit and you get hit bad and you can't just assume that the names are going to go up forever and so you know we got a new generation of investors which by the way years ago I was one of those people that thought you could do that stuff I got burned and I I never buy weekly con the most I engage in in the options market is either selling the volatility which is generating a premium and the worst case that happens is there's an opportunity cost if the stock you know outruns me for um leaps and I give myself time for the thesis to play out. But the amount of invest I mean we saw it in the data as well, right? Like on October 10th 61 million calls were bought and 42 million puts were buy. It was the craziest ratio on a day where the S&P 500 was down more than 3%. Which is what we had on October 10th. Everyone bought the dip and they bought calls. And if they bought calls for it, guess what? November 10th, a one month out, [ __ ] didn't work. So it's like I think if anything this was a lesson to a lot of people that you just cannot be as degenerate as you were trying to be and I think and I think you know it there we all know someone or we all have seen screenshots on Twitter or something where people were just being straight DJ like straight up this stock's going to go up 10% next week I'm buying a call option and obviously a month later that didn't work. My regret is I didn't go long the inverse ETFs on Quantum, dude. For all the ranting I did on Quantum. My regret is I did not go long the freaking inverse ETFs on Quantum. I was looking at them. Seriously, I was like, "Dude, if this thing just drops 10%, this thing's going to go up almost 40%." Like, there's no like I didn't do it. I was thinking of it as a 2026 hedge. I didn't expect the last two months of 2025 to suck, which we still got a month left, so maybe things change. But that's the one regret I had there. And so I guess my lesson to learn from that is hey sometimes when you think I should hedge, it's okay to like take a bit of a hedge and take it especially when you're feeling those vibes of like like I think here's my take away from this. When you're feeling like you don't want to buy the buy the dip or buy into strength. So when Hood gets 150, I'm not buying. When Hood goes to 130 from 150, I'm still not buying. Okay, maybe then I should start thinking of seriously initiating some hedges. Because if you're not buying the dip and you're not buying into strength, then you obviously are thinking there's something wonky going on. And losing a couple thousand on a hedge or a couple hundred or a couple hundred thousand based on the size of your portfolio is better than obviously not having any hedge. So I think that's kind of my my take away from it. Um, do we have the futures opening? Oh [ __ ] we do have a futures opening in about one minute. Well, we know they're going to be red. [laughter] [gasps] We know they're all going to be red. Yeah, Doug, you know, his UIX hedge worked out great. This is something he's been talking about in the chat for a while. Um, all these things are a lot of different experiences for people to navigate on. But at the end of the day, if you're in the right names and you're not overlevered, you're going to be okay. Like, yeah, you feel more poor than you did a month ago, but you're going to be okay. Like, like, realistically, what what's a scenario where you're not okay? Okay, you bought Robin Hood at 120, it's at 101. Like, yeah, you don't feel rich because it's not at 150 anymore, but are you not gonna be okay? You bought Amazon at 250 on the RIP. It's now at 219. Are you like, now you bought Oklahoma at 195. Yeah, you might not be okay. And like that, you just got to swallow the bullet and be like, "All right, I messed up there." But like, for the far majority of people, I think we're going to be all right. Now, BMR, I will openly admit I don't know what the hell is going to happen to that one just because I don't know if crypto's topped or not. If it has, then that one's probably gonna have more pain. So, that one, I don't know. But again, BMR was always speculative. It it's not a meta that you you can sleep well at night on. So, when you take those types of high risks, you also have to deal with the potential pain of those risks. All right, futures are open. S&P is slightly up. Let me get the exact futures. Are we kind of green? Um, very little, like very little bounce. I mean, nothing real. Nothing like seriously real. Those are your futures. Small caps flat, tech flat, S&P up, Dow Jones up a little bit. I mean, it would be funny if today was like the legit bottom and the rest of the year was going to be amazing, but I think we'll find out over the coming days. Tomorrow is Friday, which does suck because, you know, Friday is um usually a day where people tend to sell going into the weekend. We also also next week we have lot a lot we're not going to have a lot of volume next week, dude. We have so I'm not going to be live on Friday because I'm going to be with my family even though the market is open on Friday till 1 p.m. So we have a early close on Friday but I won't be live on Friday uh Thanksgiving. So we only have Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and a lot of people are not going to be trading. They're going to be traveling. So, um, there might not be a lot of movement next week, which would be hard to imagine some Vshape just because there's not a ton of people trading. But also, does that mean that things have to get sold off again next week? Like, at some point, you think I mean, dude, the S&P is up 11%. We go down another 3%. We're barely up 8% year to date. I mean, at what point does Donnie T come in and say, "Hey, that whole amazing stock market I promised everybody, maybe I need to do something to fix it." So, I wonder how bad does it have to get before people think about it. Yeah, BMR will have earnings tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning. Do a poll tomorrow. Red or green? Okay, let's do the poll tomorrow. Red or green? red or green as we go into tomorrow. Um, let's pull this up right here. Again, we did get the jobs report this morning. That jobs report also was better than expected for September, but September, not uh not uh not October. yellow. Oh my gosh, dude. If we really get an ugly day tomorrow, it's just going to be like getting punched in the face. And the worst thing about this is I like maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think this is because of AI bubble concerns. So, everyone's like, "Bur was right." I'm like, "Well, hold on, wait a second." Like, what was he right about? Because like was this about the rate cut or was this about a yen carry trade? Cuz it damn sure doesn't feel like everyone woke up at 11:00 a.m. and was like AI is a bubble. Like like in what world does that make sense? Like are the Asians waking up right now looking at the market seeing Nvidia down like oh yeah it's a bubble. It's like they saw those earnings like we saw those earnings. I look if Nvidia had bad earnings I would straight up say those earnings sucked. and would say, "Oh, guys, like maybe the multiple like maybe like I mean unequivocally those earnings were incredible." So, it really feels more systemic. Couch says, "I sold my couch. I am now a chair investor." Couch. We are getting nuked out here. Couch lost the couch. He's now on a chair. He's now in a chair. Uh Tony, thank you for the super chat. Tom Lee said ETH bottom is 22500. Do you agree with that? I don't know what to agree with anymore when it comes to his predictions. I'm sorry guys. And I said this publicly. You guys saw the skepticism in my voice every time I heard him publicly say 200,000 Bitcoin, 9,000 Ethereum. Like I I just like I love the guy, but I'm like, dude, that is [ __ ] crazy. like you're you're talking about a magnitude of and people are willing to give you the benefit of the doubt because you're Tom Lee. That's why you get the benefit of the doubt, but your credibility starts to go down when you're so bullish on these things that seem so unbelievably impossible and then they obviously don't happen. So, I mean, how do I know he's right about ETH 2500? How can I agree on that? I'm not a technician to the extent that Mark Newton is, which might be giving him his advice. And then I don't know if he's even right about this cryptoglitch stuff. Like maybe he is, maybe he's not. I just like I I from a public figure perspective, I think I've always tried to be more conservative than not. In fact, a lot of people back when Pounder was running in 2024 got mad at me because they didn't think I was bullish enough because I was like, "Guys, it's pushing 100." You know, I I know I get a lot of [ __ ] for being like the uber pounder bull. But in 2024, if you were part of the show and I know a lot of you guys are new here, but every time it went up. I was in India when it was hitting $40 and I was just like, this does not make sense. This is an 80 billion company doing like three billion rep. This does not make sense to me. Like am I excited? Of course I'm excited because this is the name I've been covering for two and a half years. Like this is like the moment. But also valuation wise, I don't get and at some point I had to accept, all right, Pounder is defying the odds of how you think about valuation. And you have to sort of be humbled and and understand it from a different perspective. But I I I I was never the guy saying pounder to 500, pounder to 200, pounder to 300. I was never in the thumbnails. I was the never guy never the guy saying Robin it's 150. I mean in 2024 I barely had a $25 price target on Hood. So it's like like I've always tried to underpromise overd deliver because I know your credibility gets hit when you get super super excited about something. So Tom says 2500 ETH is bottom. Like what if it's not? Because obviously everything else has I mean he said it was the bottom two days ago. Last week he said it was the bottom. Like at some point people stopped listening. This and unfortunately this you know this is what happened with Kathy Wood. Kathy Wood lost a lot of her credit. Like just let's just be honest about it. Let's let's call a spade a spade. Kathy Wood lost most of her credibility um because of the stupid target when she said Zoom would go to $1,500. Zoom is at $78. [laughter] Forget the target. It's Zoom. It's not zoom into 1500. Like you know like so when you I mean like you these price like sometimes you hear this [ __ ] and you're like oh I can't listen to that person because they're doing this for entertainment. they're not serious about it or they're doing this to raise money or something that's just not real. And my hope and I genuinely say this, I do not want Tom Lee to turn into that type of caricature because I love Tom. Like I really do respect him so deeply and I think people know how much respect I have for him. Uh but I mean another example, this orb [ __ ] with Dan Ies the day it came out, you know, a lot of people have said, "Why haven't I bought I've got so many DMs. Why aren't you buying this? Why aren't you tweeting about this?" says, "What the [ __ ] is orbs? What is this worldcoin nonsense, dude?" [gasps] Like, "What?" Like, that was that was one of the first times I was just like, "Dude, what is he doing here? Really? What an investment to Sam Alman's biometric scale." Like, what? Dan Ies the Dan Ies, I love him, but Dan Ies can't really talk about much other than it's a party that, you know, we got to keep playing in. Like, he doesn't go deep on his analysis. We all know this. We all know this. Dan Ives is great to listen to but he does not go super int he's going to go super intricate on biometric scanning in the crypto universe what and then BMR is investing in that as a moonshot it's like okay I get it's a moonshot so if it goes to zero whatever it's 20 million bucks who cares but it was the first thing where I was just like what is Tom doing like what the like what is going on and so I I really hope from the bottom of my heart that he does not get characterized as a Kathy Wood type of figure. But when you throw out this type of uh you know short-term price targets, this is the bottom, this is the top, yada yada, this is the price target it's going to get to in two months, less than two months, you just lose credibility. And at some point people stop listening. They just they don't care. And so I, you know, we're going to see over the like over the over the long term how that plays out. Uh yes, future still flat for those that are asking. future. Let me pull it up right here. Futures are still flat. I mean, we're not getting a a really big meaningful move here. Actually, NASDAQ. No, no, no, no. Well, it's not it's not green anymore, but it's also not super red. Well, now it just went red. [laughter] VIX is up. You got the VIX going green. There you go. This is where Joseph Carlson stocks rock except for Duolingo. I I think Joseph's getting too much [ __ ] for Duolingo, dude. Like, I've been seeing a lot of nasty comments against him. I'm like, dude, at the end of the day, you guys got to recognize we're all just human beings. Like, we're all just humans at the end of the day. Like, we are all putting out our due diligence. Some of us have very bad intentions. They want to get you into a private Discord and charge you $500 a month and blah blah blah. Like, some of us have those intentions and those people are out there. And I've, you know, made sure to the best of my ability to never become that. But other people like Joseph Carlson, he's not trying to he's not trying to hurt you or scam you or that at the worst he's selling a $10 subscription to his software per month like that, you know, like it he's just having a presentation of ideas. Some of those ideas will work, some of those ideas will not work. Same thing with me with Grab. I mean, Grab is up like what, like 8% now year to date. At the highs, it was up 30%. Dualingo unfortunately since Joseph Carlson is down almost 50%. So like we're all going to have some losers. It is what it is. It's going to happen. And you know over the long term I don't know if Grab ends up being a loser even if it's a loser in the short term. Over the long term I don't know if Duelingo has to be a loser. But I think people are getting a little too aggressive at him for uh for that stock, you know, going down from 300 when he started talking about it. He's not perfect. He's just a human being. So am I. Some names are going to work. some names are not going to work. I mean, you know, Netflix he called at 100 and wrote it down from 700 to 100. Now it's at 1100. So the presentation and and the only thing that I can do or Carlson can do or any other YouTuber can do after they recommend a name is ask themselves what went wrong in that name if the name actually does end up collapsing and how can I change to be better in the next name. But, you know, if you're going to play this game and you're going to call names publicly, some you're going to get wrong, some are you're going to get right. But I'm not here saying grab to 100. He's not here saying dualingo to a thousand like a Kathy would. And that's where you lose your credibility. People can handle you being wrong a little bit. People cannot handle you being um manipulative in the process of also being wrong. That's when people really say like I can't trust this person. And I think that's that's the difference here. Uh Richard, thanks for the super chat. Just woke up. Is it euphoria? I would not say uh we are in a euphoric part of the market. S&P down again after hours 65142. But maybe the market still has lower to go. This is worse than April unfortunately because there's no reasoning behind it. It's just BS drama and uncertainty. Yeah. Yeah. And like this is the the mis the mystery uh uh puzzle piece like like is there something more to this sell-off that we don't all know about? Is it not yen carry trade? Is it not freaking the Fed cuts? Is it not the AI bubble? Is there some [ __ ] under the hood that's happening that we don't know about? But eventually we'll be exposed to everybody. And when it is, it might be too late. I don't know. I just Is it really the Fed didn't cut rates? Is it really yen carry trade? Like again, if I gun to my head, I would say it's the the rate cut scenario because as soon as the Fed started talking this morning at 11 a.m., that's when we kind of saw the pivot. But then again, the velocity of the selloff just makes it feels like it was more manufactured than anything. And then it makes you think deeply of like, oh, it's like, is Trump going to allow a recession in this country? We know Trump's ego. We know how much credit Trump wants for is he going to allow us to have a recession? I mean, last time we had a recession under Trump's term was a freaking COVID where he has a pretty easy excuse. We have a global pandemic. Like, it is what it is. We end up in a recession. This time, what would be the excuse? I mean, you know what's going to happen? I'll tell you right now what's going to happen. If we actually do end up getting to a recession, stock market sells off. It's the number one thing that's going to happen is everyone's going to go back to one word that caused all of this. Caused the inflation crisis, caused the cost of uh affordability crisis, caused the fear and the panic because of earnings growth potentially going down. tariffs. It will all go back to tariffs. Not to mention, we got the Supreme Court tariff coming up soon in terms of their decision. But that that that concept of staking the entire second term on this policy objective that had economic implications, if that goes against it and we end up in a recession because of that, I mean, I I don't know how he's going to handle it because who is he going to be able to blame? You can only scream it's Biden's market for so long before people start being like, "Oh no, you caused this. I'm voting for the other party." And then if you're a lame duck president, you can't do anything for the last two years. Like, so I I I think there is a trajectory in which that happens. I also think there's a trajectory where Trump says, "I'm going to make sure that doesn't happen, [laughter] and so I'm going to have to fix this [ __ ] before it gets that bad." And you know, that's where he might come in and try to save the day in whatever way he does, which might even require reducing the tariffs, which he already talked about. And so if that happens, you know, that might change things as well. Future still red. Bitcoin's still red. No, Bitcoin's actually Well, no, Bitcoin's red. 875. Did anyone buy the dip? Put in the chat, what did you buy the dip on? I didn't even ask this question. What did you buy the dip on if you did buy the dip? Amit, are you going to visit your dentist tonight? No, I'm not. You know, actually, I thought I had to when I went to see the dentist, I thought I would have to pay for it, but it was just a checkup and so I didn't have to pay. It was actually really quick, dude. It just like 10 minutes. It was actually like everything was fine and then I just left. So, yeah, I didn't have to pay for anything extra and it was good to go. We shouldn't have to go to the dentist hopefully for a while, but I will not be going there tonight. Uber, Amazon, Hood, Grab, VG, Upstart, Micro Strategy, Amazon. Someone said a quickie. Oh my goodness, dude. Um, Rocket Lab [laughter] made it safe to drink Saratoga at this point. Yeah, maybe Saratoga has the opposite effect, dude. Maybe, maybe that's what we got to do. Dude, you know when we topped when I started buying all those damn candles? I think it's the candles, guys. Even though they my apartment smells great, bro. My apartment smells phenomenal. Like those candles, dude. Every morning they just smell great. SoFi, Terra Wolf, Micron, dude, Micron even, I think there was some downgrade on, but Micron was just going nuclear over the past couple of weeks. Yeah. Why is Uber at 80? Like Uber's trading at 17 times earnings? I love the robo taxi and Whimo, but that's not stopping Uber anytime soon. Like a lot of this stuff, it just feels dumb. BMR, Oscar, Hymns, ASST. Was that Is this thing finally under a dollar? Cuz I mean, you would imagine. Yeah. Okay. 98 cents. This thing is leveraged against Bitcoin. So, Nabius, Rocket Lab, SanDisk. I don't know why Sandis was up 400%. I mean, this one, this one I like. Props to anyone who just shorted the hell out of it. Like I don't know why it was up as much as it was up. But yeah, makes sense that this one took it. And this one's a legit company. It's just at some point the price also kind of did not have a lot going for it. And it's still up 400% 440% after the shutdown. So said as Oscar were my buys today. Um, I'm going out to buy ramen noodles, dude. On a Okay, so here's the question. On a day like today, when [ __ ] hits the fan, do you like how h how do you guys individually cope? Like, do do you order Door Dash? Do you like go get some good food? Like some comfort food? Do you do you think, "Well, I'm losing so much money, I might as well lose some more money and order some Uber Eats." Do you just like go to sleep for a while and forget about it? Because I think everyone has their own way to navigate it. You watch some Dawson's Creek, which I would recommend. Phenomenal show. Betty said I need a spliff. [laughter] That is also one solution to uh to navigate. Robin prediction markets. Davis's go on hikes. Uh, sleep. Musa says, "Go for a run. Gym." Uh, hard mocktails. See, I don't drink, so I don't know what it's like to like be upset with my life and then get a drink to like like I've never had that like, oh, I need a drink. Like, I I don't know what it feels like to drink. I mean, I don't like Dude, honestly, for me, it's just like, go to sleep, dude. just like go back to bed. Um, we all chat together. This makes me happy. Well, I'm Yes, I I This is also def This is something I enjoy as well, especially on days like this. Got to be here together when this [ __ ] happens. Buy more Ethereum. [laughter] Can you check the most traded stocks today? Yeah, let's check. We haven't looked at this over the past week. So, these were the top 20 traded stocks in the options market today. Wow. I think this is a record high for Nvidia. 6 million options today. Tesla number two, IBIT number three, Pounder number four, AMD number five. Then you have Meta, Apple, Microgy, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, SoFi, Hood, Netflix, Coinbase, Google, Micron, Core, IN Boeing. That's pretty incredible. Um, still more well, no more. I mean, look, look at the the the the volume on put to call ratio. The ones that have over a one have more puts than calls. So, Palenter had more puts than calls. AMD had more puts than calls. Uh, Microsoft, dude, I don't know why people are getting so bearish. Microsoft's like, they just don't believe Satia. Uh, Micron more puts than calls. Look at Boeing, bro. 290,000 puts, 80,000 calls. What about Tessie? A little bit more calls than putts on Tessy, but still pretty ugly. Still pretty ugly. Pretty ugly. Does anyone have vacation coming up? Is anyone like traveling soon? Is anyone going to like I don't know, Hawaii or something. Um, the future still red. Bitcoin, is it selling off again? Literally, Mexico tonight. Wow. I have not been on vacation for a while. Yeah, Bitcoin right there. 871. You know, I was I was talking to Steve last night and I I think I kind of previewed this conversation as well, but um we were we were just talking about natural goals for 2026 and one of my goals quite frankly, I think I said this a couple weeks ago, one of my goals next year is just to have some fun. Like it has been five years of just nonstop grinding. I can't believe I used that word, but you know what I mean. like working to free subliminal, but working to freaking make this thing happen, make this brand, you know, become a thing and make the right investments and all this [ __ ] Um, and it's like it hasn't been much of a of a social life. And it reminds me this quote right here by KARP. And one of my goals next year is to, you know, have a bit more fun. And so like from a portfolio perspective, I'm also thinking, how can I construct the portfolio to the point where you don't have days like this where things are just so aggressive where it kind of messes up your mental health by, you know, maybe being in [ __ ] that's a bit more safer. Not saying to get rid of your core positions, at least for me in video counterhood, those are just like core things I want to have. But increasing the additional risk factor is hard because when then when you have a day like this, it's hard to have fun. It's hard to just like go on with your life.
>> Teenagers, young people around the skills they need to develop, uh, the things they need to acquire to be successful in this crazy environment that we live in.
>> Um, find the thing you're uniquely good at. Uh, and um, and then actually I think and then make sure your whole life is organized around allowing you to do it. So what I mean I manage essentially young people uh and for the last 20 years and I would say failure failure one is not willing to accept what they're actually good at. It may not be what you want to be good at. Um not organizing your life around that ability. If you I tell the people who come to Palunteer, uh I've never met someone really successful who had a great social life at 20. If that's what you want, that's what you want. That's great. But you're not going to be successful. And don't blame anyone else. So,
>> dude, he's so right about that. He's so right. Everyone has a different definition of success. And you know, if you want to get married at 21 and have kids and that type of family life is your definition of success, then then that's a definition of success. But if your definition of success is like you want to build a brand, you want to start a business, you want to rate, you know, you want to have an audience, you want to grow, you want to like make connections, you want to network, you want to start investing and getting opportunities, like that [ __ ] requires just an intense intense level of focus and and quite frankly, you got to give up some of the social life. And so me over the past five years, that that's, you know, that's been the journey. And so I I think the reason of even bringing this up is because like for everyone kind of navigating what 2026 is like, you know, as Chris said, if you're older, how do you navigate the portfolio? if you're younger, but you might not want to go super risk on in a year where you want to have some more fun. Because if you go that risk on, then you know, if if if we go risk off, then the portfolio draw downs mean that you might not be able to focus on just living the more normal parts of your life because, you know, you're so worried about a draw down or are you able to manage both? Are you able to just like go super risk on and keep building and still have a social life? Like these are all things that I think a draw down like today or over the past couple weeks gets everyone to start thinking about because now you know there's a couple months left of the year less than two months you start really trying to figure out what is the next few years going to look like definitely 2026 and for all of us like the other the other reason this is important because all of us at the end of the day are like happier when the markets are up and sadder when the markets are down. It's just no matter how much you try to hedge against it, like yesterday was really happy, today is really sad and you either uh you you either align and it's the same thing with if you're like starting a business, right? Like you're really happy if you're grinding and growing your business and you see the growth or you're really sad if you're not getting the progress. So the question then becomes how emotionally attached are you to it? And it's very emotional for all of us that have to go through a massive draw down after seeing so much of the gains and trying to still navigate the other parts of our life. I always hedge my happiness with chocolate cake. I I I I just think these are internal conversations that everyone needs to have with ourselves. And you know, I've been having those conversations too and just trying to think of it more. But then again, like the nuance of the conversation is that you also don't want to put your foot off the pedal, right? You want to keep grinding. You want to keep working. It's like, I think I talked about this a year ago, but like one of the reasons why why my Twitter account has grown is because like I'm just obsessed with the news constantly. And on Twitter, you grow by being first to breaking news or to being first to having the best analysis of the news. and the markets it's like I mean like there is not a dull day in the markets but to have that type of growth you have to be so entrenched in what's happening which means you've got to lock in constantly like there really can't be a moment where you're not on your phone paying attention to it I don't beat Evan on the news Evan always beats me on the news but you know I communicate the news in my own way like I'm not literally just like here's the news here's what happened there are some accounts that do that really well I'm more of like picking and choosing the best in the market and then curating it. Um, but it's it's work, you know, and it's like it requires an incredible level of mental strength inside of that ecosystem to to be doing that. Content creation is like is, you know, it's hyper competitive. So, I think all of us have to think more deeply about kind of how we want to navigate next year while also dealing with the portfolio. Yeah, you can't miss a day. Are we actually up a little bit after hours again? Any Yeah, it's a very little bounce, dude. I mean, very low volume. I mean, Robin, it was at like 103. Now it's at 105. So, it's a very slight bounce, but we're going to have to see over the coming weeks how this continues to play out. Can we get our 2,000 straight into our brokerages? Oh my gosh, dude. I'm not getting that 2,000. I'm sorry. I don't qualify for that $2,000. I just like four years ago. Yeah. Now there's no way in hell I'm getting that 2,000. So I think that's another thing as you get older and you make a little bit more money, $2,000 is not the most exciting thing. And then you start realizing, well, to print freaking 300 billion for this 2,000 maybe is not maybe is not worth it. But then again, someone who's like really struggling, that 2,000 is everything to them. You're going to tell that person you're stupid for wanting 2,000 or you don't understand the monetary impacts of inflation. It's like, no, dude. That person's be like, "Fuck you. I need my 2,000. I need to pay rent." So, it's a dangerous game when Trump says, "We're just going to give out the money because I don't even know if he has the power to give it out." But I think a lot of us here are not getting that damn money. But we would have to deal with the inflation if that happens. [snorts] If that 2000 check came and the market moves, make your money and run for the hills. That, you know, that is a good point, dude. If like if Trump legit somehow goes fullon, we're printing STEMI, rates are coming down, we will create a bubble at that point, like let's be very honest about this. If we print STEMIs and we lower rates to like 2%, we are going to create a bubble. It's just that simple. Like you cannot have that level of quantitative easing without some type of bubble. That's when we all have to start seriously thinking of how to take profits because at that at that point it's going to collapse. Now can Trump manufacture a way to quantitatively ease without having it turn into a bubble? I don't know. Historically, you know, when you engage in heavy levels of quantitative easing, inevitably a bubble forms. But we're not there yet. Like I I don't like we haven't quantitatively eased at all to that point. And you know, companies are still producing incredible levels of earnings and the expectations and the multiples on those companies are not euphoric. So I don't think we're at that point yet. Bitcoin right there 87, Ethereum 2859, BTC 87.15. What do people say? Do people say red or green tomorrow? I didn't even check. What do we got? Um, red. 60% say red. All right. So, I guess more red. We will be fine by year of end. Uh, we don't have to go to alltime high. We're going to be better than right now. Right, Krishna? I hope, dude. I hope. The reason I say I hope is because the market still has some hope the Fed's going to cut. Granted, I think we're priced for the Fed not cutting. So hopefully this is the lows. And the Nvidia earnings highlighted that the AI trade is very real. So I would imagine even if the Fed doesn't cut, do we have to go back to 6,200? It's like I don't think so. So I would hope that by the end of the year we're okay. Like again fundamentally nothing has changed in this market from over the past couple months. It's just like and if something has changed let me know outside of the labor market and interest rates which are some macro concerns that's but in terms of the core premise of this bull market the reason why most of Wall Street every analyst S&P targets are where they are is because people believe in the health of this market while acknowledging some cracks but not dismissing that the markets don't deserve the premium that they're getting. So I think by end of year we should be better but you know we just don't know how this market's going to think of it going into December and the end of the year. I do think though if we get some stupid prices these I mean like again if Nvidia wants to go to 160 like if Hood really wants to go to 90 these things get a lot more attractive. or down because the Epstein files I mean look maybe the Epstein files are having some impact. I I don't think that's the case. Maybe I'm wrong. Uh the Epstein files are definitely going to expose a lot of stuff and obviously it's you know I don't know how if Trump's implicated how he's going to deal with that or if he's name is redacted or if he's not in the fight like I don't know maybe there's other highle Democrats like all that [ __ ] is out there but I don't know if that's enough to cause the reversal we have today like the market worried about the Epstein stuff. Like worse comes to worse, you're going to have people like Larry Summers, you know, leave their public facing opportunities because he's so embarrassed. It's like, all right, you might see a lot more of that [ __ ] happen, but I don't know if that really affects Nvidia. Trump unveils a sweeping plan to open over 1 billion of acres off California, Florida, and Alaska for offshore oil drilling, setting up a major fight with environmental groups and coastal leaders. Okay. So, the logic here is what he wants to get oil prices down. Is that the idea? We saw rumors like this last week. I don't know if that's the biggest battle the market's going to care about, but you know, maybe oil prices is something that Trump thinks could help decrease inflation prices. or decrease the the rate of inflation. The Ukraine stuff also that was big news this morning. I mean, they haven't fully there were some rumors that Ukraine's going to have to give up certain parts that they don't want to give up, but there's also rumors that Zalinski is, you know, getting closer to just agreeing to it to end the war. I mean, at this point, it's going to be a three-year war. So, that coming to an end also would be not the worst thing for the markets. Is the Japan thing fixable? I don't understand any of that. I am still doing my research on it. It just think of it as yen carry trade. Their yields are going higher. People are selling off Japanese bonds. The reason they're selling their bonds is because they are afraid that inflation is going higher because Japan is printing. People are short the bond in the United States, including many hedge funds. They're buying tech stocks with cheap money. The bond the short, sorry, short the yen. The yen goes up because bond yields go up. They have to sell tech stocks to cover their short. I mean, it's kind of the same stuff that we talked about a year and a half ago, but but um is that enough to cause the type of downside that we're seeing? I don't know. Yeah, it's creating a a hefty level of margin calls as well. All right, guys. I think that's it. I mean, there's not really much else here today. Hopefully with Chris on he was a little bit consoling. One of the worst reversals we've seen in a year three and a half% not just down or up but up then down. And so that's why it was really so gut-wrenching seeing it completely reverse. And then there was no there was no bottom. The bottom fell out. I mean these names violated every moving average that they have. So, unfortunately, it was one of those days that we just got to live live through. Trump is not live. Trump is not I thought I thought he might be going live today, but this was a day he uh did not go live. Uh he will be with Mumani tomorrow. Dude, people were saying it's not be streamed. Carolyn Levit was saying that it might be streamed. She didn't confirm, but I was listening to a little bit of the White House press secretary talk today and she was she was saying you guys might see them tomorrow. So, it'll be in the Oval Office. Maybe they're live and um then we're going to see how that plays out. Steve's going live in a little bit. So, I'll link his channel right here. I'm also going to be live with Steve at 9:30. So, I'll continue to talk with Steve. We might have some other guests join us, but there is Steve's channel. I think he'll be live in like 20 minutes and then I'll be live with him at 9:30. The stock draft, people are asking for it. Somehow, folks, we are still number one in the stock draft. The high beta names are still outperforming. I'm up 17%. Steve is not down 12%. It's just that Netflix thing is messing him up, but Steve, you know, the majority of his names are red, so he's probably in that 1 to 5% range. Tanner's up 8%. Chris is up 1%. And then Matt's up 8.45. I am up 17 [sighs] with Grab, Apple, Nebia, JP Morgan, AMD, Tesla, Hood, and Pounder, which you know this portfolio, my ETF is indicative of a lot of our portfolios, it's way more high beta than everybody else, and it's still up even with an absolute stinker with Dualingo. So, if you have a portfolio that has one name that's horrible like a Dualingo, and then you have any level of growth across the other names, you're still probably up year to date or at least doing relatively decent. and and and that's the I mean this really is the beauty of why I dra draft my portfolio the way I did like it's still outperforming everybody because at the end of the day as Chris was saying the markets want growth like you can only want a dividend for you want real growth and the companies that I have right here have grown really well over the past few quarters and and I'm pretty sure they will get back to their all-time highs over time. So, um I think if if it's emblematic of a lot of our portfolios, we still should still be doing well, but nonetheless, that portfolio was up like 45%. Now, it's at 17. So, obviously, the draw down is is very ugly. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. I'll be live tomorrow morning on the market open. I'll be with Steve at 9:30 and we will keep navigating how to deal with the equity markets. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys later tonight and then tomorrow the market open. Bye everybody. Have a good one.