[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into, a lot of headlines, a lot of earnings action. I'm here early because Karp is live on CNBC. We're going to go to that real quick and then I'll be back right after this and we will discuss what's going on in the markets. Here we go.
>> It is so good to see you uh this morning. Uh we had your biographer uh on the broadcast uh before and and and we're speaking about you now in third person, but now we're now we're doing it in first person. Uh the earnings were a blowout, I think, across the board. we can talk about maybe why the why the stock market's reacting the way it is but you know I was listening to the call yesterday and I wanted to just for those who didn't get an opportunity to hear it I think you made some fascinating points about why you think this company and maybe even yourself are so misunderstood
>> um well there are lots of easy ways to misunderstand me I misunderstand myself and you know it's not like the super conventional playbook thing look we're an antiplaybook company uh if you want to do the personal version. I'm like this uh dyslexic formerly and I believe currently still left of center who actually sticks up for progressive values which triggers you know TDS uh loving people because I think the Democrats aren't no longer progressive and then the company is built in a truly generous unique way which would only be possible in America and actually explodes every assumption of how an expert would build a software business. the more you actually know about building software, the more odd, unique and inexplicable our rise in success and I would say domination on the enterprise software battlefield looks and is. Um, and then I would say one of my main issues is Palanteer because we were anti we called uh we called a lot of things that are kind of establishment views that often are uh viewed as kind of being super woke into question in every single assumption of Palanteer. The people who piled in uh to Palanteer were people investing their own money often people who are not in the investor class non-experts and even till today the experts sit on the sideline and say hey this can't be true while the average American who invested in Palunteer and for the first time maybe arguably in since World War II uh average Americans got venture returns investing in Palunteer. So you have this massive divide uh between the average person who evaluated themselves and the expert class that still was working on assumptions that have historically not been true that obviously if you look at the earnings if you actually look at we grew the company uh I mean I'll go through if you want to get through the numbers but extraordinary results and then the expert classes we need and the retail people are all in. So, but in fairness,
>> but that's what I want to ask you about in terms of the mis there because there is a misunderstanding. Clearly, you know, you look at the analysts, most analysts, you know, think that this stock is overpriced. You have people like Michael Bur out there shorting it. Everybody who's shorted this stock thus far has been on the losing end of it. And I'm trying to understand just if you look at sort of the growth trajectory, the sales, how much of the sales frankly I think actually even coming there was a huge part coming from even existing customers and just what the scale of this thing ultimately looks like in your mind. Okay, there are two parts. You know, of course, when I hear short sellers attacking uh what I believe is clearly the most important software company in America and therefore in the world in terms of our impact simply to make money and calling trying to call the AI revolution into question where we have these this anomalous numbers 114, rule of 40, etc., it just is super triggering because these people they could pick on any company in the world. They have to pick on the one that actually helps people that actually has made money for the average person. that that is actually supporting our war fighters. Why do they have to go after us? And I'll tell you what though, it's crazy motivating because I'll tell you why the short sellers are constantly getting screwed by Palanteer because every time they short us, we just are like tripling down on getting the better numbers and part honestly to make them poorer. But okay, so um the the the the question of like uh the actual power of the business and what is it worth? I mean, at the end of the day, one of the things that is actually in the book, the the biography, and that I actually think that you always have to ask to to the is the person persuasive or are they right? And across all sorts of movements, political, I mean, you see this on the regressive part of the Democratic party. We're about to probably have a complete disaster. I was born in New York. Like, but if you actually said, "Do these things actually work?" Everyone's like, "Of course, I'm not going to vote for that." But instead, they asked, "Does it work in theory?" The theoreticians, you have to ask, how often have you been right? And Palanteer is about pragmatic decisions that create unfair advantages for America and its allies. And on that, we've been right for almost 20 years on all major decisions. And I believe we'll be right going forward. Now, you could argue, I don't know, like they're constantly like, but they they thought Palanteer was overvalued at 10. They thought it was overvalued at 20. I'm not even here saying what the valuation is. I'm just saying find a company in the world that has a rule of 114 that has US commercial growing at 121% that aggregate growth in the US is 77% that has throwing off free cash flow in a way that's anonymous and that is fully aligned with our customers and you figure out the value but they're in the business of being skeptical and being wrong and we're in the business of giving an unfair advantage to American workers, American war fighters and our investors. Being short is is a very difficult place to be because you can lose everything, right? You can drive these people into the ground. Michael Bur put a really big bet on. It's almost a billion dollars. It's $912 million. That's a big step for him to put into that. What when you say you redouble your efforts, what do you do? What do you go back in?
>> Um, well, first of all, he's it's like he's actually putting a short on AI. So, the way I read it was us and Nvidia and it's like
>> the biggest position is you though. I'm just thrilled.
>> Okay. So, and and then by the way with the shorts is very complex. It's not even clear that I honestly I think what is going on here is market manipulation. We delivered the best results everyone anyone's ever seen. It's not even clear he's not doing this to get out of his position. I mean these people they claim to be ethical, but you know like they're they're actually shorting one of the great businesses of the world. And I'm not against shorting as a matter of theory, but I'm just saying pick something that is not doing a noble task. And you know, it's us against them and that's a good position for us. I I mean look when you're printing a rule of 114 again people who aren't technical I think roughly a an incredible score like an Olympic grade score on rule of 14 is like 50 I mean that's roughly like if you're between 50 and seven you're an Olympic athlete a unique implement athlete this is like Michael Phelps like score like Michael Jordan like there are no scores like this there and and 121 growth off of almost a 1.5 run rate in US commercial and a 77 77% growth in the US and an aggregate off of an aggregate base of of $4.5 billion. By the way, I predicted we'd get here. So, you know, it's like I if you want to short that, be my guest. You go ahead. We're just going to go do our things. I mean, look, I'll tell you, there's a tale of two cities in our society. We need experts versus retail. And you see it like, you know, I don't know why these newspapers are running, helping Mandani win. I don't know why we can't have honest discussions about our future. I don't know why we have to allow fentanyl attack, but it's almost always sympathy for the expert that doesn't need it. The short seller that has some ridiculous reason for doing something against I mean most of GDP growth in this country is because of AI. The real question is how do we grow that and expose workers? What is the worker available GDP? That's the question for our society. Instead of aligning on that, we've got these completely and again if the numbers weren't there, great. be my guest. But then the numbers are there. So then you you're not it's not even clear he's actually shorting us. It's it's probably just how do I get my position out and not look like a fool. I don't know. But I do think this behavior is egregious and I'm going to be dancing around when it when it when it proves it's proven wrong.
>> Right. Alex, we've heard a lot of talk from the likes of a Michael Bur, but more broadly about whether we're in an AI bubble, whether the economics make sense. Clearly in the context of Palunteer, uh they do make sense in so far as you you're you're printing money over there. Um not everybody in the AI space is printing money in the same way and they're spending an enormous amount um on chips, data centers and the like. How do you see the broader space right now in terms of just how things are are are developing? There there are two subtle issues in AI. What is the addressable market and what is the addressable market for things that work? meaning you make more money and your the quality of money is higher. So top line and bottom line grow talent we're in the business of the a part of the addressable market where it works and it can be quantifiable either commercially or on the battlefield. So you that clearly and and over time you're going to have trader optimality meaning that every part of the stack is going to have to create more value than they charge. That's just obvious. And if that doesn't happen it will be a bubble. And you know, I mean, I'm sorry short sellers can't tell a difference between products that work and products that don't, but these numbers should show you that there's a part of the market that to you quote you is printing cash. And it looks like that part of the market is the park we own. There's a separate question, by the way, which I think is equally relevant. What part of the GDP growth is available for workers? What we call worker available GDP? And that's like one of the unique things about Palunteer is whether it's on the battlefield like the people writing the scripts for these very complicated operations or building batteries or doing things on the factory floor are being enhanced by our product. And those two it's really those two questions are going to define arguably the future of what happens in this country. Does GDP grow because of AI which only can happen if if there's prao optimality or and and what the way we see it the c the customer pays less than the value they create which is abnormal uh not exactly equal prao optimality and that it's unknown honestly you have this massive growth but you know currently as far as I can tell the two companies he's shorting are the ones making all the money which is super weird like the idea that chips and ontology is what you want to short is batshit crazy. But leaving that aside, there's a bigger question, which is the average American believes AI is happening. They're just not sure if it's going to happen for them or it's just me getting rich. And that's the battle we have to fight because if you want a sane society, you can't just have GDP growth for us and no GDP growth for them. So like finding out what is available for the worker and proving it's available for the worker is going to be absolutely crucial. By the way, to be slightly political, you can't if the AI revolution is real, it has downstream consequences. Like, how can you have an AI revolution and an open border?
>> Are we safer as a society or less safe than we were 5 years ago because of AI?
>> And I wanted to ask you, I talked to Lansdale about unfortunately packed stadiums and drone attacks and and things like that and and he said that's something that we need to at some point face. Well, you know, there's a lot of complicated questions because there's like I mean it's so funny because you know like I mean in this book which is there's like a lot of it's true but then it's like the surveillance state. So like interestingly I and Palanteer have historically been on maximal safety and maximal data protection and the product is actually built despite you know if you if you're being told Palunteer is easy is the product you use to surveil you you're the mark like you know we actually so how do you have maximum safety where you can still have a personal life uh you know and so like personal life may mean you're just flirting with the person next to you. It may mean you're at the stadium with someone you shouldn't be. It may mean you're just there alone when you should be at work. We all have things we need and want to do in our private lives. And part of democracy is we get to keep that and Palanteer's architecture makes it possible to have in heightened safety and uh reduce surveillance. Now you have this issue across are Americans safer? You know, a lot of it comes down to are we going to have a mandate that actually helps working women and men? Because the truth in our society is you're pretty safe if you have money.
>> What happens to you if you're in an environment where you're poorer, workingass, black, white, Hispanic, anything is you are then in an environment where people are espousing they believe in what they're saying while in facto letting you live in a war zone. Whether it's the inner cities or the border, we essentially have a class divide in this society where underclass people, white, black, Hispanic, everyone, they absorb all the negative externalities of policies and those of us who can afford to sit here have a great life. And the real question for our society in my view and for AI is how can we make sure people participate in GDP, which also means they can go home safely, they can go to school, they can come back from school, they can go to the border and not get shot. We don't have fentinol coming in our society and you know more people have died from fentinol in the last year than all service members since World War II and almost all those people are working class and that's why no one cares. If they were Yale grads you'd have a bomb being dropped on some South American country. It would stop and we have that's so there's a huge societal thing. Then you get to like you know mass events and we've seen very destructive uh to our core assassinations of people who had heroic roles. We saw Abby in Japan that was outside of America. We saw Charlie Kirk uh we've seen the CEO of United we saw people cheering these things. So in my view there is the stadium issues and these are very hard issues. How do you actually protect against drone? are tech technologies which are not publicly available that need to be made available that can help but there's always a risk of something happen because the only way to take the risk to zero is to eviscerate all our civil liberty so
>> right
>> that's why I'd say you know if you actually look at it's like gun deaths guns are not a problem in the society guns in the inner city create most of the deaths so how do you protect the second amendment and change gun deaths in this country I mean of course there are other gun deaths that happen but statistically. And so, and these are the the the the what we should do with technology is make sure the people who are living the worst lives live lives closer to ours and make sure our lives advance as well. But never with the idea that we're going to reduce crime to zero because the only way to do that is to reduce deviant behavior to zero. And none of us want that because I'm not the only one who's a freak show. I'm just more open about it.
>> And like and you know, every single person who's like, "Oh, and I'll tell you something else before I get to you. There's a big lesson in probably the Madani disaster, the short seller, the fentanel thing. If you think you can sit on the sidelines here, like in our generation, we thought we could outsource or like anti-Jewish bias, like you cannot outsource it to the experts. If you think the experts are going to stop anti-Jewish bias or defentinol or whatever, no, they're not. They're lame. They're scared. They're going to they're going to listen to the short seller instead of reading the numbers. Like, this is a really big lesson. listen to the short seller. Look at our numbers. In all these things, every single one, every single person that cares is going to have to stand up and say, "You know what? I mean, it's crazy that we all have to be advocates for ourselves, but the experts are not showing up. They're scared. They're drinking mad,
>> huh?
>> You're mad."
>> Well, you should be mad. Like, it's like I mean, it's it's just like And then, but of course, the the positive side is we have these problems no other society has. Like, I spent half my life in Europe. Europe has no AI scene. The GDP growth that you know is being bismerched by this wonderful seemingly numerically illiterate short seller is uh is a is a plan bounty of riches like riches like Germany would cut off its proverbial beer garden to get this problem. And so but we should not screw it up and the way we screw it up is we are all on the sidelines. We let experts tell us what we should think and we get screwed. Alex, uh it's a longer conversation. I know we're going to have another one, I'm sure, very soon. Um I want to thank you so very much for uh for jumping in impromptu uh this morning after it was a great earnings report. So, congratulations on that. Um and
>> and congratulations on your book. Everywhere I go, there's somebody there's like it's like behind them. I mean, it's everyone has it in their hand.
>> I I Congratulations.
>> I thank you very very much, Alex. Uh, we appreciate it. Uh, let's take a quick final look at the markets just for one.
>> All right, there you go. That was Mr. Alex Karp, CEO and founder of Pounder in the pre-markets. We got a lot to talk about. We got a lot a lot a lot to talk about, folks. We got a ton of earnings. We had Palunteer and Grab yesterday. And I guess most importantly, what everyone is likely paying attention to is that we've got a pretty red pre-market. We've got a pretty red pre-market. So, let's talk a little bit of macro, then I'll get into pounder, grab, all the other earnings. Uber, Shopify, Spotify, ton of different stuff. Uh, and then we will keep going in through it. We got about 30 minutes until the market opens. First off, why are we red? I think that's the number one question I'm seeing in the chat. And, uh, it's a fair question because obviously we are pretty red. S&P 500 right there is down 1% 675 we were at 689 at the highs. We were at about 682 yesterday. Uh and now we're getting hit by about 1%. I'm putting the red or green poll in the chat as well. Do we end green or red for the day so people can vote on what we think? Look, I I woke up at like 5:30 today and I saw the carnage. I was trying to figure out exactly what was happening. I don't have a definitive answer. I have a couple of theories that I'm going to lay out and uh and then we'll go through them and kind of see what's going on. Number one is the overall choppiness of November. Tom Lee was talking about this yesterday that we are likely going to have some consolidation of the gains. A lot of people like what gains? Well, I think people forgot we were up two and a half% for the S&P 500 in October. So, the idea that there were no gains in October, like I think it's, you know, people are trying to be funny. Like, oh, there were no gains in October. Like, no. When you look at the index, it was the sixth green month in a row, up two and a half%. So there were gains and 675 is still significantly larger than the 647 draw down that we had on October 10th which means obviously there might be some consolidation in those gains and that's rather normal to happen and I don't think that's too crazy. So that that's the easy answer is like hey there's some consolidation that's important. The second thing which I'm going to share right here I'm not going to go deep into it because I really have not read that much about it. I've got to do a lot more research but this has been going viral over the past um basically 24 hours. Delinquency rates on commercial mortgageback securities CMBBS for offices surged 63 basis points in October to a record 11.8%. This is uh a full percentage point above the post 2008 financial crisis peak of 10.7. Now that is not like that is not exactly the same as uh uh mortgage back securities for residential houses back in uh 2008. These are more for commercial properties. But nonetheless, you are seeing a delinquency rate go higher in the housing market for a very specific type of um uh of real estate. And at the same time, the delinquency rate for multif family CMBBS jumped 53 basis points to 7.1%, the highest since December 2015. The overall delinquency rate on this specific type of product is up 23 basis points, 7.46%, the highest in four years. This seems like a broader issue in commercial real estate, not in residential real estate. Now, commercial real estate, we had some concerns about that back in 2023. Those concerns lasted for a couple months when we had the Silicon Valley banking crisis and then they kind of dissipated. It wasn't that big of a deal. It's almost like these concerns are coming back. I have not done any meaningful research to validate or really go deeper into these concerns, but this is uh one of the things that has been talked about over the past 24 hours as a potential reason why the market might be, I guess, a little concerned about some of the stuff that's going on. So again, there's a lot more research to happen in that, but that's one of the reasons why we could be getting a little bit of pain uh in the pre-markets. Another reason right here is uh Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley CEOs were at a summit in Hong Kong and they said expect a 10 to 20% equity drop over the next 12 to 24 months, but they also described the current environment as constructive. Morgan Stanley CEO said investors should welcome 10 to 15% corrections not tied to major macro shocks. and Citadel's Ken Griffin also added that markets are deep into a bull run, which means you might see a little bit of a pullback as well. So, you've got November consolidation, you've got this commercial real estate potential issue that's going on, and then you got big Wall Street executives saying, "Hey, uh, we think, you know, expecting a 10 to 15% drop in equities would not be crazy given the massive bull run that they had." And they're not really saying it because of any specific macro issue or any specific thing that they're uh highlighting in terms of like a environmental reason for for what's going on in the broader macro environment. Rather, they're just saying, "Dude, we've had a massive run." And because we've had a massive run, it's not crazy to say we get a 10 to 15% pullback, which it would hurt a lot of people. It would be very annoying, but like at its core, they're not necessarily wrong that it would not be crazy to get a bit of a pullback. Every year you have a pullback of at least 10 to 15%. And that likely happens next year as well. The the issue is the S&P 500 is up about 12% year-to- date. So, if we were to get that 10 to 15% pullback right now, we would lose all the gains for the S&P this year after the 30% pullback in April. And that would obviously decimate individual stocks by, you know, well over 30 to 40%. So, it's one of those things we got to keep an eye on. But I think the combination of all those reasons along with the fact that today is election day. You've got, as Doug says in the chat, election day volatility. This is one of the most important elections in New York in particular. And that's going to decide a lot of the, I guess you could say, trajectory of the Democratic party. By the way, I mean, I thought Mandani was going to had it in have it in the bag and he was going to win. You look at some polls that are coming in from Koshi or some prediction marketers I should say. Cuomo's catching up. Quuomo is catching up. I don't know if it's going to be that easy for Mdani to simply have a cakewalk. Uh I still think there's a good chance he wins, but there's a lot of internal prediction markets, especially if you look at the geographic sector of the prediction markets. One stat for you guys, Kali's prediction market in New York says Cuomo is going to win. Everywhere else outside of New York on the prediction market says Mundan is going to win. So it's kind of crazy that New York prediction markets are saying Cuomo is going to win and then everything else says that Mundan is going to win. So you get just got a variety of issues that's going on which I think are creating this type of volatility and obviously it's annoying to deal with. But yes, S&P 500 is down 1% and that means Palanteer after a phenomenal quarter goes down 8%. We'll talk about that in a second. Nvidia is down 2% grab which I thought was an exceptional quarter. Got massive price target upgrades across the board. That's down 7.6%. 6%. I don't think they deserve to be down 8% after a quarter like that. AMD is earnings today, that's down 3.56%. Uber beat on the top and the bottom by a tremendous rate. Uber is down 7.45%. Shopify had a great earnings. Shopify is down 5%. I mean, it's one of those days where pretty much every stock is red. So regardless of the earnings power, uh you're going to see volatility in these names. If they're taking a breather and you know, if the Algos are giving the entire market a breather, then obviously everything is going to get hit. Gold is also below 4,000 3971. So you got silver and gold that are down. The 10-year is below 4.1. So I don't know if this volatility lasts throughout the end of the day. Let me know in the chat if you think Wow, Oracle 249, that's that's not that far above where it was right before their their earnings in September. Let me know if you think we actually end red for the day or if we end red but not as red as we are right now. uh but obviously the market is upset and there could be a variety of reasons for why they're upset. Now having said that the well I wouldn't say the biggest reason but one of the biggest kind of viral reasons you could be seeing a selloff right here because I do think this is affecting market psychology at least for retail investors is this Michael Bur is back. He's been tweeting over the past couple weeks. He first tweeted last week and uh he's been having many more tweets over the past couple of days. His 13F was disclosed early and he has taken a $912 million put position on Palunteer and a $187 billion put position on Nvidia. That is a $1.1 billion bet in notional value. So that that's the overall value of the uh the puts on Nvidia and pound share as a percentage of the portfolio that uh these stocks are going down. He bought 100,000 shares of Lululemon. He bought 125,000 shares of Molina Healthcare. So, he's buying healthcare and consumer stocks that have that are down like 50% for the year. He bought um Hallebertton, bought Fizer, and bought SLM, but obviously the put position on Nvidia and Pounder is what's getting a lot of attention as well. So, I think there's a combination of a variety of things that are going on right now that are causing the red in the pre-market. this Bur thing, which you guys just heard Karp kind of respond to the the short sellers right here. I think this is also definitely freaking people out because at the end of the day, whether you like Bur Bur, you think he's a one hit wonder or whatever, uh someone taking a billion dollars short against two of the biggest AI companies that have just put up, you know, some some of the most phenomenal numbers ever means that he's thinking that the policy tailwinds, the Trump administration, the earnings results, the growth, the momentum, none of that stuff is enough to stop both of these companies from facing a dramatic decline in pricing. And obviously he's putting his money where his mouth is, which I do have respect for. By the way, Suchin had a great tweet this morning saying there's so many bears on Palunteer and Nvidia that are calling AI bubble, but they have zero guts to actually put their money where their mouth is, right? That they're not willing to actually put money against the trade. They just want to complain about it every single day. Bur's putting his money where his mouth is, and he's saying, "Look, I think these stocks are going to go down and as a result, that's why he has puts on them." Now, this was as of the end of September 30th. So if Bur initiated these puts at like 175 and for Nvidia, you know, probably around the 170s, 180s because that's where it was oscillating around for for for a few months. Uh he's definitely down on the position because Nvidia is still at 200, well above whatever price he entered in. And pounder, I mean, it depends. You know, he was down on it a lot yesterday at 200. Now it's at 190. If pounder comes down to 185, maybe he's break evens. We don't have any details on the prices. We don't even know if he's still in the puts to be honest. He could be out of it. Now granted, I don't think you take a billion dollar short position on two names and and get out of it if you make like $10 million, right? He's probably looking for I mean, quite frankly, I think he's looking for a housing bubble type of collapse on these two names. If I'm not wrong, the bet he took in the housing bubble was about a billion, a little bit more than a billion. Maybe it was like 850 million. He made a billion off the off the trade. Um, and so, you know, when you look at it from a total notional value from from 2008 to now, it's a similar trade. It's not as aggressive, I guess, in terms of the media coverage of it yet because it was just disclosed, but nonetheless, that is the trade that he's putting out there. So, that's what we got. Now, what are my thoughts on it? Uh, look, obviously, I'm a bit more biased towards this AI revolution. I own positions in Nvidia and Palunteer. I do think that the stocks are virtually valued. definitely Palanter more than Nvidia just because Nvidia has a lot of more growth for its valuation versus Palenteer. I wouldn't short those names. I can understand anyone saying the valuation is aggressive on them. I mean like yeah Palent well let's transition to Paler right here. Why is Paler down 8%. Because of pretty much exactly what we talked about yesterday. You could have had a phenomenal quarter for Pounder, which by the way, 63% revenue growth, 40% net income margins, 45% customer growth, TCV value up 300% year-over-year. I mean, just every single number I I I could I could read off right here doesn't do it justice to say how phenomenal this quarter was. I mean, we were expecting 50% revenue growth. We got 63. There's not many software companies, not many companies in general in the age of AI that are growing 60% year-over-year or have a rule of 40 at 114% or have a gap net income margin of 40%. Every dollar 40 cents goes down to the bottom line. I mean, that is absolutely incredible. However, the company is almost a half a trillion dollar market cap. And this is what we talked about yesterday. It's like I am, you know, contrary to popular opinion, I would say I'm a bit more rational about Pounder. And it's not just me. It's a mere R& of us on the weekly. We've been saying this for for months now. This like look, a lot is baked into the price and they could have an amazing quarter. The stock already moved from 170 to 205 at one point. Got to 221 right when the numbers came out. And people are crying because it's at 189. It's like, hold on. The stock was at 60 in the beginning of the year. The stock was at 15 February of 2024. And people are mad that it's not at 200. People are mad that it's not a $495 billion company. They're mad that it's a $450 billion. Like, I don't have sympathy for it. I just don't have sympathy for it. And if it sounds a little mean, then it is what it is. But I know the actual investors in Palunteer, not the people that are traders that just got in because they want to see the price go up or, you know, wanted to speculate on it, understand how transformative that quarter is. And quite frankly, probably understand that the price needs to get consolidated with the earnings growth and that's rather healthy for the company at scale. And so, you know, to me, it's not that big of a concern seeing the price come down. It's something that I think a lot of us expected even if the numbers were phenomenal. And the numbers were phenomenal. It's just first of all, you got a crappy macro in the morning that's getting the price to come down. And then you have this whole bur thing that's creating a psychological issue for a lot of people. And then in general, maybe the numbers just weren't good enough for the street to really continue giving it a premium. I would not be surprised if this dip gets eaten up and it races its way back up to the 200s. I also would not be surprised if it consolidates right here. But regardless, none of that takes away from the actual quarter that we saw. And uh I think that quarter was, you know, a pretty important quarter for the trajectory of pounder. So that's what we got in pounder. Nvidia is also down about 2% based on some of this pre-market action. Google right here down about 2.48. Google losing 200. Meta is just getting wrecked. Meta was at 629 at one point now at 630. There's a lot of issues going on with Meta in terms of its growth trajectory as well, or at least in terms of the perception of its growth trajectory. So, we'll talk more about that during the week. But Meta is down. Amazon right here down 1.89%. PayPal's down. SMCI is down. Apple's down. Ethereum and Bitcoin. I don't know what the heck is going on with these two asset classes. And I want to do a lot more research on kind of how this is playing out, but there is something broken in the mentality of the crypto ecosystem. Either it's this crypto winter cycle is coming up and get ready for these assets to get hit or uh there is a bunch of whales that are just like not feeling uh the ability to stay long right now and they want to capture in some gains and as a result you're seeing some downside pressure. That hurts Robin Hood, that hurts Coinbase, that hurts Micro Strategy, that obviously hurts BMR. you're getting a ton of pain even if you're seeing macro catalysts on both of those assets from an institutionalization perspective i.e. the biggest institutions in the world are starting to commercialize these assets and from a stable coin tokenization perspective which is one of the biggest uh tailwinds for Ethereum. If you take a look at callshi right here, there's a now or poly market. There's a 78% chance of Bitcoin falling below a 100,000 in the next two months. According to Poly Market, you know, there's people that have been calling for 200,000, Ethereum 12,000. I don't know if we get there. Obviously, looks pretty grim over the next less than two months to be able to get those targets. I think even staying at around 4,000, hopefully 110,000 for Bitcoin would be pretty nice to see. But in the face of rate cuts, in the face of quantitative easing, in the face of monetary policy that is a lot better than what it was uh 10 months ago, and in the face of better regulatory frameworks and and in the face of, you know, the president of the United States being very incentivized to do well in crypto because a lot of his net worth is now in crypto, you're not seeing these assets catch a bit. And so I think you got if if you're long these assets or long uh crypto adjacent assets, you got to just hold on tight and kind of see how this plays out. But obviously price action has been pretty disappointing. And I don't think there's anything fundamental about it. It might just be volatility. It might just be traders getting in and out of it. It might just be alos. It might just be cyclical. But I have not heard that headline reason that says, "Oh my goodness, you should get out of your crypto." Outside of the fact that if the market's taking a breather, you know, the first thing people do is they they uh they sell their cryptocurrencies. And that might be one of the reasons for why we're seeing some of this pain right now. Okay, Grab. Let's talk about it. I want to spend about five minutes on it because I know not everyone here cares about Grab. So, I will do a video on this later. I'll post it probably tomorrow on Twitter, so people who really want to dig deep into Grab can watch that video. But, let's just talk about the headlines real quick and then we'll keep going from there. First of all, I thought this was a phenomenal quarter. I know the price action is not reflecting that. That's fine. If you judge every stock based on its price action, then I don't think it's going to be easy to analyze stocks uh throughout the lifetime of a career when it comes to analyzing companies uh especially on a day where the macro's down. But, if you ignore the price action, actually look at the numbers, which is ultimately what the price action catches up to, I thought this was an incredible quarter. 873 million in revenue, that's up 22%. On demand GMV up 24%, they were profitable. 886 million in loans, up 56% year-over-year, and 48 million monthly transactive users, that's up 14% year-over-year. And that is um that is now reaching an all-time high and 7% of the entire population in Southeast Asia. The company also raised their EBA guidance to 500 million. This was the magic number I was looking for on 500 million. That's representing 60% year-over-year growth in adjusted EBA, which is what's necessary in my model to get to $10 by the end of 2027. up from $480 million. So, look, I'm not going to read all this. Again, I'll do a video and I'll go deeper on it. But my core takeaways were that financial services is growing at a rapid pace. Management, if you listen to the call, talked explicitly about their ability to underwrite. The reason they're able to grow loans at almost 70% is because they have a lot of data that's proprietary to their frameworks on their drivers, their merchants, their users that a lot of other Southeast Asian banks would never have because they don't have them integrated into their network. In fact, and that's why they're able to provide credit and as a result of that credit, they're able to disperse loans at a faster rate. This segment will likely be break even and very high margin going towards the end of 2026. Grab unlimited users as an all-time high. Think of this as like Uber 1. Uh this is the largest subscription package in Southeast Asia. That's up 14% year-over-year. Again, 48 million monthly transactive users. That is a massive runup from 41 million a year ago. I think that number gets closer to 70 million towards the end of next year. And as a result, that leads to more topline growth. Tourism is coming back. Anthony Tannon, the CEO, the CEO of the company talked a lot about their tourism partnerships. Q4 looks like it's going to be a very strong quarter with that tourism continuing to be strong and then their new products are working. If you look under the hood, the subsidies that Grab does, aka the consumer and partner incentives were down to flat year-over-year and quarter over quarter. So why do they have more user growth? Why do they have more revenue growth? Why do they have more EPS growth? It's because their actual internal products that they've spent the long time building and that they showed off on April 8th in that grab product event are working. And you're starting to see the momentum of that progress in the actual product suite itself. And so as a result, I think you're seeing a lot more momentum and a lot more excitement. And uh you know, the stock price is not necessarily reflecting that, but the earnings itself, if you've listened to it, which I listened to yesterday, I thought it was a phenomenal quarter. And I don't think that quarter is something that justifies an 8% selloff. Uh you have price target increases across the board. So Bernstein, they raised their price target from 560 to 660. They said, "Grab continues to deliver consistent earnings as it leverages its dominant position to drive both growth and margins. We see multiple levers for expansion as the company deploys technology and its strong cash reserves to unlock new opportunities and expand its total addressable market. A key strength of Grab model lies in its complexity. Building and sustaining a three-sided marketplace across 400 cities is not easily replicated as logistics heavy business rather than a pure digital platform. Grabs model also raises barriers to new entrance. Existing competitors are underfunded and losing ground paving the way for consolidation. The structural advantage allows Grab to play offense rather than defense, executing its strategy with consistency and control. We expect this competitive edge to endure. That's why I'm likely buying the dip. I mean, it's very simple. Operating leverage over the foundation that Grab is laying out will occur. We've seen this over and over again in a variety of tech companies as they continue to get that operating leverage by the complexity of managing their network effect across eight countries and 400 cities. The price likely catches up to that. And so from that perspective, uh I thought it was a great quarter. And I know the price action is not necessarily reflecting that, but uh I thought the quarter was phenomenal and I think the quarter will continue to be phenomenal. DBS upgraded them to 755. Benchmark upgraded them to 7. Mark Mahaney kept his $8 target. City upgraded them to 7. Jeff upgraded them to 680. Morgan Stanley upgraded them to 695. JP Morgan upgraded them to 720. And then benchmark upgraded them to 660. I think pretty much the entire analyst community understands how the story is playing out. It is just a question of when the market will. Now, the one concern I do have about Grab is they have 7 billion in cash, and I don't know what the hell they're doing with that cash. We didn't get that much explanation of the cash on the balance sheet as a percentage of what they're going to be able to allocate that cash to outside of the fact that they're using it more for financial services, which is fine if they want to grow the GIN business substantially by using the cash on the balance sheet. I'm okay with that. But they still have a net liquidity of 5.3 billion. I would imagine they're looking at inorganic forms of consolidation in the region. And hopefully in 2026, if we get some clarity on that, then that could be very strong for Grab as well. So, those are my thoughts. I will give a broader video in a couple days on X for those that want to go deeper into it. But yeah, I think it was a good quarter. The entire market's getting hit and as a result, that's why you're seeing some of the pain that we're getting right now. Michael Bur just tweeted, uh, very interesting to see what he said right here. This is kind of weird. Fake news. I am not 5'6. Not that there is anything wrong with that. And journalist reporting on 13Fs. None more fake. Okay, so uh this is a bit cryptic and Michael Bur is always very cryptic. So there's a couple of dynamics that come to my head immediately when I see this. Uh number one, you cannot lie on a 13F. Okay, so first of all, if anyone's thinking that the 13F is fake, it's like there legally as per the SEC, he manages billions of dollars. You cannot lie. You could be managing, you know, $10 million. If you have to file with the SEC, you have to file with the SEC. So the put position that he has on pound chair and Nvidia is at one point was true. Now when he says none more fake based on the journalist reporting on 13Fs, I think he's implying right there that he might not continue to be as short as he was before. Maybe maybe he got out of the position. And that goes to this whole idea of I am not 5'6 aka I'm not short. Right? That's the implication you can easily take away from that. However, there's also something you can read into that saying he might not be short, but he still has puts. There's a difference between being short and buying puts. Being short means you can lose infinite amounts of money. Being being having your puts means you only lose the amount of premium that you put up on the puts. So, I I wouldn't pass Michael Bur to be very cryptic with this. He also probably is trying to, you know, play with the media right here in terms of making the arguments that he's making. the the bull argument for why he's not short is literally just reading this saying I'm not 5'6 therefore I'm not short the 13Fs are fake uh I've got out my pounder and video position the other version of it is saying I'm not short but I still have a position so the journalists that are saying oh Michael Bur short pounder is not exactly correct based on how the notional volume of the puts implies as a percentage of the actual money that he manages so I think there's a lot of nuance to this but you could argue that he's just not He's trying to be witty. Yeah, he could also be trying to be witty. Also, again, for everyone saying or for everyone thinking immediately that implies that he's not uh he doesn't have a put position on pound and anymore. If he bought them in Q, the quarter ended September 30th. So, we're talking about Q2. At any point that he bought those puts, he's likely underwater on Nvidia or Pounder because the lows Pounder got to was 142 in August. So, if he bought puts during that time, he's definitely underwater. If he bought puts any price above that, he's definitely underwater. Nvidia, the lowest it got to was 169. If he bought puts at any price above 169, he is underwater. So, did Michael Bur like like objectively based on the prices of Nvidia and Palunteer today at any price he bought in Q2, the the quarter before the current quarter we're in uh for for the quarter ended September 30th, he's underwater on these puts. So, if he's saying he's quote unquote not short by implying that, that means he took a loss on all of those positions, I I don't think that necessarily makes sense, right? Like it like Michael I mean, why would you take a billion dollar position on a notional value and uh and then just get out of it and and take a loss? Like that doesn't necessarily make sense. For real says buying puts is not outright short the company. That's the fake news he speaks of. Yes, I that's also one thing I think he's implying right here that he's not exactly short, but he's buying puts. So people saying that he's short like you know because why would Michael Bur want to go against the narrative that he's short pound here because now everyone's thinking oh he's going to get blown up on a short position but as a fund manager he's thinking I'm not going to get blown up if I'll just get I'll just get a stop loss on my position and maybe I'll lose some money but I'm not going to get blown up because I I'm not actually short these names like he was short the housing bubble he didn't buy puts on um uh mortgage back securities he and CDOS's he like legitimately shorted them in fact if you watch the big short he shorted them to such an extent and the bubble crashed so badly that the banks that sold him the positions when he went short didn't have the money the collateral to even give him the profits which means he had to take less of a percentage of a profit I think it was about 20% he had to give up as a vig simply because you know the banks were so underwater they couldn't even pay him for that so there's a lot of nuance to what I think that picture implies but at its core just mathematically if he bought puts or went short whatever you call it at any time in the September 30th quarter ending September 30th 2025 he's underwater on that even after the the decline we've seen in Palunteer today and the decline we've seen on Nvidia. Nvidia is still above 200. Paler still above 190. So just not sure exactly what he is uh what he's implying there. All right, so that's what you got on Michael Bur. Um some macro news and then we got about four minutes until the market opens. First of all, earnings again today were not that bad. Uber, Spotify, Shopify, they all pretty much crushed it uh across the board even if their stocks are not reflecting that. And the reason the stocks are not reflecting that likely is because we have a ugly pre-market. Shopify, they beat by 3%. They came in line with EPS. Beat by 3% on revenue. EPS is down 6% year-over-year. Revenue is up 32% year-over-year. Not too bad. Uber beat earnings by 351%. 311 versus 69 cents. They beat revenue by 2%. Uh Uber CEO DAR was on CNBC. They asked him, "Is there any problem with the consumer?" He said, "No, there's no problem with the consumer." So, I mean, we've been tracking the consumer for a while now uh on the show. We've been looking at a lot of different stats. We obviously do have some problems with the consumer. I think that's pretty obvious and there's a bifrocated economy. But Uber CEO specifically said this morning in their business they are not seeing any meaningful problems with this with the consumer and that's why they're able to beat uh by these margins. Fizer they beat by 36% 87 cents versus 64 cents 16.6 billion versus 16.5. This stock has been in the gutter over the past year. Fizer right here is down another 1% but you do have a double beat. Uh and then Hutate Mining, another Bitcoin miner, 638% B, 43 cents versus 8 cents expected, 83 million versus 65 million. They are also transitioning into a AI HPC play. HUD 8 right here is down 7.89%. Where is Ian? Iran is down 4%. Okay, I am not deep in Iran. I don't understand the business that well. I am looking to do a deep dive on it over the coming weeks. I just did a deep dive on Nebas. Putting that in the chat for anyone who wants to read that. Um and so I is next. However, I have read a lot of commentary over the past uh over the past 24 hours and I am very confused on this Microsoft deal because 50% of what I'm reading says that this is the worst deal ever and that I has to spend a massive amount of money buying out GPUs to be able to even finance this thing. Which is why Microsoft just said, "Hey, you've go figure this out. We're just going to like use your land." And the return on invested capital is less than 4.3%. which means they would be better putting their money into a treasury fund. The other perspectives I'm reading from the bulls are saying that the bears don't actually understand the internal dynamics of Iran's business model and as a result of their partnership with Dell, they're not necessarily going to have to put up all the money that people are saying they're going to have to put up and as a result this deal is actually very lucrative for them and increases their revenue by about 250%. I don't have a dog in this race. I don't have a position in this so I I really don't know but I'm trying to get educated on what is going on. A couple people I talked to yesterday, let's say they're more biased because they're more Nebas fans. By the way, Nebas getting hit as well. 112 right here. Uh they think the deal is the worst deal in the entire data center play. Worse than anything Cororee has done. Worse than anything that uh the other Bitcoin miners have done. They, by the way, they think the Cipher deal is absolute And again, I don't have a dog in this race. I really like if they go up, I'm happy. If they go down, I don't I'm not short, so I really don't care. Uh I'm just trying to objectively analyze. Are these real deals that are helping these businesses to the point where people should be thinking of an allocation into these data center stocks into 2026? Or is this just like makeup that's not necessarily getting to the heart of what these data center companies are actually doing, which is that they have to buy a lot of GPU. It's a very capital intensive business and there's no margin at the end of the day. I don't know yet. And I'd be very curious if anyone has any perspectives. You can tweet at me. I'd love to read them. But from the people I talked to yesterday, which fair warning, they are biased towards Nebia. So that might they might have some IN derangement syndrome or something because there's some weird beef between Iran and Nebas people. Uh but but they are critiquing this deal aggressively and so I'm going to do a lot more reading about it over the next couple days. Try to get you guys a better understanding and then probably on Friday we can have a much more educated discussion on it and uh try to see exactly what's going on. All right, thank you everybody for being here. We got a bit of a red day. We're going to see if this red can continue and uh another day in the stock market as we cover a lot of different moving parts. We got a lot of other headlines we haven't talked about yet and we will get into it as this market opens. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, November 4. Stack market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 down 1.13% on the day. We open up with a negative 1% print on the S&P. Nvidia 2.2% down. Palunteer 7.2% down. It hit 189 at the lows right now at 192 193. We're going to see if the dip buyers come in or if there is enough rejection at some of these levels and people end up selling off. But we got 192 on pound Robin Hood 140. That was at 138. Now that's down about 4.7% but up from 140. Grab getting wrecked down 10%. All right, I guess the street didn't love the earnings. 10.43% right there on Grab. Google down 1.7. SoFi down 3.85. AMD, they have earnings today after the bell. I'll be live for AMD. We'll talk about that. 4%. S&P 500 down about 1% right here. Where is BMR? BMR looks like it wants to go below 40. Unfortunately, it did hit 40.3. Now it's at 40.7. That one's getting hit. Hims missed on earnings by 40%. The stock's up 4%. And I've not gone through those numbers, so I don't have enough to to say on this yet, but uh apparently missing by 40% was okay. And the street didn't care. That stock right there up about 30%. That's actually the one of the only green names on the market today, which is incredible. Uber down 7%, Roblox down 3%, the Q's down 1.3, Crowd Strike down two, Coinbase down through, Coreweave down 4%, where is Iren? Iren is down 3.5, Cipher is down 5.84, 84 Rocket Lab is down 4.3. ASTS is down 4% whereas Oakllo today Oaklo is down 6% back to the lows in that October draw down that we had. Quantum D-Wave is down 5%. Regetti is down 4% and then Q is down 4%. So you got quantum down, you got nuclear down, pounder right there 192, Nvidia still holding 202. Rare earth stocks are continuing to go down. Wow. MP 55 55. This bad boy got up to 99 at one point. 5587 down another 3%. CRML down 4%. TMQ down 6%. US AR down 4% as well. Amazon got a bunch of upgrades this morning to 300. Amazon got that open AAAI $ 38 billion deal. By the way, I was reading about that deal last night. That 38 billion and the construction of uh the AI workloads onto AWS is happening immediately. If you read the press release, Amazon says we are ready to start immediately on this. I don't know if OpenAI is going to be paying them immediately, but uh if you go into the press release like apparently OpenAI needs the workloads like right now and so they are getting ready to contract with Amazon and I would imagine they will be paying them over the lifetime of that of that contract as well. So that is a bullish contract for them. Grab right there down 7.9% recovering a little bit from that 536 low that it had. PayPal 66, ELF down 2.4 and then Apple that is down half percent. Yeah, Jasse said one gigawatt this quarter. So they are very incentivized and ready to get the ball moving immediately with opening eye. SMCI right there down 4%. Ethereum below 3500. So that one's getting hit. Bitcoin below 104. It's 500 bucks away. 300 bucks away from below 102. Micro Strategy, I don't even want to look at that today. Micro Strategy is at 252 down 4%. By the way, Sailor came out with something yesterday. I'm not going to lie, it does feel a little desperate, but I'll let you guys be the the uh the the decision makers here. The new capital raise using STR, which is a new preferred equity, comes with an important clause. If Micro Strategy is too broke to pay dividends on STR, which is a new form of preferred equity, they already have STRK, STRD, STRC, and STRF. It will dilute the holders of its other securities and come up with the cash within 60 days. So if you read through the 8K, they're basically saying if we can't pay you a 10% yield, we will dilute every other asset class that we have issued in order to pay you back the cash. This should be raising them about 350 million to buy more Bitcoin. Obviously, he can't tap the ATM as easily on the strategy common stock because he's done it to the point where, you know, the stock is down significantly for the year. And so now now they're going through a bunch of different, I guess, creative forms of financing uh to to get money to buy Bitcoin. And if Bitcoin goes down, obviously it really hurts because as they keep buying, if they're not getting any return uh on Bitcoin, then their MNAV continues to compress. So kind of weird, but in in in a bull market where Bitcoin is not participating. That's why Micro Strategy is getting hit. S&P 675 new lows of the day. 1.2 Palunteer 9% 188 is what you're seeing on Palanteer. BMR I'm waiting for that to go below 40. Wow. 41. Okay. So, it's actually somehow holding on to 41. I would think I would think that it would go below 40. It's not there yet. 411 actually got a little bit of recovery. ETH is kind of holding on. AMD down four. SoFi down six. Does SoFi deserve to be down 6% after that quarter? Of course not. That is stupid to me, but nonetheless, that's what's happening. And so, obviously, the Alles are taking everything down. Tesla before that shareholder meeting, that's down 4%. We got some new updates on Tesla and Schwab, by the way. So, we'll talk about that. We had some big Tesla shareholders this morning basically threatened to take older shares off Schwab and bring it somewhere else if Schwab is going to vote on their behalf. Uh but Tesla right there 448 that's down 4%. Pounder down 8.9%. Robin Hood getting hit down about 6.5%. Gold is gold crashing. Gold is well you're definitely getting a decline. 2% move on gold. That's about 1.2 trillion in market cap that gold is losing. Um so you're getting a hit right there on gold. Nebius, are we holding on? Nebius was 112 in the pre-markets. Nebius 109 from 135 last week to 109. Not even last week. It was Monday, right? Wasn't yesterday was hitting was hitting around that. Well, no, yesterday it was down 5% from on Friday. It was around that 131 level. Now at 109. So all the data center players obviously getting hit with this. Corey right here down 6%. Cory was at 142 uh on Friday as well. You look at the Bitcoin miners. Wow. Cipher down 10. Ian down six, Clean Spark down seven, Wolf down eight, Hive down nine, Bit Farms down nine, Bit Farms well below $4 at this point. Marathon down four, Riot down seven, Galaxy down six, Cory down five, Neb's down eight, and then Apply Digital also down seven. Na'vias also got hit yesterday after earnings. I haven't gone through their numbers yet, but they're down 11%. They announced an Nvidia partnership a couple weeks ago, and uh that's what helped the stock, and now the stock's getting hit. Where is Meta? Are they taking her to 630? They are taking her to 634. 634 on Meta. Micron also down 6%. What you're seeing right here is a flush out, folks. We're seeing a flush out. We saw this back in October a couple times. Uh then we recovered from it. We are obviously seeing that happen right now. I I I don't think SoFi deserves to be down 5% after their earnings, right? So when stocks are falling uh just with the entire market, you're getting a lot of things flushed out. You're also seeing a lot of the stocks that have very high momentum, Quantum, Nuclear, etc. Those are also getting a little bit heavier of a pullback today and eventually we're going to have to see if those do take any bit of a bottom or does the street really want to take those multiples down in order to move forward. Apple right here also down about 0.3% on the day. SMCI down 5% and then Ethereum and Bitcoin and this is part of the flush out getting hit pretty bad. Flush out or top? That's a good question. Flush out or top? Put in the chat. What do we think? Flush out or top? Is it a flush out that eventually recovers or have we topped? What do people think? What do people think? I mean, look, I think it's hard to call it top. I think you can say some stocks are aggressively valued. I think when Meta is putting up the earnings that they're putting up, Amazon is growing AWS at 20%. Google is growing with 35% operating margins on cloud. Like, I don't I don't I just I don't see that's a toppy market. I think as rates come down, money wants to get allocated into different asset classes. And as these companies continue to grow that money will find the allocation like I just I just like you can say certain stocks are expensive there there's no dis I will admit Robin Hood and Palantry are expensive but those companies are growing phenomenally and they are not the Oakloss of the world and if the Oakloss go to zero nothing happens to the broader market. I mean you get $20 billion of market cap that gets erased but that does not mean that uh Nvidia is not putting up the earnings that they're putting up. S&P 500 right there is 67511. I would struggle to say necessarily it is a top but obviously you are seeing some pain right here which is causing some volatility. The VIX has got to be up like 10% today right? VIX is up 11%. All right so the VIX is moving higher. We get that VIX spiking to 20%. That is your your your screaming buy signal. Uh a 12% move is still likely a buy the dip. question is just how aggressive of a buy the dip could it be or how prolonged the flush out potentially could could also take it. Doug says it can't be a top while margins continue to expand. Yeah. And look and that's the thing about pounder. You can complain about the valuation. That is totally fine. But they did adjusted operating margins of 51% with topline revenue growth of 63%. Like I I've never seen a company in history put up those numbers. And if Palenter was still at 170 and it didn't make a move all the way to 205 right before earnings, I think this would be a little bit of a different scenario. But the problem is we moved really heavy before earnings and the numbers were amazing, but the move already happened and we've seen that happen a billion times in the stock market. So I I I don't think that's something to necessarily be concerned about, but it's hard to say, well, the entire revolution of AI has topped when Palantry is accelerating those types of margins. And by the way, them accelerating their margins is helping a lot of other companies accelerate their margins because they're an enterprise software company. And we're seeing this as we cover the the the earnings for the S&P 500. Almost 80% of companies have beat on EPS in particular, which means margins are going up. So, I think this is probably a buy the dip. And in fact, I'm going to buy the dip right now. I will buy old faithful. Let's buy a thousand shares of Grab. Again, I just don't think that quarter deserved to be down 8%. So, that is what I'm doing right here. All right, there it is. Thousand shares at 560. Buying the dip on Grab. Again, I'm not buying the dip everywhere, but I'm buying the dip on names that I genuinely think are cheap and that put up earnings that don't deserve to be trading at these levels. I can understand people wanting to buy the dip on SoFi 2935. Reddit, why is that down at 194? They had a phenomenal quarter. I mean, again, valuation is up there for Reddit, but the growth is also up there. So you have to ask yourself, do you believe a lot enough in that thesis to undercut the valuation? Meta right there 631 and then Amazon 251 98. Amcore, yeah, where is Amcore, bro? Amcore had a massive day yesterday. Amcore 35.84. Look, based on the result we got from AMCore yesterday, I this is not really a dip, right? We were talking about Amcore at 30 bucks. It's at 35. It was at 37, but if you actually read that that that uh that price target they got yesterday, 62 seems very reasonable at a at a reasonable earnings multiple as well if you believe that American industrialization and onoring makes sense. So I mean I'm not buying Amcore right here right now, but for anyone who wants exposure down 5% with the entire market is not necessarily crazy to me to see if uh if Amcore is worth a buy. Visa is getting hit. Visa right here. Visa is actually up. It was down a little bit. Now it's just breaking green. Oh, we get jolts today. Do we actually get jolts? I thought that's from the BLS. I thought we don't get jolts because the government's closed. Which, by the way, we are officially in the longest government shutdown ever. I think today makes it the longest shutdown ever. Okay. My I I'm looking at a website that says we're going to get jolts. I thought we don't get jolts, but if we do, I guess that's going to be important as we look at the market. Amazon right here, 252. Look at that. You got a green candle from 250 to 252. S&P green candle to 676. Palunteer green candle to 189. Robin Robin Hood green candle from 137 to 141. SoFi green candle 2869 to 2955. Nvidia green candle 200 to 202. Tesla green candle 448 to 452. We cannot say this green candle for sure is a Vshape, but it's a small V that's beginning to form. And that's why we're seeing a little bit of price action to the upside. Uber 90 to 91. Uber should not be down 8%. Dude, Uber had a phenomenal earnings, but Uber is still going to hit 8%. Crowd Strike as well, down about 2%. Did you buy the dip? I know it's 12 minutes into the market open, but let me know if anyone bought the dip. The Q's right there still red. Google trying to get back to 280. That is also down about 1.6%. 6% um on the day. Wow. Anthropic, we got some news. Anthropic from the information, this is not from Anthropic, but the information is reporting this. Projecting 70 billion in revenue by 2028. Goodness gracious. With 17 billion in free cash flow. My goodness. I ran, by the way, look at that green candle on Iran. 63 to 67. Nebus, are we getting a green candle? Yeah. Okay. Everything's getting a green candle. Now, I don't know how uh how how strong the candle is going to be or how high it can go, but everything across the board is getting a green candle right here. I ran from 62 to 66 and then Nebby is from 109 to 113. 17 billion in cash flow, 70 billion in revenue by 2028. If they're doing 70 billion in 2028, you know, OpenAI is going to be doing well above that as well. Which again, you know, this whole argument about if it's a bubble. Well, if the companies are able to put up the growth, I know we can't see it yet, and I know there's this whole funding commitment that all these companies are willing to spend money, but they don't have the revenue to pay for it yet. If the revenue ends up coming and they can pay for it, it just might not be as bubbly as people think, even if it looks like that. And again, it's really good to have a lot of people like a Bur say it's a bubble because you you need people to be worried because someone has to buy as the market goes higher. And usually the people that buy are the ones that were so worried that inevitably get either stopped out of their short position or uh sell their puts for a loss and end up chasing the market. That's what leads the market higher. You got to have new money coming in. You got to have money on the sidelines that's scared of this market and then at one point capitulates and says, "You know what? I can't be scared anymore. I have to get into this market." But that fear is what keeps it from being euphoric. Which I think is very important. Uh Denny's. So Denny's is a a public company that is being taken private. That's why it's up 50%. There's a private equity firm buying them out for about 350 million. That's why Denny's is um is uh is up right now 50%. I haven't had Denny's in a long time. But if anyone is a fan of Denny's, that stock or that company is going public or private now and that's why they're up. S&P 677 getting a little bit of recovery. Pounder back to 190 again that you can obviously see these are the algos going back and forth across the entire market. SMCI, why does SMCI down 4% when it was down 7% three minutes ago? Like what changed in three minutes to to cause a 3% move? It's nothing. It's algorithms. Now, what caused the broader market to fall today? Again, we talked about it in the morning. I there's a variety of different reasons, but at its core, as alos are taking everything down, they might be helping to take everything back up. Ethereum back above 3500. Then Bitcoin 103.8 back above 103. Robin Hood 142. Not too bad. Robin Hood getting back into the 140s. We do have earnings on Robin Hood uh tomorrow afternoon. Let's look at the semis. They're all down except on Intel as well, down 3%. They're all bouncing from the intraday low. If that was the intraday low, but we are seeing some red. Nvidia still at 202. If we look at the heat map, let's take a look at the heat map right here. Yeah, red across the board. The only thing that's green is uh consumer defensives and uh and a little bit of a little bit of insurance. Everything else is red. So tech is getting hit on the day, but uh on this reversal, you might see this heat map potentially change. Even Micron was down 7%. Micron now down 3.7. The banks are all red, but they're barely red. Bank of America down half a percent. JP Morgan down half a percent. And so down 2.3 again. So look at that. Almost recovering back up to 30. And then the Bitcoin miners which were just getting hit. Look at that. IN goes green. Cipher was just down 10%. Cipher was just down 10%. Cipher is about to go green. Now it's down less than 1%. Uh BitForms was at 372. That's at $4. I mean again you are obviously seeing Alos come in place. Nebi is right there back up to 115 from 109 and then Corore from 118 to 121. It's pretty incredible, dude. I mean, like this is what and see the thing that why were we seeing a lot of that red as soon as the market opened? Because I bet you a bunch of people saw Bur uh take a billion dollar position on pound share and Nvidia that is bearish and they got scared and that along with the algos can flush out a lot of people. Now maybe we reverse if this V ends up becoming, you know, worse throughout the day. But the point is you probably have a lot of people as soon as the market open that just, you know, see the red and they they really get panicked about it. Which is why it comes down to conviction, right? Like I am not I'm not selling a single share of Grab at all. That earning if anything I will be buying a lot more today. In fact, I bought I have another Robin Hood account with $25,000 in it. I bought 4,000 more shares yesterday at $5.97. It's like just one of the separate Robin Hood accounts I have with more cash. Obviously, the stock's at 563, so I'm down from that 597 average, but I bought more yesterday and I bought more today. So, it's it comes down to your conviction. For those that have believed in Iran, I mean it comes down to your conviction and it is heavily rewarded shareholders that have believed in it. You have to do your own analysis on the deal and the uh the the nuances of how that deal plays out. But conviction is really really really important on days like this when you have to see you know do you believe these stocks actually deserve to get hit. Meta is a big question for 2026. I want to spend a lot of time analyzing it. gut reaction tells me it is it is going to be the best buy of 2026. It's my gut reaction tells me that and it might not be the best buy in January, February, March or April of 2026, but towards the end of 2026 if Zux is able to meaningfully show that the AI capex is showing an ROI, I don't think Meta trades at 19 times RX. However, the chart is ugly. Anyone will tell you the chart is ugly and it's lost all forms of support. So, it would not surprise me if Meta goes back down into the 600s and then it becomes a bit more juicy. Also, you know, 2026 is a midterm year. You have midterm election volatility. I mean, just have a ton of different things that can get these stocks to go down further. The question becomes which names are you, you know, comfortable with DCAing going into the uh the new year. But we're going to see we're going to see how this ends up playing out. Unh that one's recovering as well a little bit. Three. Wow, look at that. fell all the way to freaking 326 up to 335. Where's Lemonade and Oscar? Lemonade that's down 2.7 but also recovering. And then Oscar uh at 1738 that was down at 1715. Cleansark just went green. All right, so you're getting some of the Bitcoin miners to show a little bit of life. Meta now feels like Google a few months ago. Yes. The only thing about Meta right here as I've been reading more about them is that and and I think it's fair for the street to have this concern. Google had a clear structure of how they're going to monetize AI cloud, Gemini, YouTube advertising. Meta has one uh uh line of sight for monetization. By the way, so back to 30, and that's advertising. And I think there are some analysts that are like, "Dude, you're spending a lot of money. You're spending as much as Google. You don't have a cloud. You don't have a chatbot that has 650 million people using it. You have Instagram and Facebook ads, which are a great business. And that business alone probably justifies meta closer to like a $750, $800 price target if you give it a more reasonable multiple. But is all the capex spend going to lead to anything else besides just better targeting of ads? I think that is the overhang narrative that's going to exist on Meta for the next coming months. Is it a meaningful narrative? Yeah. Is it enough to say the stock deserves to go back down to like 550? I don't think so. And I think there will be enough growth for Zux to to show that there's plenty of ways they're going to monetize. But that is the question and that's why I think the stock is getting discounted right here. Okay, Schwab and Tesla, what's going on? So Jason Debbolt, this guy has like I don't know how many millions of dollars of Tesla. I think it's like 20 30 million of Tesla, something like that. Uh he publicly is calling out Schwab. He says, "Look, I need to speak with someone from Schwab Private Wealth Services this week. Here's why this is urgent. At least six of your ETF funds around 7 million Tesla shares voted against Tesla's board. And my 240,000 Tesla investor followers are asking why Schwab would oppose one of the most successful corporate boards in history. Many of my followers are Schwab clients holding more shares than me. 45,000. Okay, so he has 45,000 shares. As a custodian of ETF shares, your fiduciary duties to vote in shareholders best interest. If Schwab's proxy voting policies don't reflect shareholder interest, my followers and I will move our collective tens of millions of Tesla shares to a broker that does via account transfer as soon as this week. And then you had one guy who even went further and transferred a million dollars worth of Tesla into Robin Hood last night and he basically gave the middle finger to Schwab and said that uh you know Robin Hood makes it really easy to vote your Tesla shares. I'm glad he showed a demo of that a couple of days ago. Elon reposted it and this guy right here as promised I've moved my Roth and other retirement accounts holding 1 million worth of Tesla out of Schwab into into Robin. could be a massive tailwind for Robin Hood if you get a lot of Tesla shareholders just leaving Schwab. But second of all, I mean, this is one of the croniest forms of capitalism I've ever seen. Just because Schwab is a custodian of all those shares does not mean they get the right to vote on behalf of those shares. Like that doesn't make sense to me in any sense of the imagination. They they don't actually own those shares. They're custodying them, but they're getting the voting rights for them. And so I think it's horrendous. I hope that this Jason Debulk guy has enough influence to get Schwab to really think twice about this shot. Schwab has 11 trillion in assets. So obviously, you know, they might not care if a hundred or $200 million leaves. They might not want to deal with the the the changing of their entire business model for that. But nonetheless, uh it is pretty wild to see. And then on top of that, you had the Norwegian bank come out, sovereign wealth fund, said they're voting against the package. Uh they said they own 1.1% of Tesla. They said they appreciate the significant value created under Mr. Musk's visionary role, but the vote is consistent with his stance on executive pay. The fund also posed Musk's record package last year and they're citing concerns over the ward's total size dilution and lack of mitigation risk. Uh I think Norway is an absolute well I I will say Norway's sovereign wealth fund is absolutely ridiculous. I want it to be bit more vulgar there, but I'll uh I'll hold back because the only reason their Tesla stake is worth anything meaningful, the 1% of Tesla that they hold is because of Elon freaking Musk. So, don't give me this nonsense about they're worried about the lack of mitigation. I mean, Tesla trades at an absurd multiple compared to every other growth stock in the market. And you're telling me they deserve that multiple because of negative 30% earnings growth? No, it's because of Elon Musk. like for for for the sovereign wealth fund to be benefiting from the uh amazing multiple that Tesla is being blessed with in this market because of people that believe in their growth story and their potential and for the Norway sovereign wealth fund to be even having the level of wealth they have in that sovereign wealth fund because of investing in Tesla not just their oil money but taking that oil money and putting into something that can compound and then saying oh well the guy who's responsible for getting us that multiple on the stock and leading us to hundreds of millions of dollars of gains yeah we don't get out of That's ridiculous to me. It's absolutely ridiculous. So, look, I hope that Tesla ends up getting the compensation package passed for Elon Meta right there going green on the day 637. I think retail shareholders will come through. But the fact that these institutional investors are acting like this. I mean, it just shows the lack of gratitude they have for Elon. And look, that's my perspective. I know other people will disagree on that. Bitcoin back to 104 Ethereum trying to get back to 3600. But I do think it's a bit ridiculous. I mean because because to say you don't like that Tesla could go to 10 trillion and Elon gets 1 trillion. Well, why is Tesla even worth 1.7 trillion today? Because on every single conventional metric and you know the the these uh fancy suits that control the the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, they can plug in all their DCF models, they'll tell you Tesla's worth like 70 bucks a share, nowhere near $450. The reason it's getting this multiple is because of Elon freaking Musk. And so to be opposed to his compensation to me is pretty absurd. But nonetheless, that's what you got going on with Tesla. Apple right there 268. That's still down a little bit on the day. TLT is up. Nvidia 203, pounder 191. It seems like we're getting a more meaningful V-shape. Tesla right there 457. Look at that. Tesla was at 447. Now up to 457. Beyond Meat, is that going green? Beyond Meat. Wow. The fact that Beyond Meat went green means that this might actually be a legit Vshape that we're seeing today. Irre 69. That's up 2%. It was basically at 72 yesterday. So, a couple more bucks. It gets back to where it was yesterday. How about Quantum? Is that getting a recovery? Quantum's getting a Vshape. Dwave was down seven. Now it's down two. Oaklo was down eight. Now it's down three. Fubo's up 6%. All right. So, you're seeing that V across the entire market. The question is how much juice is in that V? But if we end green for the day, grab now 576 up from 530. Nvidia 203. If we end green for the day, it goes back to the argument about resiliency in this market, which uh doesn't seem to be slowing down even with a variety of narratives that are potentially able to take down the market. So, you are seeing a bit of that Vshape. Do we actually get Jolts numbers? Dude, Jolts comes from the BLS and the BLS is part of the government. We haven't gotten uh jobless claims for the past five weeks. So, why would we get Jolts? I guess we'll see in four minutes if we actually get jolts. I don't think we are, but if we do that, uh, that would not be bad. Um, all right. So, we'll see that macro data. By the way, analysts on Palunteer, Bank of Wow, Bank of America raised it to 255. I missed that today. Bank of America raises Palanteer to 255. Uh UBS at 205, Missouo at 205, Goldman Sachs 188, Bard at 200, Jeff at 70, and then RBC. Wow, Richishy raised the price target, folks. Richishy raised the price target. He still has a sell rating, but Richishy raised us from 45 to 50. Thank you, Richie. That is just like we've been waiting for that for a minute. There you go. Rishi 45 to 50 on the price target. Bank of America at 255, S&P 500 at 678. Okay. So, someone uh one of the the representatives came on CBC this morning and he said he is very confident the government will open by the end of this week. That could also be a reason why some of that is leading to this V-shaped recovery. Um, uh, Senator, uh, Mullen came on today and said, "I'll I believe we'll be able to reopen the government by Sunday." I mean, look, there is a lot of issues with the government not being open right now. And if they don't get it open by Sunday, I think we're going to have more issues. One of the biggest issues we talked about yesterday, 3.2 million passengers are stranded because of the shutdown. The US government shutdown has thrown the aviation system into chaos, grounding or delaying flights for more than 3 million passengers. Airports are reporting massive lines, short staff TSA checkpoints, and canceled flights piling up faster than luggage at JFK. Uh, I'm not traveling this holiday season. I have a cousin who's traveling to New Jersey in a couple weeks. I wonder if the government will be open by the time she's able to to to come to Jersey. But, uh, yeah, for those that are traveling, which I'm sure a lot of you are, it's not going to be pretty pretty if the government doesn't open. So, I think that in and of itself, like not even the SNAP benefits, not the military getting paid, like just the fact that travel, I mean, the travel is a big part of the economy. You have three million people that aren't able to travel. TSA handles 2.4 million people a day. Um, if that doesn't take place, I think we're going to have some issues. So, hopefully that ends up getting resolved by Friday. Bit mine 4262 almost green. Didn't see 30s. 40.5 40.3 at the low. but it's at 42. Thoughts on Shopify earnings? I haven't gone deep into their numbers, but uh I think they crushed it. I mean, from everything I saw on the topline, Shopify seemed to have done a very good job. Uh I think they have an interview with the president on CBC. We'll watch that in a little bit, but uh beat on revenue in line with EPS. Shopify continues to execute. I mean it's one of those companies I think you can buy and hold for the next 10 years as you as you can bet on the future of e-commerce not slowing down with their software platform that really really is accreative to merchants fear and greed we are at extreme fear [Laughter] we were at neutral yesterday you know what happens at extreme fear you just shut up and buy the dip at extreme fear you literally just shut up and buy the dip that's usually what tends to happen So for anyone who wants uh to dip their toes in, maybe you dip your toes. Grab at 577, poundry at 192, Tesla 457, S&P a little bit away from going green. It would not surprise me if we go red today and you know this red continues and we kind of mess up this Vshape. It would also not surprise me if we end up going green because I can't give you a concrete reason for why we were down 1% in the pre-markets. Like I speculated over a couple reasons, but there's no China headline. There's no Trump tweet. There's nothing crazy that would say, "Yep, this is why we deserve to go down." And so, you know, at that point, people hate to hear it, but it could just chalk it up to the algos at that point. And if it was the ALOS, then, you know, the Alos might be coming back. Could be profit taking. Yeah. But but at 5:00 a.m., people decided to start taking profits across 1% in in the entire market, you know, like I I I don't know if that I think I really do think it was more ALOS. And then the algos forced more people to say, "All right, let me cut my losses and take some profits because I'm afraid." If you bought pounder at 170 and it goes to 189 down from 205, you might say, "All right, let me at least sell at 189 and take some profits." And then that pushes it down closer to 188. And then pounder rebounds at 193 because the algos said, "Well, we don't actually want to take pounder down today." And that could have been a lot of the reason for why we saw some of the red. Okay, the reverse repo fears that people are talking about in terms of bank liquidity. By the way, Amazon going green. and look at Amazon at 255. I don't think the reverse repo uh Fed injections of liquidity into the banks are necessarily a massive thing to be worried about. And the reason for that is very simple. The government is shut down and so the Fed has to inject some liquidity into these banks because they're not able to get loans traditionally from uh the overall reserve because the government is closed. So from my understanding, I haven't done a lot of research on it. I need to I need to go deeper on it, but the reverse repos are more so a function of the the government shutdown, which might be resolved by the end of this week, not the Fed saying, "Oh my goodness, things are so bad. There's a global pandemic. We need to inject hundreds of billions of dollars into the bank so that they have liquidity." That's not what's happening here. Like I I don't I don't believe that's what's happening. And so if that's not happening, then that might be a nonsequator for why we could be seeing some pain. Do we have Jolts data? Do we have Jolts? Um let me see. Do we have jolts? I don't see jolts, folks. I don't think we're getting jolts today. It's what, 10 a.m. Jolts? Yeah, no jolts. No jolts. We don't have it. It's delayed. Yep. Delayed. Jolts are again job openings in America. That's actually very, very important data. So, it would be nice to get it, but we do not uh we do not have it yet. So, we're not going to necessarily see this. And now this is the chart that everyone's going crazy about. The Fed Reserve just pumped another 24 billion to the US banking system through overnight repos and 125 billion over the past 5 days amid fears of liquidity crisis. The reason they have fears of a liquidity crisis and the reason the the amount of money is so high is because it's been the longest shutdown ever. Not because there's some macro event that's happened because there's a private credit event or because the economy is collapsing and unemployment's at 10%. It's like so people spreading this stuff. It's like you have to look at the reason for why they're doing this. They're not just doing it for fun. They're doing it because the government shut down. At least that's my understanding of it. And if the government reopens, I don't think there would be a need for this much liquidity. So I I don't think that's like sort of the fundamental reason why markets took a bit of a hit. Okay. Metabonds and Google bonds. So a couple things that were really interesting yesterday. Metabonds, they initiated them last week. They're trying to do 25 billion of bonds. They had 125 billion of demand for those bonds, which is kind of crazy. It shows you how much bonds how how much you know demand there is for corporate bonds for um Meta. Google yesterday said they're raising 22 billion through bond offerings. 7.5 billion in Europe, 15 billion in the United States. And that's going to help them finance what they're trying to do. Now, from what I saw, and someone can correct me if I'm wrong, the the the repayment date on some of these bonds is 2075. So it's like they are they are really stretching it out and uh you know you're getting Yeah. Yeah. The debt expires 2075 and a yield 1.07% more than treasuries. That's from Bloomberg and they sold it within eight parts expiring between 3 to 50 years. So whatever financial institutions bought those corporate bonds they have a lot of faith that Google will be around in 2075. I will be 78 years old uh around that time. So, I guess if I'm doing the market open, I'll be covering the the the bonds that were uh officially sold 50 years ago, now being repaid to the to the to the to the people that or Google redeeming those bonds that were issued 40 years ago. S&P 500 679. But it's kind of crazy that there's that much demand for bonds that expire in 40 years because they're yielding 1% more than treasures. And also the the positive spin on this, the negative spin is like, oh, all these companies are financing via corporate debt. That's fine. I think there's a lot of counter-arguments to that narrative, especially if there's an ROI on AI and you know they they're tapping the debt market in a more effective way. The bullish case of this is the fact that there's so much demand for these corporate bonds and these corporate bonds are you know fueling the AI revolution via debt which everyone is so scared about but there's plenty of demand to buy those corporate bonds means that the debt holders are thinking that it's a great deal and they are very confident in the age of a and what return uh Google Meta or any of these companies are going to be able to get. So, I I guess there is a bullish spin you can put on this, but I don't know if it's the worst thing in the world for Google to be raising$ 15 billion dollars of of capital or for Meta to be raising 25 billion. If the opportunity is as massive as it is, and again, if you're invested in this market, you have to believe the opportunity is massive. It's just that simple. If you don't believe this AI opportunity is massive, then you should sell because everything that is happening as a function of this market that's leading to increased tailwinds is because of AI. If you're skeptical on it and skeptical enough to the point where like you just don't trust that it's hard for you to sleep at night, then you got to sell because every other headline we're going to see is going to be conducive with AI being a tailwind for the broad market. Yes, I'll be live with Jose tonight for AMD. I'll be live with Jose and Neil for AMD and uh we'll be covering what we got for AMD. Amit will be in his 70s doing the market stream and his hair will look the same as it is today. Exactly. That's what we'll be having. Aid Jr. will be doing the market open. Dude, imagine that's the family business. Imagine that's the family business. He just takes over the market open. That'd be crazy, dude. That'd be crazy. All right, we're getting a rebound. We're getting a rebound, folks. Amazon up.2, Meta 639, Grabby Grab 575, AMD 254, S&P 678, Nvidia 202, and then Tessy at 456. You are getting a decent decent decent chunk of green that is coming up. Jason, thanks for the super chat. The hedge funds needed a dip to catch up to retail. Yeah, I mean potentially I do think a lot of money managers are are going to have to chase this rally because they are down on their benchmarks for the year. So, you know, Tom Lee was talking about that yesterday. Any dip theoretically to them might be an opportunity to get exposure. So, that could be happening. Uh Fats, thank you for the super chat. I'd say Karp is on to something with his market manipulation comment. I'd come out and publicly announce if I'm short, too, if I was that bad. Bur. Yeah. I mean, look, there it does seem to be a more coordinated media campaign around this Bur short uh around, you know, him just making the argument that he he wants it to be known that he's publicly against Palervidia. But then again, Bur comes out with this tweet that says he's quote unquote not short. So, you might even have Bur wanting to either manipulate the media or just kind of troll them and say, "You guys are horrible. Oh, wow. He deleted the tweet. Of course he did. Of course he did. The tweet's gone. Last tweet 3 hours ago. So that entire tweet that caused everyone to think maybe he's not actually short ends up getting deleted. See, this is the it's hard to take this guy seriously. The the tweet he did three hours ago, by the way, is about a bubble. So he's quoting a book about capital cycles and the telecom bubble back in 2002 and how much capex was spent and how it inevitably did not return. So, he's obviously signaling that there is a bubble and then he puts out a tweet a couple hours later saying he's quote unquote not short or implying he's not short. It's hard to take him seriously because what if he is short, but he's trying to get the media to not say he's short. I mean, there's like a bunch of different ways to think about it. And that's why you probably have Karp thinking, okay, so like what exactly is going on via the media here on this idea of pounder being short? Also, you got to remember this. I mean, yeah, where is Sitron? That's a good question. You got to remember this. Um, the media would love for Palunteer to take an epic collapse. Like, we have to remember this. And it's not just Palanteer specific, although the media, you know, in large regard does hate Palunteer. Um, any stock that has a tremendous move like Palenter up 25x from the lows. A juicier story is when the stock falls, it's way more fun for the media to cover the collapse of that stock versus the continued rise and the continued execution of that stock. So again, you can hate pounders multiply. can hate their valuation, that is totally fine. It's a it's a free market where everyone gets to disagree about valuations. But for the media, it would just be amazing content for them to document the decline of it. And um that's, you know, an inbuilt incentive that they tend to have, which contributes to kind of what's going on with with this argument for Bur AMD right there, that's down 2% so recovering at 3018 and then pounding right here at 19182. We do not get Jolts data today. We do not get Jolts data. That is not coming out. Hems is up 8%. Wow. SoFi up one or SoFi slowed down 1.5. Hems, dude, I guess the quarter was really good. I really didn't get to go through too much of the quarter. Uh but I guess even on a 40% EPS um miss, the street didn't care. Uh revenues up 50% adjusted up 53%. Growth targets 6.5 billion for 2030. I mean, kind of the core metrics you expected them to hit on, they hit outside of EPS. I'm sure there's some other stuff in the nuances of the call that I don't fully understand. Hims did fall 10% as soon as the earnings came out. So, it was a knee-jerk reaction to the downside and then you kind of had a recovery as it came out. Hims is still short 40% as well. So, you do have a substantial short float there. Uh, I heard jobs data was coming from a different source. Well, I will see if I can get it. So, there are some third parties that have been trying to get some of this jobs data, but Bloomberg is saying jobs jolts is delayed due to government shutdown. Also, US September factory orders are delayed due to government shutdown. We were supposed to get that in the morning as well, but we're not getting that. Okay, let's get a little bit of an update on the state of the consumer and uh then we'll keep going from there and we'll see some of the other headlines we have. does seem like we are getting a decent Vshape as of now.
>> Linda Randelle of Clorox and this is where the consumer pain is really being felt in some of these staples companies. The consumer continues to be under stress. Definitely reacting to the level of volatility and uncertainty that's out there and we're seeing that in their shopping behaviors. Remember David when I warned you about Ken View yesterday when the when consumers don't pay top dollar for the high-end brands, the consumer staples feel it. And so Clorox is an example of one as well. But you know it's different if you're in the travel business where for instance Marriott CEO Tony Capiano high-end consumers he says have demonstrated resilience to macro uncertainties and continue to prioritize travel. So they're they're not prioritizing Kleenex, right? Clorox, Clorox, bleach or whatever. Um and they are prioritizing travel. Um and that's kind of a a continued theme. high-end, low-end is also obviously obviously a big one as we get through some of these earnings.
>> Although we did see Norwegian
>> suffer today.
>> Yeah, that was a revenue miss although the numbers were quite good and the commentary on travel.
>> You can see that actually worsening down almost 12%. Yeah,
>> Contessa is going to talk to the CEO and we'll we'll hear from him a little bit later. But, you know, some of these stocks are also very priced for perfection. They've had tremendous runups. You know, Yum Brands is they have their news on Pizza Hut, obviously, which is moving the stock. But as far as what they're saying about the consumer, we're not seeing the consumer pullback in the Taco Bell business. We do think the consumer in the US is cautious, but incredibly resilient. So that's what you're getting. A lot of these executives acknowledging the caution, the volatility, the uncertainty, but also the resilience on the other on the other end. Uber CEO Darra Kasra Shahi was on Squawkbox this morning. I thought pretty bullish about what they're seeing from consumers. Listen,
>> when we look at our results in terms of the high-end consumer or the more budget consumer, uh they they both continue to grow. We're actually now penetrating increasingly outside of the of the large cities and our growth rates outside of the large cities and some of the sparser geographics that we're going after are one and a half to three times faster growth than in the big cities. Uh so we're not seeing consumer trends one way or the other change. They continue to be strong.
>> That's good. I mean it's a vote of confidence. So you have a lot of these executives saying that the consumer is not in a position where they would be necessarily worried about they're acknowledging weakness but they're not acknowledging uh a level of destruction that would be so horrible that you know it has to reduce their guidance or their earnings picture or kind of how they're thinking about the macro landscape which is good to see. Obviously I do think we have some issues with the consumer in this country. But if these company and again these companies can say the consumer is fine and uh you know the next quarter they come out and their guidance is horrible because the consumer is not fine. It's it makes more sense for them to not lie and sugar coat and just say the actual reality of what's going on like Target did uh a year ago. Because if if they sugar coat it and then the next quarter they miss on earnings because the consumer is horrible, you know, that that does them no favors. They'd rather warn the market, hey, there are some headwinds here. shouldn't be that enthusiastic for next quarter versus uh lie about it. So, I mean, I don't know. Based on the numbers we're seeing, based on the fact that they're beating on the top and the bottom, you're not you're not necessarily getting the concern from these CEOs that the consumer is in a horrendous position. And maybe it's just because the upper class consumer is subsidizing the lower class consumer. Maybe that's what's happening, but their numbers continue to beat. Bitcoin right there 104. Is Hertz getting a squeeze today? Hertz is Wow. Oh, is Herz squeezing 38%. Did Hertz uh announce They don't have earnings today. I don't think they do. Uh what's his name? Um Bill Aman has like 25 million shares of this thing. Oh no, they did have earnings. EPS of 12 cents beats the two cent estimate. Wow. Sales of 2.47 versus 2.4 billion. Okay, so again, here's the question, right? Herz, they rent out cars. Why are they beating EPS by 10 cents? Because people are traveling and renting cars from Hertz and like Right. Right. That's that that's the business model. When people go to travel to a new state or a new place, they have to rent a car from Herz for a couple days on vacation or for a work trip. Like if there's that type of overall business activity, traveling activity, vacation activity, that's why her potential, unless there's something else that they did to get this EPS, maybe it's like an accounting thing, but a 38% move probably is not happening because of some accounting hankypanky. I like that word now, dude. That's Paul Atkins got me into that word, but it seems like it's happening more so because of an earnings beat. Yeah, Hertz is also global as well. Yeah, they also sell cars. That is correct, right? And so the used car market and the overall margins they're getting on some of their cars might be better than expected. This is a call I'm going to listen to tonight. I'm actually gonna This is a call that's important to understand the state of the consumer. I'm going to go through this call tonight and try to get an understanding of it. But there you go. Herz's up 40%. Also, the Hertz short flow, let me check real quick. I think it's above 20%. So, you might get a little bit of a squeeze. Uh 18%. For Hertz, 18%. They do have a pounder partnership. They have that pound partnership back in 2022. So, they've been using pounder for a while. And that could also potentially be helping their efficiencies as well. I think Bill Aman bought it because he wanted Uber to buy them out. I don't think Bill Blackman actually loves the business, but I do think he thought it was an attractive buyout and uh that's why he ended up buying the position. Um you got Mr. Falling Knife, if he's watching, Falling Knife, shout out to you. He bought the grab dip 110,000 shares at 565. So, uh, you got some people taking advantage of this dip right here,
>> and you've got that going on. AMD at 255. There's going to be no technical Tuesday today because I will be live with uh with Jose and Neil for earnings on AMD. So, we'll get technical Tuesday back next week and we're going to cover AMD today. Here's CNBC. They're covering Palanteer. Let's go to that real quick.
>> Just touching session highs. Uh, it is coming back from an earlier dip around the open. And so that dip is being bought. Here are three big movers we are watching. Biotech companies and direct lending down about 7 and a half%. Let's bring in Sema Modi. Sema and the CEO had something to say about it as well. He he sure did. Sarah Palanter CEO Alex
>> I ran back to 7159. So regardless of the chatter on Twitter about how good the deal was or wasn't, the street likes it. Look at that. 63 to 71. You are seeing some real serious momentum as Iran is going green and not just going green but going green by 5 and a half% basically back to where it was yesterday. Incredible recovery right there by Iran.
>> Carb joining CNBC in the last hour and addressed the stock reaction despite a very upbeat fourth quarter outlook. And he also had a strong message for short sellers calling out scions Michael Bur after a 13F filing revealed the big short investor had bets against Palunteer. I'll tell you why the short sellers are constantly getting screwed by Palanteer. Because every time they short us, we just are like tripling down on getting the better numbers. In part, honestly, to make them poorer. Now, the street reaction this morning has been overwhelmingly positive. Morgan Stanley upping its price target from $155 to $25 a share, saying it is hard to find a better fundamental story in software than Palunteer right now. Caner Fitzgerald keeping Palunteer at a neutral rating only due to valuation. They're citing the growth that uh that Palunteer is seeing in its artificial intelligence platform. Uh Palunteer is currently the most expensive company in terms of price to sales ratios in the software sector. And when asked about valuation, car pointed to Palunteer's run rate and that 121% year-over-year surge in commercial. And that is due in part to Palunteer success with boot camps that are essentially helping train clients on how to use this technology real time. Karp on the call said that's faster AI adoption with total customer account increasing 45% year-over-year and contract sizes with new deals of over $10 million up three times. Uh right at this hour shares of Palunteer are down about 8% but still up over 154% this year. Key topics key topics I think investors are going to keep an eye on, one is capital returns. We didn't get any signs of a stock split last night. Uh and then its ability to scale its partnerships with customers overseas. Pounder right there getting a recovery to an extent. 193 up 6.8. Nvidia 202. S&P is about to hit 680, folks. I mean, this thing was at 674 when the market opened. So, you're seeing a little bit more of that green. BMR, are we getting some green as well? BMR. Yeah. 10 cents away from going green. Look, at the end of the day, I think we have to ask ourselves, how is the end of the year going to play out? And you know, do we do we think it plays out in a in a more bearish trend where investors end up selling tech stocks even though they're seeing phenomenal earnings? Because say whatever you want about the valuations, which for the big tech companies, you know, outside of Tesla and Apple, most of them are relatively reasonable when you look at the sales multiples and the earnings multiples, earnings have crushed it. And so if you ignore inflation, you ignore ignore the labor market, you ignore all the other idiosyncratic things that do matter and we cover that stuff daily and you just look at the earnings, which I think at its core when you're trying to figure out, hey, does do these stocks deserve your capital or does, you know, do treasury bonds deserve your capital? These are not insane multiples. Amazon, you know, the highest growth on AWS since 2022, still trading at one of the lowest EVA multiples. Apple guiding for 12% revenue growth in Cub. When was the last time Apple did 12% revenue growth? And I know that's not amazing growth, but nonetheless at their size putting up that growth is not bad. Microsoft 40% Azure growth. Google and Google had a perfect quarter. 23% operating margins on on uh cloud up from 17% and then 34% operating margins on the entire business at their scale. Like these are these are the best companies in the world. Meta unfortunately outside of that tax hit, you know, had a great earnings as well. But these are not companies I think deserve to get sold off or will retract in 2026 unless the AI narrative falls apart which which I don't think that's necessarily going to be the the case. Iran just got a price target upgrade from 75 to 125 at Bernstein. Okay, there you go. That's also helping out 7240 now for Ian. Again, I'm still doing my deep dive on the company. I'm trying to read as much as I can about this deal they got yesterday and what exactly the unit economics look like. Topline level of the deal is 10 billion. Market cap is around 20 billion. The internal numbers, you got some people saying it's not as pretty. But on the headline, you got a lot of people saying, "Look, if Iran even gets a couple more of these deals, I mean, this is going to be a very accelerating growth story at scale." Now, the the the guy on the board of Iran, uh, who who has been, for a lack of a better word, you know, really the the king of the army that's been leading Iran in its due diligence. Um, Mike Alfred, uh, this guy apparently, I didn't know this yesterday, but based on his tweets, um, he hates Nebius and Cororeweave, he says, "The market isn't dumb. It will figure out that asset like Neoclouds have no sustainable competitive advantage without a major shift in strategy." You heard it here first. And so, you know, like I've been involved in one two beefs on Twitter over the past couple years. One is all the hate against Pounder in the early days, Palenter, Snowflake, all that stuff. And then the other one's Robin Hood SoFi. And the Robin Sofi, I don't even know if that was really a beef. That was just more so, you know, two different shareholder bases that had different perspectives on the state of those companies. I don't think any of those compare to this IN versus Nebus versus Cororeweave stuff. That's like you got the Bitcoin data center plays versus the Corives and Nebus Nebuses of the world and it's intense. Like people are going back and forth in the comments arguing, sending essays to each other and I'm over here just being like, well, well, if AI is going to keep growing, shouldn't there be more demand for Nabius and I feel like and coreweave and applied digital and cipher, right? But there's beef, bro. There's like legit beef that people are uh saying right here. Um, Beta Technologies is going public today. What the hell is Beta Technologies? They're is Are they IPOing today? Yeah, it looks like they're IPOing today. Beta Technologies electric aircraft? Really? Beta Technologies, an Evol company. Uh, 830,000 miles on trips in the United States. This is what they look like. Oh boy, dude. We already have Archer and Joby. I don't know if the street's ready for another one. Job's down 4%. Archer down 2%. They got the CEO on CNBC right now. Let's get a little bit of coverage and see if there's any value to getting interested in this IPO
>> right here at Post 9. in the first,
>> you know, it was it was always the intention of the company and we had four things that we had to get to before we went public. We needed to be in production. We needed to have clear cost of bills, materials, a pipeline that we could fulfill to provide good guidance to the street and we need to have a major certification under our belt. And at that point, we knew we would take this next step that we always knew would come. We didn't know the date certain, but we knew those milestones had to be in the bag.
>> So, you've already developed two aircraft. I actually saw one of them a couple weeks ago at the Upsummit. Um, how quickly can you produce them and deliver them to customers?
>> Well, so we are delivering aircraft right now. We have operations down in New Zealand and up in Norway and these are pilot programs with customers that have taken the aircraft for early delivery and trials and they're doing real work with them. We will ramp that through this year uh with the executive order. Uh it accelerates our path to market and as soon as uh mid year to the end of the year next year, I think you'll see a bunch of them flying for real customers. This year we've been doing trials all over the country. We've got aircraft out in Seattle, in Vancouver, down in Ohio, flying right now.
>> Um, so, so you build the aircraft, you also design the charging stations. You also focus on propulsion systems as well. There are folks out there that say electric aircraft, electric aviation, this is a niche market. How do you respond to that?
>> Well, it is right now and it's growing. Like every year that we do this, the range goes up, the payload goes up, and the applications go up. Our aircraft now are flying in all weather instrument flight rules doing real missions that that our customers need done. So the niche market is a product of the performance of the aircraft which is improving at an astounding rate as a
>> All right. So we're going to see when that goes public how that plays out, but it looks like they have some more flights that are operational which might be why they're a little bit different than some of the other evol companies. Folks, Palanteer 195 195. I don't know if we get back to 200, but if we can get back, that would be incredible. Even above 195, I'll take that. After those earnings, if you can hold around these levels, that is not too bad. SoFi is trying to go for 31. Hoodie trying to go for 145. They've got earnings tomorrow. Um, and again, this is the point about Bur, like if Bur took a short from any moment in uh September, August or July, which is Q2, that's when the 13F was filed at the end of September 30th quarter. He's down on that short. Same thing for Nvidia. There's literally no price Bur could have taken the short or the put, whatever you want to call it, that he would be positive because because the stock is up since I mean like yeah, there's just no like he would have had to literally buy puts yesterday at 207, which we know he didn't because the they end September 30th on the 13F. So on Nvidia and Pounder, he has to be down on those positions if he has not closed them out already and taken the loss. Or maybe there was a brief second where he saw an opportunity that he was up and then he closed it already and the disclosure doesn't even matter anymore because he's out of the position. But if not, he's down on those. Wasn't there times he sold he could have sold in October and been positive? Yeah, but it depends on when he entered, right? So if he entered uh No. Well, no, October was I mean the lowest pounder got in October was 169. So he would have had to literally buy it below that or or purchase the short below that to to or above that for it to make sense where again I mean like look look it's possible but the point is it's it's just like the price trajectory has been higher. So and I don't think he piled into it uh in in segments. I think he you know he probably had it couple buys but it's not like he's buying new puts every other day. He probably at one point decided the price was egregious just like Citron at 180 and took the position. And so then the question becomes, you know, at what point did he did he exit it?
>> But also, why are you shorting Nvidia, dude? Like in the growth that like I mean, again, I know there's people that don't like Nvidia's valuation, but Nvidia is nowhere near the valuation uh multiple that some of these other companies have. Nvidia, you could argue, is potentially cheap. Like realistically, you could say based on the price targets we've seen over the past couple weeks and based on the earnings updates going into 2028, you're talking about a potential of 800 billion in revenue these guys are going to be doing in 2030. Like what Nvidia is going to fall back to 130 140. Like if you're again when he took the short against the housing market, he thought the whole thing would collapse. He was right. The whole thing collapsed. Is Nvidia going to collapse? Is pounder going to collapse? And what does a collapse mean? Because to me, I've always defined a collapse by at least 50% or more. That to me is like a full-on uh you know market meltdown in a name. I don't think we're getting a 50% reduction in either of those names. It's tough to to make that argument. And then he buys Lululemon, which he might be out of by now. But he purchased 100,000 shares in this. And if you like the valuation on Lulu, that's fine. But again, like the consumer is obviously not in the space or in the financial situation where they can afford the $150 sweaters that Lululemon is selling. So, it's like like what exactly is and if we get into a recession, I don't think people are going to be buying overpriced hoodies. If there's some AI bubble collapse, guess what? Lululemon's going down with it because the only reason this entire market is up is because of AI. So, if you're just talking about the stock and not even the earnings, well, the Lulu's going down if Nvidia and Pounder go down 50%. So, a lot of it to me is not making a ton of sense. It's not making a ton of sense for what we're seeing. thoughts on Crocs? Uh, well, they had earnings this morning, right? Did they? No, no. Clorox had earnings. Um, uh, Crocs, I I we didn't get their earnings yet. They've had a bit of a challenging year. I don't follow the stock too much, but again, this is one of those consumer plays that we're going to have to see if their new marketing strategies are working to get more people into the brand. But you do have that stock that's down about 27% for the year. Circle on a weekly double bottom. Circle right here is at 115. That's down about 1.75%. Let's do a poll in the chat for AMD. Let's see what you guys thinking on the pump and dump on AMD. I kind of think AMD is going to pump, dude. I think Lisa Sue is going to increase RPO guidance. 70% of you said we're going to end red for the day. And I think she's going to pump this thing. If she doesn't, then yeah, maybe it's a bit more ugly, but I think she pumps it. Amazon rolls out Alexa Plus on the Amazon Music app on iOS and Android, letting Alexa plus early access users request obscure information or complex recommendations. All right, so music recommendations. Look like Amazon's getting into YouTube Music's had it for a while. Spotify's had it for a while. Oh, by the way, Spotify, they crushed earnings as well. Spotify is down 643, but um Daniel Ek is not the CEO anymore. He's the chairman of the board. They crusted it. They beat EPS by 53%. 377 versus 246. 4.9 billion in revenue versus 4.87. They beat by 1%. I mean, again, time after time, you are seeing these companies just put up these monster EPS beats in Q3. And it's it's quite incredible to kind of see the amount of momentum that they are they are putting up. Um, let me just pull up the shareholder deck real quick to show you guys the key thing. So, users, 713 million monthly active users on Spotify, 11% year-over-year. Premium subscribers, 281, that's up 12% year-over-year. Ad supported users 446 million. That's up 11% year-over-year. Financials, you've got premium revenue up 9%, ads down 6% year-over-year. Huh. So, advertising having some issues. Total revenue um up 7% year-over-year. Operating income is up 28%. That's right. The stock is probably holding its multiple. Gross margins are up 316 versus 315. I mean, again, not a horrible quarter. And Spotify really took a hit when Daniel stepped down. It was at like 700. Now it's 640. But outside of that, the quarter wasn't too bad. Um what's up with Weeble? Where is Weeble? bull right here. $10. Yeah. Okay. So, Weeble's been also a disaster. You got a lot of people that pumped this thing up on Twitter thinking it was going to like 20 bucks by the end of the year. Now, you've got those same people putting out tweets saying that the CEO needs to be fired. And to me, that's a red flag because if the only argument for the people that pumped up the name is calling for the firing of the CEO, which Weeble is not going to care about some retail investors on Twitter that are calling for the CEO to be fired, then that likely means the stock is not in the best situation. So, in general, I don't think Weeble has good fundamentals. I've been pretty public about that. Um, I don't think the earnings growth is really there for for a company that's operating a brokerage in a bull market. Is it cheap? Yeah. Is it quality? I don't really think so. But Weeble right there at 10 bucks on the day. Netflix, is that getting some green? Netflix right here, 1999. That one's about to go green. 1,100 on the day. Darth says, "Hey, Emit, my kid is wearing an NBA jersey over a hoodie today. He's 12. You're a trends setter." Darth, I I I think you should encourage your child to continue being a trailblazer, to continue to continue uh setting trends and to continue on the path to to to being your own person. uh very proud that he is going against the grain and putting the the jersey over the hoodie and not paying attention to the haters that just don't understand fashion. So that actually makes me very proud to hear. Dude, I still stand by stock jerseys. Okay, let me say this right now publicly. If anyone wants to build this business, I will invest in it tomorrow. If you can come up with a serious business plan, I think there should be a website that sells jerseys for public companies that allows you to be customized. Very simple. Uh you sell a jersey, you have Nvidia written on it. Don't use the Nvidia logo because then you get sued. Uh it's green. The font should be really cool. And then put the price uh like like let's say someone is in Nvidia 10,000 shares. Their average is 50 bucks. And they want the number 50 on it. Okay. Okay, they get a green Nvidia jersey with 50 as their average on as the number for the jersey. Someone made this for me with Palunteer. It's in my room. I'll go get it in a second. But it's a phenomenal idea and you can't get sued because you're not using the company logo. There's no way AMD can sue you for putting the letters AMD on a jersey. It it might not even be referring to AMD. So, I think there's a massive market for people that would love to rep their stocks in the zeitgeist of culture that we're in in the stock market. And like I would buy a Grab jersey. I would buy a Robin a jersey with with, you know, a number that's uh important to me on the jersey. And I think it's not the craziest thing to market that either. I think you got a lot of people that are interested in stocks. Stock participation is at an all-time high. I think a bunch of retail investors would buy those jerseys. If anyone wants to really build it and build and put out a business plan, I I'm not opposed to throwing some money at it. I do think there's a market that's out there. And then the cost of goods should not I mean like yes, we should get good quality clothing, but like it shouldn't be that expensive, especially with the premium you can put on it given it's around the stock market. I don't know. I think there's an argument for it. I do think there's an argument for it. 95% of people don't invest. Yeah, exactly. But that's the opportunity. the 5% of people that invest are going to want to buy that jersey or at least there's a chunk of them they're going to be like, "Yeah, I would love to like rep my brand for a company that I love." And because your target demographic is only 5%, you have a very specific demographic. You don't have to go super wide. You can go super deep on some of these names. Yeah. Like there's people that are going to want to rep a Open Door jersey or a Beyond Meat jersey or I don't know, maybe it's a horrible idea, but I I do think there's a market for it. I really do think people would want to buy that and patronize the companies that they own. And I I haven't seen any company that's I haven't seen any product that's like this. You just can't use the the logos because then you could get sued. But if you don't use the logos, I think it's okay. Yeah, Fartcoin. Someone might want to rep that. Exactly. So, there's a world where it plays out. Why is Sound Hound dumping? I don't know. Soundhound down 6% today. Don't see a headline there, but Soundhound getting hit. Will I get sued for an AMD tattoo? In the UK, you get clowned for wearing a football jersey anyway, let alone a stock jersey. Well, see, here's the thing. If you're buying a stock jersey, you don't care what anyone has to say, right? You're you're proudly wearing it for the sake of wearing it. Like, I don't know, bro. If you can get the jersey done for like 50 bucks, could you sell it for 125 if it's really good quality? I think so. People People pay like $350. I I paid like what like 200 bucks for my Warriors jersey that I bought last year. Like really good. Now again, the Warriors NBA, there's a lot more nostalgia and brand identity than like a stock price. But then again, for the person that's buying the jersey that cares about the stock, maybe that's something they deeply care about. But I feel like you can get a margin. Okay, let's get some coverage right here on layoffs in regards to what's going on in the job market and then we'll keep going from there. But investors should be wary of regular old job cuts wrapped in AI clothing, guys.
>> In other words, it's an excuse. Sounds like
>> it may be. But I mean, Steve, you do have CEOs Doug McMillan, for example, at Walmart who's been talking about this a lot lately, kind of indicating we're going to have to, you know, retrain for so many different jobs in terms of what they're going to be. We just don't know really is the answer, what's coming at this point.
>> No. And and it's not really to to take away from the idea that it is coming. It's just that right now it seems David think about 14,000 bespoke white collar jobs at a particular place. The the the thing about technology is it still has to be commod a commodity that it's replacing right. So is the job that this person does over here and that person does is AI ready to replace all that and does all that happen uh without anybody really knowing it? I the point here is not that it's not coming, but it's to be skeptical when companies say it's already here.
>> The other argument I've heard last couple days, Steve, has been, you know, postcoid uh hoarding, right, where you weren't sure how big your pool of candidate would be if you did not fill a position or if you let someone go. That's obviously changed. I also thought Cook's comments yesterday were interesting regarding the potential negative impact of a on labor. I I think that's certainly something that I know the Fed is talking about and bracing for, but you know, when a company like UPS says something like um we've launched our efficiency reimagine initiatives uh to make the processes to the network reconfiguration, what does any of that stuff even mean when when when you come I mean that's just a special piece of the use of the English language right there? But but look, here's the thing. Um it it is definitely going to be some job losses, but even Goldman, which did a did a take on say 4% this year, maybe 11% over three years, there's also going to be jobs created. I'm not saying we shouldn't be afraid of it. I'm also saying it's not coming. It's just right now it looks like early days to be saying we laid off 30,000 people for AI.
>> I think that's also fair. If you looked at Jasse's comments, uh Jasse pounder 194 hood 143. Nassie didn't say that the jobs are AI related. Uh he said it's a culture thing which I wonder how many people believe that. Uh but his argument is we overhired way too many people in 20 in during COVID and those jobs just don't need to they don't they're not value created for the company. So they don't need to exist anymore in terms of the level of uh uh basically workloads we needed back in 2021 when the whole world was shut down and we needed you know thousands of thousands of people. Now granted, I think there's a little bit of a read between the lines right there that AI can do a lot of those things that they hired for. Four years later, they're recognizing that. But obviously Jasse can't say that because if he said that, the national headline would be Amazon is slashing jobs because of AI. And you know, that's not the best headline to associate with yourself publicly. And by the way, if you looked at Amazon's internal documents, it was leaked a couple of weeks ago. They are getting ready to do a lot more PR around the layoffs and particularly around automation. So, there was the headline from UBS that they're getting rid of 600,000 workers over the next couple years. Uh, this is meaningfully in in the robotic space with blueco collar workers and they have to get ready to explain to the public that already hates Amazon. You know, if you're not an investor, you probably have a negative opinion of the greedy Jeff Bezos corporation that's uh, you know, getting rich and constantly abusing workers. like they have to change the narrative when that greedy corporation is now replacing 600,000 human beings with robots. And so some of the memos show that they're trying to figure out how to market just like they did back in 2017. There was a big push to unionize Amazon. And there was a lot of different internal work Amazon did to make sure that unions were not formed in any meaningful way. And a lot of it comes down to how they market the value of the company to the public. So, we're going to have to see, but obviously this automation stuff is not is not slowing down. It was corporate speak. Yeah, one could argue it was corporate speak. Uh, Eli Liy above 900. The headline on Eli Liy is Novo and Lily near a US deal on obesity drug prices. Novo and Eli Liy drug prices. That's the extent of the headline I have. So, it looks like that collaboration is helping Lily get some love. How about Novo. Novo is also up. Novo going green along with Lily. Someone just bought $3.5 million of the 150 call for Bloom Energy. Bloom. That's down 2.8%. That is for January 2026. So, you have 4 million of premium coming in for that call. Okay, here's some more on Lily. Eli Liy and Nova Nordis are preparing to announce new drug pricing deals with the White House prepare including for their blockbuster weight loss drugs ompic in return for coverage of the products under Medicare according to sources. Under the deal, which could be announced this week, they would offer the lowest dose of their obesity drugs at 149 per month. In return, the products would gain coverage over Medicare, opening up a new set of reimbursement. Wow, that's a big deal. Hold on. Where's HIMS? Hims is still up 4%. That's a big deal, bro. Obesity drugs at 149 per month under Medicare. I feel like that's pretty massive for Lily and Novo if they can get that done. But there you go. That is the headline on Eli Liy. By the way, Poly Market on the mayor election, they're putting Quuomo at an 8% chance. There's $123 million betting on Mumani at 92 cents. Cuomo has 38 million betting on him at 8 cents. But tonight's going to be wild, bro. Tonight's going to be wild to see who ends up winning. But it is going to be a very important election today. Nvidia right there 202 pounder still holding 193 and then Tesla 456 on the day. US House Speaker Johnson, House will come back if the Senate passes something. Rules out a December continuing resolution. Says putting continuing resolution into January makes sense. Okay, so basically Speaker Johnson is saying if the Democrats want to talk, then we're ready to talk. I don't know, bro. I don't know if we get it anytime soon. Johnson's talking right now. Let's let's go to him right here. can't put food on the table, who can't pay their their bills because they're playing games over here. It is absolutely unforgivable in my view and I wish more of you would would give them a tougher time. Yes. Last one.
>> A question for the secretary if I may. I'm just curious if you can kind of tell us what we know about how the shutdown has impacted the labor market. Um obviously with Bureau of Labor Statistics folks being furled, I'm curious what we do know so far. how this has impacted the job market and if we will really be able to get a full picture or if you will it take the shutdown ending for us to be able to get a full picture.
>> Yeah, thank you for the question on the labor department and specifically uh BLS the labor statistics how important those data points are in order for the markets in order for employers uh to understand um what the workforce is needed. We are not able to release a lot of those reports because we have those furled employees. So once the government is open, we will get right back to work in releasing that. We released one report earlier this month because that was required by law um and you know the CPI in order to uh talk about social security checks for 2026 that had to be calculated. So we brought some workers back for that but we will not be able to release the other data points. As far as the Department of Labor goes, as was mentioned, when we're talking about the SNAP program, one of the other programs that we're we're definitely concerned about, and we've sent letters out to all 50 states, is unemployment insurance. As is delivered by those states, that will be the next thing that we have to be concerned about. If people stop receiving their unemployment insurance will be another detrimental fact to the American workforce. So, that is what we're focused on now. We need this government open. We need to get back to work for the American people. the American workers deserve to know where their next paycheck is coming from and the American economy deserves uh the American workers there. So yes, this is impacting the labor force. I would imagine we're going to see more and more things every single day uh that this government is shut down. Um it is going to affect the American economy. And so uh we're working hard at the labor department to make sure that we can keep everything running that we can. But right now at this point um you know we're working off our back the back heels of us and and we have to do everything we can. So, it's it's important um to get as many statist statistics out as we can, but we haven't been able to do so. So, we're working hard for the American people. We need this government open to do so and to continue.
>> Real quick, do you support ice rates in districts like Speaker Johnson's district, the Republicans up here?
>> Okay, so kind of the same stuff from Michael Johnson in regards to if we're going to get this shutdown taken care of. Uh this was the other senator from Oklahoma who says we're going to be open pretty soon.
>> You think it's possible we could reopen the government this week then?
>> Yes, I think we'll be open by Sunday. Uh it depends on the remember once the h once we vote on it, the house has 48 hours to basically get back. Now what um I know the house GOP is having a conference call today. I will imagine on that conference call they're going to tell their members to they're going to go ahead and put their members on a 48 hour notice tell them they need to be back here Friday. Uh so they could they I mean there's going to be some discussions there too because like I said Becky we're going to change the the the CR because we got to change the date at minimum. What we would like to do
>> because the date only carried through later this month.
>> Yeah. So that's just like almost a bookkeeping. The Senate does it goes back to the House. They put that in there
>> and then it's then it's done. Senator, um I've often likened uh the Democrats to to the Borg collective from Star Trek. I mean, it it's almost they vote as a monolith a lot of times. And I think the Republic
>> All right. So, he's saying that by Sunday it'll be open. I don't know. I mean, based on what Mike Johnson just said, it's going to be up to the Senate to give us the vote. Tesla right here getting a little bit of a dip from 460 to 455. Uh, but we're overall holding pretty green from the absolute lows. I mean, S&P is still down half a percent, but it was down almost 1.2 about 20 minutes ago. Heat map, we should probably see a little bit more progress. Yeah, Broadcom went green, Lily went green, finance, financials went green, consumer defensive still green, a little bit of software, Adobe coming in green, everything else still red, but not as red as it was before. I think the Supreme Courts will be ruling on tariffs on Wednesday. Will that affect the market? So, from my understanding, the Supreme Court's not ruling on tariffs until January, but they're starting to look at the tariff case starting on Wednesday. Um, yeah, it's really important. Obviously, if the Supreme Court were to roll back all the tariffs, I mean, think of all the negotiating leverage that Trump has been able to gain or even all the investments he's been able to gain because of those tariffs. If those tariffs go away, none of those companies have an incentive or countries have an incentive to from Trump's perspective continue acting the way that they've acted, which is more positive. But then again, if the tariffs go away, who knows? Maybe the market likes that because you don't have the tariff uncertainty anymore. So, you got Trump obviously upset about this and he thinks that if the tariffs were to go away, it would be a national security problem for the states given he spent the first year of his second term, you know, using these tariffs as a bargaining chip. But we're just not sure what the Supreme Court will say. My gut tells me they're not going to overturn the tariffs. You've got a relatively conservative Supreme Court. They've given Trump pretty much everything he's wanted over the past couple years. There's some things they disagreed with him on, but I don't know. I think it would be it wouldn't be in the character of the Supreme Court to actually go against it. But I think closer to January, we're going to have a better understanding. Oscar right there, 1781. That one goes green as well. which is not not too bad. Um, Ethereum, where is ETH? What do we got on ETH? 3516. Bitcoin's also still been flat at 1036. Again, retail's not trading crypto. I guess the institutions are not that excited about crypto. You just got I don't know. you got a lot of people that are just not feeling this trade. I mean, there's more money that's gone into gold this year versus all the crypto assets combined. And so, there's obviously a little bit of a narrative shift that's not as exciting for the Bitcoin ecosystem. Uh, you got Bent on. Let's see what he had to say about tariffs this morning as well. Let's pull that up right here. have these the the others are more cumbersome, but they can be uh effective less um it hinders the president's negotiating ability to be able to protect the American people and the American economy. So you know this this is very important tomorrow and you know Scotas is going to hear this and again this is a signature policy for the president and traditionally Scotas has been uh loathed to interfere with these signature policies.
>> I guess uh I'll just ask you one one qu quick question on China. A lot a lot of uh talk about what actually went on with with Nvidia chips and and the Blackwell chips. Are you among the the people in the administration that think that the China should never get those uh highly advanced uh AI chips or is this saving something to negotiate the future with? Because it always seems like these are are stops along the way with these these. By the way, based on some reporting I read last night, uh the reason Trump on Air Force One on Sunday said that we can't give our Blackwell chips to any other countries is because Marco Rubio got involved Secretary of State and he said no way can we give China these chips. So from the reporting I've read, Rubio was the main person to say that we should not give up the chips to China. And it looks like Trump is agreeing with him. negotiations with China. Uh they're they're evolving and and we continue to uh you know to deal with things and they continue to deal with it.
>> Well, you know, if we think about the Blackwell now that they're the crown jewel that 18 18 12 18 months ago the H20s were so good where the crown were the crown jewels. So Joe, I think what you're describing is actually the pace that the technology is moving, not the pace that the negotiations are moving. So there there may be a case down the road. I don't know whether it's 12 12 or 24 months you gi g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g given the incredible innovation that goes on at Nvidia where the Blackwell chips may be you know 2 three four down their chip stack in terms of efficacy and at that point they they could be sold on
>> and you it's your uh take your contention that China had a plan with these rare earth uh materials that this this was in the works and whether President Trump had poked the bear in the first place to try to reset global trade with China. Uh either way that that would have been something that China was planning to use. So it's not like, you know, the president, you know, critics say starts a fire and then puts a fire out and takes credit for, you know, for for for putting it out.
>> Uh absolutely not. This is something that they've been putting together for 35 years. The rare earth magnets company actually used to belong to General Motors. A Chinese company bought it. CPHAS, which is the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US, said they had to keep it in the US for five years. Five years in a day. In 2000, they moved it over to China. They've been accumulating these rare earth assets for years. And Joe, it's important to know that they put this restriction on the entire world. So, you know, don't don't accuse President Trump of of doing this. But what I can tell you is after the meeting in Korea, it was a very good meeting. Both sides approached it with great respect. I think President Trump is the only leader who President Xi respects. They We had a very good meeting. The relationship is in a good place. I think we're going to have uh two state visits next year. President Trump will be going to Beijing and she will be coming to the US and they may also see each other at the G20 in Dural and then the AP apec conference in Shenzhen in November. So I I think the overall USChina relationship is on a much more even keel now.
>> Okay. So that is good news to hear. Obviously, the rare earth stuff kind of got resolved after that meeting and that's why the rare earth stocks are down, which sucks, but it means that China demand or China export controls are likely going away. And again, October 3rd, the reason why the markets fell, Bitcoin right here. Wow. Bitcoin touched 102.8 for a second, then it rebounded now at 103.4. The reason the the market fell on October 10th was because Trump said that China's threatening the entire world with these rare earth export controls. If that's not happening anymore, that's really good news for the supply chains on rare earths, but that doesn't mean that we're going to be able to sell these Nvidia chips to China. Um, I don't know, guys. I don't think I don't think China's getting this uh Nvidia is getting this China revenue. And I think the only reason Nvidia is holding 200 is because Jensen uh at GTC like basically increased guidance by almost 120 billion from what the analysts were thinking without China. And that's super bullish because Jensen somehow is finding a way to increase revenue far and above expectations without the second biggest economy in the world buying his product, which which I think is a massive bull case for just the nature of uh capex buildup that we're that we're approaching. But if he didn't do that and we don't get the China revenue, yeah, that's not a good thing. That's uh that's not a good So, so I think Nvidia is holding up even without the China stuff because of growth outside of China. But without it and without China, it might have been a lot uglier for Nvidia over the past month. But people are spending on capex and as a result, that's why it's able to hold this momentum. Reddit right here down 7%. All right, I think we're going back down. We are going back down. Not crazy, but S&P from 679 to 677. Palanteer still holding 190s pretty nicely. 195 to 193. Robin down from 144 to 141. Not at the lows of 137. Rocket Lab 58.96 up from 57, but down from the high 59s. Nebius, is that one still getting hit? Yeah, it was at 109. Now it's at 112. What about um Irene was at 72. Iron's at 69. All right. So, you got the algos definitely being choppy going back and forth. By the way, I got to share this with everybody because we've been covering the story for a while and I think everyone should just listen to what Bent had to say, but he was uh confronted about punching Elon in the face,
>> which we've asked you about in the past. This one involved Elon Musk that you grabbed him by the collar or something, and your only response was that can't be true because he didn't have a collar. Um I I I think he has a scruff uh of his neck. Was was there any grabbing of anything in that general area? This
>> Yeah. No, Joe, look, this this is this is old news. And you know, Je Jesse Waters has a great great sense of humor and Elon and I were very passionate about what needed to be done with government. He did a fantastic job in setting a trajectory for uh downsizing government, which we we've continued. Spending is down over the past two quarters. We're going to keep it down. And you know what's gone unnoticed during the government shutdown is we actually they had a smaller deficit for fiscal.
>> As you can see, he he completely pivoted the topic to government shutdown and spending stuff. Dude, I I think he punched him. He didn't say no. Like, if he didn't punch a guy, wouldn't you just come out and say, "The media is fake. I never punched him. Whoever is reporting this is ridiculous. I never grab him by the collar. This is stupid." He doesn't say any of that. He just says, "We were very passionate." Which to me implies, you know, they were passionately arguing and then someone probably got physical. And uh, you know, Pent is Vent is that guy. I think part of the reason he's not denying it either is because he wants people to know that he can fight. You know, may maybe it is fake news, but he he likes that it's he likes that it's out there because he wants people to know he's a tough guy. And so maybe that's why it's happening. Yeah, Elon did have a black eye. That's true. Where did that Did it really come from his kid or and Elon probably doesn't want to admit it because it's probably a little embarrassing getting punched by Bent. I mean to an extent it's probably like Bent gave you a black eye. It's like what? like this guy's a teddy bear like like he's giving you a black eye. So I don't know after seeing Vent acknowledge it the way he did just now and kind of pivot the topic I I do think something definitely happened. But there you go. That's what you got on Toddlers can't punch that hard. Yeah. What toddler? I mean, like maybe maybe the toddler was just swinging his fist and it happened, but like a black eye, bro. A black eye is like you got punched hard. I don't know if it's from that. Are we trying to go green ons? What did people buy? Put in the chat if you bought any dips. The only thing I bought today was Grab. A right there. 70.87. Again, not a full recovery, but enough to make you not want to be as upset as it was in the morning. Um, Lias, thank you for the $10 super chat. Here's my donation for your Grinder jersey. Dude, a lot of you guys don't like the jersey idea. Maybe that's where the alpha is. Maybe that's where the alpha is. Or maybe people just don't want to rep their uh their stocks, which is fair. I mean, look, it it is a little uh it is a little eclectic to be repping a stock on your apparel. I get it. Uh and and maybe there's a few of us that are more enthusiastic enough to do that, but maybe there's not enough of a market. That's a fair point. It's a fair critique, but nonetheless, you do have some people that are more enthusiastic about it. I see Meta Grab Nebius from Laura. Um, Train says, "I bought Soundhound." BL says, "I bought four." Um, DM says, "I bought more Verizon." Is Verizon up on the day? Verizon should be up on a day like this. Verizon's kind of down. That one's not getting too much love today. Road said, "I bought some Bitcoin." MJ says, "Meta and Duolingo." Duelingo is tomorrow. I think Dolingo is going to crush it. don't know what happens to the stock, but unless there is a massive headwind, I mean, based on after I did my deep dive, this is a compounder and they should continue to compound. I just not sure exactly how the stock's going to react to it. So from Joseph, um, NG grab 10 calls 2028. I really don't hate those. $10 by 2028 I think is relatively reasonable. And today obviously those calls are getting crushed because the stock is down. So, if you were going to go long grab for the next two and a half years and you wanted some leverage on it, I don't think today's a horrible day, even for being out of the money two and a half years from now. All right, so I see a decent amount of names right here. I mean, how much down are you? Let's check. I haven't checked all day. 90,000 91,67. It was worse in the morning, though. I I I glanced at it in the morning at 5:00 a.m. I think it was closer to like 150 or something, but I haven't checked since the market open just now. 91,000. So, it's a recover. And that that makes sense, right? Because in the morning everything was just obliterated. And we're not a full recovery, but we do have some of recovery. But it just it it was just so random in the morning. like you know you know like a couple remember when I tweeted at 2:45 a.m. don't look at your portfolio uh because it'll look scary. When I woke up at 5:30 and I looked at my portfolio and I saw how down I was it didn't even phase me. Like I was just like this is like I almost looked at it and I was like okay whatever. Like it because I was just like what reason is that like like I can't be upset at Trump talking about soybeans. I can't be upset at Pounder and their earnings. I'm definitely not upset at Grab and their earnings. So what am I upset about? Like I'm upset about nothing. I'm upset like is it worth being upset about the algos being stupid on a Tuesday in November? Like no. like I'm not going to let my mental health get to that point. So, it was one of those things where it didn't really and and now we're getting a somewhat of recovery which is reasonable because I mean what was the reason to be down that much outside of you know there are some people saying the reason to be down that much is because everything's overvalued everything's a bubble and eventually everything has to contract. Again, people can have that argument but then when you look at the earnings growth it is just really really hard to say everything has to massively contract. You can disagree with the multiples. That's totally fine. You cannot say that it's a bubble when these companies are growing at these levels. And if you say that then then then I guess like Google at 23 times next year's earnings is a bubble after growing you know search 12%. Like it I don't know doesn't seem like that has to be the case unless you reported 100% in BMR. Yes, that is also true. Look, look, you this is these are the dog days of a stock. You've got to decide if you want to stick with it. Either you believe in what Tom Lee is doing or you don't. You believe in Ethereum or you don't. And if you don't, then it's easier to cut your losses and get out of it. But I think it's also potentially an opportunity to reevaluate the entire thesis. And again, look, if you're underwater on this stuff and you're ready to get out of a position, sell the call, force the position to get you out of it, and collect some premium on the way out. like there there's a lot of ways to navigate these situations, especially if you think the stock is potentially rangebound versus having to just sit on the the losses in and of itself. What's a good hedge? So, I am researching a bunch of different hedges going into 2026. There's a lot of different ideas I have. We'll probably talk about it closer to the end of November. Um, look, I think some longdated puts on the NASDAQ is not crazy. Uh, at the end of the day, tech is trading at a high multiple. And the whole point of the hedge is that you don't want to profit from it. You only want to profit from it to hedge your losses if stocks go down. Well, tech stocks have phenomenal earnings, but they also have a strong multiple. So, if you were to expect any decline in the market next year, it's not Walmart going down dramatically. There's no point of buying puts on Walmart. You'd buy puts on the NASDAQ, right? You'd buy puts on on tech stocks. Now, I don't know which stock to pick in the NASDAQ, so I wouldn't do puts on Google, puts on Amazon, although those those will probably get hit if we have a market correction. it would just be the Q's. You could also go long short QQQ as one way to uh to hedge as well. And then I'm looking at these inverse ETFs. I mean, there's a lot of inverse ETFs on some of these names that have gone super parabolic that really don't have a lot of earnings to justify their their move and maybe a bucket of those, you know, like is because if those stocks fall 20, 30, 40%, which who knows, right? In 2026, we get a correction, those stocks obviously could get hit. those inverse funds should be printing. So that's one way to navigate it. Um and another way to navigate it is um UIX, you know, being able to navigate how you think of volatility. If you think volatility is going to spike, you can go long UIX is 2x long futures. This one's down 71% for the year, but it's not meant to be up. It's meant to be like on April when this thing got to 90 bucks, that's when you sell it. like you could have gone in at 27 in January for some protection and then we had this massive liberation day and then boom, you can sell for a 4x couple months later. So the VIX and the futures for the VIX are usually meant to be sold immediately when you have a big spike, but I think there's a lot of different ways to navigate it. Cash could be a hedge. Yeah, I'm thinking of cash as a hedge next year as well, which potentially means selling some stuff. And so going into the end of year, that's also definitely something to think about. Trump just tweeted, "Oh boy, what did he say? What did he say?" We're looking at the S&P while I'm reading this tweet. Okay, Donald Trump. He says SNAP benefits, which increased by billions and billions of dollars during crooked Joe Biden's disastrous term in office due to the fact that they were ha halfhazardly handed to anyone in asking as opposed to just those in need, which is the purpose of SNAP will be given only when the radical left Democrats open up the government, which they can easily do and not before. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Okay, so Trump basically saying food stamps not going to be given until the Democrats open the government. Here's a little bit more coverage on the shutdown.
>> Only a partial shutdown. So really a big impact this time and we're already seeing some of that pressure. The Senate here is about to start voting for the 14th time on that stop gap that would reopen the government, but only until November 21st. That's what they've been voting on all this time. You actually heard Senate Majority Leader John Thun say yesterday that they are going to have to when they actually have the votes roll that back, that they can't do it until November 21st. That doesn't give them enough time to get together those bills to really fund the government for fiscal year 2026. And you just heard Speaker Mike Johnson say that if they were going to pull out the deadline, it would need to go past December, probably sometime into January. So that's one sign of movement here. Thun is saying that he does expect is more at least more optimistic that there could be an off-ramp this week. We have seen bipartisan talks among senators ramp up. We're hearing some discussions about maybe combining a promised vote on those affordable care act tax credits for premiums along with some of the funding bills for fiscal year 2026. But at this point, nothing is set in stone. It's not clear that they have a deal and it's not clear even exactly when this shutdown is going to end. Of course, another thing we're keeping an eye on today. It is election day in Virginia, New Jersey for their governor races. Both of those, the Democrat is expected to win based on the polling. But New Jersey is incredibly tight. And if there is an unexpected wave one way or the other, that's going to require the parties to rethink their strategy. Part of the reason the shutdown has gone on so long is that everyone has been relatively comfortable holding their position. But if the polls deliver a surprise tonight, that could very quickly change. Guys,
>> Emil Emily, I've I've got to get your take on the filibuster bypass, why the president's rhetoric has gotten even sharper, and why Speaker Johnson appears to be resolute and saying this could be dangerous once the shoe's on the other foot.
>> I mean, it's Speaker Johnson, it's Majority Leader Thun. It's almost every Republican who I've talked to here, at least on the Senate side. And it's because, Carl, as you mentioned, if they get rid of the filibuster now, that means that it's not there when Democrats eventually take back the Senate. I mean, you've seen the pendulum swing back and forth between Republican control and Democratic control. A lot of senators recognize the importance of the filibuster. Plus, it seems like if a deal is coming together, that that could be a potential path out. They wouldn't need to go to the to the down the path of abolishing the filibuster.
>> Right. All right, looks like they'll be taking another vote, folks. And we're going to see we're going to see what happens to that vote when they do take it. S&P 67784. I think that's pretty much it for today. I mean, it was worse in the pre-markets, a lot better. Palunter holding 190. Google back to almost 280. Grab, I don't think, deserves to be down 6% after that quarter. I'll do a video on Twitter in a couple days and go deeper into my thoughts, but it's getting hit with the ver with, you know, the rest of the market right here. Apple kind of going green that's holding on. SMCI, I mean, dude, this was at 53 yesterday. Now it's down 4%. Like, there's just not a lot of headlines to point to outside of just the market in general being choppy. And, you know, Tom Lee did say, "Hey, it's going to be tough to uh digest the gains of October without having some choppiness." Which is also why when I saw the pre-market red, I was just like, well, you know, we had a good October. We're going to get some of these days and it's inevitable. The other reason I think we're going down, I forgot to mention this, is is freaking uh the the the the the uh the probabilities on the December cut, dude. Like JPAL really did not do us a solid by freaking coming out and saying, "Don't expect a cut in December." And now you got a lot of people actually thinking they might not cut in December. And obviously the market is not going to be happy if we don't get a December cut. So yeah, that could also theoretically be painful. But it's one of those things we're going to have to see and see eventually if it uh if it results in a cut, which I think it probably will result in a cut. And as a result, I think the market should be able to move on from that. Uh, you guys saying grabs on Bloomberg? I don't have Bloomberg TV, so we might have to get that footage later. I don't know why YouTube TV doesn't include Bloomberg TV because I do pay for YouTube TV. But yeah, I'll get I'll get the footage of that later. I'm sure it'll be posted later and then we'll watch it later and uh we'll discuss that as well. The CFO usually always goes on Bloomberg after the earnings and he kind of the C I really do like this. Peter is a really I mean Peter and Alex have a really good way of communicating their business and the network effect and the flywheel is taking place which is what matters to me. All right folks I think that's it. We're done for the day. Uh I'll be back on the close. We got Adobe not Adobe AMD after the bell. That's going to be really freaking important. Um AMD and SMCI the other companies we have today. Let me know if anyone owns these names. I know AMD is the big one. Uh AMD, SMCI, Arista, uh Alab networking. So Arista and ALAB. We have Tempest. We have Rivian. We have Zeta. That's a big one. I know people think Axon Body cameras, Pinterest, Toast, Kratos, a lot of drone stuff. Upstart, Kong, Amgen. We got a lot of companies today after the close that we are going to be looking at. I know AMD is the big one that everyone cares about. We will be listening to AMD's call. If I don't, I know you guys will find a way to legitimately uh chop off my head. So, please do not worry. The AMD call will be played and we're going to listen to Lisa Sue. Dude, if she can just increase that guidance like Larry Ellison did, stock doesn't have to pump, but it definitely doesn't have to dump. And I think that's the biggest thing that people are going to be watching out for. And so, we're going to look from there. AMD right there at 255. You got Nvidia right there at 2011. Tesla right there at 452. and then the S&P 500 at six uh 677 as we end out the day. All right, cool. Let's uh let's do word of the day and then we will be done. Oh, I do have Bloomberg. Dude, it is on YouTube TV. It popped up. Oh Okay. Well, I I think we have a couple minutes left of this. Let's watch this real quick. This is not the full interview, but let's watch as much as we can and we'll do word of the day and then we'll be done.
>> Seems to me to be like more affordable products for a wider audience base, customer base, but you're doing it in a way that is accreative to your bottom line. How have you done that?
>> That's right, D. We've been on point in terms of strategy, making our product more affordable, and we really widened the top of the funnel for us. If you look at the third quarter, we have now 48 monthly transacting users on our platform, which is another record for us. And we're also seeing more users spending on the platform at the same time. So that affordability also is pushing the average spend also on our platform because they're transacting more on the platform. If you look at the number of transactions on our platform, we've g 27%. So it was actually growing faster than our GMBB also at the same time. So what we're seeing is a number of things. One is people are engaging more on the platform but also cross-selling more also as they're coming in into certain funnels that we have on the affordable side. They're also trying other products that we have whether it's the group order that you just mentioned whether it's the dine out features that we have also them to be able to go to restaurants. So there's a lot more products that we've actually been monetizing and that's producing some of the results that you're seeing. If you have a strategy where group food orders and shared rides are a driver of demand, do you need big volume in order to make this a profitable exercise for grab? Obviously, scale is important. the the more scale that we have, the more users using the platform, the more we can actually leverage the cost structure of our business and also scale the big driver base that we have also at the same time. So it does play a role and hence what you've been seeing is that now over a third of our user base especially in deliveries now are coming into what we call more the affordable product stack and it's a great entry point for them to use. uh you're looking at over 25 million monthly transacting users just interacting in those affordable products just on the food delivery side of the business. And that's a great way for us because it enables us to for those users who are a little bit more price sensitive to try the product first, get a taste of it, but also they're a little bit more price sensitive on the delivery fee and we've managed to be able to lower the delivery fee for them. But they also get to experience the platform. And once they've experienced the platform, they get to also experience other products like grocery delivery, which is still a very nent business for us. It's about 10% of our deliveries GMV. And at the same time also, we're cross-selling them to other products like din for an example for them to be able to go to restaurants at the same time.
>> It's interesting that you also offer fintech as well and loans. But I just got to target the elephant in the room is that we hear all these growth stories. We see analysts raising their price target on you but the shares are down on the day Peter and from the conversations you had with investors and analysts what was it that perhaps there was a little bit of concern about
>> I wouldn't say it's any concern uh a lot of the investors are really focused on uh how how we are going to finish the quarter and I've reiterated them that we're on track to finish a very strong quarter if anything that reflects on the guidance that we've given out also
>> that's good that means he's basically saying Q4 is going to be good and he's signaling that if there's any concerns that Q4 is weak, which is why the stock is selling off. I think the stock's selling off because the whole macro is selling off today. He's basically saying right here Q4 should be strong. I think they have to do 930 million in Q4 to meet the high end of their guidance. Uh given tourism in Q4 has been accelerating as per what they said in the call. You know, can they hit a billion next quarter? I wouldn't I wouldn't guide for that. But could they hit like 950 which would get them, you know, above 3.4 billion? I think that that is possible. So we've increased the IBIDA guidance now to $490 million to 500 and that's that's also shows that our confidence in terms of how we exiting the quarter. I've also told them that in terms of our GMBB growth we continuing to sustain this growth acceleration in our business today. So we are looking to finish strong in the quarter. One of the areas that we're focusing also is the fintech business. We've given out a$1 billion loan outstanding by the end of the year and we're on target to hit that also. So all the different parts of the business are on track for us to have a very strong finish of the year.
>> What's also on track is early 2026 robo taxi Chinese robo taxi company we ride. You've been partnering there. How are you seeing AV as the key area of focus just briefly?
>> Yeah, we're leaning into AB. Uh it's was the biggest platform in Southeast Asia. We're leaning into the the various parts of investments that we're making. one is across learning the tech and whether it's the Wideite partnership that we have in Singapore. We're hoping to have the these cars deployed on the streets in the first quarter to be able to take on public passengers with the safety driver and also we're looking at US technologies such as May mobility. We made an announcement with partnering with May mobility also. So we're looking at all the different tech and taking the best of it and really bringing it south Southeast Asia. Peter, quickly, you know, across the jurisdictions you operate in, do you recognize one that is a better regulatory environment to deploy robo taxi in?
>> You know, in all the countries, especially uh and we're starting in Singapore because really Singapore u when it comes to the government regulations, the standards are very high here uh and a lot of the other Southeast Asian countries tend to look to Singapore uh as a proxy. So we've been working very closely with them and that's around safety which is really important and also the customer adoption of of a of an autonomous vehicle itself but at the same time also we're leaning it in terms of how we can reskill the existing driver base that we have here also. So we identifying new opportunities for driver base where they become safety drivers they become remote drivers fleet operators etc which is really important. So the way we approaching AV is working with the government but also working working with the driver community and also the end user also for them to be able to adopt these new technologies.
>> I mean the labor impact of AI is front and center. It's interesting that you're really leaning into that. Peter, the prioritization of innovation how much are you able to do that while still driving the bottom line because profitability is being asked of you.
>> Yeah. Well actually AI is something which is very core to grab. It's not something new also. We've been focusing a lot on AI about four or five years ago. We've developed our own models actually very early on. Uh we now have over a thousand models in production that we're running here.
>> All right. So that's what you got from Grab CFO. I was going to leave, but before I do, we got to take a look at this folks. Crypto is getting hit. It's ugly. Bitcoin 1025, Ethereum 3465. Ah, I mean, now granted, is Bitcoin going below 100? Well, someone just said he likes Bitcoin as a hedge, and maybe that person liking it means we're going below 100
>> because the the emphasis has been on Bitcoin. Yes.
>> Which I like.
>> Yes, you do. Again, I like it as a hedge cuz I am thinking about my kids uh you 35 and a 31y old who might get stuck with this bill
>> of uh of the government and I don't see anybody in the government being tough enough to address it yet. I hope it does happen but in the interim if we get into a situation like a Zimbabwe uh heaven forbid or VHimar my god or Argentina we well I want my kids to be ready.
>> I want to get
>> Is that enough folks? Is it Is that enough to take take out Bitcoin? All right, let's do a poll in the chat. We'll do this poll and then I'll get out of here. Um uh the poll is very simple, which is yes or no. Do you think Bitcoin is going below 100K? 57% of you said pump on AMD. What time frame by end of year do you think BTC is going to touch below 100K by end of year. That doesn't mean it has to close below 100K, but is it going to touch below 100K? 100,000 is psychological. As Uzi says, it's very psychological. I mean, I'm not going to lie, bro. I don't own any Bitcoin. So, if we re But I but I do believe that the contrary to popular opinion, I am orange pe even if I don't own it. I know a lot of you say you can't be orange pill if you don't own it. Well, I love Robin Hood more than I love Bitcoin. So, I feel like you can be orange pill and still want to put a lot more of your money into an asset that is crypto derivative and not crypto oriented. I wouldn't mind buying some Bitcoin under 100K and actually just telling myself, all right, I'm holding it forever and I need to do it in a separate Robin account so I don't get eager to sell it because that's usually what happens whenever I even put a couple hundred bucks into this thing. But um I don't know if it really does go below 100. I want like I like what what happens under a 100red like are we I mean is 95 the floor? Is 90 the floor? Palenterer by the way losing 193 back to 190 so far. All right we're going back down. We're going back down. All these names getting a little bit of a hit. BMR back to 4130 from 4250. Beyond Meat somehow is holding green, but you're getting a lot of these names starting to hit. Micro Strategy 19 cents away below 250. Meta back to 630. Wasn't Meta just at 639? Google back below 280. Seeing gold potentially take a hit back down. Uh 74% of you said yes. 74% of you. Doug says the price is 68,000 for the floor because that was the price on election day. Yeah. Isn't there a stat about election day and Bitcoin correlated prices? I'm going to butcher the stat, but the stat is something like after an election day, Bitcoin has never reached its low in the four-year cycle from that that prior election year. I'm definitely butchering the stat, but it's something like that. And so, I mean, that would make sense at 68K at that point. If it closes on the weekly below 101, then yes, it will go below. Well, there you go. Shorts are winning on Bitcoin right now. Shorts are winning and all the crypto derivatives are obviously getting hit. Bitcoin has never had a low below the previous election. Okay, that was a stat. That was a stat. Okay, so 68K, that's our floor. A long way back down there if we get there. But I blame Tanner. All right, we're gonna see, folks. We'll be here every day to navigate it. But you got Bitcoin at 102. I mean, it it touched 102 and then it bounced to 104 and it kind of was like, all right, maybe we don't have to go back there. We are back down there. So, now we're going to have to see a bounce above to hopefully not stay there. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate everyone being here again. I think a lot of the market volatility likely is due to algos. I know people hate saying that, but if you can give me a better reason outside of AI bubble, then I would like to hear that. There were a bunch of different reasons we talked about in the morning. You can rewind to the beginning of the show where we talked about it, but it seems like Algo's um November digesting October gains, some of the CEOs in Hong Kong like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley CEOs talking about it's okay to have a 10 15% pullback. All that stuff put together kind of led to some of this red. And throughout the day, the market's going to have to see if they can digest that. AMD earnings after the bell. That's going to be very, very important. I'll be live. We'll see what happens with AMD. Uh, but those companies, AMD, SMCI, a lot of these names, very important to keep this bull market momentum alive. So, even though big tech crushed it, you now need the smaller companies to also put up some some good earnings. There you go. All right. Word of the day. Uh, numinous having a mystical, spiritual, or aweinspiring quality. Something that feels beyond the ordinary as if it carries divine energy or presence. The cathedral had a numinous glow as if the air itself had centuries of reverence. Okay, numinous. That is your word of the day. Um, something that feels beyond the ordinary. Well, I would say the stock market this whole year has felt rather numinous. I mean, we've had a pretty strong run. It's just now digesting a lot of these gains and trying to consolidate with them can be a little painful. But that is what you got for your word of the day. Trump just tweeted again. He's talking about unconstitutional voting in California. He's saying the administration is going to be reviewing it. All right. The other reason the markets could be down is this shutdown is starting to get more aggressive. And so until this shutdown gets resolved, you could continue seeing some pain there. All right, I'll be back on the market close. Thank you again everybody for being here. Uh I'll be live at 3:45. I should be with Jose and Neil. We will cover AMD and SMCI. We will listen to AMD's call and we will keep going from there. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. See you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.