You guys A week This channel There's a channel Today The World Trade The World Trade and Tesla The President Decor and the electric technology commercial government public And say chri-nue and s'fong and people this is what this is the news The Donchette's test-pings is using "iscied this one-chance-chrower The Troucett. Though Tesla in all the way, all-one, but Tesla, in the American market, is set-scent fake-sum- and it's always-you-gall- human-goyed- to support car-st, and take on the-z-D-D-S-D-D-Sys-D-D-Sys-D-Sys-D-Shted the billchairs. And in fulquah the and with a two-jee-frook price-scent and say it would have to have 5-6-4-Z0-Zer energy. Some people, certainly never didn't hear-in-mind that time the TV, it's just that is just-and- trans-eas-o-en-Petzer and the product-systems between the short-of-same the fact-the-st- even-e-st-e-sched--all-the-stern-kind-eus and-an-chch-x-all-an-can-quash-s, do a to a life to be a this is not is to their responsibility and it's to people to the people some some some some that that's that they and then, it's like, it's like, the language and the world have some or a or Musk fan boys. With other other non-know-fant just to be people say, not to be people not a money and and and Don't Thee That test, at the end of the game's end up the rest of the people said It's just let the truck is the country on the market different different types of not justing to give us being to a responsibility to a person and take a People's D'OCHERD in the showt'n't so much information, like a lot of people hear't get to hear of the who's not, to hear, there's a new time. There's a German U.S. "Lofan'Guze. Bo-Lau-Fan, more than new-hing-harm in this type of issue, he also has done the think of the people, he's not even if it's not quite sure what they're saying what. He was ferexed, make sure, should be able of all the Fyn Boize, usually with with chan shis are two different on the lot of them so that's drunk on the chancic bing car and so that's a good, it's a very thing, but it's at the same it's not the same same so you know the language there's a word and the that's making car car man-mong and not-of– third- people and the car-o– the same-o--sou-sha-'o-o-sou-sha-sou-sou-sha-sou-s. I, I, I, I had a Tesla. Katt Tesla before, uh, car car Pee-8-Ping B'Hare, all-e B'Chair, there's know that Tesla's the y'est, and will know his own I also had seen more of more data, knowed his and know get his the other new and he's and he's the other the few these years the cost of the cost of the is that his second power that and it's even even to even the Wout the people Woutes Woutes Wootleau caused due to major Inuit Danyuan This one I was in the last time in the question earlier The next time that last the show We're made by a Folol Dada a state court And on a in its carer-st-tall-z-art-eat-st-machine-crow-and-downeat-to-person-plest pay-stern-tund pay for three-min-four-three-year-dollar-seven-three-three-est-est. It's over $17 million. Maersk's did of the fact-to-the-chair-sexualsioned, even is This case of the case, uh, the sub-sum Florida's Klaugo is a a new day, night night night night, a night, a man, a man, a man, a car, a car, a town, and a time, A few minutes after a lot A. A. A. A.S. In a speed of 100-kil' speed, to be the men, and the news, and the news feet, and it was on the three-seme his manoe, their manoeuvre and very heart wound wound down the and a day the young people the night night moment would be being formed to a engang two and the situation the and the person and his family and the car sent on the car court and the situation and saw the car the car car carer the the of carest to get, and dialed at the door-in-the-shape down the auto-easter and the light-the-the- and shalt-the- through the door, that day, gend-gown-kind-gaw--kind-guan-kind looking-kind this is a typical "Scii caused the "Scii also, "Teslae said, "'Tesla' all in the driver, with the auto-carque with the because of the car-hru-court all-you-sou-show-sce all-sceased to show-test, all-sce-the-cest-cuit, all-the-cester-in-s in-ststead-stead. If it's that, the chance-cissue could be all the court's-e don't-o- the case. Tessla's this sort of much more than a dene. He's at the market, and sell car, take up the car to car, and while, by the car ishue of what can't, say, "Yen'n'n'bting'n'bred by human-lay-carstress and can't, but the The last day, the pan-gues to beaughan, by the sent-tons, rejects-tuce-tallah's this change Tesla's way-fah. In the sent-tale-the-court, in the trial. In the sent-pand-goe, the lawyer's, it opened the case the case-up-the-court-a-concern-concern-concithed, and more than-an-an-the-cern-cern-cern-cern. This case's The court's the main question is Tesla that's The end name-of-the-ment name-st, auto-pilot. In the court, law law law said the court, did you have a question. Tesla why why should need a security secure control to command as part command by auto-pilot the self- care so-s The next-shue of the future's further did it, and it's doing it in the doing the process in in the Tesla put out of and it directly it's all self-driving all-south driving, can't change FSD, This name's name-ten to "Youhury' "'The unfeowne' "'theirn't more strong yet more dangerous. "'Yergan-Gaugh-Lewsays' "'was matter. "'You know-Chi-Chi-Metter. "'This word-matter. "'This word, in this one, "'if' word, "'in'-so, '. "'Their-day-you-send.' He just a simple fact. The other car, like, for, if you know, footer, in front, in support, support, car system, use of course, use of course, use of course, they didn't have to Tesla as woo-dough and shusquah. They the carer, support, co-pilot, Fiatist, this use use of the use of the human-in-its, the way, the key-key-st is-fut, the person- is-st-s-ge, the ultimate the responsibility in the end. but Tesla's "Ducing.'" "Wanong Wendz's Game' "Dar FDash", he used Autopilot, "'Tor"sidonged" "Teguio," all-zoned-jazzed"" "...this' "Ming"moh-Morhawatted" "...pict"pye" "...ch "...ch "...that they'" "...ourgoy.'" "...that they're "Otivye"mothed" "...our "...our" "...our" "...an" "...an "oever" "...an "...an "chern" "...an "an" "...an This key in the time in the officer's city in in the court in the he he's she think I'm think that self drive because it's I'm think there's will make call and it and would will self car that is he he believe he can that he can be that this is Tesla's question so is a a right, a right in a first of in a person in fact it, it will be getting to get and the but the the driver but and the can be get to a foot down and to go and to sit and the Uyngo lawyer through a lot evidence and certain to present to show and the Payson Tate Deme Tour's Transit and Quah Autopalalette and broading so far see the car take it can't see it can't meet due and get can't see self sure And the law, as the other two-called The USRour-R-Chair two big third-the-one The first first-te-chews, his-eck- his-te-she-sa He had like a particular like other used on using and to just just only based on the "Newed "Nove the In the car's already find out of seeing from the auto-pilot system can't not even can't make sure and make to be the key to give so it's so much while Wangangbara already in new back in the new new and it's the driver speed the speed on The second set-eget chertion is, as a Tesla's own-s-de-counter auto-pilot this type system at the time at the time was the cost-co-court but Tesla could use the car-in-scied in any dog-road- auto-pilot. including like in the where as the incident that's where the case and there's quite quite road line along the lawy system very clear, and then Tesla's using means and commercial use and the the the company and then to be the system and and can't and the system in the the situation result result the end the result of the Zhao Shi Skiy, there's no problem. He rung, and unlawed, not fused but for the President, because Tesla, because of the product itself's the threat, because of the e-shael, is not-seek-so-so-co. According to Lutthosher and NPR these media's report, in the end-egette-exam and in-sum-connment-concuret, Toslare-sher-hian in-mand-d-dict. Your Aar Lawyer says to Tesla's the cause-to-face-pocket car show-time data and shot-tow-loads. These are the data for a autopilot's system when there's there's no work, or no signet to there, or no before far out or no auto-sacred and that's the same because the data is that the system don't know or say or the data is due the data there's As the case, and the trial and keep in the new evidence proved out of the same the first of people who were at nine, is the same they're they're saying they're just say there's just saying there, not the not but but Tesla discus people the person but the cost of and Yen Gauas "Thinged "'Tinged'Etinged "Dingect' "'Termatt'hury' "Texempts "'Itongue "Guan," "'Tegu' 'Cear's sure "Tegov' "'Tas'la' "Pont"tah'u'hound.'" "'Irins is 'Inged'a' '20%"a" "'When these "Tesla' 'Inged' 'tseh-Nine's "'their,'' 'tta 'tze' "Tzer"a.'"' "'Innove' 'tah'' "'the 'tts' "'the fact' "'it'' "'the "''"' "'D''' "'the "'D" Payson and then will still believe Tesla? A one of the court in the court do not in the company in the and in the how much more this is not need to know not need to just by the just by the people just can't can't As a becough, Tesla, could not even be able to the key-ymband to the key. These were the Tesla-send-pun-to-certainsign-to-the-sum to the present-to-certains, by the sent-tune-kind-like-indsay. It's can't be the actual-so-te-do-soy. In the "Their-sla' in the trial-and-sit-trial-the-tress "Tegesignment's' "Theirciseach" He not just is an issue-out-should-exam and mis-sru-suit-sus-sum. He, also, as it became a short-un-re-estab-y-established of social-the-taulder sin-taxent. Pay-Seption, the pay-tons, the payment-day-of-state, in a lot-connude-as-a-stance just for-fas-fas-st-est-est-with-to-, to-est-the-stow-stow-do-stest-in-old-old-in-law. Now, we'll let's look at PaysonTTN's pay-tron's pay-tee amount. The $2.4.3 million. The $4,300,000 million is Tesla's need to take-to-purchaseing pay-tach. With the bad-bigh-wise-as-buhran pay-suffererererer than the actual cost. First-jury including the situation, if we would be in the person person land-of-s- and the he's not time, he's not the life, he-same, the life, and then. In- the way, the way who, the way, the way a life, she's not he's- life, he's-and- money, the In the material and the real-sum also also also or the the human-s-s- and the and the these these financials, and the the part of the $4,3-1- The other $2.1.2 million is a charge. The taxing pay charge of the motive is not a pro-tang, but is the charge and set. To be able to the other act, and the same, the court, and other other companies will not do not find the same the wrong. A one of the way of the people say this can't can't be able the black gate and it would cause the end of doing do the sub-s sub-s security mows and far back so tsa the cross show shams and mous much people also the United States and the and other countries and the law and in the state of the in the point in the court's and the court's and it's one can make a the way for a way to draw a law lawy on the in the in the in history in the court and In this big We can from three To see the panthe One point The First One part of the plan plan here This is a new Foooo-Ga-Sher-Tor-Gas In-that-in-its In-the-Chice In-Chi-Sys-Coo-Chi-Xed Tos-Ref-Cohsci-TSA-Las Tesla's can't to make-o-she-k T-Sah-S-Lah The President-Bent The truck users' White, the right-she-he, she's-shek, write the driver, as if you're every time, the case, but this one, this time, the pay-son-tron to this one, the people, the people, not, mean-be-n--of-re-n--n-l-n-know--re-n-kind- easy-kind-in-shing--sound. P. PatientTonan I think, Tesla can't use the driver's to use the to the lack of and the vehicle is the need to take the but that but if the car and and it's and it's and it and the t'a This rule will be will be able to support action in terms of the person, the person, the risk, the other point of the point of this is, this is, this plan get will be pushed the entire in the retail in-as-of-e self-co-o--tort, and the time is Tesla, but the impact is not not just just the price of the cost- and it and it can see that is, all of such-cheed the FACU-Bunner, they'll go to foresight their own-you-'shaired, those those who are-frew-forsed-kinded, that's, made-o-ta-of-scient-ship-shaean, name-tray, e-sail, and-tall-court, all can be in-court-couped These years, the American society has been called "Therla' "Tenstein' "'You know'""""""" "Tex'Untzzi-Chaping"" "...theircuit" "...cherned"" "...theirclaim" "...is' "...theircuit," and is a way not even without any way of the security question in-hwan of two-degree gauged in fact that, in the pan-jured, can say, on the few-year-the-cuit, is the law-de-court-the-trial, but the law-de-the-court-the-court, but the "Pobey-San"tray"pment." The third part is this plan is this plan is there can't make sure to set the government and the government to be under security in the in the last one we talked we were the American National Security is always in the Tesla to the auto pilot self pilot but the right law and right way, but quite as well. Wally, this is the penjured for more than power-of-doin-law and to support. In the future of the future, the general and many-year-old government and in many-y and the federal and in-of-vahed-pand-pondue of the abbey to be-the-chart, the strong-stizant, the standard. of the court, the court of the case, the court to say, it's a on the price of the but the and the and in the in this in the judge, can, and can't and especially the taxing payche and to make the $2.43y $1. $2. $7. but but whatever the this and that will be the the power will make to the not the cost of not really in the cost of far and more far and the higher and it is in the company is in things and Maastik's the years of and ageing, has made Tesla selling, self-sou-taffo-shaean, the tax-earned, this panthe, can say, is, share-sum, some high-dell- can-do-tah-tresla of many, can't keep, to make-as-stot--ta-tall-st--sac-stom-yard and-sach-chand-chang--stich-chus-tus-chus-ccann-cum-cend. The The The second The second Chaffing Choumour Gahe Gahe A week A few A few short "tackett It's not a good day for Tesla Today not a "Tesla's not really So, the event in Florida and the the part of people and it's a lot of their question it's a really to all the many people now, now they're there had a two-year- in the American market, in the world, the market, all really very pretty even and it's even many new new and the number and the other car and the car and the number and the commercial and more more and by the way-in-day-per-per-per-ment-monged-scent-to-scent-to-scent-shan-scent-to-scent-trent-to-mise. As a man-focern-focer-suit, we must keen-in-seen-to-know-st, in the current-of-since-of-sting, the system-cue-cest-custom-cuit-old-sor-custom-hore, all is self drive car, they're all. They all is full-jackist system, or, say, "Healthy"foolstead", or, or "Chiefdom.'" Your hand, your jaw, your eyes, your eargings, your ear, and your most important, the "tall'a"t's your "trial"a'a'a' "9'a'an' "an'a""""" For us, for a "Therzor and to "'What-fee Pauce, "'Wobodypally "'toe right to "'to-do-sidongue-stead-stead-stead-stead-chewan "'when "'by, ten-haw-law-wound-wet-huehue "'that's used "'when-huehack-old-so-mind-shu-hruhue "'what-huehruhers-sohs'-mo-s'-s'-word-s'-how-know-the-s'-the-all-the-he-s'-how-let. to put forward as a footer in a lot of a support, are not an one can't you can't take you car the driver, the next the time, the time, is a few word said out, but many people didn't hear for you, the for the person, your life, your family, your family, and your people, and the people, and the people, the most is, it's at your own your For the electricer-sautsons, to more a fain and more than a fifth of and end upman, give-weigh-sum-same, king-way and market, in-the-sioner, in-scient, and in-suit, in the product-sertie-as-sacety-up, in the product-sher-as-all-to-all-to-do-the-all-reux, and it is for-eas-to-the-career, and it is the firm-run-fart-ffas-re, and the state-y-y-yet-s go to cipher, and market, and the market will give us to the pay-out-the-life, use the people's-all-word, "Yes,.'" The President, Florida, through 12-min' people, of people-sucing, to present, payson, to-tund, like Tesla, or, is like, all of the "obey-chings'y-chings-seed to see-how-all-the-churched," in the life on the on the nothury on the understead of the truth. This video of the next, I'll retoe a few, "Fenice Tesla's question It's not even though his car no there's no further, it's not that the support the support of the carstead system there is no, it's not saying that's car-du might the car good, are to know Tesla's product-sign-sign-end of especially he's sent-to-the-sit, and it's-to-the-dom-cha-strand-z-dove-stash-stead, do a mean-che-che-te-a-mine-chief, do a man-mind-fffewscied. Today's-word-all-old. Next-Cye-sight-Gent. Thank you.