Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today's video
Let’s continue to talk about how to accept the complexity of people.
In the video on April 19th
We discussed how unconditional love is possible
We said at that time
Unconditional Love
Not just
Love the specific qualities or abilities of the other person
We should love this quality.
The complexity and possibilities behind it
And encourage this possibility
certainly
You can see and love the complexity of another person
Firstly, because
You have accepted your complexity
This love built on complexity
Beyond our understanding of love
General understanding of love
Often based on specific moral qualities
Or above ability
For example, I love her kindness and compassion.
I admire her for her profound thoughts and values.
etc.
These are certainly valuable qualities.
However, these are phenomenal
On top of these phenomena
Humans also have a kind of ontological morality
It is a continuous process of self-exploration.
This exploration
It may make a person more and more complicated
Even denying your own ideas
Makes the parties more confused
But this change and complexity
The deepest and innermost part of a person
But that video
We just discussed a framework.
There are many issues worth discussing in detail
For example, one netizen said in the comment section
You said to be open and friendly to experience
and an attitude of acceptance
But what if the experience itself is immoral?
Such as cheating, lies, betrayal, etc.
indeed
When we say we need to accept the complexity of people
We must not just accept the bright side of people.
And it must include the shadow side
Even this side of the shadow
This is the true meaning of complexity
So we use the word
It is also to avoid psychological
Make subconscious moral judgments about good and bad, right and wrong
Then someone might ask
This acceptance
Will we indulge people's dark side without any bottom line?
In this video we will discuss these topics in detail
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
In fact, this topic is not easy to understand
Because
It is not a matter of pure logic and reasoning.
The problem can be understood
It requires a lot of inner experience.
Of course there is another reason
The language we use in daily life
It's easy to confuse the issue.
Like love, tolerance and understanding
These words appear too frequently in our lives.
It can easily lead to a feeling of emptiness and hollowness.
for example
You have to learn to accept and tolerate your imperfections.
The tolerance and acceptance in this sentence
In fact, it is the exact opposite of what I meant.
What we mean here is love, understanding and acceptance
It is different from the general sense of tolerance and understanding.
General understanding and tolerance
Usually, tolerance
As a means to achieve practical benefits
Forgiveness and tolerance as understood in traditional Chinese culture
It's basically like this
For example, in the Analects of Confucius,
A disciple asked Confucius what is benevolence
Confucius said that if you can do these five things,
Kung Kuan Xin Min Hui
The so-called "respect does not insult
Widespread wins the crowd
Trustworthy people
Being sensitive leads to success
"Benefits are enough to make people
Confucius meant
Generosity can win people's hearts
Popularity
Do favors to others so that you can use them
Therefore, tolerance in Chinese culture
Not from a transcendent,
Unconditional spiritual understanding
Rather, it is deeply embedded in ethical hierarchies and networks of relationships.
In the context of practical benefits
More of a strategic "tolerance"
The purpose is to maintain order and gain loyalty
or avoid destroying interpersonal harmony
For example, in "Zhenguan Zhengyao"
It is often mentioned how Li Shimin "conquered people with virtue"
“Tolerance and tolerance of criticism”
For example, in Romance of the Three Kingdoms
Whether it is Liu Bei or Cao Cao
There have been a lot of acts of tolerance towards the enemy.
But this kind of tolerance is purely to buy people's hearts
It is essentially part of the art of ruling.
It’s an emotional investment
It does not have any deep empathy for individuals
and recognition of spiritual complexity
The Confucian Way of Loyalty and Forgiveness
As the saying goes, "Do not do to others what you do not want others to do to you"
The starting point is still
Restrain your external behavior
Rather than entering into the inner experience of others
The ultimate goal is to
Maintaining stability and harmony of group order
Another common confusion between tolerance and understanding
It is directed towards specific behavior
for example
A child has a father with a bad temper
He complained to his mother
Mom told him
You have to understand your father's difficulties
The understanding here
It is not a psychological understanding.
It means that you are at the behavioral level
Be more obedient and submissive
Don't complain
Another person hurts you.
He said you have to understand my difficulties
To forgive me
This is also
It makes you compromise and sacrifice on a practical level.
As long as you do this in reality
He doesn't care how you understand it.
What we mean here is understanding and acceptance
It is a purely spiritual understanding and seeing.
It cannot be used as an ethical
or legal basis
It's not an obligation
I understand why someone commits a crime.
But this psychological understanding
It cannot be used as a reason or evidence for the other party to escape guilt.
This is just my personal insight.
Ethics that do not necessarily touch or change reality
This is similar to what Kant said in What is Enlightenment?
Two ways of using reason
Kant believes
In reality
We often need to be in a specific social identity
Maintain "private use of rationality"
That is, sometimes you need to obey and compromise in your behavior.
Have to implement some
Systems and rules that we ourselves do not agree with
But at the same time
As a person
A world citizen
We should have the right to truth and freedom
The right to public use of reason
You can obey orders.
But you have the right to express your thoughts unconditionally
This right
It is not to change the social system and rules immediately.
It is just to reserve a spiritual territory for enlightenment itself.
Same
This pure spiritual understanding we are talking about
refers to
A person can have such a space
He is in this space
You can express any emotion and thought
Rather than being judged by morality or diagnosed by psychology
He just needs to express it for his own purpose.
No need to feel fear
Even if these ideas are contradictory
Even if the person concerned denies today's idea tomorrow
It doesn't matter.
In this space
No matter how he reveals his experience
Both can get each other's unconditional understanding and attention
He has complete sovereignty in this space.
That's exactly what Rogers said.
The person concerned becomes his or her own everything at every moment.
All the richness and complexity
No hiding of oneself
Be fearless within yourself
certainly
This is an ideal state
It is also very difficult to achieve
First of all, there are very few people who have this ability
Secondly
Such a person cannot exist in any time and space
This can be done to anyone
So we say
This kind of pure spiritual understanding and tolerance
It is not an obligation in a relationship
I can't ask everyone around me to do this.
But it can be used as a
An ideal state worth pursuing
If you have this ability
Then you will be more likely to accept yourself
At the same time, you can also
Affect the people around you
This purely spiritual understanding is not linked to reality.
Do not seek to change reality immediately
But it also preserves the spiritual purity
Make the parties
Ability to focus completely on exploring one's own experience
Without having to bear the consequences of real actions
That's it.
Some people think this state is beautiful.
But some people must be skeptical
How is this kind of acceptance and tolerance possible?
Is it really not just an act?
Why would anyone appreciate this complexity?
But I think
This appreciation and acceptance
It is a very advanced aesthetic experience.
What I appreciate
It's not the other person's messy thoughts.
It is the process of the flow of the parties involved.
When a person is in an atmosphere of acceptance
When you keep expressing yourself
Although his expression may seem chaotic,
Complex, conflicting
But as the expression deepens
His expression
Still tends to be purposeful and systematic
This purpose is his true self
This process of moving toward your true self is lovely.
The parties gradually discovered
Some voices seem to come from the self
It's just a personality mask and a defense mechanism.
He gradually became able to distinguish
What experiences come from deep within?
Which experiences are the result of external implantation?
Eventually his mind will become more orderly and coherent.
Rather than chaos
This process is obvious to the observer.
It can be an aesthetic experience in itself
It's a thing that becomes purer.
More in line with your purpose
for example
The originally messy items become layered and orderly
It will make people feel healed
Music is very similar to this psychological change of people.
for example
the beginning of many classical music
is very depressing, anxious and disturbing
Its rhythm jumps
As if exploring some dark emotions
As the music progresses
This melody becomes more and more layered and directional.
More and more passionate
At the end
The composer reintroduced the melody that appeared earlier
Make the listener feel a sense of belonging
And deep harmony and satisfaction
When we listen to music
As if I could see
How a person's spirit unfolds step by step
Experienced various conflicts and changes
Finally back to oneself
Completed integration
certainly
Acceptance is actually a two-way process
One person to another
Acceptance of complexity and richness
It also points to itself
When I see the richness of the other person's life
When you broaden the other person's life experience
I also feel
My spiritual connection with the other person is deeper
The result is that I have done this
Reaffirmed my own uniqueness and richness
And my deep connection with this world
So this acceptance of another person
Equal in nature
There are no additional conditions
In this exchange
The most important thing is not
How much professional knowledge and advice can I give to the other party?
But first of all, we need an atmosphere
It is my spiritual world towards the other person.
Have genuine curiosity and interest
Many people don’t have this curiosity and interest.
They are content to use external labels
To predict other people's hearts
Content to see a poor,
A monotonous and completely known world
Stereotypes are often true.
However, there are always many things about people that cannot be predicted by external labels.
Unknown parts
These parts
Often the most worthy of exploration and attention
This curiosity and interest in others
It is far beyond the general sense
Psychological professional competence
It is not something that can be improved or changed simply by learning.
But it actually creates this atmosphere of acceptance.
The most precious thing
When we have this
Sensitivity and interest in the uniqueness of others
We can give each other more easily
Provide a safe atmosphere
To express yourself
We discussed above
How is this acceptance possible?
That's it.
Some people may doubt
This acceptance
It really doesn't make a person more evil.
Worse?
What Rogers said
This fearless freedom of expression
For many people, it's scary in itself.
Rogers also realized this.
He also said
“The life path I described
A more common response:
Becoming one's true self
It means he is bad, evil,
Unrestrained, destructive
It means to release some kind of monster
Making waves in our world
'If I dare
Let these suppressed emotions come out
If I had the chance to actually experience those emotions
This will cause a catastrophe'"
However
Rogers believes
It’s not the negative emotions themselves that are destructive
It is the repression and denial of this emotion.
If a person
Accept and experience your anger as it is
Then this anger that is accepted and transformed
No longer destructive
It won't make him collapse.
He can allow himself to experience his sexual feelings
My lazy emotions
or hostility towards others
At the same time, your world will not collapse
certainly
Rogers didn't try to prove it.
He is just telling the readers based on his personal experience
Accept your complex emotions
It is by no means an evil process.
But why are we so afraid?
What negative emotions do you experience?
I think one of the main reasons is that
Many people take the emotions and ideas that arise in their hearts
Directly equivalent to behavior
The reason why I am afraid of my own thoughts
Because I thought of
The practical consequences of putting this idea into practice
I can't bear the consequences of this.
I will be very scared and afraid
indeed
We need to take responsibility for our actions in the real world
Bear the consequences
It is normal to be afraid of the consequences of reality.
However, in my inner world
People don't need to have fear or guilt about themselves.
I had an idea
A mood
Doesn't mean I'm going to make it a reality
Many times
These ideas are just
A medium for me to explore my deep needs
Just a tool
But in that fear
We are actually stuck in a psychological equivalence mode
Just lost temporarily
Distinction between inner world and external reality
Directly project your inner feelings onto the outside world
Lost this sense of boundaries
I also lost this experience
The ability to reinterpret and reinterpret
This is usually due to the fact that we grow up
Lack of effective feedback and reflection of these emotions
We may have experienced a too easy destructive
External circumstances that amplify our emotions
When we simply express some negative emotions
Others experience strong emotions
As a result, we feel as if we have a thought
It causes direct damage to others and the world.
This is a slippery slope fallacy.
For example, some parents have unresolved mental conflicts of their own.
Unable to contain children
As a result, when children express certain negative emotions
The parents' own reactions are many times greater than their children's.
Children do not feel feedback
It's your own feelings
It caused great harm to the parents.
For example, in many schools in China
The teacher will monitor a student's every move
Linked to his future
Maybe the student is a little tired.
Or rebellious feelings
Guilt and fear immediately arise
Thinking that I might achieve nothing in the future
Or feel sorry for your parents, etc.
This state
In fact, it is similar to a kind of primitive superstition
For example, the ancients were very concerned about natural disasters such as wind, rain, thunder and lightning.
Very scared
I think I am in front of this natural phenomenon
You can only keep in awe and worship, not think
Once you think
As if it would bring about an unspeakable disaster
But we now know
You think about disasters in your mind
Your words and discussions on disasters
It will not make the disaster more severe.
This first
Not because we know a lot of scientific knowledge
But we know that people's inner world is independent.
is infinite,
Above and beyond nature
Therefore, facing natural phenomena
People are free to interpret
Formulate a hypothesis
Building a theoretical model
No need to feel fear
therefore
A person actively experiences his inner world
Pursuing self-integration
In fact, it has something to do with humans breaking through their primitive fear of nature.
Bravely explore the mysteries of the world
They are all about moving oneself from the unknown to the unknown.
Freed from the fear of alien power
That’s all for today’s video.
We will continue to discuss this topic in the next video
If you have any
Confusion and problems want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!