From the New York Times, it's the headlines. [music] I'm Tracy Mumford. Today's Tuesday, January 13th. Here's what we're covering. The deployment of thousands of armed mass DHS agents to Minnesota has done our state serious harm. This is in essence a federal invasion of the Twin Cities, and it must stop. The state of Minnesota is suing the Trump administration over the mass deployment of ICE agents there, claiming it has violated the US Constitution and infringed on the state's rights. It comes as the administration has announced it's sending 1,000 more immigration officers to the state on top of the roughly 2,000 other federal agents who are already there. The lawsuit asks the federal judge to block the deployments. Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison said that even before the killing of Renee Good by an ICE agent last week escalated tensions there. Residents had already been racially profiled, harassed, terrorized, and assaulted. Schools have gone onto lockdown and some retail stores, daycarees, and restaurants have actually closed because people are afraid to go out and to do their shopping. Whether they're immigrants or whether they are citizens of many generations.
>> Over the last month, across the Twin Cities, armed agents have marched through apartment complexes demanding to see documents and handcuffing people. They've targeted construction workers at job sites and tackled a man on his lunch break near downtown as he repeatedly screamed he was a US citizen. The Trump administration initially launched its widespread enforcement operation in Minnesota to target undocumented Somali immigrants amid a major welfare fraud scandal. It says the new surge is needed to allow agents to carry out their work safely. In a separate lawsuit, the state of Illinois also sued the administration yesterday over its ICE deployment there, saying the federal agents were quote imposing a climate of fear. A spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security called that suit baseless. Meanwhile, the Times has learned new details about the FBI investigation into Renee Good's death in Minneapolis. Sources say it seems increasingly unlikely that the federal agent who killed her will face criminal charges. They say investigators have been looking into the agents actions and into the connections good might have had to activist groups opposed to the administration's immigration crackdown. That focus appears to be in line with comments [music] President Trump has made in which he's repeatedly claimed without evidence that [music] protesters opposed to his policies are part of a shadowy violent network. [music] Now, three quick updates from Washington. At the Supreme Court this morning, the justices will hear back-to-back cases involving transgender athletes. the first time the court has formally taken on that specific issue. The cases will test the constitutionality of state laws in West Virginia and Idaho that only allow students to participate in sports based on their sex assigned at birth. Though rulings could have implications for 25 other states with similar laws. At the court, lawyers for the athletes will make the case that the laws violate the Constitution's equal protection guarantee, while lawyers for the states and the Trump administration will argue that the participation of trans female athletes undermines the yearslong effort to increase opportunities for women in sports. Also, in a seismic shift at the Environmental Protection Agency, officials plan to overhaul how they set rules on air pollution. For decades, the EPA justified clean air rules around ozone and fine particullet by calculating the cost of their impact on people's health, taking into account things like days of lost work to asthma attacks. Now, under the Trump administration, the agency will only take into account how much it would cost a business to follow any regulations. The EPA says it will still be considering human health, even if it's not explicitly in its costbenefit calculations, but the change could make it easier to repeal limits on pollutants from things [music] like power plants and oil refineries. And the Times has learned that the US used a secret plane painted to look like a civilian aircraft and armed with hidden weapons when it carried out its first strike on a boat carrying alleged drug traffickers back in September. Trump has claimed the US is in an armed conflict with drug cartels, justifying the strikes. But use of that plane could constitute a war crime. Under the laws of war, combatants are prohibited from pretending to be civilians to trick adversaries into dropping their guard, a crime known as perod. The US military also killed two survivors of that initial strike in what military law experts say could be another war crime. In a statement, the White House said the strike was quote fully consistent with the law of armed conflict. [music] In Iran, witnesses say the government is carrying out a brutal crackdown on the protests that have been rocking the country. Authorities there are spent the last 5 days shutting down the internet and many phone lines to try and impose an information blackout. But the Times has been able to reach people over satellite internet connections who describe scenes of intense violence. They said they've seen snipers on rooftops in downtown Tyrron shooting into crowds and security forces opening fire with machine guns. Hospital workers say protesters are coming in with skull fractures and gunshot wounds. One ER had 19 shooting victims in an hour. A businessman told the Times, "I managed to get connected for a few minutes just to say it's a blood bath here." One Iranian government official said he'd seen an internal report referring to at least 3,000 dead civilians and security forces.
>> Last night, undeterred by the crackdown, a large crowd gathered in Thrron once again. Footage from the BBC captured people chanting death to the dictator with gunfire in the background. Iranian officials have started claiming that the protests which began late last month over economic wos have been taken over by terrorists and they are blaming the US and Israel for fueling the unrest. [music]
>> It's a simple way to get a 360° set of tests at a low cost
>> in the US. A growing number of health and wellness companies are making a new pitch. We can test your blood.
>> We pair tests across 65 biomarkers with over
>> they're offering people a chance at lab tests without any kind of doctor visit or referral.
>> That to me feels like the future of healthcare.
>> The promises vary. Some say they can help catch cancer early. Others say they can help identify the source of hard to pin down conditions. They're capitalizing in some cases on a growing skepticism of and frustration with the health care system. One company's website even promises, "Ignored by most, tested by us." Several people who have paid for these kinds of tests tell the Times they were drawn to them after struggling with illnesses their doctors were unable to diagnose or resolve. Some medical professionals, however, worry that the companies are subjecting patients to costly tests they don't need, which could result in false positives and lead to unnecessary follow-ups or anxiety. And while many of the athome tests these companies are offering are the same ones people might get at a doctor's office, some are going beyond that. Some companies are rushing to offer tests for autism, claiming they can predict a child's risk of developing it using a strand of hair or a mother's blood. While academic research labs across the country are working to find biological markers that could predict that, critics of the tests say they are not reliable enough to be offered commercially. They say the results could mislead parents who are already inundated with incorrect or unverified information about the neurodedevelopmental disorder. And finally, in just a few weeks, the Winter Olympics will kick off in northern Italy. And in the last few days, the American figure skating lineup has been finalized. One of the skaters that made the men's team is 24-year-old Maxim Namov. It'll be his first time competing in the Olympics. And for the skating community, his qualifying was an emotional moment.
>> Year after year, we talked about the Olympics. It means so much in our family. And it's what I've been thinking about since I've been 5 years old.
>> After competing this weekend, he held up a picture of his parents who were famed Russian skaters and later became coaches in the US. Last January, they were on the American Airlines flight that collided with a military helicopter near DC, killing everyone on board. Like many of the victims, they were coming home from a skating camp.
>> Um, it means absolutely everything to me, and I know they're looking down, smiling, and proud.
>> Since the crash, Namov has been coaching some of the young skaters that his parents used to teach. He said he could imagine his dad telling him to keep fighting to Milan and not give up. And he [music] said, quote, "That's exactly what I plan on doing." Those are the headlines. [music] I'm Tracy Mumford. We'll be back tomorrow. [music]