How far ahead of uh Europe and the US do you think Chinese producers are now?
>> Well, I think we are leading a few areas. I think uh in electrification uh Chinese players obviously has advantage of [music] having you know strong battery technology capacity cost advantages [music] in the automotive side because China is the largest automotive market in the world. But what's really driving the uh I would say competitiveness in China is also the fast evolution of technology. Hi everybody, I'm Nicolola Tangian the CEO of the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund and I'm really excited excited about this podcast. Xpang is one of China's fastest growing EV makers, but it doesn't call itself a car company. It calls itself a physical AI company, betting that the same technology that can drive a car, pilot a flying car, and power a humanoid robot. My guest today is Brian Gu, vice chairman and president of Xpang. Brian, warm welcome.
>> Thank you, Nicola. Very happy to be on the podcast.
>> Brian, what is Xpang? Well, I would say Xpen first of all is a technology company, but as we now dive into the uh depths of um all things physical AI, I think we're consider yourself really kind of forefront of this physical AI movement. We are building EVs as you mentioned. It's one of the leading brands in China as well as globally. But increasingly we have broadened our product scoop to be including more areas and directions including robots, flying cars and other modalities as well but using the same core.
>> A lot of people think that uh electrical vehicle is is a car with a battery but you say it's about uh it's the intelligence that's the differentiator not the electrification. What do you mean by that? Well, that actually is what we actually has done differently over the years. Uh, even when we were a very very small startup, let's say about nine years ago when I first joined XPend um you know that time I think everyone is looking at starting a EV company. Uh so the big you know pitch was electrified uh uh energy transition for automobiles. But even at the end you know we have told investors as well as our partners that we believe the long-term differentiation is not with electrification only it's actually in the intelligence and that's why I think for us you know we have consistently focused on building a full stack approach on the intelligence areas that includes hardware software and now increasingly moving into the era of AI. So when you um when you enter a car you know as a professional just uh how do you judge whether this is a great car from an intelligence point of view?
>> Well first of all I think uh you know when you get into a car you have to really understand you know whether the car can understand you. You know there's obviously various degrees of understanding. First of all, it has to understand you personally, your behavior, your preferences, uh where you want to go to, the way you interact with the car, you feel like at ease. So that's the first thing you actually understand. The second thing is when the car start moving, uh I think an intelligent car can handle a lot of these driving conditions on its own. Obviously, I'm not talking about level four yet. Uh but even at the level two plus, you know, I would say regime, you can feel the difference. the more intelligent the better trained models will handle the roads smoothly, handle very tricky situations very nicely uh without causing any concerns or anxiety. So all of that actually translate into the intelligence aspect of it and ultimately I think is you know how do you unify the experiences? So what we are working on right now is to unify the autonomous driving intelligence and the smart cabin intelligence and merge them. I was actually just in the car this morning. We are going to launch our latest uh uh I would say the intelligent driving the VL 2.0 uh editions. One of the feature is actually using the smart cockpit interaction to command driving. It say I want to pull over a little bit. The car knows what to do. I want to actually make a quick stop. They can actually do that for you along the you know the planning as well as delivering you there. So all of that I think combined together will deliver a intelligent mobility experience.
>> What is this going to look like in 10 years time you think?
>> Well I think uh with uh advancement in technology I would say you know the level four capability will just a matter of time it's going to happen it's going to happen our lifetimes it's going to happen in a lot of you know sort of ubiquous scenarios that you encounter. Um so if that capability becomes everywhere then you can imagine uh the current uh um the way of life current mobility experience will be completely transformed. You are not limited to a certain location. You're not limited to you know spending time planning your time to handle the driving. The driving is as part of the uh your daily work or daily you know entertainment as part of your you know mobility you know uh uh time spent. So I would say it will change people's time allocation. It will change uh industries like real estate, change industries like communications and also change pretty much everything I would say it can actually handle inside a vehicle. Now
>> what's going to happen on the on the range side in terms of how long how far a car can can travel? I mean I'm sorry just to in inject here level four is totally autonomous, right? Yeah, level four is fully autonomous uh without human intervention. Um for example, without the steering wheel. Yes.
>> So what is uh what's happening with with with range and charging times going forward?
>> I would say um the range uh with the current chemistry uh I think that current chemistry will last for you know quite some time uh before we get to maybe solid state. I would say that's more than five years away uh to be commercially you know feasible. So with the current chemistry I would say the range will stay uh similar to what we see today. Uh let's say between 500 to a,000 kilometers uh given the size of battery obviously uh but the charging time and charging experience will change dramatically. Uh obviously you you saw the super fast charging become very very popular in China already and it's spreading around the world. uh the charging time and charging speed will allow people's uh you know downtime to be very similar to a gas station stop. So for example, it used to be taking I don't know half an hour to an hour of charging you know uh time. Now it's maybe 5 to 10 minutes. So that I would say also changes people's mobility behavior. Uh so with charging uh as well as the uh the the the efficiency I would say you don't need a large battery. You don't need a car that has, you know, 2,000 5,000 kilometers of range. That just adds to the cost and weight of the vehicle, but I think it definitely addresses uh a lot of people's uh range anxieties already with availability of network and the charging speed improvements.
>> What's the range where you think it's enough and beyond that you don't need more range?
>> I think 1,00 kilometers is outside uh sort of limit. Anything more than that is waste. I mean in my mind,
>> do you make your own batteries or do you use CL or who do you use?
>> Well, we don't make our battery cells. So, we actually source from very high quality suppliers. Um, you know, there's actually a couple other names, uh, which is large battery companies in China we work with. Uh, not CL. Uh, but we do, um, design our own, you know, battery technology utilizing those cells. for example, you know, the battery management system, the packing technology, uh the really the you know the electric platform that make our vehicle more efficient, high and faster charging. So those technologies actually we do ourselves.
>> Um where do you see the Chinese uh EV market going?
>> This past month uh Chinese uh new energy penetration exceeded 60% uh maybe even close to 65%. That's a staggering number. uh which means that we have more EVs sold in China than ICE today. So this is actually the first time the battery electric vehicle crossed the IC and obviously adding on the plug-in hybrid uh the the new energy segment is now more than 60% of the new car sales which means actually you know the EV or new energy vehicle is actually a mainstream product. A few years ago, people always see EV as a niche product, right? I mean, it's only small portion of people buying EVs compared to the you know, people most people still go for the ICE. But today, um because of the change because because the change that you know EVs and hybrids become mainstream, all the rules are different now. So, for example, you know, we we're now getting rid of all the subsidies because now you don't need to subsidize the mainstream product. you don't need to encourage the use of them anymore. You know, people are naturally buying them. But at the same time, you know, I think those behavior, for example, you start to see gas stations disappearing replaced by charging stations. Uh you got to start to see, you know, people actually now utilizing the electrified vehicles, EVs and hybrids because they have a battery, they have computing power. A lot of those intelligence become more and more prevalent. So that actually leads to a whole new trend not just because of energy but also intelligence and other behaviors.
>> How is the competitive landscape developing? Seems from the outside that is becoming I mean it's just like fiercely competitive.
>> Absolutely. I think the China uh the new energy vehicle market which includes the EV market is probably the most competitive segment or industry in the world. Um we have a lot of very very high quality uh players uh competing with each other. Um I would say you know China is probably the fittest gym in the world for automotive industry right you know whoever can actually survive this gym I think has a good chance of you know really become a you know leading players globally.
>> Who's going to survive that gym? Well, I think uh you know we have a decent chance but also there's a very very uphill battle for everybody because like I said one is it's very competitive. Two uh it actually requires a lot more to compete than in the past. I think in the past automotive company can focus on their segments. Uh they use a lot of you know tier one suppliers, tier two suppliers. They actually source technology from outside. But today given the development of this uh physical AI you know cars become more and more like robots right I mean not only it's electrified but also because it has the intelligence I mentioned it's because they have you know the autonomous driving capabilities that need to demonstrate you in order to build a very competitive product uh you need to be both at good at automotive engineering but also at AI and software you also be good at you know understanding the new electric powertrain and at the same time you need to also make sure you deliver the best services as required for building the brands. So having all these capabilities are making the competition at a different level compared to before. So the people who can survive and be and I think winning the race will have to be the people who has a full stack technology but also has a scale and global reach in order to be competing. How far ahead of uh Europe and the US do you think Chinese producers are now?
>> Well, I think we are um leading a few areas. I think uh in electrification uh Chinese players obviously has advantage of having you know strong battery technology capacity cost advantages in the automotive side because China is the largest automotive market in the world. I think it's actually just a matter of time uh you know when China produces a local champion just like what Japan has produced or Germany has produced in the past. So I think it was you know in that regard I think China you know is leading uh in these segment but what's really driving the uh I would say competitiveness in China is also the fast evolution of technology uh like I said you know the you know China being competitive being you know the the you know a market where consumers really embrace new technologies so the speed of change and also the customer adoption of new technologies faster faster uh in China than in you know other world other parts of the world. So I think with these kind of background and coupled with also the manufacturing advantages in supply chain manufacturing efficiencies etc. I think China does I think possess I would say a lead uh in some of those key areas in the EV development but at the same time I think Chinese players also have to be learning a lot from global players. Um, first of all, I think Chinese players still not, you know, used to be a leader in a multinational world. Uh, because that's an area I think Chinese players still need to learn how to behave, you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, as a company that can be a leader in multiple continents, multiple regions, building a brand that people trust, building a service that people rely on, and also building local relationships that allow you to stay for the long run. All of that I think takes a long time to invest. So those are things actually we should learn from multinational leaders uh in Europe as well as uh in the US.
>> How long time do you think it would take Xpang to roll out globally because you've you've in a way started in the Nordic region to a certain extent um with the dealer network and so on but just where are you on that journey and what will it take? Well, you know, we started a journey as you pointed out uh in Norway uh about six years ago when we actually uh launched the first store uh in Norway I think the end of 2020 and um it it's been a very interesting uh I would say and very very educating uh process. Um you know we went through a lot of uh changes uh in our business model internationally. Uh we entered Europe uh as a whole. uh we also entered into other regions in Southeast Asia, Middle East, uh Australia, uh and also Latin America now. So we are selling over 70 countries at the moment. But I would say the biggest um uh challenge is to making sure that we you know really adjust our models to becoming a locally accepted uh brand and product. as you know you know uh uh Chinese brands uh in the past has been viewed as you know coming from you know uh you know possess you know lack of quality or or some you know uh uh brand recognition issues. So for us is that not only we are entering these countries but also have to build the local capabilities and brand that supports our growth and also another challenge for us is how to differentiate from the you know a dozen other brands that currently also is trying to go global out of China. So those are things actually you know top of our mind at the moment. when you compare and contrast um Xpang with um let's say European producers, what do you um what are you seeing um when Volkswagen has a stake in you and you also produce cars in Europe. So you got a pretty unique opportunity to compare just what are how do you compare?
>> I would say we're you know looking at a number of dimensions when we actually see oursel competing with global peers. Uh on the technology front I think we uh are you know as a small company a young company I think we're probably more nimble uh than a lot of the global players uh we make uh decisions quicker uh we can actually also make technology innovations faster uh so that's one of the reason that I think some of the global uh peers are working with us such as uh Volkswagen but at the same time also we are really understanding how global multinationals operate uh that's something I think we're learning from the bigger players uh you know from German uh OEMs as well as you know American and and Japanese OEMs how they can actually sustain you know many generations of product development and cultivate a local recognition and brand loyalty that is something I think we we're learning from them as well at the same time I think also given the development uh in EV and also the technology in intelligence I think there's also A a thesis to be made is that you would see more and more collaboration uh between Chinese players and uh international players such as the ones that you saw between Volkswagen and Xpan and and some other examples as well because I think there is a very strong complimentarity that we actually bring to the table. You know, we're bringing faster innovation. We're bringing you know I would say some of the uh um uh consumer understandings from a Chinese market and also uh you know uh being able to deploy in a faster uh uh uh um pace but at the same time I think uh you know coupled with um uh um international players like Volkswagen that actually can help us really achieve scale uh also and having us you know making sure we can monetize some of those investments. in a much wider segments. So those benefits I think come together I think actually could encourage more collaborations down the road.
>> What explains the difference in speed in innovation and generally in in speed? I mean what explains the what we call the Chinese speed?
>> Well I think the Chinese speed um appeared because multiple factors are driving it. first factor is um because China has proven to be a very very strong player in the software internet consumer electronics area. So those expertise allows you know the Chinese development uh you know team you know R&D side working with automotive engineers to really think creatively how we can utilize those learnings and make cars smarter and make more consumer friendly. On the other side, you have the market forces as I mentioned. You know, there's a lot more competition in China that force you to be more innovative to push you to, you know, really be faster in in turning some of these uh technology development into actual product and features. And then the third piece of that is you know the consumer adoption rate is much faster. So in China people willing to you know embrace new technology. You saw that in internet, in mobile internet, in mobile payment. All of that actually points to the same thing. So those three forces together as well as obviously the supply chain manufacturing advantage I mentioned makes Chinese innovation much faster.
>> How much faster would you say?
>> I think there are two um ways to look at one is vehicle development cycles. I think we probably shortened by you know from you know maybe five to three to five years to about you know two years. So I think there's a definitely shortening of vehicle development. Uh the other one is how quickly you actually launch new features. Uh I think uh you know every OTAA we we add features to our products. Uh so that product cycles much faster than the traditional automotive product cycle because now you have the software and OTAA feature adding to that.
>> So why can you do that so much faster than let's say European producers? I think it first of all uh it is uh the DNA of the company is different. Uh I always say that you know Xpen even though we're obviously automotive company but the core DNA is tech you know we obviously the founders came from both the automotive world as well as the software internet world and now increasingly was AI capabilities. So I would say the DNA at the top really drives the way we think about product and development. Second answer I think to this is that we're small, we're young, you know, we don't have department walls. We don't have processes that has been placed for decades. Uh so it's very difficult to change. Uh we also don't have stakeholders we need to maneuver to make those changes happen. Some of the global players, you know, you have make a decision in their headquarters and when the decision reaches China or reaches their end market, it's already like maybe a year later. So those speed it's not able to match the speed we see on the ground in China.
>> How much harder do you think you work?
>> Well, I think I I I would say you know our team probably works very hard in a way. I think uh it's it's it's both the China work ethic and uh and speed of innovation but same time also we have a sense of entrepreneurship because company is only 12 years old. Uh so we still I think the you know the management team and team here still have that spirit I experienced when I first got here. We still keep that entrepreneurial spirit. So I think you know those two characters really drive you know the work ethic and and and I think you know teamwork much much harder
>> flying cars when will cars fly
>> it's already flying you know we actually but we are flying a different way. uh we have this company called Ariage uh that actually uh is a company that we incubated um and the company currently is now uh only invested we are a minority shield at the moment but we we considered that company in our ecosystem they have been designing flying car for over 10 years uh it was actually founded by a very charismatic founder who used to be a you know individual pioneering the development of flying motor and fly vehicles on him on his own with only a few people very small but now with obviously our support with you know the development over the last 10 years he's built that you know business into you know a very very substantial business and they actually have a product ready to launch obviously pending the final approvals in China at the moment it is a considered flying car but it's actually what we call the aircraft carrier the land aircraft carrier it's a car that carries a EV toe inside the vehicle and can be separate automatically and be used flying for you know 30 minutes uh and then you can actually take two people uh with you know the vertically took off and then it can actually come back automatically and be loaded into vehicles. So that actually is something I would say is very very close to commercial reality. The pro the company actually already collected more than 7,000 you know indictive orders around the world not just in China. So I think uh you're actually seeing the the low altitude economy which is a Chinese buzzword uh for the last few years. same time also fly mobility that's actually I would say the western world uh you know become probably reality in the next year or two
>> but when do you think there'll be a mass market
>> flying um eto business I think it will take in my opinion a longer adoption time uh clearly uh it's heavily regulated area for example we are waiting you know the company area is waiting for uh Chinese CAC approval uh which will take you know I would say longer than regular vehicle approvals. Uh at the same time I think uh for um you know companies or individuals who are willing to you know buy and operate these vehicles I think it will take a um a long educational process. So I think you know in terms of the curve of penetration I think it will probably take probably three to five times longer than what we typically see in automotive or in uh some autonomous driving technologies. So it will be a graduous process but at the same time I think I I see a lot of enthusiasm uh for this space because ultimately liberated uh I would say will liberate a vast uh uh economy which is not tapped at the moment both in China and globally. So I think there's a tremendous potential for this uh you know segment to become a mainstream industry.
>> Brian let's move on to another incredible incredible area the the humanoid robots. Why why are you going into robots?
>> You know the reason that we're going to robot it's actually very natural. Um first of all as I mentioned earlier Xpen has always believed in intelligence. It's our core differentiation. Uh that intelligence obviously in the automotive world is autonomous driving smart cabin but with now the the advant of AI and physical AI development that means that we have to develop a core capabilities for example including you know edge computing. Now we have our own semiconductor chips in our vehicles we develop ourselves. We have to build models uh for handling you know the VA that you know make you know autonomous decisions for vehicles. We have to also build uh AI infrastructure that handles data inputs collection and training. So all that capability actually is naturally very transferable to think about the robotic development because at the core it shares a very similar physical AI fundamental uh building blocks. So for example in the robotic world we're utilizing the same edge computing system which including the chips, the models, the the data and the training. uh but also at the same times we are using uh you know our learnings from you know the the power train how you know the efficient you know electric power train the motor electric motors which can be utilized also in in in in humano robots and I think those capability is synergistic uh in terms of development because they share that same core ultimately you know in fact if you look at the the the process of you know vehicle development It's increasingly becoming more similar to a robotic robot than than a traditional automobile. So that's why I think there's signific significant synergies that we can actually share because the core that we focus on is actually on the intelligence and why we're going to humanoid robot is because we think ultimately with all the capabilities I mentioned the most versatile form that can impact people's daily lives is a humanoid robot because think about it you know the environment that we live in the the room here the office there the store you know the the the the the restaurants um all built for human movements and human occup um occupation. So um having a humanlike human robot which is what we trying to do unlike some of the other robotic company is to make sure that we can you know design something that can be widely you know you know applicable deployable and that also help us getting the information and data collect that can continue to train and improve the robot. So that is actually the thinking behind it.
>> Yeah. No I I personally I can't wait. I think is going to be absolutely great. And I also think it will get divorce rates down because you'll stop doing all the boring things like uh taking out the rubbish and emptying the dishwasher and all these kind of things that creates divorces. But um uh now you are a very serious player here and you just raised capital uh and have support from Alibaba and Tencent and so on. Um tell me about the landscape. There seem to be a lot of very serious players here.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean human robot has seen quite a boom. uh in the last I would say two three years. Um internationally you have the big boys like uh Optimus uh you know from Tesla uh as well as figure and others that's been very showing showing various degrees of capabilities attracting attention and capital but in China I think you also see a really robust industry that you know you see emergence of lot of startups that actually has been focused on various type of development in robotic uh industry and and the process but I would really say that you know what we see here in China, you can group those companies into a certain different types right you have one type which really focus on the body uh which you can see the company like Uni Tree like engineer that shows very cool very you know high caliber you know motion capabilities they can run they can jump they can kick they can perform and dance u but you know they're they're really good at the body uh but obviously you know we we want to see them become more intelligent that that's obviously something you know that that that they haven't been focused on. The other group of the uh uh companies are focused on more on the brain and the intelligence side. Uh they are look training the robot to handle certain specific tasks but because you know their their resource and focus on the upper body they actually you know did not really design anything that has you know nice you know motion and and and and movements. And then there's the third group I would say is for example the Dexter hands you know the companies that really try to build building key building blocks as well as you know with combined with some models that can perform certain tasks. Um so those are the types companies uh but where I would say a company that can really put these three pieces together and make that unified in a common deployable volume produced uh humanoid robot. that's something that we aim to do and which actually we have now you know have completed uh I would say the development for these different pieces um I think ultimately um there's uh different views on on robots you know certainly there are uh industry players say okay robot needs to you know immediately go to industry factories to perform certain tasks but you remember you know we already have robotic arms that's operating our automobile you know v factories so you know the the the the robot that can be used to perform a fixed you know task is not as exciting as a robot that can handle more general and it can be general purpose robot. At the same time, I think uh um as I mentioned uh ultimately training the robot and with the relevant data and have the data scaling capability is going to be the key to the success and we think uh the best way to train robots. Obviously there's a lot of data you know you can collect from internet from simulations from egocentric you know sort of video camera collections but ultimately uh the best way to collect the most accurate and useful data is by deploying uh the the the the body that actually has the most general purpose application and deploy them in a large quantity that allows you to have the best data collection and training. So those are things actually I would say uh you know we're focused on that's different from you know the other players in the industry we see in China.
>> Is it right that uh Chinese training centers buy a lot of um humanoid robots to uh train them and to actually pro collect that data and then feed it back to the producers. Is that how it works? people do that uh mostly for deploying into certain specific tasks or specific use uh which I think is still not um uh I I'm I'm sure there are players ultimately will will be able to you know uh complete a business model utilizing that approach but I would say is that um the ultimate um the the uh the data collection should come from regular deployment and use and continually improve improvement of that that robot that you have the the fixed body.
>> The the fact that you have um so many players in the EV space, what does that do to the Chinese abilities in the robotic space?
>> Well, I think uh the there's a lot of the uh capabilities I think EV player can empower robotic development. For example, uh you know the the process of you know providing uh electric powertrain uh you know lightweight uh sensors uh compute um so these capabilities I think especially you know EV companies that has the AI capability a lot of them can actually also you know I would say empower the robotic development but also goes back to the roots of the company as I mentioned You know if uh the root of the company is automotive player it's it's already very difficult for them to pivot towards uh let's say a softwaredefined vehicle and then move towards a AI defined vehicle for them to be immediately jump from automotive company to a robotic company I think it's a big cultural challenge as well so I think also it goes back to the the the DNA and the roots of the company that who actually can leverage that capability and have the innovative thinking allow them to see you know the the the development needed for you know human robots.
>> What about the ecosystem of subsupliers of the various components that go into these robots? How how would that compare in China with let's say the US or Europe?
>> First of all, I think the supply chain uh for robots is still being formed. uh there's no existing you know suppliers people can just pick and choose to build a robot uh or you cannot pick and choose to build an advanced robot I would say uh what we do right now is actually we spend a lot of our time and effort working um you know with our you know EV uh supply chain identify players who has a capability to be able to function in the robotic uh uh setting a lot of the parts that we use for our human robots including the Dexter hands, the powertrain, the joints, the motors, actuators. A lot of those are actually designed by ourselves, but obviously we don't make everything ourselves. Uh so we actually work closely with our you know uh supply chain partners to make sure uh we have you know very very solid supplier um for these parts. uh I would say the overlap between our EV supply chain and the robotic supply chain is more than 50%. But most of them are not readily available parts. Those are parts that we actually have to work closely and design together and make sure they can supply us and I think that's probably going to be how how supply chain will be built for for this industry.
>> Have you got access to all the chips you want? Nvidia chips all these kind of things. We do actually design and build our own uh edge computing mobility chips. For example, the uh Touring chip which is now uh used in our vehicles replaced uh the the Nvidia chips we used before as the go-to uh high computing chips for mobility uh uh driving technologies. Um I would say the uh uh for all the related chips uh we have full access and we we don't have any limitations. we do have to you know obviously sustain the same you know uh uh challenges that we everyone's facing on the memory chips and other on the cost and supply side but so far I think it's uh within control but in the uh in the long run I think uh you know we see that a lot of those um chips uh we actually can tap into more locally sourced fashion so make I would say the the um supply more secure and more available. So when do you think they'll be on par?
>> Well, on the uh um vehicle end, I think we are already producing chips that can rival the latest technology uh that's provided in the west. Um uh so for example, our touring chip has uh 700 tops of compute which is similar to uh oring store uh the the media store which is their latest chips. So uh for these uh on board uh edge computing uh mobility chips I think we're already there you know a lot of Chinese players all come up with similar capabilities but I do think uh there is still generations uh gap uh exist in the uh uh uh GPU and other sort of uh uh cloud computing uh areas which I think Chinese uh uh companies are trying to catch up. When do you think the Chinese language models will surpass the American language models?
>> I think it's uh you know at the different race I would say you know the two uh ecosystems are building uh language models are trying to tackling different problems and focus on different customers. uh I would say in the uh US uh you have the frontier models that actually is you know focused on you know delivering high value and also uh secured uh uh uh solution services to western uh you know governments and companies whereas uh I would say the Chinese models are more focused on you know uh tackling uh I would say small medium companies as well as you know emerging market uh customers including obviously obviously Chinese market as well to you know making sure uh the models can be easy to use uh open source and also had a low cost. So I think those are different priorities. Um at some point I think uh you know uh you will see uh um separation of you know the ecosystem that rely on these time two different type of capabilities.
>> We talked about um self-driving cars, flying cars, uh humanoid robots. What is a city going to look like in 20 years time?
>> Well, I think uh first of all, you know, the city uh it will be a lot more dispersed my view. Uh it does not need to be a center unlike today, you know, you have a you know CBD or you know center area and then people commutes uh and then there are satellites people rely on proximity to do things. uh with obviously the uh automing or or the robot taxi or level four you know uh the individual level four as well uh you probably don't need uh these clusters uh uh people can actually have much easy um um access to remote areas so people actually can choose to live in more distributed uh fashion rather than a concentrated fashion um I would say the second part is that um with the um also the techn technology that there'll be a lot of last mile solutions. Uh you know for example um you know the delivery you know nowadays there's a lot of delivery uh these probably can appear uh at your doorfront or in your roof or or some you know designed uh uh uh storage it will show up because they come from low altitude or come from autonomous delivered vehicles or robots. So I think those also reduces last mile uh uh so need for a lot of the uh uh uh uh merchandise solutions. I would say you'll see um cities become three-dimensional because a lot of these travel a lot of these uh highways are no no longer just be on the ground. There will be designated uh corridors uh to travel uh in in in low altitude uh in in in in in certain uh uh um I would say um routes that connects cities uh so much faster. So it it's pulled together the city uh uh sort of distance and the travel time and and ultimately I think in home and businesses you see lot of uh uh maint routine repetitive as well as uh uh uh workflow that can be handled by humanoids uh that I I I think it's going to happen very soon and obviously it depends on how quickly the humanoids can acquire more and more tasks but I think you'll start to see the population. There may be a scenario that you know you will see more humanoids walking on the street than humans. That could be a very interesting site in a new you know modern city you know decades down the road.
>> Do you think we're going to be happier? Well, I think uh I I would hope uh with the advance of technology and uh you know you save time uh you save hassles uh you actually can uh uh travel much longer distance or or or you can actually uh have more time to enjoy actually you can allocate more time to things that matter. Uh for example you you focus on uh things that really can impact your emotions. uh really you know spend time to think about judgments you have to make not on a simple task on a more philosophical sense. Uh there are things that actually you can actually at a different degree to really approach because now 90% of our time is occupied by routine task and and and and items.
>> Moving on to the personal side um what matters in your life
>> you know I uh joined Xpen nine years ago. Uh I joined my friend and partner Xiaoong who's the chairman CEO. Um I think both of us I think want to do this you know because we already had a pre prior career. We don't need to you know have a new career. We want to do this is because we think this is going to be so much fun. We want to see the world uh really be shaped. You know we have our cars now. Now now I go to different countries. I'm so happy and excited to see our cars in different streets. Hopefully in the future we'll see you know robots roaming uh in you know offices or in stores that is you know our robots. Uh I want to see you know the really the lives being you know changed and transformed because the technology and innovation we brought to to this world. Um so yeah this is something what drives us and also drives Xpan. That's why I keep really innovating and keep moving forward.
>> No I agree it's as we live in an incredible time. Uh so interesting. How does your day look like?
>> Oh, I would say every day is different. Um you know we uh for example I can just tell you my today you know
>> when do you wake up?
>> I wake up around you know 7:30. Uh I you know start my first meeting at around 8:39. Um and uh uh I you know talked about my upcoming you know sort of a uh trip in Europe which will have you know hopefully some exciting things to do as to uh um to pursue. Uh, and then I had, you know, two hours of really driving in our brand new vehicle, the G9L. But most exciting is actually test drive the latest edition of our Thomas driving software on that vehicle. Uh, which I drove the car all around the city and test all kinds of scenarios. Very exciting. I see tremendous improvement and I think this give us more confidence that you know we can launch uh probably more level four like capabilities uh not just in China maybe hopefully next year somewhere in Europe as well. So that's something also we're very excited about. And also uh I'm gonna go um you know explore our development in Hong Kong. We need setting a new R&D uh uh plan uh for you know uh uh how to really work with Hong Kong utilizing the capabilities in that market uh you know with the talents and the support uh and then you know end the night probably with a dinner with a partner uh to explore um more exciting things. So you know I would say every day is different. Uh your focus on both running the business but also more importantly is thinking about the future. How expand can bring technology to real life how it can expand to more regions more markets and get you know the global you know sort of talents to join us to pursue this mission together.
>> What's the way you look into the future? Who do you speak to and what do you read? I actually you know uh because of my background uh I used to be a banker uh and also used to be a banker who focused on technology. So I have a lot of friends in the entrepreneur world uh a lot of people who you talk to on this podcast are actually my friends uh I you know those are thought leaders uh for example Joe Joe Thai is a great friend uh he Alibaba is someone I yeah from Alibaba. So I I talked to him and really learning from not just him but also a lot of Alibaba friends you know people from you know Tensson you know Jensen is a great you know I would say uh uh person that you know we learned a lot from obviously we used to be uh uh you know uh collabing a lot when we are you know utilizing media chips more. Uh but again I mean I think along the way uh I would say given what we do and what we see we run into a lot of very amazing accomplished minds and and and and and and uh uh I would say inspiring people. So I think uh for me you know having that exposure and having the ability to talk and learn from these people is tremendously rewarding. I really enjoy it.
>> Now we talked about all kinds of successes and great things. Um but uh we've started also uh it's important also to look at some of the failures. What would you what would you say if you were to pick your biggest personal failure in life? What has that been?
>> I would say you know I always regretted I did not pursue uh my first passion further. Uh you know my background is you know actually my first career as a scientist. Um I was a chemist because my mother was organic chemist uh when I started in college which my mom you know put down major chemistry for me already. Uh so I became accidental chemist but I really enjoyed it. I I got my undergrad in chemistry and then went on to pursue a PhD in biochemistry. And actually my PhD uh uh experience is probably one of the most rewarding process because I got to work with uh my uh professor um David Baker uh I don't know whether you know him. He actually won a Nobel Prize two years ago uh in chemistry and uh he and I actually started that lab together. We actually both arrived at University of Washington the same time. he needs this graduate student, I need a professor and that's how we started that lab which now became obviously highly successful and he won the Nobel Prize. Uh but that has been a you know very absolutely I would say rewarding process and uh um I would say that um I was at that time wanted to be a scientist just like David and also try to pursue a scientific career but in the middle I think uh I I want to say is maybe I want to also see the outside world other than the lab and academia. Uh so I sort of pivoted away from science and went into business and you know obviously first was you know Wall Street and then now in Xpen but I I would not say my biggest failure but I think that's one of my regret is if I actually continued on you know I would also be very exciting to make sure I can solve big problems for the world in the scientific area which you know Dave and I actually the the thesis was actually to unlock the protein folding problem which actually he did you know about 20 years later.
>> Don't you think it would have been fun to have five different lives and kind of shoot them off in different directions.
>> Well, I think that's something it's something I always dreamed about but I guess you know at some point you had to focus on one thing at a time. Uh but I think life is full of opportunities and I think it just focus on you know the next one. Uh I think that's something I think it's uh I would always tell my kids, you know, don't worry about changes. Change always bring opportunities. Just focus on focus on the next one.
>> Yeah. And then just to kind of crystallize that a bit more, just what would be your advice to young people generally?
>> I always [sighs] think you know for young people never afraid of change. Embrace change. actually you know I always think uh in looking back in the you know my career um you know change make you better make you stronger uh a lot of times we go into a new area you know whether it's a new profession a new region a new language a new culture or new industry uh you feel like you're intimidated actually you should feel really excited to learn I mean you can actually now got into a new area that you absorb what's there. So I think that attitude could actually you know um [music] really reward uh uh the young people if they actually can adopt that attitude.
>> Brian, this has been just uh tremendous. I kind of think you are a scientist [music] you know and uh for sure a very good one and what you're doing with the company is totally mindboggling and uh thanks for giving us a you know kind of a glance into the future. It's been so interesting. [music]
>> Thank you very much Nikolai. Very nice talking to you. It's great.
>> Thank you. Really hoped you liked the episode. If you did, please like it, subscribe, and put on the notification. This really helps us to get new great guests.