when you democratize technology and you put in the hands of of almost everybody, you empower everyone. AI is uh be the biggest thing in this decade. I would say we are at the very very beginning of using machine learning really in every way in which we uh connect with the world. We are very excited about you know look I've been in the semiconductor industry you know over 30 years and there were times when nobody knew what a semiconductor was but uh today I think everybody um at least appreciates that you know semiconductors and chips can help power uh numerous things. I think it's just a pregame show. I think we're we're just getting to the the more interesting part where technology is is going to have a much bigger role in progressing the world forward. potential value of AI is to be able to accelerate our uh learning cycle. So in some way accelerate R&D. So the willow chip is able to um to handle a computation in less than 5 minutes that previously on the best supercomputers on the planet today would take 10 septillion years. So the cloud is essentially the ability for companies of all sizes, all types to run all their infrastructure in a way that feels infinite and like it has no specific place. Um I know that for a fact that there's no such thing as a franchise value. And so that means every day you have to get up and hopefully you're doing things that are going to be relevant tomorrow. What we're trying to do is see where the technology takes us, deploy it into the world to actually understand how people are using it, where the risks are, where the benefits are, what people want, how how how they'd like it to evolve, and then sort of co-evolve the technology with society. All right, everyone, a warm welcome to us here at MBIM and thank you for taking time out of your lives to spend that with us this afternoon and evening. So we are really happy to have you here. We have a great set of presentations about the technology and security stack that we have. But first uh let us introduce ourselves. We will be your hosts this evening. My name is Gunund. Uh I am head of a market exposure delivery team. And what I do is that I have a set of developers together with me that develop our internally built uh investment platform. Yes. My name is Shet Len. I'm head of data here at MBM. uh we uh we manage the data platform and build uh the data warehouse and provide data for for our analysts. And my name is oh sorry my name is Selena. I work in the cyber security center as a cyber security engineer. My job is basically just to make sure that the old fund is safe. Yes. So there just some practical uh things. So basically if something uh happens we will leave this place together. the gods will show us out. Uh there are some toilets over there. Yeah, I think that's more or less it. Yes. Yeah. To kick off this amazing evening, please give a warm welcome to our CTO Vita Brina. Welcome everyone to us here in the fund. uh we have really been looking forward to today and planned for a long time. Uh we get a lot of incoming calls and people that want to meet us and want to hear what we are doing in technology and then we found out that why don't we just invite people here and then we can talk about it and we can explore together in the future how we're going to move forward to bring this country also moving forward in this very exciting area. We see that as an investment firm that lines between technology and investments are be becoming more and more blurred, more and more integrated and that gives us a lot of opportunities. So today we are going to talk a bit about what we are doing and sharing with you and then we're going to have a social event afterwards so we can get to know each other. So again warm welcome to all of you. [Applause] At MBIM, technology is a key area of focus, not just as a support function for our employees, but as a strategic enabler. We are constantly looking at how technology can improve the experiences for our investment teams. MBIM has been to through over the years a significant technology journey from fully outsourced operations to a modern cloudnative environment. In the next few moments, I'm going to take you through this journey, a journey that made it possible to do all the stuff that you're going to see this evening. Before or before 2017, all of our technology was fully outsourced. We had two data centers in Amsterdam. And the reason why we had two was simply because of redundancy in case of one of them went down. But this setup did give us some challenges. We had we had uh even a story about a consultant that had to physically go to Amsterdam and connect to the drivers when they were down to get them back up again. So that meant that we had to maintain everything ourselves from replication between the data centers to maintenance and when uh maintenance and fixed when downtime occurred. Procurement also had its problems. Something as simple as replacing discs could take months due to delays in the supply chain. So in short, we had to handle every aspect of the infrastructure on our ourselves and this from an operational standpoint was far from ideal. So in 2017 we launched the ISAC project a project that was significant in our technology journey. It focused on four key pillars. Insourcing we wanted the best talent inhouse and build internal expertise rather than relying on heavily on consultants. security. We focused on strengthening our security posture which was top priority across the entire organization. Automation with fewer in-house developers than consultants. We knew that automation was essential. So infrastructure as core became a infrastructure as code became a core part of increasing efficiency. Lastly, cloud. We went all in on the cloud. Strong internal support uh ended up with us choosing AWS as our cloud provider and we started our migration to AWS in 2018 and by 2019 this transformation was complete. So between 2017 and now MBM has built a modern development environment. An environment that allows our developers to deliver futures features to our investment teams quickly and efficiently. We have a setup that gives developers the tools, the autonomy, and the support they need to do this fast without compromising quality and security. Crucially, all of this has only been possible due to strong support from our leadership group. With their push on a cloud first strategy, we now have created foundation for innovation. This has made it possible for us to test new advanced technologies such as AI. We are integrating AI in our daily life to streamline processes to uh boost our productivity and to make smarter decision. So today you will see all the cool stuff that we have been able to build as a result of this. So I please feel free to present our f first presenter. All right. So one of the things that we have uh used this platform for is to build this internal investment platform. So we buy when we can we buy software when we can but we build when we have to when our requirements are so specific and unique that nobody can deliver us the software that we need. So this is also what I spend most of my time on. But um now to present this um we will have our UX UI designer Helena Stavo present our internal system in a presentation she has she has called managing complexity through the burden of really big numbers. Helena hello everyone. So nice to see all of you. I've been really excited to tell you about what I'm working on all day, every day, thinking about when I sleep at night and all of that. Um, let's see it. Yes. Okay. In 1996, two very important things happened. I was born and the first first deposit was made into the account of 1.9 billion Norwegian croners. As you all know that number is huge today. It is so much more. It is actually Can you read this? Can anybody read this? Hands up. I actually uh before I had my first interview here, I sat down and studied this number because I was like what if they ask me what this number is? So this is 19,000 billion Norwegian croners. U which is so huge that you can't really understand it. So I've um made some small visualizations here to maybe make you understand it. What if we were to uh cover the entire ground with Norwegian one croners? Uh so we were to sell all of our assets and uh have 19,000 billion Norwegian croners uh on the ground. Uh so everywhere you walked you would step on money basically. Uh that would cover this area. So, you could almost work to uh walk to Bergen uh from Oslo and walk on money, which is uh pretty stupid. So, I don't think we're gonna do that. Um or we could stack this money on top of each other uh and maybe win the space race if we were to climb on top of this money because that would take us 33 million kilometers into space reaching beyond Venus, which is also pretty uh crazy. So the number itself is big but the daily operations here are also incredibly enormous in size. So each day we have transactions going through the walls at embim of 450 million croners. That is more than uh is traded at version every single day and it is a fourth of the state budget that we handle here every single day. Crazy. What makes this even more complex is that uh some or most investment firms focus on one portfolio but NBIM as a whole is one portfolio. We want uh all sub portfolios at NBIM to be um doing or performing great. So NBIM is um divided into a lot of different portfolios for several reasons. We have different investment and asset classes. we have different sectors we want to be performing well in etc. So to try to keep track of this um it's very important to have an overview of uh where everybody is investing. This can mean that if I was a portfolio uh manager for example wanting to uh buy stocks in uh Rose Company Co. Then uh I would check internally first if there was somebody else in NVIM wanting to sell something in Rose Company Co. because this happens a lot. We have different um responsibilities here that sometimes you would want to sell something when your colleague would want to buy something. Doing this uh and having an overview of this actually saves us a lot of money. We're speaking billions here. uh we usually are speaking billions here but uh and it makes NBIM the biggest marketplace that you have never heard of. So all of this we have to manage somewhere and one of the places we are managing this is in Pulis. Pulis is what I work on every day and that is NBIM's main platform for portfolio management and trading. Before we had Pilates, we had a ton of different tools. What is really, really cool about working here at MBIM is that everyone is incredibly smart. It's kind of daunting to start working here and realizing that everybody knows a lot about everything, which is really cool. So, we have quite a few portfolio managers and traders that code themselves and make supporting applications. And we have um in return, we have a lot of different applications that needs to be maintained. And what is also very particular about MBM is that we are not that many people that you might think. So we have a lot of money but there are not that many people that actually manage this. So um what ends up happening happening is that each person has very very very specific needs. Oops. So, how do we take all of these different applications and consolidate consolidate them into one platform while still keeping the speed and agility for each person that uses it? And speed is the key word here because one click again is worth a lot of money. So, if you spend too much time getting somewhere then that might be a very bad thing. Yes. So, um this is Pilates. Um, Pilates is not just what you see, but it is a lot of work that lies behind the application that I will of course show you afterwards. Uh, Pilates consists of a backend that uh lets um developers uh build their own nodes and endpoints directly into the back end to build front-end applications and or reports directly into uh one common and collaborative platform. What is a really key uh user benefit for this is that we pull all core systems into the same backend which again in return makes it a lot easier for our users to use because they no longer have to go into several different applications to perform everyday actions. And then on top of that we have um the application itself which is built using UX and business knowledge which again is very very important for uh scalability reasons. If we think ahead and try to look at the platform as a whole it's a lot easier to have a platform that will live on for many years to come. This is uh some small images of Pilates the platform. We are building everything inhouse and that is very very very important. We are not like any other investment firm. It's super important that we can control the entire process and here we actually control absolutely everything. So the close icon in the top left corner could be a smiley face, maybe a sad smiley face. Are you closing me now? Um yes. So we are controlling absolutely everything and that lets us do a lot of cool things. The main feature of Pilates is flexibility. Each person that uses Pilates um we're on firstname basis with everyone really. So I know exactly what each person wants and they are able to get exactly that in Pilates. Previously we had a lot of static tables etc. But now they're able to build their own uh user interface and pull in components that they can then rearrange as they would like and see exactly what they need when they need it. All of these components then listen into a data channel where we prefilter the data that they see. This makes it a lot easier for them to actually have a stable and reliable platform or for us to give them a stable and reliable platform because we don't give them everything up front. Uh we have had a rework of the prolitus platform and previously it was very difficult to load the biggest portfolios. Uh it would stop completely and um it's not that weird because the main portfolio has over 15,000 rows. So that sort of makes sense that it's uh difficult to load all of that data. But uh now we're able to filter that out and provide some speed and um agility there. But it's not only the layout itself that is flexible. We are also making the data itself flexible so that users can build their own reports and mix and match columns and data as they would like. before. Now we've had a very manual process where a developer would have to go in and build a table or a graph or whatever it may be for the um for the portfolio managers and traders. Whereas now very soon they will be able to do absolutely everything themselves and pull and drag and drop data as they would like as well. I'm going to give you a very quick u demo of how a normal person or a normal portfolio manager would spend their time in Pilates. This is a sketch uh because I'm not allowed to show you the real deal from right now unfortunately. So don't base your investments on this because you will be very disappointed. Actually I think I'm gonna just jump up here. Um you over there can see as well. Okay. So, uh this is the portfolio table overview. It's a preset that we have made for the portfolio managers. And what most of them use this for is to get a good grip of what are my holdings. So, where are they today? Um where is it opposed to the benchmark because that's what everybody is uh looking towards. Am I close or far away from the benchmark? So, um right here, this is why I have to stand up here. Now we have uh the benchmark column it says 100 and then we have uh the holdings column says 97. So we are minus3 and I want that to get to a zero. So I'm going to write zero in the um in the simulations column and then uh it automatically populates the simulations beneath. And what is really cool about this is that it then also simulates the rest of uh your portfolio. So portfolio managers are able to build up their own uh trade programs and see how this changes the portfolio as a whole using uh these uh data that is all sent back. Yes. So that's just a short use case for that. So to summarize, how do we manage complexity? First and foremost, we have to make sure that we are building something that works for everyone while still being able to uh be a bit more uh customizable. But most importantly, we have to make sure that it is stable and reliable. If the users cannot trust the platform or trust the data, we have already failed. So having the correct data structure in place and architecture in place is detrimental to have a good working software to be able to handle all of this complexity. And then lastly is to be able to provide flexibility and scalability. So that would mean in our case giving them the possibility to basically use uh politis as a building block to create their own perfect idea of what a portfolio and trading tool should be and secondly to have principles in place for them to make it not look bad. Thank you so much AI has started. AI is is the one that I've been thinking about my whole life and wondering, okay, how hard is it? How are we going to get this? Now, it's actually surprised me that we have this acceleration. I think it's going to make everybody richer, but I think it impacts positively impacts poor people the most. It should be particularly true for the democratization of intelligence. My entire confidence in this generation of AI started when I started seeing from GPD 3 to 35 and that implementation in GitHub. Now, ChatGpt is unquestionably the single best software product the world's ever made. This is the easiest product to use on the planet. anybody's anybody could use it. All right. So, now we're going to have um a quick panel debate about AI and uh we thought we're going to discuss this u from a couple of different angles. So, we're going to discuss this from an organizational level and then bring it down to the individual level afterwards. And hopefully also we can discuss a bit or or uh compare what MBM has done our efforts and our voyage to what other have done. And to help us with that we have invited our top technology management and also a couple of external experts to to help us with this. So let's introduce them quickly. So we have uh Alexandre Stansp. He is from grit AI studio and for nearly two decades Alexander has been leading digital transformations but now Alexander is focusing on making AI accessible and practical. So he's building real solutions to real world problems and he does that with passion and determinations which I guess is why you call the company grit. A fun fact about Alexander is that in addition to AI he has a couple of hobbies. He really enjoys running but he also enjoys shooting. And now he's been able to combine those into one sport. And it's called um forest running with shooting. And I guess um summer bialon is is a more uh more accurate uh uh sentence maybe. And he's actually currently the regional champion of festival. Impressive. Yes. Uh and then uh we have also with us uh Dr. Robert Angels. He is uh he runs Capgeemini's uh global AI lab. Uh he has a PhD in AI and he has actually worked with AI since before we had cell phones. So definitely I look forward to hear before the internet even. Yes, definitely. So a long time and before Helena was born. So yes. Uh so um fun fact about Robert, he's an engineer by heart definitely. uh he built the first sweet legal motorbike, electric motorbike uh in Norway and he still rides that one today. Yeah. And then we have Bilit here. Uh Brigittita is a chief technology and operations officer. Uh so she oversees the technology infrastructure that enables us to manage one of the largest portfolios in the world and she has solid experience from service technology leadership from various large financial institutions. But that's not the only job that Brigittita has here. She has another important role. She is the rock and roll voice of NBIM. So when she's not managing our tech and operations, she is the lead singer of our uh internal house band called Reputational Risk. Great. And uh last but not least, we have Nikolai. I think five six years ago, you would have to be very interested in art or silos if you had heard about him. But uh but no, I'm not sure if he really needs an introduction as the CEO of NBIM and host of the In Good Company podcast. What you might not know about uh Nikolai is that he's also a serious foodie. So every summer he has some kind of uh project like research uh on barbecue sauces or pizza toppings and stuff like that. So I really look forward to the barbecue afterwards, Nikolai. Absolutely. We have we have done a lot of work into the barbecue today and I so stay tuned. Great. Okay. So in this first part um we're going to look at this more from an organizational level and uh let's start close to home with a question to you Brigittita. So you've been leading our AI adoption efforts uh but from where you sit so overseeing both technology and operations. What has been your approach to introducing a tools and capability to our organization? And also maybe you can touch upon what you think has worked well. Uh what surprised you and if you've kind encountered any resistance or any challenges. Um I generally I would just say that uh in MBIM we have this like very powerful grassroot movement when it comes to adopting new technology. So we always have had people that are running uh towards new opportunities. But uh when AI came uh we kind of understood that this is particularly powerful. This is going to really make a big big change. So we decided that we probably need to do it a bit differently this time. So uh uh we uh introduced more like a comprehensive top-down approach uh when we we started to to look at this and we've done many things. So the first thing we did was to establish an AI team and we really thought that it would be good to have a center excellence uh in the organization and a place that could explore all the new models that are coming in uh and they change all the time. uh we also wanted to make sure they had a good platform uh so that we could oversee all these things in a good way uh and and people come to them and and ask questions and they are the ones that are you know driving uh a lot of the initiatives uh forward. Um secondly we decide that we need some mandatory courses. So we've made internal uh seven module courses that everybody had to participate on uh and uh we believe that that has been very powerful for the organization and we know that everybody at least is at at some sort of level minimum level. Um we also uh thought that we need more people in the organization that can help you know drive this as a big force. So we introduced an AI ambassador force of people uh and they received more training than the others. So they are like uh inhouse consultants, smaller consultants that can help out in the various teams to make sure that we have enough people to support. Uh we set some uh bold statements on on where what we want to achieve. So currently our our um achievement should be uh 20% more efficiency uh and I think everybody knows that in the organization and they link their own performance to this goal. So everybody has to do something. Um we uh make sure that we talk to uh external vendors a lot like uh open AAI and anthropic. uh we have brought in external expertise like Alexander here he has helped us a lot uh so uh all in all I mean we have tried to just make sure that this is available for for everyone and one of those things that's also super important is that we make tools available easy availability to the people and for us we have called it the three C's which is a claude uh prompting uh engine that anyone can use without any kind of uh programming or um that kind of skills from before. Uh and then we use cursor for those that are more indepth developers that need more more tools uh more extravant tools and then of course uh Microsoft core pilot. So these are threec's and we really push people to use it all the time and we talk about it like all the time and I mean like all the time. I mean we are talking all the time all the time. I think it's pretty cool actually that it's not just the developers that use tools like cursor but actually people across the organization. Yeah. Non-developers as well. Absolutely. So we're bringing down the hurdles and it's about democratizing technology in general. So this is not like this is not dangerous at all. This is just like very much fun to be honest. Then would you talk about challenges? Um you can think about that a bit. We get them get back to you. So uh so Robert uh through your work at Capgeemini you meet with organizations across all industries across Europe. Uh how does what just described about AI adoption alignment? What do you see? Well, it's a bit worse than that because we're global. So not only Europe even. Yeah. And I think most of our clients are also on your list of investments. So um but but yeah. No. So I I empathize with what we're talking English. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I empathize with you on top down and knowledge and enablement. So that's very good. But if you look at the the big organizations that we that we serve that are really successful, uh this top down is of course important. You need a top management that is really engaged that is really using it. You also need the top management that is not naive. I mean but because this is risky business. I mean the one and 2% improvements they are easily to reach with AI. uh but but the 10 20 30% also increases the risk profile that you're running and not all sectors in the world actually tackle that. I mean we have companies making airplanes. Uh I don't want to sit in an airplane that is built with 20% more efficiency based on AI at the moment. I just don't want to do that. Uh I mean you want to have two wings that are similar. And um the the thing is that that there is a risk profile on it. And when we look at it, I mean like uh like you said in the introduction, I've been working with AI really from before the internet. I started in 88 with cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence. And I've been always trying to sell this to people like you. And then the answer was like, oh, this is science fiction. Come back next year. And now it is the other way around. And the the interesting thing is really that um it is a a very cool and interesting technology but we found out that there's two things that are really working well and there's at the moment I mean if you look at all this after chat GPT stuff that comes on the market there's two things that really work well and and they really work well and that is multimodality. I've never seen multimodality working in my life so good as it does now. So, pictures, text, numbers, sound, combine it, throw it together. We've tried it for decades. We never managed. It's It's working well now. I'm impressed. Analysts, reports, graphs, put them together with the text, make some sense out of it. It's good. Multilinguality. I mean, I've never had a system that could tackle my my language because I speak four languages every day. I have a German wife. I live in Norway. I'm originally Dutch. My children speak Tik Tok English. I mean, you got all these languages blended and and I have a lot of English um Indian colleagues. So, I got all these influences from other cultures and these these models still understand me. So, now you can talk with your car. That's also something that is extremely well at the moment. We use it for little too little. We could get much more out of this because this is low risk. This is working. The two things that don't work well that are underperforming no matter what some Alman or Elen are saying is really abstraction and logical reasoning it's not there there is no evidence that's in these models show me the contrary and the other thing is really context and contextual awareness I mean as long as I worked with AI as soon as you train the model and you got models read as soon as you put them in the real world in a real world context where we people are also living and there is some physical things and effects these models are not maintaining world models that let them actually work well enough. So, how long is it that Elen was promised self-driving cars? I think the first citation was 2015. I've stopped talking about Elon Musk. No, no, no. I know. No, but I mean I just I I got I got into so much trouble. My my to my defense, my PhD I did with with Mercedes-Benz. So, I I worked with Mercedes-Benz on AI in the end of the 90s and we made intelligent brake assistant systems and so on. One of the things that we saw now the the cars that are now licensed for SIE level three self-driving in Texas and California, it's it's not an American car. It's Mercedes-Benz. And why? Because they just didn't do the thing uh that that others did like scaling and more data is the thing. No, they said we need better data. We need world models. We need more dimensions. Not only a camera with a lot of data. No, we need more dimensions. So, Mercedes implemented it well. They were laughed at because they just collected data in the stood cut area. They didn't need more data they say and then they actually built world models and that kind of stuff in this and multisspectral images and LAR and all that kind of stuff. And they got SA3 self-driving certified. So this is this is also about using the data you have smartly and maybe you don't need scaling and you don't need all the data of the world. So these are interesting things. Maybe I should just No, I just have wanted to bring Alexandros into this. So from your perspective working directly with organizations Alexander, so you're focusing on these practical AI solutions just getting things to work. So what's your take on this? Uh what are you seeing as the key factors that uh you know determines whether air adoption actually delivers results and not just like expensive pilot projects? Yeah, it's a good question. I think uh first and foremost, I think doing something is better than having this wait and see mentality. Unfortunately, a lot of companies still have this sitting on the fence mentality. And I I'm I'm worried that we get derailed from definitions and discussions about uh well, it's not yet performing reasoning to the level that we want. I mean, a year ago, we were comparably at the stone ages when we look at the model performances. So, forget about it. You don't need a PhD in uh neural networks to use AI today. That's the key difference compared to last year. Now anyone can use AI. So who succeeds? I think it starts with solving real business problems. It's not just saying let's do AI. It needs to be strategic. Doesn't help that the CEO goes to the IT director and say what are we doing about a AI? And the IT director says uh well uh we've turned on co-pilot. Tick the box. No. Solving Monday morning problems. That's what the real value is about, right? So I think a lot of pilots that fail, they fail because they try to achieve too much. So So honestly, I think it's simple. Try to ship fast, do good enough solutions, get real feedback from users, and then iterate from there. I think that's where you get successful pilots that turn into production. Yeah. Right. Nikolai, so in your role, you you meet with business leaders from across the world, what what is your uh what do you think are the most important factors for uh adoption of AI? No, you need to have a a total maniac at the top and you need to I'm I'm serious. This is just the biggest thing that we will ever experience as human beings. It's unbelievable what's going on now because I have there has never been a time in the world where one company who deploy this properly gain a 20% advantage on the other company in one year and another 20 and another 20 and you know when you have like gained 50 to 100% advantage on your competition they will never catch up. You win they die. You know these companies are out of business. And it can happen on in a threeyear time span now. So you can't wait for anything. You need to be maniacs at the top. You need to totally implement uh across everything you do. You need to have ambassadors just infiltrating your company and you need to have events non-stop and mandatory to get everybody going. I mean this is this is like deadly serious, you know. Yeah. I think it helps with the maniac on top. Oh man. I just, you know, I I I I mean, I I hardly sleep these days because I'm just so uh totally super keen that we just uh uh get uh in front of everybody else. And you need to just That's the mentality you need to have. You know, I was in I was in California uh last uh the week before last and you know, I had a had an hour with Bill Gates and he had just spent the whole week talking to everybody who counts, right? Hasabis Oldman, you know, all the guys. And he was just like, it's just like totally mind-boggling. I've been working on this for my whole life. I've never seen anything like it. And the speed is just like the speed is just accelerating, you know, and stuff we are doing now in the fund. We we couldn't have done it 3 months ago, you know. We are like, you know, we own 9,000 companies. We monitor them real time in terms of headline risks and so on across the world. We monitor them live in 16 different languages and we get notification if we get any headline on any company anywhere. In the past it took us you know days now it's like minutes real time monitoring of the whole world. I mean hello um you know the way we can deploy capital much quicker the way we can look at uh uh kind of wage packages and proposals. I mean it's just incredible. Why is why not everybody doing this? Well, I hope they are, but you know, in a way also at the same time, I hope they aren't because uh because uh the advantages for the people who really take these on board is just immense. All right. So, if we shift in our focus from organization to to the individual level and I'm sure many in the audience are wondering about how AI will shape their professional future. So, um coming back to you again and bringing it back home. So as someone who manages them both technology and operations, how is AI changing the skill set and capabilities that you need in your teams? I think I would start by saying the ability to change and adopt to something new. I think that's the most important thing as Nicholas says and you can imagine how it was to have him back from that California trip when he came back to the office. uh but the ability to change and also uh um understand that you might have worked on something yesterday that you put a lot of effort into and then today might not have that much value. So I think that's one of the most important thing but of course I mean to to have an education with some technology content is beneficial absolutely at least for us in this fund. So I think that those are the two most important things. So asking for a friend then will you need more developers going forward or less? I think that we will need developers. Uh of course absolutely I think that we need uh uh developers. We need data scientists. We need uh also in people that are good in investments. I mean it's just like the collaboration between the various skill sets that's important for the future. But again you have to be willing to change. You always have to be willing to embrace what's new and what's coming and that it might or will definitely impact your daily work. Alexander, you have uh said that AI will amplify our performance or of potential by 10 to maybe even 100 times. How should we prepare uh us here? Uh how should we prepare for being relevant in two three years from now? Yeah, I think I I I would agree with Big Git there. This is to me very exciting because it's it's about enabling and empowering people that could not develop or solve their own problems before and now anyone can solve their own problems, right? But that doesn't mean that we don't need developers. So I think like the opportunity space is just growing dramatically which means that we could keep the same number of developers or we could double and solve a thousand times more problems at the same time. But I think it's really naive and I know this room is probably divided. There are those that hate AI assisted coding and think it's just the worst thing that have ever happened and then others have jumped on. But I think it's naive to think that our job as developers will be the same a few years from now. I I think that's that's just stupid to be honest with you. But I think, you know, those that embrace it will have the potential to be 10x or even 100x versions of themselves. And I think we'll see that smaller teams will be able to compete with large teams that are stuck in legacy ways of working. And I think yeah, the future 10x version of a developer are those that embrace AI and become AI prolific, that collaborate with AI and uh yeah, maybe they're a part engineer, a part product thinker, and a part AI whisperer. I think that's the that's the future uh super developers. How about data? Well, I think data was important before we got the level of AI we have today, but now it's become even uh more important. But I think, you know, this is something that scared a lot of people 10 years ago when we started talking about digitalization. Uh and it was almost like an excuse, right? Oh, no, but we can't change our ways of working because that I don't trust the data. But now with AI and the level of AI we have today, I think the visibility and sort of um accountability becomes very clear, right? So now we're starting to make decisions assisted by AI. It just amplifies the requirement for data quality. I think that's where you guys have done really a good job on focusing on data quality and then empowering the organization right letting it loose. You will break some glasses but in controlled manners and then uh you will uh spur a number of solutions that I don't think we would have been able to before in just having developers and IT departments working on this. Now the whole organization is working on it. I think that's the key difference. Robert, um uh so so why is data engineering so much more important now with AI? Uh we keep hearing that right that data quality and data engineering becomes more so data engineering has always been important. I mean before CH GPT you built data models on your own data and you put them in production. Now we get global foundation models that are built on basically all data that's available on the world on the worldwide web. So there's no competitive advantage in using that if you don't know how to use these foundational models well and not inject your own data into it. So to your point I mean data engineering will be extremely important. It's your only competitive advantage because everybody can do 1000 and thousand ticks with the same foundational models with the same strategies and know how to prompt. So you need to add that extra. So I and you see that so India is actually trying to build models they have 22 official languages and they're building models for most of them so that they can enable all their smart people in all these regions in their own languages. I was on the motorcycle tour in Africa bedwin languages they are known to foundational models but you can't translate them with them because they're not modeled into them. So there is a lot of things missing in these foundational models. Other things are available to everybody. So having your own data available, being able to inject that, build your own models in your own infrastruct structures with it, that is definitely a thing that we see changing a lot and very fast at the moment and like we've said several times. So at the moment there is new things coming up all the time and we went from chat GPT to rack to graph rack to whatever. Now we're talking about the gentic AI uh whatever that might mean. Uh but I mean we have had all this kind of agents have been there for many years. We've been them in building them into the cars for 20 years ago already with and without AI. Now we see an enablement with this these large language models and foundational models that make them extremely powerful. uh if you want to make them powerful, autonomous with authority and agency uh had large action models and so on. We will see a lot of changes and you cannot only break small things like you said in a controlled fashion but you can also break large thing in a non-controlled fashion and we need to find out how to deal with that because this is a different way of thinking a different way of working and we have not really fully understood it not at scale and that is definitely an issue that I see more and more. All right, Nicolola, I have a bit of a tough question for you also on this. So, bring it on. Yeah. So, this is the elephant in the room. Will people lose their jobs to AI? Well, for sure the people who don't use AI will lose their jobs. I hope so. I mean, here at MBM, if you don't use uh AI, you'll be you will never be promoted, right? Uh because you will you will lag so much behind everybody else. So, um so will you lose your jobs? Um well um for sure not in the short term I think it's all about uh you know making the efficiency uh better and so on but you know in the longer term there are some uh type of jobs that will be um challenged right uh lawyers accountants uh engineers all these kind of things and I think that's that's when you look at the time we are at now you'll have uh many type of jobs which will be challenged in the white color space, but at the same time, you know, with the humanoids and so on coming in in the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands next year and the year beyond, you know, we'll have we have challenges on the white on the blue collar side, too. So, we are um at an incredibly interesting time. Do you think we'll see like here in MBM, do you think we'll see like fully autonomous digital portfolio managers anytime soon? No, we are very So, we we never have anything that goes straight from AI to execution or trade, right? there's always a human uh in between and so all the investment decisions here are being taken are being taken by us. Just one thing on a we did um a podcast with uh Ethan Molik the Wharton professor who is uh very strong on the implementation of AI in your daily life. Uh so we did a podcast with him which is coming out tomorrow and he's showing some live cases of agentic AI use which is pretty cool. Yeah. So tune in tomorrow. Yep. 8:00. Nice trailer. Well, just also a question to the panel about AI maybe adoption. Do you see, you know, generational differences in how people are adopting tools? Is it, you know, just the younger people who are doing this or is it throughout their careers? What's what do you panel think? So, Alexander maybe start. Well, I think age has uh obviously plays a big role. I think there have been uh some surveys and statistics about this as well. I think it's maybe more about how they use it, right? So I think uh Gen C more than 50% are using it as a sort of a life partner for any decision and it's almost like they're not making any decisions without first uh uh conferring with chat GPT and I think maybe the uh the millennials and or baby boomers maybe are more in the category of uh impro starting out with improving the speech for their uh their confirmation party or something like that. So yeah, I think it's uh it has uh it has a little bit to do with age and uh and how prone you are to to changing your ways of working. But I think we need to share and we need to show each other the opportunities with AI. But it's really cool what's happened. If you if if you just think about the last 10 years, 10 years ago, who were the heroes in the workplace? The old farts like me, right? The the old people. They were they were really the leading stars. Then five years ago, who were the leading stars? Well, they were the young people, right? Who could code because you needed if you could code Python, you were like a hero. So then all the other people, all the old people felt like losers and the young people, they felt like heroes. Then Chhatt comes along. Then suddenly it's changing again. No, the old people like me, we can code, right? We don't need we don't need these people anymore. And so it's like it's upside down the whole thing. So basically age has been neutralized which is really cool. It means another thing being mid mid-level managers. In the old days it meant that you took whatever the guys at the top said and you transmitted it down through the organization. Right now you also function as a root system. You suck up the technology from uh you know from elsewhere in the organization and you transmit it to the top. So being a mid-level manager has totally changed over the last three years. I would say your function has totally changed. It's really fascinating. I mean we are living through some total revolutions now in corporate life. I mean it's so much fun. No. Yeah. What it means is that there is so it's so much more fun to work these days compared to in the past. Most people who leave a company they leave because they don't have challenges. They don't feel they learn. They don't feel they're being challenged. Now you learn every day. I I was in the London office on uh uh when was that get there? Was it uh Friday? Friday. Yeah. And I sit down with people. It's just like, you know, Nikolai, it's so much fun at work now. We feel challenged. We feel we learn, you know, it's it's personal development. I mean, this is cool stuff. Cuz I think we're running out of time here, but we wanted to have like a final rapid, you know, question to all of you. So, if you had to give the audience here one key insight into about AI's impact going forward, what would it be? Let's start with you, Nicola. Ah, it's changing your life. It's uh upside down. It's just get in there and spend all your time on it. And and if you don't think you got time to really educate yourself on AI, you are just totally not getting it because uh you know, just leave I I come into rooms now leave everything you do. You know, it doesn't matter. It is totally unimportant what you're doing now. just train yourself because you're going to become so much more efficient and so much easier to to learn and train yourself with AI now. Absolutely. What's your answer? Yeah, this is probably even more interesting because um I don't think you need to understand AI at the moment and you don't need to learn it and if I see my discussions with my clients, I haven't been discussing technology for last four or five months. I think what we're discussing especially with this agentic AI what we're discussing now is really okay I can give you an unlimited amount of employees so what what are you going to do what what are you going to solve what is actually your plan so now it's not even an AI strategy it is what is your strategy because companies need to rethink their whole strategy now and that that is this top- down thinking that needs to come so what what kind of advice can you give well at least be not naive learn about so use it I Can you learn by using and and see where you strand and see what you find out? I mean like you say you can do coding maybe you are successful maybe not. You can you can make analyst reports maybe you can replace Nikolai maybe not. I mean try it you know like I mean use this technology. I mean there there are so many things that you can do with it and I speak a lot with young people. I worked with a new new dag with the project at the time and they were discussing what it should be a library or not and then I said no it should be we should make a meeting place. So I go there every now and meet like 14 15 years old and last time there was one guy Natan from uh from Google he came up to me and we talked together and he said like I'm going to start a company and he said I'm going to use AI I'm going to start a company. So I said okay I want to follow up. So now we have regular followers because I want to see how he does this, you know, like this is so cool. People see possibilities where you never seen. How about you, Alexander? What's your I think you have a saying in NBIM AI won't take your job. Someone using AI will. And I think that's spot on the mentality. So if you're early in your career now, that's that's the only advice. Jump on it and learn to be proficient with AI. I tell my kids all the time, use your words. That's your biggest asset. learn how to communicate and collaborate with AI and then you'll leaprog 10 years uh for those who don't. So that that gap will just increase. But but remember that the human brain is still superior in contextual awareness and contextuality. I mean AI is not. So use that's what we bring right that's what we can bring when we collaborate with AI. We bring taste, we bring opinion, we can scrutinize and we can be the one with the critical thinking. So you know people ask me all the time are we going to become more stupid when we uh just leave all our decision making to AI or are we going to become less creative. I think on the contrary with AI you can expand and you can challenge your thinking. You can look at different perspectives and it just opens up the opportunity for us to create a thousand campaigns instead of one campaign or 10 campaigns. That's that's the magic of it. 10x or 100x. But then I just have a question for you because Amazon there was just a letter of six programmers from Amazon and they said our job is so boring at the moment because we get all this AI delivered code and we're just doing the code review and we are not the kind of programmers that love code review and I don't know how many programmers you know that love you know most developers for the last 10 years they've been going on Stack Overflow sifting through comments and picking out and copy pasting. Well, it's the same thing. It's just a new more advanced way of doing it now. But by doing that you learn about coding, you learn about creating the program and now you get the program delivered and you're reviewing it. So how do you get the experience? I think the key difference AI to review. No, I think the the key thing is we're now as developers for those who are developers. I think why would you want to handw write all the code? There is no value in handwriting all the code. If you can spend your time on orchestrating, on architecting, on designing, that's where we add value as human beings. So at the end of the day, yes, some people love to create very beautiful lines of code, but at the end of the day, we just want solutions that work, right? This discussion will continue afterwards but I love it was your I just have to echo some other people say I just embrace it share use cases inspire the organization and just uh open up because uh it's just fun and exciting and full of opportunities and that's how we have embraced it at least. Yep. Thanks all for uh for those engaging in insightful uh perspectives on how AI will impact our jobs. I'm sure uh as you said with the conversation will continue uh throughout this evening. Uh now we will have a 10 minutes break but before that let's uh have an applause. Okay. I hope all of you got uh to stretch your legs and are ready for the the last part of of the of today. So next up is security. And I guess you can imagine that um NBIM is an attractive um target for cyber criminals. Uh so that means that we need to have full control of the security aspect. And luckily we have the best security team in the world. And two of them are going to present for you today. That's Selena and Johanses who going to talk a little bit about how we run our security operations. Please. What if ma what if the hours used on manual cyber investigations could be reclaimed without sacrificing control and insight? This is a question that we have asked in EMBIB and today Yan and I are going to show you how AI has helped us make this vision a real reality. Yes. And to quickly run through the goals, we're going to have just a quick run through of a very cool AI use case that we have developed and are using today. Then we're going to dig a bit deep and try and understand some of the main building blocks that make this AI workflow work and also is generally applicable to most other advanced AI workflows as well. And then we're going to speculate a bit about the future because that's on brand as well. In MBIM, we have a cyber response team that run a 247 security and operation center. This means that we are constantly monitoring, analyzing, and responding to threats. What does this mean in practice? Well, you can be in deep deep deep REM sleep when your phone buzzes with a high priority alarm. This is a type of alarm that can that can make it look like the oil fund has just vanished. And let's just say it is expected that we wake up extremely fast. But here is where it gets interesting because as mentioned in in MBIM we are bringing AI more and more into the loop and in cyber response we aren't just using AI to raise alarms but to contextualize them. And what does that mean? Well, let me take you through an incident. It is 2:00 a.m. on a Sunday and you wake up from your phone buzzing. A high priority alarm has just come in to our monitoring platform. This is the type of call that spikes your heart rate to 180 before you can even process what's going on, but you immediately know that something bad might be happening. However, no time to waste. We get up, we get dressed, and we are by our desk within seconds. We log in, we launch our monitoring platform, and there it is. Malware detected on a device. It's vague, but kind of heavy. What malware? What device? Is it a lateral movement? Is this just false alarm? In that moment, everything is a possibility and it's our job to find out fast. So while our mind goes through all the possibilities and our hands are going through the usual triage steps, something is working in the background. Our integrated AI bot. So this is the alarm in our monitoring platform Sentinel. Malware detected and on your right hand side you see a text block with some info covered over. It is not expected that you read it all but it do hold key information. What has happened? Which system has triggered and in this case it informs about a document containing malicious code. And this is where our integrated AI bot comes into play. Instead of giving us raw data, it creates a executive level summary of what it believes has happened. This gives us a narrative. It gives gives us a storyline, something that's actionable. Then it goes deeper. It does a user analysis. Who is the user? Is the user compromised? Is it expected that this type of user work with this type of documents? Then it looks at the document. When was it created? When was it last modified? Who has access it and when? And it takes all of this information and generates a timeline leading up to the alarm. Then it gives investigation guidance. What are the next steps or recommended next steps based on previous cases? And lastly, it gives a tentative conclusion. Does he believe this is a threat or a false alarm? So instead of starting from zero, we start several steps ahead with context, with direction, and a bit more clarity about the alarm. But can we trust the information? The short answer, yes, but with oversight, with human oversight. It is important to remember that an AI is just a tool. It is not a final decision maker. So even though the information it gives is mostly accurate and quite helpful, it's still based on probabilities. It doesn't know in a human sense. it predicts which means it can make mistakes. So it is important to remember that the output you receive from or we receive from our AI model can be looked at as a first step. It is not a final verdict. It is up to us to validate the findings, make the judgment calls and take action. But Johan, how does our AI airbot really work? Well, that is a very interesting question and I'm going to try and and break it down into a couple of key components that I would argue powers most advanced AI applications uh these days. The first and maybe the the most important thing to know about is something called the React Loop. The react loop is sort of a five-stage process that most AI workflows that are able to do stuff and can react to things follow. And that is basically a process where you have some sort of question say what websites did this machine visit or what uh URLs did this user talk to and then that is the initial input. Then the AI has a series of tools available to it and it can reason about which one should I use, what will be helpful to try to solve this task. Then it executes one of those tools. It gets feedback and then a new prompt is triggered to basically analyze the feedback and then it flows back to the thought step again where it again sort of iterates should I call a new tool? Am I now finished? And then it basically iterates like that until it has solved the task. And this is basically the way most reactive AI applications work these days. In addition, this react loop works quite well for simple tasks, but it has a problem when stuff starts becoming more complex, especially for example like security incidents. They can be sort of like you start digging at stuff, but there might not really be anything to find. It's a bit of a diffuse problem. And then AI has a tendency to sort of just get stuck in a rabbit hole and not really achieve anything. So in addition to running stuff in an React loop, we also have what's called a multi- aent architecture. And this is basically where we have a bunch of different agents with their own set of instructions and their own set of basically recipes on how to solve different problems operate independently. And then we have basically a top level manager agent that is tasked with generating up tasks and diving them up until to to the sub agents. And the sub aents might be for example an agent that specializes in analyzing threat intelligence stuff. So looking at like bad domains or IP addresses and other kinds of stuff. Or it might be an agent that specializes in looking at for example our log data or looking at our users or looking at machines and so on and so forth. So you basically divide and conquer the task and each of those sub aents run their task in their own react loop with sort of a set limit of how much they are allowed to use. So that if one just gets stuckss in a loop it just reports back I couldn't do anything and then new tasks are generated and so on and so forth. This is actually quite similar to how many of these modern AI chat apps use something called deep research. If you ever click that button, what basically happens in the background is that they create a bunch of tasks to investigate and then they spin that off to agents that usually go and browse the internet to try and find information and then they compile down a report and present it to the user. We do that basically as well, but we just look at all our internal stuff instead. But in addition to that, we run the manager agent in a React loop. So when we get information back, we basically create a new iteration with new tasks and so on and so forth. So we run this up to maybe 10 times and it takes approximately somewhere between 10 to 15 minutes and the results we get are actually quite good I would say like we we have been very impressed with this workflow. The final thing that is needed to make this type of application or workflow work is a set of tools like you need to basically build tools to allow the AIS to fetch information and fetch knowledge from your infrastructure or whatever they are supposed to work on. So we spent a lot of time building a bunch of integrations to different stuff to be able to get information where they need it. Um, and these days something called MCP is like a very big hype in the AI world. It's basically just a standard for how to build tools. So this is what we use as well and it it works really well and it's really simple to create these tools these days. And it also has the advantage that we can reuse these tools to for example integrate them into our normal AI chat apps. So if you want a more interactive approach to sort of looking at your own data and just doing stuff then you can just do it uh in like a normal chat app as well. So when we basically compile all this together we get a really really good result but there is some sort of I would say key uh drawbacks. I would say roughly 90 to 95% of the time we get a really good result that is like we can trust it almost exactly and all we really do is to just verify that the work that is presented is correct saves us a ton of time and then the other 5% usually what happens is that the AI has a tendency to think that stuff that isn't really bad is bad so it's you probably quite a good problem to have rather than it thinking that stuff that is bad is is uh not bad at all so Looking a bit ahead, um are we currently at the stage where AIs can think like humans or are they still uh statistical parrots? Well, at least from our experience, um doing type one thinking and simple thinking that is basically solved. Like an AI is basically as good as any human at what you would call like very reactionary quick responses or thinking. But when it comes to doing more complex tasks, that requires context switching, that requires sort of deciding now I spent enough time on this, I need to switch over to this and do more complex stuff. At least from our experience and what we've seen others do as well, AIs haven't really gotten that much better at it to be completely honest. And all of the workflows and stuff that's built to do this basically has like a scaffolding that is built by humans that is sort of a designed uh workflow or recipe if you want to call it that. Um, so that's basically what our current problems are. But looking a bit ahead, like AI models have gotten a ton better uh just over the last year. So like problems that we had to work around with regards to like context length or like size of input and that kind of stuff has already gotten uh a lot easier to solve. But the problem still remains that is very difficult for models to do this complex workflow. Uh but of course if we see models that are no longer just static that they are as they are now where they just train and then they're shipped out to the world and and they are basically producing the exact same result every single time. But you can instead sort of just tell the model like this is not how we do it in our firm. You should do it like this and it will be able to learn that. That I imagine would be like the next step that needs to be solved for AI to approach more type two uh solution solving. But we haven't really seen anything that uh that we're there yet. But there's a ton of money and smart people working on it. So, so we will see. In addition, uh just to pull on some more stuff, uh some really really advanced um flows from something called alpha evolve uh has currently also been presented where they basically let AIS uh modify the scaffold that builds the workflow and change stuff around and sort of tweak parameters and see if stuff gets better and whatnot. This is sort of the bleeding edge where AIs themselves are starting to tweak and work on the the scaffold that orchestrate these workflows. But again the the big big bottleneck that sort of we see with both reasoning models and other stuff is that you need the problem to be very verifiable. Like if you can say that because we did this now the performance is slightly better or now the solution is correct or now it's not correct and then you can sort of reinforce and change accordingly. But problems that are not verifiable are still very much sort of difficult to see improvements on I would say. So yeah uh but sort of to pull it back we still think that what we've done here is like super useful. We we use it all the time and it saves us a ton of time. Um but we will not let this run MBIM security department anytime soon. It's still very much at the stage where we need to have a look at it and figure out if what it has done makes sense. So that's about it and uh if anyone is interested about the technical details I'm also going to have like a full talk on this at secrets festival in a couple of months time. So so show up there. [Applause] Thank you. Uh and now over to uh let me see now over to something that I'm really proud of. the data platform we have here at NBIM AO he will tell us about how our very modern uh data platform has been amplified by uh utilizing AI on top of it. So, thank you. Uh, yeah. So, uh, I'm Ain. I work as a senior data engineer here at NBIM within data core team. Uh, and we have been working a lot as the rest of NBIM with AI these days. Um, so, uh, I'm going to start off with a quote. Uh and this is anonymized for Utron so no one will kind of recognize you based on this. But a senior management member uh told me um that if uh if he needs data he would request it from the chief investment officer. Uh the CIO will task their head. uh they will direct an analyst who knows the data and SQL uh who will uh actually extract the data from Snowflake our analytical platform who will export it into Excel uh and then send it back through the same chain. Um and this is kind of not very fast. Um and if Tron has forgotten a column or dimension or filter, it's the whole loop again. Um so and and this is not because uh Tron is not like competent within data or SQL or anything uh but it's uh due to the fact that we have immense uh amounts of data in snowflake. Uh and to put this uh in the context of our data platform we are ingesting hundreds of sources uh from APIs from uh databases from files from data vendors etc etc. Um and we use Fiverr to ingest that data into Snowflake where we host our uh analytical platform. Uh and there we store it as uh raw data both historical and live data. uh and then we use DBT extensively to connect the the dots um and transform that uh that raw data into model data uh which is then again consumed downstream by uh different tools like Tableau uh Python streaml and many more uh and uh this like in in total this amounts to as I mentioned hundreds of sources we have thousands of terabytes of data uh we have hundreds of thousands of of objects. Uh so Snowflake is pretty much like a data jungle. Uh it's really difficult to kind of know your your way around. Um and as you as you can see like we we don't have any specific tools in this architecture for uh finding data, exploring data uh or for uh like having the business users closer to to our data. Uh however we we have like a madman on top uh which is great um and we have an amazing uh AI team who have onboarded the three C's as uh as big mentioned previously uh which is like a perfect fit for this purpose uh like closing the gap between data uh and the business. Um and two two of the C's in this context uh would be cursor our development tool for example and claude which is probably uh even more uh more relevant for this case. Uh and this is where we do like our everyday work. We it can write emails uh read like think chat GPT if you haven't heard about cloud. Uh however limitation for claude and these LMS are as you probably know uh they are trained on publicly available information and like outdated information based on which models you're using for example. Um and then as Yuan mentioned previously uh uh anthropic launched uh this winter the the concept of model context protocol which is in practice just a framework for connecting the LMS with whatever you would like. Um so we have built our own MCPS uh MCP servers model context protocol uh in Python and they can speak to for example Snowflake uh DBT GitHub whatever API or if if you can do it in Python you can have it as an MCP pretty much uh and this kind of unleashes a new uh dimension of of using for example claw or cursor. So uh this is going to be uh a bit small for you uh in the back um but I'll narrow it as we go. Uh and it's going to go a bit fast. We'll rewind as well. This is the user interface of a project in claude. Uh so uh this is the snowflake data catalog project we have with a predefined set of instructions uh and context. Uh and this is available to everyone and everyone knows how to use it thanks to the AI modules and training we we've had internally. Uh so what th could do here uh is writing something uh like where can I find information about our holding data without knowing like to be honest without knowing even what snowflake is. And then you can see uh the LMS working uh with this response um fetching data from all of these MCPS and tools uh and collecting it uh abstracting it doing what LM do best. uh and then it will uh as a as a main response here provide you with some findings or suggestions in a in a sense. Um if we jump like back to the top so so we can see what's actually going on here. uh is that straight after it gets the question it will uh find out that oh this is a good use case for the snowflake MCP uh and then it writes some some queries SQL uh pushes it down to snowflake gets responses based on that response it will create new queries push down to snowflake and then it will kind of iterate until until it's satisfied with its findings uh and then it will also uh use that information to find out that hey oh this is DBT models uh Let's let's find some some quality metrics from uh the DVT API uh which we've also integrated uh and then it uses all of these information from Snowflake and DBT and connects it into a response like a retrieval augmented generation uh where it will present you with a number of models uh tables with uh key quality metrics responsibles uh sensitivity etc. Uh and then this like from without even knowing what snowflake is uh you don't have to know SQL or anything you can pretty fast find out uh what we have and where we have it. Uh and since this is this is not limited to meta data only. So since claude can uh can use uh the the snowflake data you could also keep going and asking something like I want to explore the equity holdings that was a match for our use case. uh please please do some do some data digging. Um and then it will once again create SQL uh aggregations pull out different metrics uh uh slice and dice on on dimensions and then it will create an artifact for us uh performing like a visualization where uh you will get the detailed breakdowns according to live updated information pretty much as well as a text response. So you can now browse both both the on numbers and and graphs and this is just like this is the tip of the iceberg just like think how this could be used in developer tools or in agents or whatever. Uh so now from tron could have gone now from not knowing where that is to actually having the data ready readily available. Uh so this is uh this is quite amazing and it's heavily utilized across the the organization as well. Um so I'm going to I'm this is mindboggling to me as well. Uh and I'm going to um wrap up with uh another quote stating that the future is not tomorrow. Uh it is today and that is of course Nikolai. Yeah. Uh yeah. Thank you for listening. [Applause] Thank you. Next on the agenda, we have two people that are going to present how we have integrated AI into our organization and how we are training our employees on this. So, please welcome Islang and Stan Shik. [Applause] Thank you. Um, we will kick it off with a video that's uh tied to one of our training programs here in Nic. 5 4 3 2 1. Humans have always been in motion. From the time of cave paintings where we captured the world with simple strokes to the agricultural revolution, we tamed nature, built societies, gained time to think, then came the machine. We shaped steel and steam, crossed continents, produced at volumes the world had never seen. The 20th century brought a technological explosion. We connected the planet, created the internet, exchanged ideas across borders, and now artificial intelligence. The most profound tool humanity has ever created. It amplifies our creativity, accelerates our discoveries, and helps solve our greatest challenges. This isn't just technology. It's a fundamental extension of human potential, a partner in our continued evolution. The possibilities are endless. Where the journey goes from here, that's up to you. [Music] Yes. So, it's all up to each and uh one of us to leverage on uh AI uh or else you will fall behind as we heard earlier today and uh AI is a focus in all of MBIM right now. Yes, I a focus in all of them. The tools are available for everyone and these tools are of no value uh if no one is using them. And as Priita mentioned earlier today uh we are going to talk about how we adopted uh how we have worked with adoption in in NVIM. A few months ago, U Nikolai gave us the task of becoming 20% more efficient. Uh he was not really sure what he meant as he said the stuff I do. Uh because the stuff he does is not the same as I do, nor is it lean or a trader, a portfolio manager, an analyst, a developer. So uh I'm not exactly sure what he does all the time. So um um not sure what any of us do all the time but I'll get back to that. So we need to try and approach this a bit academic. So with a good methology we turn to a professor at Wharton Eton Mollik and he has some good thoughts on how we all should adopt AI into our work and also into our daily life. So we tried to take uh Eton's work adapted to our own and broke it down into four key areas. Tools, project, processes and habits. So first of all, as we have discussed today, we need tools to get everyone uh productive. We selected Claude as our chat client. We selected curser for development, copilot for office for everything office related, transcribing, meeting etc. And we call these our three C's. Later on we added the fourth one cloud uh code. And if you haven't tried that one out, you should really check it out. It's really good for cloud uh for vibe coding. And as I were mentioning here earlier, the MCP is the model context protocol. It was a standard that Antropic delivered. It was not really meant for production usage. Even though I's uh slide here says it was servers, it was really deployed to each and every individual laptop in the whole organization. uh we still rolled it out to everyone and as you expect that came with a much expected uh trouble and unstability and we have experienced a bit of that not too much thank god for that but now we are trying to fix that because the draft specification of uh remote MCP is out and we are um deploying that centrally to one of our ads account so no more local installation on on the laptops. We are sharing the knowledge bases in one AWS account so we can tap into it all together. We are sharing connections and more. And you might guess where we then are going with such a setup as this. And the easiest way for anyone to learn is to try the things out for yourself. And there we used claw projects. And I even showed you one of these and they're a great place to actually just try out new things, improve them and do your P uh PC proof of concept before you take it anywhere further. You don't need any developer resources or anything like that. As of now, we have more than 27,000 different project in CL and keep in mind we are only 700 employees. So to us that is a lot. These products have been shared. They are private. They have been thrown away. We have a lot of duplicates. Uh and we know that. But it's okay as long as people have learned and proved and adopted the technology. We are only going to keep the best one of these 27,000 product. Nonetheless, and the next thing is processes. How do we do our work? As we are a public institution, we are unfortunately pretty bureaucratic. So how can we make our processes more efficient? Do you have policies in place which do not make sense with the introduction of AI? So we uh as an example have thousands and thousands of pages in complence which is thoughtfully created by people but hardly read later on and is also really difficult for uh anyone to find the updated version of the latest page. So is that the right way to approach it going forward? Probably not. We need to make sure that our work scales beyond us, help us optimize and rethink how things are done because we can't waste time solving the same problems over and over again when you can't find the documentation you actually need. So AI can help us get rid of those manual processes and automate them. And finally, the habits. If we are to improve efficiency, we need to change the way we are working. We if we do not change the way we work, we haven't gained anything. But habits are really really hard to change. People like to come in and do the same things they did yesterday because that's comfortable. Changing habit is uncomfortable for everyone. So that doesn't cut it anymore. You need to bring AI to the table in everything you do all the time. It doesn't matter if you're writing code, analyst, an analyzing a company or writing a report. AI is your own personal intern assistant to whom you delegate all the work you can, the boring and also the fun things because you need to free up more of your own time. So to change habits, you need to give them the tools and consistently nudge people again and again and again to to get them going. So how did we work on this uh is well first of all it's really important with the close collaboration with the AI team and technology and uh our team people development uh where we work with pedagogical principles and behavioral models to to get adoption going and training and learning. uh and uh in 2025 we have tech year and we are focusing and accelerating our focus on AI and just listen to this video of Oscar who is a AI ambassador and Nikolai. All right Nick an exciting year to the start of the year of 2025 in AI with um Deep Seek Nvidia etc. What's on the agenda for for AMP this year? Well, the thing is that it's going to totally fill the whole agenda. You are going to hear about AI every day when you wake up. I'm going to totally bombard you with it. It's going to be hackathons, going to be uh tech days, tech month, tech week, tech hour, everything. Every Monday meeting, I'm going to bang on about it every time. It's totally transformational and revolutionary. Perfect. And as part of that alo also we have a AI course that we're doing internally. Why is it so important that everyone participates in this? Because we just need to get everybody up at a proper level because if you haven't started to use it, you will be slow and you will be parked. Yes. So there's no doubt right there's a really strong tone from the top. It's a sense of urgency and everyone in the fund is measured on AI in the performance management uh processes. And as Nikolai says um if you don't use or adopt AI, someone else uh will surpass you as he as he said earlier. But diving into techare, what do we actually do? So as you can see here, it's quite packed with activities. Uh but uh to highlight a few, we started off with a comprehensive AI ambassadors program. uh and uh we have now 40 uh ambassadors and we have done training uh in two rounds. So one completed and one is ongoing at the moment. Uh and then we have uh tech days uh that's inspirational days, the one in the orange with the star. Uh so we just had one super um exciting with different types of inspirational speeches but also really hands-on where you learn and really get your fingers dirty. So the aim is to to inspire and to learn in this uh uh different happenings and they are hosted in all our local offices across the globe. Then we also have had AI developers training uh with uh as you've heard about MCPS and RAG um and we will uh we just finished our AI upskill program and after summer we will also have a um training for uh in vibe coding. So let's dive into AI upskill. Uh and this contains of seven modules. Uh it's mandatory. So everyone needs to take these modules. And it's training on our three C's. So now you probably know them. It's cloth, cursor, and co-let. And this is essentially about changing habits. Um and that's a consistent theme throughout. Um and we are really trying to take it down removing all the bus and reaching that was what's in it for me mentality or dimension and the goal is to become more efficient um and understand how to get going to lower those barrier that the was talking about in terms of changing the habits and these uh sessions are bitsized uh meaning 30 minutes every other week and really hands-on Um so what about the effect? What are we are we succeeding and what are we seeing so far? Um well working with training or learning and development it's not always that you see uh a change in behavior or a habit necessarily but in this initiative we can actually track it. So we see a really clear connection after each module. It's a all-time high activity in uh cursor or claude and we have now 250 active uh users in cursor who um uh is using it for coding which is really amazing and we have estimated so far that we have saved 150 million in work hours. So um looking ahead well um we need to keep up the pace right uh it's an extreme race between the AI companies they uh they deliver new things all the time and uh we evolve alongside uh of AI and with any new technology as we all know uh it will be hiccups it will be setbacks uh but when something doesn't work 100% you don't abandon it. You try again uh and you find new ways. So this will require adaptability, resilience, a growth mindset uh and uh testing, failing and learning. Those who will do that, they will succeed. So looking ahead now, we need to think totally uh different not only improving our current processes but actually fundamentally looking at how we work. Yes. So we I believe we hit the 20% efficiency months ago and the Nikolai and the leadership backing for that has been crucial. But goals evolve as Nikolai has said a couple of time this is an oil moment once in a lifetime opportunity. AI will totally change how we work. So history shows us that real efficiency gains are only come when we stop doing something or doing the task entirely. So the washing machine didn't improve laundry by 20%, it freed up time, right? Dishwasher element eliminated hand washing. Calculators killed manual calculation. Uh now the robot X1 nail can uh clean up your house, do your dishes and cook for you. So you have freed up even more time. So for us the same principle applies. We need to radically think different about work itself. Much of what we do is sudo work, a task that exists only because of how our work is structured, not because they create value themsel. We fill out forms that feed other forms. We attend meetings to plan meetings. Uh we create reports that nobody reads. Uh, efficiency isn't about doing more work. It's about doing the right work. Let humans do what humans excel at. Trust AI with everything else. Thank you. [Applause]