Everyone Two days before, BAUSO-Po-Poerr in Utah, Yotahsou, Yachter, in Utah, Yachte. The incident just got on the news, there was people who said me to say it. I actually don't know what. The media's report are all in unhing. The case's basic fact, even FBI and the police all not even if I'm not sure. I can't know. Today's Today's morning, the Scenfan just and was a 22-year-old and the young people his own and the cause-in-haw- and why the other things this type of this thing is the media-the-med--the-em-t-trow- door- the first part-of- did do the one-the-con work, just to give the people and the people, On the world world's time, people, one day to the night and then panw on all the things happen, this one when it's a year, they'd they're they're right and out of the people, out of the media, to make, to them end. Li-shing people would be thinking and think a and I'm even FBI, even the people don't even not people still media, so-Mete so-Met so-Met so-Met can't know? With the-clue button to write the media an in, other such to give-in-law, anything else anything else what was Charlie Kirtt's year, he's in Utah at a school school at time, was at the big-shirt, from two-bigh--as-as- hit-n- hit-jom his--in-of- her-the-tight- and two-a- children, one-as-, the-one-e-e- all-in-a-e-st, all-the-season, and, In the past 2, FBI was in trying to draw the some media. Some media and the media mind to give FBI form-of-sion. Wufie is just like all the different people, to send-a- people, say, right-and- do-the- right-and- do you, people, say, if you're saying, always not-in-a- thing, and the people, just, using this thing, to keep shan-ststub- changing, and, continue, to the social fan Some of the "Gentz "'dicts, of course, "'gain't even would "'is this opportunity, "'even to chowel war, "'john-Tzeng. "'Dentz. "'Dentzs. "'Temes of some "'pinsed people "'in' "'Someersed in social-medity "'send-send-lough. "'Gue-sue-one-chewan-chewan-chchewan. The position, or both are not the question, it's not the question is it's not not even in a in a in a society, but you can't how you can't you can't you can't be a person, Is it, or is itw him or is it's always it's normal, it's can't accept, this, it's been there, I don't like her many of the other questions, even yetw him, but I'd like, I'd like to show his, is to the school, and then-one, and then-one and not suu-bo-lid, not to be used to the fact. He was by the time, was at the doing-and, and is at, and in--s- The event happened after Stephen Pinker professor said speech is not violence violence is not speech and not speech言 run not policy is not argument if you don't like Charlie Kirk's argument but what why anything you don't have no can't you can't you can't you can't can't even can't use other words to say but he's but it can't be it As a people, not like him, yet can't see someone who's just to be able to be able to be the last one and they're not the last I'm think this is people people, a people, social media media is it's media and just if people people all people, they're there's people, Some "3-p-since-of-for-person will be-tall-seysh will seem-cault-cali-lead to spread-yallion, and the general people find not so much far. I very much-one. I very much-one. He said, "Charliebyselfare' "Charlie Kirk'advocated Stoning Gates to Death." Charlie Kirk, to try and use stow by Tonging Liener Zahsir. A way heu, a great-tear-le-le-ch-le-ch son-ecent-to-te-win. I believe marriage is one-man-one woman. Also, gay people should be welcome in conservative movement. As Christians, we are called to love everyone. I believe that the marriage is men and women's both-sexual-party movement should welcome hominging, as a leader, our people, our people, our people, this is Charlie Kirk's first-of- Stephen King saw, I was wrong and I apologize, I have deleted the post. I'm "I'm sorry,' I've done, I've "'I've been the Tiette's shaned. "'Ling-you-now-one-the-court.'" Charlie Kirk, "'meree, "'not said, "'that's some of the "'that's some "'in' some way. "'It's exactly this kind of "'extream rhetoric that encourages people "'to commit violence. "'Tempsis this kind of end-lunerment "'Cutonement's subdu-baudly. Stephen King again, said, again, said, and again, Charlie Kirk never advocated stolen gates to death. Charlie Kirk never even used to stone had a tungling line, that's right. This is Stephen King's grand This is team. Stephen King just so the way people are because he's always they're because he just in the true and it's because it's being like like lium like people and people can't seem men and Stephen King also but he but he don't he's true the people and he just he's true that's this is he the people and the people Not everyone Like Stephen King that's It's true And not as people who like Stephen King that's doing they're in people It's in right people on the people who are there's not not sure And no need to support righte And it's immediately start a type to putt self- Tohue block un-heaped to give people They're not just to tell the people. Many things, many things are still still noteworthy, to wait wait for the end, and wait for example. They're not, they're not quite, they're un-duty, put-tolde, intimidation to provoke, to get people to cause cause to people to to telly, to question, sooo-sue the future, so-justed people's, the few-mean-she- They've through Songers and the monas shes the shan-trak to see in the news shaned human ground high sowed and spread and that's a sort effect and this this the this like the things the and it soon and immediately To them to them to say, the hum-shoe is who, the motive is what, important is how, the thing is the way, the thing is to their own-fonged to their their own-even- to the same-as- not-the-em- or the right-pye-move, but it's the people-the-mere-mean-the-emoe, it's-the-moe, is the-o-the-shoe. In the English in a way can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its truths. The truth is on its shoes. There are in trying to wear. There is this is Mark Toulwen said. There are not Mark Toulon said. Not a lot of People's and many people It's actually are people out of people But who's people But who said It's not It's important It's the word It's just word about A real-sue and Yawien And, and spread than the fact Charlie Kirk, yuze, may go a while, even there have been on the media, on the media, and on the media, and on the media, and monged to give FBI, and to the people, who know, "Terms, special, "Torke' need time, need, evidence, need, and,,,,, But it's normal and the way without not you create could put not a time to get the first to the first time the the people the time and out and out without not unlaw in Charlie Kirk used this thing, like the same like the same as a year, it's a lot of the "It's a great-dunctrine to human-sign-noburn. Some people are 'Cube-chew, 'is' 'tis' to the truth-the-nuechews. This, this thing-sid-loss, it's bea-the-shing-de-the-chain to-thead-thead-shed-sehold, is "eran-sign-niquet. The "EGy-Dunctrism are different "'Theirn't-Qaeda' «pote" "'Peworthe' "TempsychEau' "'Pontake' "'pote' "michael' "'Theircuit' 'Mews' "'Soviet' '1213' people's' "'Inns' '2'-Po'-Po-Po-Po'hs''o''''' '0'o'o'-pans''' the "" wrong not a particular point, romebting, wrong to a new-is- put in the political-shoot, and in-s-we-to-war to fight-e, by different political-guer- people, and the same being the people, in the in this one, the other one, the other is a point-a- different people, but is a need-stel-de-te--the-day-be-chew, is a-be-moh-d-ed-l-the-te-ffow. This Deed-Dypelt and the De-Dypheur, by shotguns, by Baub-li-Lead-Bolid-Demore-D, immediately-fass-o-tied-each-eat-a-eat-quay-eat. Let them seem-co-cight-lead to shuff-fas, this is the person-sing-tron-kind, the most-cund-a-tly-llay-lared-a. In the "Inchoic Social Socialismet, "'Bautil by 'Bautly-Degger, "'ponioner, it's to the'mintznor's "'de-mings' "'Toie' ''veauly" "'Forie' 'auveling social-guan't "'her people' "'Arehue, "'the-one''suff' "'Sheroy-s' "'Some society's' "'Can't put out "'of-chewan-cuit-res'-eck "'an-cue "'and-cue-st "'to-mean-cure. This sort of manned out, will be mischrist, even to sturoy, will, will be small-ment-gain-gaping-to-conceton, and the "Whatland.'" In society, to "Moviette"twe"""" "...the, "oan". "...theircernsend" "...theircerns"p. "...theircerns" "...theircerns" "...theircerns"," "...theircerns" "...their" These years, in in China, in America, a lot look down, there's a grand, just the extreme just-dun-just-being-old people, and some people, become-the-cuit, not new-chue and new-chue-ren-shing, use-just-her-kind-hack, and turn-human-shing, The politics is a most very easy the hands of lot of people people are in many people people who from end-on-earned- and things as well many of people who are quite quite get into the right end up in line chun-shingi and and paris-e get-of-eat- end-sion and to end-sting-e-calf- down-st--the-cou-crow- and living more than people. In here, I want to say a people's change. The political point will change a person character. It's the psychology. A personality, a one of the person who will because because it's not because is the right and the people, or is a person, or so can't get to be Just like Exactly On the Right Right It's Is it? One one is for To get with his personality To get to character No matter Togue to his point Not due to It's Is it is right Or or Right Some of some feelings and put-pid to keep-be-of-heas-kind to get people end-ching-un-nue end-nue-ad-nove the social- but since is the person people, they were just about their own-of-s their own social problem on, just years. These few years, human-sue have a strong fact-send, just, the real-o- person-it- issue, person-ity, a-of-'-one part-of-'-kind-of - the person-e-sou-stat-a-e. Human-grail, human-gues, and-girls, end-established, to the most mental-te, no-law-to-all-and-with- no-her-so-oh-hean-of-oh-hru-hru. People, people, with the social-street-the-cuit-the-cure-hruharmes, only one-of–buhury-hought-heat-old is to-blet, and to-bte, "Coan' "'Lewan' American humanist's There are this like like this like a gender of the people of the people because because the people in the people a people people no and there and people to get to the people The people's first-eal, the first-yields, is to ensure it's not to do this like, to use the right of the human-e a person, a person, whether he's a media, or is a media, and then this is the "haping "heper change the fundamental, un-either, 'hean-the- Today's day the media said, ''Cathshaar Charlie Kurt's "'in'''in case' "'is' time. "'But you're looking "'to see what' "'to get time, "'t need' need, "'shut self-chea's own-chee-chee-sue "'therely, "'sci-sassad-scient-in-law, "'their-suit, the, "'suit, not just the "'just-joubts-just-just-chew-old-all-hue-stall-just-eck, "'it-ean-each-eat-he-he-each-y-it-one-old-he-it-old-heat-he-he-it-old-he-he-it-all-he-l-all--all As a watch this event of the people, we more need to take the good use of the bigue to spread chloe of the power of the power. Schiaenfan's guiseo-in-lawed-on-the-counter-cuit-the-zo, Spenser Cox, in the media show-of-the-churcher sing-in' a word. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong. Kuan Su is Kahn-Sue-Tor-Therst. He hootied people to put-up power, and choose to go a turn-in-of- different road. He also talked to recently in Ming-Su-Dard of the political power, he also he said that he took-of-sion- time, tried to try-sach-sach- This is to people, "Tisbaudit not just is'send right party not just to "'and what "'is "'and is "'Degu' "'is "'Degu's "'toe "'send to "'is "'Mindu's "'the "'sus' "'Chi' "'Cirly. "'Cardt "'sus' "'She's in ''signighted '2nd "'Yes, I'm "'anightighted. In next week in the next week in the we will talk about the second question that's not a case. That not just is a law law and it not just a rule law and is a time and it's a time the time we we next we see.