Hey everybody, welcome back to the channel. We are back on another episode of the daily recap. Third day in a row after the fivemonth hiatus and we are back. I'm very happy that you guys are enjoying this series as much as I enjoy creating it. We got a lot to talk about. Bent kind of said some stuff about China today that got the markets a little upset. We'll talk about that. Lots of macro updates. Remember how I said yesterday we're going to get a lot more stats on what happened last week on the first 3% down day for the S&P 500 in 5 months? We got some stats and it's quite incredible to look at. Uh and then Amazon. I want to talk a little bit about Amazon. I bought more Amazon, made some portfolio moves today. We'll talk about what I did, but I think there's something to discuss in Amazon. Let's get into it. All right. So, let's start off with what happened with Bent. Uh quite simply, I think what's happening right now in the state of China versus the US is that they are going back and forth with each other. Now, why are they going back and forth? They will be meeting by they, I mean Xi and Trump. that this was confirmed um two days ago in South Korea and that meeting was going to be a really important meeting because they're going to be talking about a lot of different things. We still have not got a full official official trade deal from China, the United States yet and so we need to see what happens in that meeting. Now you had two statements today, one by Trump and one by Bent that kind of got the market a little scared. We were up about 1.2% 1 p.m. the statement comes out from Bent Market falls about 7% then we recover about.3%. So, all in all, not a flat day for the S&P 500, but definitely not a monster day in terms of the rebound. We even touched 670 in the morning. 673 was the all-time high. Uh, I think we closed today around 663. So, what did say? He urged the World Bank to end support for China, said securing critical mineral supply chains is a US priority, and pushed the bank to finance reliable energy sources. Essentially, he said, "Hey, we think there is a decoupling going on between the United States and China from a rare earth perspective." and not just rare earths but a lot of other things in regards to the supply chain. The rare earth export controls that China unleashed last week as per Trump is kind of what started this entire debacle in the first place. And Bent was upset about it today. And Bent made it known how much he's upset about this today. If you looked at all the rare earth stocks, US MP, TMQ, CRML, LAC, they're all down on average about 15% on the day. In fact, AAB is not a rare earth stock, but it's a battery company. Uh they're down 20% after hours because they lost the grant from the DOE. So, a lot of these high-flying names have kind of taken a little bit of a breather today and it might mean quite frankly that the sector in and of itself is exhausted based on all the momentum that they have had. Now, what did Trump say? Trump said three things. He said number one, we are in a trade war with China. Number so definitively, he just said that's the case. Number two, he said India assured me they would stop buying Russian oil. I I hope that's true, but I I don't know if India with 1.4 billion people is actually going to stop buying cheap oil from Russia. And number three, he said five or six of my wars or five or six of wars globally have been solved because of tariffs. So the point that Trump is trying to make right here is bringing the tariff conversation which we really haven't heard about for the past three months to be honest back into the mainstream. And the reason he's doing this I think is because he wants to get leverage with China. Same thing for why Bent said what he said today. What's the takeaway for investors? I think the market reacted to the news today in regards to China and Trump, but they didn't react as negatively as they reacted when the soybean stuff came out yesterday, which I didn't get to talk about because I recorded the video before that happened. It's almost like markets didn't even care about soybeans today. Uh, and they didn't react as badly as they reacted on Friday when we had that 3% draw down. And I think it's because the markets are just accepting that China and the US are going to go back and forth with each other. Unless it escalates to some dramatic effect like we had back in April when they were both threatening 150% tariffs against each other then it's likely going to be resolved and the meeting in South Korea next week is very important. But stocks were relatively flat to green today based on the idea that hey maybe this doesn't matter as much. I mean HIMS had a monster move today based on an update that was specific to their HERS part of the business. Uh and then AMD looks like it had a bit of a rebound from the Oracle GPU announcement that the macro kind of killed yesterday in terms of that news but it was a pretty bullish piece of news. So you had individual stocks that went up 10 15% today that had nothing to do with China and overall I think probably towards the end of the year the market doesn't care that much about China as long as it doesn't escalate to the extent that we thought it could have escalated on Friday and as a result hopefully stocks are higher by the end of the year because the China situation is likely not that big of a deal. All right next story of the day let's talk about some stats. I think this stat was one of the most important stats we saw today based on what happened last week in regards to the 3% draw down on the S&P 500. Actually, before I give you guys that stat, let me actually give you this real quick. Um, there is a company out there that on December 29th, this is a company that makes ETFs, uh, is coming out with 5x leveraged ETFs. Meaning, you can buy a Palanteer leverage ETF, you can buy an Nvidia leverage ETF, Google, Circle, Coinbase, XRP, Salana, Ether, Bitcoin, AMD, Amazon by Volatility Shares, name of the company. They're putting that out. That's going to be happening towards the end of the year. Uh, I personally will likely not touch this stuff because it is very volatile. That means if AMD falls 10% in a day, this ETF will fall 50% in a day. Pretty aggressive, but nonetheless, that's kind of the nature of this market. That's the nature of these products. And if these products continue to get it bought up, that there will be a market for those that supply these products. Now, why do the suppliers of these products continue to supply them? Well, here's the stat that I think is quite incredible to hear. Last week was a record week for stock market inflows. So, two levels to this. It was the fifth largest in history, bar none. Fifth largest in history for stock market inflows last week is from Bank of America research. It was the biggest ever for a week if the market was down at least 1%. Markets down at least 1%. It was the biggest week ever of inflows. Uh and overall it was the fifth largest single stock inflows in history. This is retail and institutional. Now we looked at a stat yesterday about equity call options. 61 million on Friday, 41 million put options. we had 108 million which was quite incredible to see that much uh level of option buying in the stock market on a 3% down day. I think that combined with this research that is showing how much money entered in the market institutional or retail just goes to show we're in a buy the dip market and maybe one day we won't be in a buy the dip market. Maybe next year it's going to be a different type of year. Maybe earnings are not going to be that good. But by the way, Morgan Stanley crushed it this morning. Bank of America crushed it this morning. United had their best earnings ever. they guided for their best operating income in the history of being a public company for Q4. I mean, earnings are crushing it. It makes me pretty optimistic for what we're going to get from tech earnings given how the banks have done. But it's a buy the dip market and uh look, if you've been buying the dip, you've been rewarded for it. But the fact that this level of buying the dip is happening is something that I've never seen before. And quite frankly, it's phenomenal to live through it. So last week, 3% draw down, one of the worst days for the S&P 500 in 5 months. markets did not care. Retail investors definitely did not care and people bought the dip. All right, let's talk about Amazon and what's going on with Amazon. So, I've been building a position in Amazon and originally I thought of it as a trade. The simple thesis was, hey, this stock is barely up year to date. Although their Mac 7s are up, I'm in at 220. I like it at 260. I think it can make a move by the end of the year. The more I've started to research Amazon, the more I've started to do due diligence on the company, the more I've started to realize how I think underpriced it is against the opportunity of the stock, the more it is becoming a long-term position and essentially a cornerstone of the portfolio, which look, it's not that hard of a cell to make a Amazon a cornerstone of a portfolio. For those that don't understand the cornerstone concept, this is something I learned a couple years ago. You want to have two to three stocks realistically. Like I think max is five pushing above five is pushing it but usually the sweet spot is two to three that becomes a cornerstone of the portfolio. What are two to three names that you can DCA in at any price that you can hold on to at any price that you have such unbelievable conviction in that the worst thing could happen and you're probably not going to sell. They can sell options against that you can potentially sell if you needed to do something because you know the right movements of the technical layers of the stock if you really understand those companies so well and then you can get back in. like what are those two to three names of your portfolio? For me, it's pretty obvious. Robin and Pounder, uh I think I know those companies pretty well and as a result, I've been able to build positions in those companies and I want to hold them for a long time. Nvidia, ironically, has become the third one and I thought Nvidia was not even a company worth investing in in the beginning of the year. Then Deepc happened, really did some due diligence and now it's become a substantial part of the portfolio. So Nvidia hood and poutier I can see myself for the next five years not worrying about owning pounder hood or Nvidia simply because they are the cornerstones of the portfolio. So, what can become a cornerstone portfolio stock? Two categories. It's either a stock you're super early in and therefore even if it falls 50%, you're still up so much that the margin of safety is so high. Uh, Hood and Pounder are those for me. Or number two, it's a really good high quality company. Like, it's a freaking phenomenal company where you can sleep well at night knowing all the financial obligations you have in life won't necessarily go to if the company goes to because you're holding on to something special. It's a sleep well at night stock, a swan stock. That to me is Amazon. And Amazon continues to be disrespected by the street. Couple stats for you. And this uh stats, I'm pulling some of this from our boy Austin. I'm going to leave his Twitter thread in the chat. I would definitely recommend people following him because he did some really good writeups on Amazon today. Take a listen to this. Amazon's backlog for AWS is now 195 billion on top of their existing 160 billion ARR. The $17.5 billion increase in growth from June 24 to currently right now in 2025, 98.5 billion to 116 billion is onethird of Google Cloud's entire run rate. One of the reasons why Amazon's getting discounted is because AWS is not growing as fast as GCP or Azure. Okay, fair critique. The problem is they are growing the net dollars way more in volume and size than Google and than Google and Microsoft. That's not necessarily a reason to say it's a better stock, but that is to say, dude, this is a massive business that is not slowing down. If anything, they can create operating leverage on top of that business to make their margins better. Right now, their margins are 36%. Those margins go to 37 38%. We're talking about tens of billions of an increase in net income per year, which, you know, if a PE is based on the E and the E goes up because the net income goes up because the margins go up, that earnings multiple should expand and that should be very good for Amazon. 61 billion of what they do is advertising. I mean, I don't even think about the Amazon advertising business, but obviously it's massive because they have all the data and that's growing 20%. That's also a high margin business. And then finally, this stat I think is one of the most important stats to recognize. Amazon's EV to Ebida multiple is trading at the lowest enterprise value over Ebida in history. Okay, so that's the first thing. Second thing is the average EV to Ebida for the MAG 7 right now, the other six companies in the MAG 7 39.3. Amazon 17.3. It's a 56% discount. I'm not trying to pound the table and say Amazon is the biggest buy in the market right now. In fact, Amazon it could be flat throughout the end of the year. I'm saying if you have done very well this year in the stock market and you've taken the risk on betting on names that are super speculative but that have growth trajectory and you held on you DCA you bought in April it is not insane or crazy to say rotating some of that money or even the dry powder that you have into something that's not flying five or six% every day so you're not getting the dopamine hit of those stocks moving as green as they are but you're buying something that is undervalued to its peers. Is it underv valued overall? I mean that they're going to have to put up really good earnings for us to be able to make that discussion. I think based on the earnings we've seen on a trailing 12 month basis, the answer to that is correct. But you're buying Amazon. Amazon goes down 10%. Okay, you're bag holding Amazon. You're not bag holding quantum nuclear mechanics. You're bag holding Amazon. It's a buy for me. I think it's one of the more compelling opportunities in the market. And as a result, I'm buying more Amazon. And this is not to persuade other people to buy more Amazon. It's just, hey, looking in this market that's super frothy, that has a bunch of names that are running like crazy. There's a bad narrative around Amazon for a variety of reasons. Narratives fade. We saw what happened with Google 150 to 250 because the DOJ narrative, the search is dead narrative went away. If that happens with Amazon, I think this is closer to $300 stock and as a result, I continue to buy more. All right, next up is Nvidia and more on what's going on with the world of data centers. So, Nvidia got a price target upgrade today to 320. This is a street high price target on Nvidia. uh 300 from Caner last week was the street high and now 320 is the new street high from HSBC. Uh what did they say? Well, they increased their earnings estimates. We upgrade Nvidia to buy on the back of increasing fiscal year 2027 GPU total addressable market relative to our previous expectations leading to an upward revision in our fiscal year 2027 data center revenues to $351 billion 36% above the consensus forecast of 258 billion. Now, Caner said Nvidia is going to do $11 of EPS by 2027. If you combine their EPS with HSBC's revenue target of 351 billion in 2027, that means they'd be trading at a 27 times forward earnings and a 21 times forward price of sales. Both of those multiples are cheaper than the stock today. I mean, I don't know if we're going to see another company in history at this scale pull off what Nvidia is doing where the stock is going up, but because of the growth in the company, even as the stock price goes up, the multiple compresses, which is really one of the most phenomenal ways to invest in growth stocks because you want to see the growth happen. You want to see the market reward the growth, but you don't want to see the multiple to get egregious. Uh because obviously the growth should offset the expansion in the multiple. And as a result, I mean, it has just been one of the most phenomenal things to see for Nvidia. That would put them, by the way, at a $7.8 trillion market cap if we get to that $320 level. Now, uh AMD was up today, and I think AMD was up based on that Oracle partnership that was announced yesterday. There was no other headline, but AMD closed at around that 238, 239 level. The other big headline today in the data center space is that Nvidia now partnered with Black Rockck. They partnered with BlackRock uh and a UAE investment firm. And the idea of the investment firm is essentially it's a they're they're acquiring a company for $40 billion. And the acquisition of this $40 billion company is essentially to continue building more data centers. Now, this was a really important acquisition for me to see because basically Nvidia is saying, "Hey, we have so much money." They're not spending the entire $40 billion themselves. They're partnering with other companies, but the reason they're spending this money is because they realize that the best place they could allocate this money to, which is what Jensen has been saying for a long time, is more data center capacity. So, Nvidia and Black Rockck teaming up on a 40 billion acquisition of a major global data center firm. Uh this implies roughly 8 million per megawatt of total data center capacity and as a result one of the reasons why this was also excited MGX was the AI investment firm as well by the sovereign wealth fund in the UAE. Microsoft is also going to be included in this deal. The reason this was excited for the Bitcoin miners today that are now these data center plays is because IN cipher terowolf bit farms which raised 300 million in a convertible note after hours the stock was down a little bit but market didn't care too much. Nebius, Cororeweave, there was a Wall Street Journal headline today that Cororeweave is going to be establishing a data center in Texas today. All of those stocks got a boost. Some of them ended red, most of them ended green for the day because of this idea that wait a second, Black Rockck, Nvidia, Microsoft along with the UAE rolling up together and saying, "Hey, we're ready to spend 40 billion more on data centers." Obviously, the leasing capacity of those data centers is likely going to involve more of the hyperscalers and some of the smaller players, and that's why those companies continue to get a bid. Now, are those companies the most quality companies? I don't know. It really depends on your own due diligence. But are they in a trend where this where the secular theme is continuing to increase its momentum? Yes. The question becomes, are those stocks good buys from a valuation perspective, fundamental perspective, and that's subjective. But overall, doesn't look like this theme for data centers is going away anywhere. All right. Last thing we'll talk about today is gold. Now, I thought this stat was also really important in the context of gold. By the way, gold 4,200. I mean, just incredible. Silver 53. Look, let me know in the chat if you're or in the chat in the comments. This is a video. Um, let me know if you're long gold or silver. I I have this as my allocation for gold. It's one of the first ever Robin Hood gold credit cards. It's not even a real credit card, but it's one of the prototypes I have. So, this is real gold. I got this at when when gold was trading at like 2200. So, this has appreciated, but I don't actually own gold. It's not been something that I've been into. But some of these stats are crazy. So, I mean, take a look at this. Um, fund managers from Bank of America's survey that have over 400 billion in assets have said gold is their crowdest trade. Long gold, long mag 7 used to be the crowded trade for three consecutive months. Long gold has topped that. Second of all, the average investor's allocation based on the survey to gold is just 2.4% near an all-time low. Gold is up 60% this year and the average investor like myself and probably a lot of retail investors don't really own that gold. The allocation is 2.4% 4%. Which begs to question, wait a second, if the average investor starts piling into gold, does gold have a lot higher to run? And then if you pair this stat with the allocation from Wall Street to cryptocurrencies and their allocation to crypto, which is the whole digital gold thing, point4%. So, Wall Street is allocated more to gold than crypto, but the average investor is barely allocated to gold. And gold is up 60% for the year. Bitcoin is up 20% for the year. The dollar is down 10%. I mean, I don't know what the run in commodities is telling us other than based on what we talked about yesterday, JPAL saying he's likely going to get more into quantitative easing versus quantitative tightening. You've got Paul Tudtor Jones saying he thinks the federal funds rate is going to be at 2 and a half% by the end of next year. When you have all of these elements of, hey, money is going to get cheaper. The value of money is going to start to come down, which means you need to put that money into other asset classes like a Bitcoin, like an S&P 500, like a gold or a silver. And then you have this multi-year trend from a technical perspective on gold and silver. Silver actually breaking out of like a three to four year base. It becomes pretty damn silver. It's been like 10 years. It becomes pretty damn incredible. So I don't think the running commodities is saying that you have to get out of equities because the world is going to and like gold is going up so you should sell everything. But I think it is saying people don't want to be in cash. They want to be in hard assets or at least assets that are producing something like stocks. And as a result, that's why you're seeing the momentum in gold and silver. All right, that's it for me today. Thank you everybody for joining. My Substack is launching on Friday. Two deep dives will be out on Friday. Super excited for it. It will be free. No payw wall ever. Um hopefully you guys will enjoy my long firm research and uh like I really want to start getting deeper into names that are not just like the, you know, the biggest names that are out there. Smaller names and do a lot more research on them. The first two deep dives is going to be a little bit more bigger names, but the goal of the Substack, two editions uh per month, um 10 to 15 pages each, so about 5,000 words per substack, is to really focus on trying to challenge myself to be a better researcher. And that's the goal. If I buy the stock that I do a deep dive on, I'll disclose the position, but overall, I just want to become a better student of the game and study more stocks. And I think this will hold me accountable to doing that. So, if you enjoy it, you can subscribe. Link in the description, amidst deepdives.com. Thank you everybody so much for supporting the daily recap every single day. It really is so much fun to do this. And I'll see you guys tomorrow.