Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Wednesday, November 26th. This is pretty much the final day uh of the trading week. It's the last full day of trading. Tomorrow, the markets will be closed because we have Thanksgiving in the States. And then on Friday, we're going to have a half day. So, the volume is just going to be relatively light compared to what we're going to see today. We're probably going to have some light volume today as well. But, um, it is the final day of the of the week in terms of a full day of trading. Got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. Yesterday was really important because we had a second green day in a row and that followed up Monday's 1.5% green. Uh which means we had 2.5% on the S&P 500 in the past couple of days which made up for almost 50% of the decline that we had over the past month. So I mean it was it's been a relatively strong week. We are green in the pre-markets. Hopefully we keep up with that green. Uh you got a couple of different stocks that are moving aggressively that we'll talk about as we start off the show. We have some Nvidia headlines, some Robin Hood headlines. We got a bunch of different macro data in regards to jobless claims. But overall, what turned yesterday was the idea that we are more likely to get a rate cut. Rate cut probabilities are now at 83%. S&P 500 right there at 677. Nvidia fell 8% yesterday before rebounding. Still down from where it was yesterday, but nonetheless, it hit below 170. And you just had a bunch of different things that came out that kind of shifted that narrative on Nvidia. We also had Nvidia respond to Google. So, for those that didn't hear about the response, we'll go through that. And maybe, just maybe, we're going into Thanksgiving uh with a green week. And if we can reclaim 680 potentially on the S&P 500, that would be very exciting given the all-time highs are at 689. Weeble as well getting some love right here. Weeble had a good earnings. I mean, they had a pretty good earnings. It took took a while for the street to react to it, but right now that's up 8% in the pre-market. I'm not sure if there's another headline, but we'll take a look at that. But Weeble is up 8%. The big story of the morning is Hoodie, which is up 5%. And so we'll start off with Hood and discuss what's happening there because it actually is some pretty big news. I saw the news last night. I thought it was important and then I kind of slept on it and I woke up realizing no, no, no, this is really important and that's why the market is um is giving this type of momentum to it. So we'll get into it as we as we begin talking. So yes, tomorrow is Thanksgiving. I will not be live on Friday going to be with family. So there will not be a market open on Friday. The markets do close at 1 p.m. Again, I think it's going to be very very light trading volume. Already we're seeing light trading volume, but yeah, this is pretty much the last like real trading trading day for this week and then we have Thanksgiving for 2025 and then we end out 2025 in about a month. I still can't believe we are getting towards the end of the year, but nonetheless, we are getting towards the end of the year. All right, so let's get started. Let me do the green or red poll in the chat. See what people think as well. I know we were skeptical of this green over the past couple of days in a in a in a meaningful way. I mean, we we we should have that we experienced last week, but maybe there's an argument that the momentum is back and we'll talk about some of the different headlines and narratives and kind of broader macro thematics for why that narrative for the bull market and potentially. I mean, you had JP Morgan come out today. You had some other banks say, "Hey, we still think 7,000 is possible." So, we'll discuss if that ends up uh if that ends up playing up. So, someone says you have a different family other than us. Yes, I do have my actual family. But to be honest, we were talking about this last night with Steve. We were going over what we were thankful for, which we'll talk about at the end of the stream and we'll do like a what are you thankful for? And um honestly, I said the number one thing I'm thankful for is this community. You know, it's it really is a sense of purpose for me. It's a thankful for his dentist. Dude, my teeth feel amazing. So, yes, I'm thankful for a dentist who can do uh a really good root canal. But yeah, dude, my my teeth were they were hurting so bad a month and a half ago. So, I'm I'm very thankful for that. But no, very thankful for the community. Uh very thankful for being here every single day. It it is a blessing and privilege. I tell myself every morning to be able to do this and be able to express my thoughts and opinions and research that I'm compiling and give it to the world. And uh I I just I really don't take it for granted. I I try to make sure every day to to not take it for granted because it it is a very privileged position to be in. And um you know without the audience there is no show. There is there is no value to the community. There's nothing. So there's just a guy talking into his camera which is still basically what this is. It's just a guy talking into a like dude I if you recorded what my day looks like if someone just like had a camera on the wall and just recorded what I do. It's like it looks hilarious because it it looks kind of crazy to be honest. Um very very very very grateful that we are here as a community that we are all able to deal with the ups and downs as a community and all of us are trying to increase our financial independence at its core. That's all what that we're all that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to engage in content that is not content that that that fundamentally doesn't have an impact on our lives. But we're all talking in the chat, sending updates, looking at news because we're trying to increase the ability for us to have a better life. And usually money and financial independence is at the epicenter of being able to have a better life. Um and a lot of us you know speaking of family I think are doing this for our families. So very great very grateful for everyone to be here today and to be here throughout the entire year. All right let's get started. Let's get into it. Before I get into Robin Hood first jobless claims uh they came in better than expected. So this unemployment story continues to be an issue for the labor market and the broader market is trying to figure out what's happening in the labor market at least from a rate cut perspective. US jobless claims fell to 216,000 for last week, the week of November 22nd. Uh consensus was 225,000. So this is good. It means we are not again when we were we when we weren't getting data when the government was shut down, some people were thinking we were having 350 to 375,000 job losses a week, which would qualify as a recession. We're not there. We're not there. We're at 200. This is relatively tame. Quite frankly, this number is lower than the moving average that we had in the months of July and August, September, which was closer to 222,000 or 224,000. So, the fact that we're at 216 220, we're basically within the plus two or plus two plus or minus 2% of the average is very good. It means the labor market is not deteriorating. Now, some people might be saying, well, that means we're not getting a rate cut. No, labor market's still weakening, which is why the probabilities are 82.9%, but it's not deteriorating. And that's a very important nuance because if we are not deteriorating, we have a chance to save the labor market with rate cuts. Now, maybe AI is so powerful and it's going to lead to so many job losses that rate cuts can't do anything. That's a story for another day. We'll see how that plays out. But economically, there should be a world in which if unemployment's at 4.4%, we should cut rates before it gets to 4.9%. Because inevitably it will get to 4.9%. And if we can delay that from happening in a meaningful way, then that would be important. So, I think none of this changes the data in terms of how the Fed is thinking of the rate cut. Again, it's not guaranteed. We get it, but 82.9% JPAL usually does not like to surprise the market participants. And now, if the probabilities are 80%, unless him or John Williams or Mary Daly or Christopher Waller come out and completely flip the script and say, "No, I don't think we should have a rate cut," which all of them have been saying we should have a rate cut. Even the former Dallas Fed president yesterday came out and said, "We should probably have a rate cut." Uh, then it looks like we're going to get this rate cut. And that would be very important to continue having this momentum uh as strong as it is. So that's what we've got going on and that is kind of the extent of the macro data. There's a couple other pieces of macro data we'll look at but the jobless games was the big one and that's what we got this morning for Wednesday. Robin Hood, let's talk about Robin Hoodie and what's going on. The reason Robin Hood is up 5% right now in the pre-markets and maybe this holds, maybe it doesn't. By the way, this is kind of my fair value for Hood. If we end out the year at 120, I will be a happy guy. I don't think we should be at 100 like we were last week. And I don't think we should be at 150. I think inevitably we will be much farther beyond 150, but I think there's still too much economic uncertainty, volatility. You don't know what 2026 is going to be like. There's a lot of different arguments for why we shouldn't pull forward that much of a multiple for Hood, but I think 120 is a very good sweet spot. And so I think if we can normalize this range, then that would be very important. Why are we getting that today? Well, Robin Hood just gave a big middle finger to Kalshi last night. Robin Hood expanding their prediction markets offering through a new joint venture with Susuana, which is one of the largest market makers in the world to operate a CFTC licensed exchange and clear accounts. Basically, they're vertically integrating the entire process of the clearing and the market making and liquidity for these prediction markets. And they're not completely off of call sheet, but it looks like Vlad is tired of splitting those two cents per contract with Khei. Susuana will serve as a key partner in the initial liquidity provider with additional liquidity providers added over time. Prediction markets on Robinet's fastest growing revenue line with 9 billion contracts traded by over a million customers in the first year. And the new exchange, which is essentially what this is, it's like a joint subsidiary under Robin Hood that they're going to o that Susuana is going to own a 10% stake of. Uh it's going to operate independently as a joint venture with Robin Hood as the controlling partner providing retail demand and distribution. Uh I've been waiting for this. A lot of Robin Hood bulls have been waiting for this. I mean, prediction markets are growing more and more and more. This is a new hundred million dollar line of business. I think in the next couple years it's going to be a billion dollar line of business. Right now I think Piper Sandler is estimating 250 million per year Robin Hood is making on prediction markets or they will make next year. That's could be 500 million but they give 1 cent to Kalshi. And what does KHI give them? Nothing. Robin Hood has all the distribution. Robin Hood has all the marketing. Robin Hood well Robin doesn't really need to do the marketing. Kalshi turns into this cringe marketing machine with all these like horrible influencer campaigns because they have nothing proprietary because prediction markets are a commodity. But Robin Hood has 27 million customers that have a very sticky ecosystem and user experience that would be willing to try a new product and are obviously showing that the volumes are very intense. So I think for Vlad, it's very obvious why would we keep partnering with another exchange? We did it in the beginning just to get things started, but there's no reason we should be giving them 50% of every contract just because we're using uh part of their liquidity from a market making perspective. So, I think it's very obvious that the market right here is just saying, "Wait a second. If Robin Hood can double those revenues, and I I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon, but I think over time, you're going to start to see that 1 cent turn into 1.2, then 1.3, then 1.4, then eventually a full 2 cents per contract." And that's when the revenue from prediction markets pretty much has its S-curve moment, which actually counteracts crypto. Crypto has been dead for the past couple months, which means Robin Hood crypto volumes going into Q4 probably are not going to be that good. That's also why Robin Hood's stock has been down because crypto has been down. But if crypto is not the only 90% margin source of revenue and you have this new thing called prediction markets that are actually way better for Hood and they're making even more money than they're making on crypto with these prediction markets, which is not the case yet, but over time if that is the case, that's not as cyclical as crypto. That's not as contingent on the whims of the, you know, Bitcoin ecosystem. That's just, hey, like people want to trade on the Super Bowl, so people are probably going to trade on the Super Bowl. they want to trade on Robin Hood, then Robin Hood is going to capture a lot of that volume. So, from my perspective, I think it's a really really strong thing for them to do and that's why the market is kind of pricing it in right here. Uh Benny says, "I bet the proposed acquisition price ask of MIAX, which is the exchange Robin is acquiring was for a great price." Yeah, we don't have the acquisition price, but 100% agreed. I mean, usually when Robin engages in these joint ventures, they get a really good deal. And again, they're offering a ton of distribution. So, Susuana, which at the end of the day, their job is to provide liquidity to all the different exchanges that are trading stocks, crypto, uh, tokenized assets potentially in the future, now prediction markets, they just want volume. And if Robin can give them volume, then that's why I think they're going to get, uh, a lot more momentum. So, that's the reason Robinet is up. Now, the ideological opinion some people have about prediction markets being gambling, again, that's fine. People can have their own perspective on this, but the point is people are going to trade. And if people are going to trade, are they gonna use DraftKings, Coinbase, Kyle, Poly Market, Robin Hood? If they're going to end up using Hood, then Hood should capture the majority of that volume. And if for shareholders, uh, that volume will translate into a lot of revenues and quite frankly, a lot of profits because Robin Hood does not have a lot of overhead to run that type of business. So from that perspective, the market's pricing it higher and that's why you're seeing that 5% move on Robin Hood at the moment. Um, Nvidia, let's talk about Nvidia. So Nvidia share, wow, 180. We're actually getting a move here up 2%. Uhhuh. I didn't I didn't see us break 180 in the pre-markets. All right, 181 on Nvidia. I know a lot of you guys bought the dip at 169 when Jose came on the show. I got 170.80. Uh first time in a while that I bought Nvidia. And I mean, I think a lot of us who took advantage of the dip yesterday, the number one reason was because this TPU thing is not going to be the end of the world for Nvidia. And uh I I think we're starting to see the manifestation of that get priced in by the markets. Again, this is after the earnings. Nvidia is now trading at 25 times next year's earnings. It's not it's not in the most bubbish of territories to me, but Nvidia responded. So, this is what they said yesterday to Google. We're delighted by Google's success. They've made great advances in AI, and we continue to supply to Google. Nvidia is the generation or Nvidia is a generation ahead of the industry. It's the only platform that runs every AI model and does it everywhere computing is done. Nvidia offers greater performance, versatility, and fungibility than AS6, which are designed for specific a frameworks or functions. All right. So, put in the chat if you hated this response because I think it was 50/50. Quite frankly, it was probably 7030. 70% of people hating the response, 30% of people being okay with it. Um, I'm in the camp that it's not that big of a deal that they responded. I understand why people are annoyed and they're just like, Nvidia shouldn't even be giving this any level of focus. And they responded to Michael Bur the other day, which by the way, Michael Bur tweeted again this morning. Let me just say getting into a beef with the world's most valuable company is one of the single best Substack growth strategies I've ever seen. Michael Bur this morning responding to Nvidia's response and then if Nvidia goes back and forth and responds to his response of the response and then Bur has something else to respond to. I mean I I definitely don't think Nvidia should respond to his part two of his blog post on his Substack where he goes deep into it because like at that point it's just becoming stupid. Um, but they did send a memo to the Southside analysts about and they they cited Michael Bur's claims and Bur loves it because he's getting all the attention because a$4 trillion dollar company is like, "Hey, this guy said this and here's our response." And so everyone's like, "Well, who is this guy that said this? Why is he so important?" Number one, which just increases his brand. And then two, why do you feel like you have to respond if he's just some random guy? And I think Nvidia, my my take on this and the reason they respond to Google yesterday as well, it's the same thing that Jensen did during Deepseek. When Deepseek happened, Nvidia fell to 90 bucks a share. They responded and they just said, "Hey, this is how we see the market. This is where we think the demand for inferencing inferencing and reasoning is going. This is why we think this is not that big of a deal." And I think Jensen I think Jensen has that dog in him. I really think he has that dog in him. and he's just like, "You're going to talk [ __ ] about my company after we delivered the single best quarter in the history of the stock market." I think Jensen, quite frankly, I think he's pissed off. I think he's pissed off because the analyst wanted 61 billion. He said, "I'll give you 65." The analyst wanted 49 billion of data center revenue. He said, "We'll give you 52." The analyst expected 58.3% growth. He said, "I'll give you 62.4% growth." The analyst expected 72% gross margins. He said, "We'll give you 73.4." I mean, he did every single thing you could possibly imagine. And the stock is down 15%. from earnings and and I think he's just like, you know what, if it's down because of freaking Bur and Google and the information putting out these reports that have no details, but these headlines are causing us to lose $300 billion in market cap on a day, then we're just going to respond and people can say whatever we want, but we will have to defend ourselves in the midst of this. So, I think that's why Jensen's responding. I can understand the perception of it being weak, but I can also understand him just being like, "Screw you guys. Like, we don't care what you think. This is our response. take it or leave it, but uh the analysis from a lot of these people is just incorrect or insignificant or really misses a key point and that's why I think Nvidia's so I don't think they're doing it from a position of weakness I would say because the numbers do all the talking but I think at the end of the day if the numbers aren't leading to the market being convinced and that's where Nvidia might have to come out and say something. Nvidia right there 180.88 88. That's up 1.7% again after those earnings. It continues to be one of the cheapest Mac 7s uh along with Google and Meta. And now Microsoft, which is starting to get cheaper, even though Microsoft is now, Wow, Microsoft up 2% as well. All of tech getting a little bit of a boost right. Where's Google? Are we back to 330? Okay, Google's down 318. That's normal. It had a really big week. Amazon Amazon getting a move as well, 231. Meta is down because they're getting investigated by Italy. the Italian watchdog came out and like I said, Meta is a monopoly again. So, I think that's why otherwise Meta probably would be pushing 640. Had a big day yesterday, up 3.7%. So, you've got that Italian watchdog headline. Maybe there's another headline, but that's the one I saw and that's why Meta is down. And you got Nvidia leading it up 1.75% on the day as well. Admit I think Jensen has been spending a lot of time with Karp, so it's rubbing off on him. Yeah, maybe because Karp will dude if Karp had a$4 trillion dollar company and people were talking [ __ ] Oh my goodness. Karp has a $400 billion dollar company. I when people talk [ __ ] he gets offended. So yeah, maybe Jensen has been spending some time with uh with Karp. But that's what we got from Nvidia. And you're seeing all the NeoClouds, the Nebuses, the Cororewees, the Ciphers, the Terols, all get a little bit of a boost in the pre-market as well. Ciphers up 5%. Nebius right here back above 90. Wow. 93. Nebius 5% in the pre-market. Coreweave is up 3.27364. And then IN is up 3% as well. So as Nvidia goes higher, a lot of the data center plays are getting some of that momentum as well. Ludo says, "I'm Italian and I've got Metal Leaps. What are we doing?" Yeah, I saw the headline this morning. I was just like, "Really?" Because I I looked at Meta. I was like, "There's no way this is down this morning." And it's like down 2%. I'm like, "How the hell is it down?" I mean, you would think the positive momentum would be strong, especially on a pre-market where the S&P is up. And then you get this Italy. Italy's I was about to say Italy's. Oh my goodness. If I actually said Italies and didn't catch myself right there. If I if I actually let that happen, there would be hell to pay in the comments. And I should have let it happen for the hell. I should have let it happen, but I caught myself. Italy's antitrust authority said it has broadened the scope of its investigation into MetaT over allegations of the company abusing its dominant position through the use of artificial intelligence tools on messaging service WhatsApp. Okay, so Italy is basically saying that WhatsApp is a monopoly and that Meta is like basically not allowing any other competitors to compete. I think it's kind of nothing but nonetheless that's why that stock is down about 1% right here in the pre-markets. So overall, we're green. Overall, we're pretty damn green. And it is nice to see some of this momentum. I know we have low volume, but if that continues, then maybe we get some uh some broader excitement going into the end of the year. I mean, can we all kind of feel the narrative shifting again a little bit? You know, this whole AI bubble, Osw going on podcasts last week saying that everything's going to pop. Apple's your only form of safety, yada yada. And then it's like price action changes. people start realizing, wait a second, the earnings are real. You get more of a chance of a rate cut and people start asking, maybe it's not a bubble now. Maybe it is. I don't think we're out of the woods. I don't think it's a bubble, but I also don't think we're out of the woods, but maybe it's not as doomeristic as it was yesterday or as it was last week. Yeah, Tesla 424 as well. Tesla getting some momentum in the pre-market. And again, a lot of this is not just contingent on the market recognizing the earnings growth and the potential of all these companies randomly. I think a lot of this is also the fact that we're getting a rate cut. Like at the end of the day, we cannot ignore the fact that the rate cut and the liquidity that that provides is very important for a lot of these stocks because at the end of the day, they are growth stocks. Um, and once those odds shifted, the way they shifted, and by the way, Nvidia is not even back to 200 or 197 on our Nvidia is still meaningfully below that price. So, I don't think it's like full-on V-shape. We've moonshot it. Pounder 165. Like, a lot of these names have not fully recovered, and I don't think they need to by the end of the year. But, if they can somewhat get a little bit more of their footing and stabilize, I think that would be really good. for a lot of people that want to go long on those names and continue to hold on to those names for the long term. We're going to see we're going to see how this ends up uh playing out. Yeah, time in the bubble is better than timing the bubble. And then if it turns out to not be a bubble, then obviously the time that you put in is very important. Last thing on Nvidia right here, this is a Google deep mind research scientist who works on TPU design at Google. This is what he tweeted yesterday. The sell-off shows how clueless the market is about hardware and demand. So, you've got Google um Google research scientists being like he has no incentive. I mean, he has plenty of Google stock. I would imagine, you know, maybe he has some personal Nvidia stock, but I don't think he has a major incentive to be like, "Yeah, the sell-off of Nvidia and the uptick of Google makes no sense." It's like no, he's just saying like naturally the market is underestimating the level of demand for this compute that is out there and the fact that they're selling off the epicenter of AI and they think that Google's going to take over which Google fund it deserves its premium and it's it's doing very well and it should continue to do well and hopefully ends out the year above 300. But does it deserve to go to five trillion and Nvidia go down to three trillion because now Google's taking over the chip market like probably not. And so I think that's what's kind of calmed down some of the fears of investors as well. Uh any take on the job numbers today? Again, I think the job numbers are okay. We looked at it this morning. 216 versus 222 expected for the labor market on jobs claims. It's in line with the historical average over the past two years, which is signaling no recession. If we get into that 300,000 range, that's where we get a little bit worried about a recession. So, labor market's weak, but it's not weak to the point where we have to be that scared. And I think that's also a really important thing going into the end of the year. Uh macro, okay, what's going on? So JP Morgan will give two perspectives, one bullish, one bear. JP Morgan says S&P 500 8,000 in 2026 if the Fed continues to cut rates. In its 2026 global equity outlook, the bank forecasts doubledigit global equity gains driven by strong earnings, lower rates, and easing policy pressures. The US is expected to remain the main growth engine supported by a resilient economy and an AIdriven investment boom. JP Morgan expects 15% earnings growth for US companies over the next two years and says high valuations are justified by accelerating AI capex rising shareholder payouts and potential policy tailwinds. The bank also warn warned that rapid AI disruption could amplify existing economic imbalances and lead to volatile investor sentiment. So basically they're saying hey we think it gets to 8,000 probably 7500 by end of 2026 although it will be a bumpy ride and the argument is Fed easing AI trade right if you have to summarize it. Then Bank of America came out and said, "We think the S&P 500 might barely be above 7100 at the end of 2026." Bank of America forecasts 14% earnings growth, but warns that liquidity support is fading with fewer buybacks, higher capex, and limited central bank cuts ahead. It projects a 5500 to 8500 range for the index. Which, by the way, if you're a bank and you have a lot of people paying you for your analysis, and you say, "Well, it could be 5500 or 8,500." I mean, like, what are we talking about here? Like, like you you have one job and it's to predict. You might be wrong at your job, but to cover your ass by going from the low end to the high end. I don't know. That's that's a little too aggressive there. The firm expects a shift in market leadership, capex over consumption, blue collar over white collar, raising staples to overweight and lowering discretionary on AI. Bank of America seen potential near-term weakness saying monetization remains uncertain and rising power demands could be a bottleneck. Remember, Bank of America at the beginning of the year and they stuck with this until July said we would not get a rate cut. Ironically, before the first rate cut, they ended up saying, "No, we're probably going to get a rate cut." So, I mean, again, I'm not just picking on them because they're bearish, but they have been wrong throughout the entirety of the year. And I think the argument right here doesn't make a lot of sense. They're saying that we're going to have 14% earnings growth. JP Morgan says 15%. But liquidity support is fading. So, they're saying, "Hey, you're going to have bigger earnings, but you're not going to have the Fed on your side." And from everything we've been hearing about the Fed, even if JPO doesn't cut rates for six months, the next Fed president likely is going to be Kevin Hasset. Um, and if it is Kevin Hasset, he's lowering those rates. So, like I I don't know if it's going to be the scariest thing in the world in regards to thinking about the Fed. We are likely going to get these rate cuts one way or another. And that will be your liquidity support whether it's Kevin Hassid, Kevin Worsh. And so I think if you have good earnings and you have an easing Fed, you have a bull market. Now the the bare case is recession um which is contingent on labor market. So if if that doesn't take place, then I think 2026 still ends up being being decent. And that is what we got in the context of some of the macro. Okay. So let's talk about retail stocks. For anyone who looked at XRT, which is the retail ETF yesterday, uh it had its best day in five months. It's up another half a percent right here in the pre-markets. And I think this is really important to understand because the consumer is broken narrative is being challenged a little bit. Abracmbry and Fitch was up 37% yesterday. Kohl's was up 42% yesterday. Best Buy was up I don't think they were up as much but they were up a bit. Uh Best Buy was up, no Best Buy had a great day yesterday. Best Buy was up 5%. And then the one that completely I could not understand this, Urban Outfitters was up 15% yesterday after earnings after being up 9% during the day. These are not your Walmarts, your Targets, your Costos. These are niche retailers that sell $75 jeans. Best Buy is not necessarily a niche retailer, but still Best Buy, you know, I mean, people have to shop for a lot of electronics for uh Best Buy to get that momentum over the typical places they could go, like a Walmart, a Target, an Apple, etc. So, the fact that they're going to Best Buy and it's getting a 5% move is very impressive. And then you have the overall retailer ETF that's up 5%. Now, why is the retail ETF up 5%? Because it seems like all of the retail sales data we got, we got yesterday, I think it was 02 versus 3% expected. So for September, so it was a little bit lower than expected, but at the end of the day, I mean, you put two and two together, people have to be buying things. Yeah, Burlington also had a great earnings. People have to be buying things with disposable income, especially at places like Abbercrombie, which again are a bit more on the high end. Um, for these stocks to go higher. And so it it really begs the question, wait a second, we we just heard all this uh uh I guess conflicting data from Chipotle, Starbucks, and Lululemon over the past couple weeks that the consumer is struggling. They're not really doing that well. I still think that data is true, and I think it's hard to deny some of the the other forms of economic data that we're seeing in regards to the lower end consumer, particularly if you look at subprime auto, um student loans, and and credit card delinquencies, which are at like 11-year highs. But maybe Chipotle food sucks. Maybe Starbucks coffee sucks. Maybe Lululemon just doesn't have good uh hip millennial fashion trends because Urban Outfitters up 16%. Like really, Abbercrombie up 35%. I mean, that's the market saying, "No, we think retailers are back and we think people are shopping." And if you get an easing Fed next year, if you get the AI narrative intact, if you get earnings growth of at least 13 to 15% and you get the consumer potentially coming back, I mean, that's a really good setup for next year. So, I'm going to take this data with a grain of salt and I'm going to try to look at some of the other retail earnings that we have coming up. But like, I did not expect these niche retail brands to put up the types of earnings that they put up. Even Dicks, they beat on the top and the bottom yesterday as well. So, you're just seeing so many of these companies have a pretty decent earnings. Yeah, DIX was up 2% yesterday and that's why I think it's giving some more momentum. Here's an update and some coverage on what to expect for Black Friday because we've got a lot more of the potential Rachel trade that's coming into the end of the year.
>> Gearing up for the most critical stretch of the year. It kicks off when Thanksgiving dinner winds down. Courtney Reagan joins us now with more. Where are you going to be on Friday, Courtney? That's always That's always
>> I'm gonna be I'm gonna be at a mall. a mall in New Jersey, you know, checking out the deals, probably doing a little self-gifting along the way. It's a good time of the year to stock up. Just saying. I mean, like you pointed out, Andrew, these next five days, really truly the most important stretch of the year for retail. In fact, Adobe estimates about 17% of total online holiday spending will happen during this stretch, which is often called Cyber Week. But physical stores, they still remain a very big part of the equation, too. The National Retail Federation predicts 186.9 million Americans will shop in some form between Thanksgiving and Cyber Monday.
>> Go to the chat if you're a Black Friday person. If you like aggressively look for deals, I I I tend to not really take advantage of it. I mean, my mom is we're probably going to have like 50 Amazon packages after Black Friday, but like put in the chat if you're one of those people.
>> It's more than ever before by their estimation. Now, shoppers tell Deote they'll spend 60% of their budget online, 40% in stores over these five days. Most retailers are not opening stores on Thanksgiving Day, but they will offer those door busters online. So, Adobe specs expects that online sales will grow about 5% on Thursday. And even with the continual rise in online shopping, Black Friday still matters. Shoppers are motivated first by deals and then by tradition. Black Friday is forecast to be the biggest instore shop. Bro, I'm seeing 80% of you guys say no. That's why this community is special. All of us are hoarding our cash to buy the freaking dip. I mean, like, in what world do 80% of people say, "No, I don't care about getting a good deal on Black Friday. It's the people that are trying to get a good deal in the stock market." Like, it's it's just that simple. You got a lot of people that are just not in that consumer mentality in the chat. And that makes sense. We're trying to get a good deal in the stock market instead. day of the year. According to traffic counting firms in Sermatic and Retail Next, Gen Z will be the most enthusiastic cohort. According to Deote, that group is now responsible for $20 out of every 100 holiday dollars spent. That is well more than the $4 they were responsible for every 100 last year. Adobe forecast US e-commerce sales. They'll grow 8.3% on just Black Friday. While Salesforce says Black Friday's actually already surpassed Cyber Monday in sales that happened last year, they think it's going to happen again this year. Now, retailers do save deals for Cyber Monday and consumers know it. Possibly the best day to buy electronics, apparel, and computers with total online sales expected to grow 6.3% on Monday. Now, consumers may feel less confident this holiday season based on economic surveys. But they're buying even if our favorite word in retail lately, choiceful, according to at least executives from Best Buy, Dick Sporting Goods, Kohl's, Gap, and others. When there's perceived value, and that's more than just price, shoppers are motivated to buy. Andrew,
>> I mean, that's quite incredible. the fact that XRT is starting to get a move up here and you got the earnings and and regardless of the stock price action because yes, some of the stock price action on like an Avocry or Kohl's could have been a little bit more of a short squeeze. Those stocks were definitely heavily shorted. If you just look at their earnings, I mean, it's not crazy to think that the stock should be higher given the earnings were that good and they beat on expectations. And if that continues to be the case, then you know, maybe retail and the consumer is not in the in the worst situation. So there you go. It's not a horrible uh setup going into the going into the end of the year. We did have basically a Black Friday sale in the stock market over the past three weeks. And so I could understand a lot of people kind of allocating some capital to the markets instead. And maybe that changes. We got to see going into the end of the year. Maybe that ends up changing. We had Dell earnings yesterday. Uh Dell announced a partnership with IEN which I think was already known but they kind of reaffirmed that partnership. Dell did beat on the top and the bottom. They increased their fiscal year guidance by two billion and they increased their adjusted EPS by 50 cents. So it was a hell of a earnings for Dell, 5.32% uh on the day 13260 in the pre-markets and they overall put up some relatively strong numbers for the street and I think that was kind of one of the most important earnings of yesterday at least in the the semiconductor ecosystem. Uh a lot of people are asking what's going on with Oscar. Trump clarified his comments on uh the healthc care stuff and this is why Oscar fell yesterday.
>> Trading higher this morning.
>> We'll see what kind of offer they get on Monday. It's going to be an interesting Thanksgiving weekend for a lot of bankers. For a lot of bankers.
>> Uh meantime, President Trump saying he doesn't want to keep funding Obamacare health subsidies, but floated a possible extension of the benefits. Trump speaking with reporters aboard Air Force One as he flew to Florida for the Thanksgiving holiday. The healthc care subsidies were at the heart of the recent 43-day government shutdown and premiums could spike for some Americans if Congress cannot reach a deal. On Monday, Politico reported the White House was working on a framework that would extend those subsidies for two years with some eligibility limits. So, we'll see if things shift there. So Trump didn't, you know, the headline two days ago, which is why Oscar pumped, is that Trump is extending the subsidies. He came out yesterday and said he's submitting a framework that is not necessarily going to extend the subsidies. Now, the market doesn't seem to care. Oscar was down 10% yesterday. Oscar now was up 3%. So the market still thinks that some type of subsidy extension is going to be there, which is why the healthcare stocks are getting a bid. Uh, so if you're long those names, UNH is up, Molina's up, Oscar is up, I think you're going to be okay towards the end of the year when the official proposal comes out, then a lot of the healthcare stocks will probably react to it. But if it's some level of extension, even if it's, you know, based on whatever conditions that Trump wants to put on it, that could potentially save us from a shutdown because, again, one of the biggest reasons we had the shutdown was because of the healthcare debate, uh, which would be very bullish going into January and it could help the healthcare stocks a lot. So, we're going to see when we get those details going into the the end of the year. Uh, Stephen says, "Amitit, I work for one of the biggest retailers in the US. We're on track to get 180% bonuses. So, the company's doing well this year." Wow. Dude, a lot of these retail numbers over the past couple of days um have been surprising. Have been very, very, very, very surprising. The potential date for the shutdown is January 30th if we don't get a deal. And I think healthcare is going to be very important in the context of what that deal looks like. But yeah, Oscar was down 10% after hours. So it was not down intraday, but the news came after hours, which is why Oscar was down. We were live on technical Tuesday when we saw that news break. But you know, the market's starting to price in that that extension ends up coming in. But yeah, these retail sales numbers, again, it really was surprising. And if it continues to lift up to the upside, then you know, those claims of a recession and a weakening consumer, again, I don't want to say the consumer is not weak. I just like some of these numbers are making you question a little bit more around the details. Uh Trump tweeted this morning. I don't even know how to really analyze this tweet, but nonetheless, uh this is what he tweeted. There is a new word for a Trump Republican, which is almost everyone. Great policy is the key. Is it to publican or toan? I don't know what type of eggnog he had this morning to tweet that, but yeah, that is uh that is one of the posts from the the president this morning. A a uh Trump Republican is his New York. So, that's what you got there. Uh let me share this video real quick as well. Uh so the the the uh founder Ilia of Super Safe Intelligence was asked about how his company's going to make money. This is a company that has a $ 32 billion valuation. And uh here's here's what he said. And you can attach any other caption you want to it. I like this caption about when your girlfriend asks why you're broke.
>> How will SSI make money? You know, my answer to this question is something like We just f right now we just focus on the research and then the answer to that question will reveal itself. I think there will be lots of possible answers.
>> How will SS
>> I think I think that's you know I think that's a relatively strong uh strong way to to respond to those questions. So you know I was really curious what his response would be. He did a very large interview for those that know Ilia is like one of the goats of AI. He's one of the original creators of chatbt. uh left OpenAI for starting his own company. I was very confused when I reported on that back in February. I remember I was in California and I got the headline, Super Safe Intelligence raises 32 billion. I was like, for what? No product? I get that he's important, but $32 billion valuation for what? Like that's the stuff that makes me cringe. That's the stuff that makes me I'm like, "All right, the Bears have a point." Like this is a bit bubbly. Why is a AI company getting a $32 billion value? I mean, if Open AI, which is growing pretty fast, is is seen as overvalued. This guy is not growing at all. There's nothing. There's no users. There's no product. Now, maybe there's really important research, but does that research warrant a $30 billion value? And then when he's asked about how you're going to make money, he's like, you know, we'll figure it out. Which again, there's plenty of people willing to bet on the guy to figure it out. It's just when you get those types of answers, uh, it definitely makes you question some of the quality of these AI startups. Nonetheless, one thing that he did say in the interview that was really important is that he believes that LLMs are not going to get as much better as people think that they're going to get and he thinks we need to have an entirely new approach to how we navigate the uh the process of of engaging in these increased additions of models. There's a lot of other people that really disagree with that perspective and probably Sam Alman disagrees which is why they broke up and he left OpenAI. Uh, but he thinks LLMs are a dead end race and he thinks there's a sort of different perspective on, you know, how LLM will eventually eventually scale. Uh, Mark Newan from Fundstrat, he was on Fox this morning. Here's his argument. He still believes markets are going to be rather choppy going into the end of November.
>> Earlier, we've seen very good gains out of Alphabet. Uh, stocks like Apple that are breaking out to new highs. That's over 10% of the S&P. So, it is very important. tough for the market to go down if you have these two key stocks moving higher. But yet you do have Nvidia now selling off to the lowest level since late September. So uh it's important to differentiate uh you know between different parts of technology. You know I don't see Nvidia slipping too much better too much more their cash flow is going to be you know about $90 billion. So that's going to be an increase of about 50% versus a free cash flow uh you know companies like Alphabad are actually projected a decline this year. So I think this is a temporary you know alignment where you know Nvidia has been weak but I I still think that it likely is going to have a pretty sharp rally between now and the middle part of January. and and you told clients that you still feel like the final six weeks of 2025 have the potential to show a rally and that 2026 would be the more likely time for a lengthier decline. What are you expecting?
>> Yeah, that's correct. Look, I I don't think we're necessarily out of the woods just yet with regards to the market. The market certainly is comforted when the chances of a rate cut continue to increase and we've heard now that Hasset being the front runner. uh you know I we've seen that the chances of a rate cut now go up to over 80%. So the market likes that. The market hates uncertainty particularly with regards to the Fed. Uh the closer we can get to a rate cut being priced in the more the market will find comfort with that and rally. Uh the problem is really this this differentiation between the broader market and technology. Uh we've seen financials groups like discretionary industrials have really gone nowhere uh since July whereas tech has rallied sharply. now tax correcting and the other parts of the market still really aren't participating. Um we have gotten some good news in the last few days with regards to parts of transportation. The airlines are finally starting to move. We're seeing great movement out of the airlines and the homebuilders. Very good sign there. So I actually am optimistic that parts of discretionary and industrials are moving. I really want to see the financials move. That's a second largest part of the S&P and so that's really going to be critical.
>> And that would be your broadening out thesis which I would be okay with as well. tech loses a little bit of strength even though tech has lost a lot of strength over the past couple of weeks and something else gains it Eli Liy for example and the S&P still makes its way to 7,000 I mean that would still be a healthy bull market it would be much healthier than if Nvidia went to 250 although I do agree I think Nvidia should be probably closer to 200 by end of year but at the end of the day what we've seen and I shared this chart yesterday 95 million options were bought last week last week was a gut-wrenching week I don't have the split on calls and puts on those opt options, but it was the highest, it was the third highest notional trading volume, 3.5 trillion on the S&P 500 in history. What did people do? They bought the dip. I mean, this is still a buy the dip mentality that a lot of people have. And as a result, uh, if we do end up having that buy the dip ecosystem going into the end of the year, although we might see the rally broaden, a lot of money might just end up going into tech. By the way, last stat before we get into the market open, we got about 30 seconds right here. JP Morgan, they said this morning or sorry, Goldman said on Friday and Monday, hedge funds logged their biggest two-day buying spree in over six months and one of the largest bursts of buying seen in the past two years that came from Goldman's trading desk this morning. I mean, a lot of those options potentially might have been bought by hedge funds as they were continuing to take advantage of the dip. And if retail bought the dip as well last week, then you might have had some systemic algorithmic selling, but you might have had a lot of actual investors just say these prices are stupid and they took advantage of the dip along with the institutions. All right, here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Wednesday, November 26th, the day before Thanksgiving. Very, very thankful and grateful for everyone being here every single day. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Nvidia 18149. 18149 that is green on the day up 1.882% on Nvidia. Abberrombi that continues to go green. Cororeweave that's up 5%. Nebus up 6%. Meta, even though they got a warning from the Italian watchdog on uh antitrust violations, which is why the stock was down, it looks like it's starting to get a little bit more momentum. 636 right here. Meta is now going green. Robin Hood up 5.38%. We had some big news in the morning about Robin Hood basically vertically integrating into their own exchange for prediction markets. Potentially not getting rid of KHI yet, but not needing Khi in the future. And the markets are very excited about that because it means they're going to make a lot more per contract on these prediction markets. Robin, right, they're up 5.2%. Microsoft's up 1.3%. The S&P 500 up half a percent on the day. Wow. 678 on the S&P. Shout out to New Bank. Incredible stuff. I know Tanner has been buying this thing since $3. So, shout out to him. $17.26. Up 3.9% on the day. That is new all-time highs for New Bank. IN right there. That's up 2%. BMR getting a move as well. That's up 4%. You got BMR making a move. Cisco's up a little bit. Arista's up a little bit. Duolingo's up 1.49%. Where is the lab of rockets? Rocket Lab, that's up.32%. ESTs is at 55.89. That's up half a percent. Nvidia 18220, that's up 2.4%. Palenteer 16579, that's up 1.2% as well. Seeing a lot of those names get a little bit more momentum. Google basically going green. I mean, it's it's still red because it's down from yesterday, but 322 basically flat. Uh, another dollar and that goes green. So nice to see Google holding on to 320s. Weeble up 7%. Pretty good earnings. I don't know if there was a headline on Weeble this morning, but it looks like a delayed earnings reaction. So Weeble getting some love right there. That's up 7%. Ethereum trying to crack 3,000. It really tried last night. Got all the way to 29.84. Was not able to crack it, but it is trying. Bitcoin right there at 87,260. Again, volumes are going to be light today. So you might see some price action that is a bit weird up or down. Uh but you do have a lot of people that are just traveling and probably not going to be trading today. Micron 230. This fell all the way to 200. This fell all the way to 200 last week. And Micron's getting some love back. Tesla 423. Tesla was at 380 last week. Again, a lot of these stocks were on sale. And it seems like people have taken advantage of it. AMD got to 195 yesterday after that Google news. AMD right there at 210. Now AMD is a long way to go before it rebounds back to the 260s, but still a pretty nice move rebounding from that 195 level. Chipotle's up another third of a percent. McDonald's is up today. Kohl's and Abbercrombie continue to make move. Wow. Abbercrombie up another 4% after being up 30% or 37% yesterday, which is exciting to see. How about Openoro? That stock is down. We might have had some housing data that's affecting Open Door. We'll check that in a second. Uh Dell had a great earnings. That stock should be up. Dell is indeed up. That's about 4.12%. Hoodie. Wow. 6.5. I think the markets are really liking this prediction market news. And it doesn't mean Hood is still not going to be volatile with the overall nature of the bull market, crypto, etc. But it does mean they're getting a revenue stream that really doesn't it doesn't matter if the market's up or down because people are going to spend uh or people are going to speculate, I should say, on sports. That's an industry that's been around for a long time. And we have a new way for people to participate in that industry. And sports are going to happen every year, no matter if the economy is bad or good. So, I mean, you do have a line of revenue that potentially could be a billion dollar line of revenue in the next couple years. And I think that's how the market's pricing that in Nvidia right there, 18240, high of days, new bank at 1718. Oscar, look at that. Looks like the market really thinks this ACA subsidy extension is going to happen. That's up 8% on the day. Best Buy is another up another 2% on the day. XRT up another half a percent after having its best day since May yesterday. And then Nebby is getting a bit of a red candle. 94 to 91, but that's still up 2.5% as well on the day. Triple V, thank you for the $200 super chat. I will be getting dinner today with Mr. TripleV in New York City. Steve will be joining us. So that will be a that'll be a fun discussion. Uh that'll Steve I I told Steve that Triple V listens to us all the time when we're on the show and uh we we'll see what topics we can get into, what debates we can end up having. I think it'll be a fun time. So looking forward to seeing him today and uh it'll be nice to get some medium steak. By the way, guys, I'm not a medium well guy anymore. I've transitioned to medium. I've trans Steve was shocked yesterday, but I've transitioned to medium. So I'm not I'm not a medium rare guy. I still think this the the steak should be cooked and like it shouldn't literally like be blood red pink in the middle but I am a medium guy now. Penalty right there 165. Nvidia still holding 182. Urban Outfitters up 10% on the day. Someone said congrats. Yeah, I am getting a little better. Uh but some of these retail names still holding on to the momentum. Core wee up 6.5%. Reddit goes down after red was up 13% yesterday. Reddit getting a little bit of a move to the downside and then Dolingo actually breaking 80 or 180 as that one is green. Applovin, how about that one? App loving almost back to 580 at 569. That's up 2.4% on the day as well. All right. So, I mean, even on relatively light volume, uh, Nvidia, I think, having a little bit more volume than expected. 23 million shares in the first five minutes. Average volume is about 195 million shares. You are seeing some good price action across the board. We're not seeing any crazy red candles. Again, anything can flip at any moment. Also can come in and get a little bit more excited, but you're not seeing that flip, at least at the beginning of the day. S&P also holding on to a half a percent move. Even PayPal. Look at that. It was almost green. It was 60. You know, dude, look, I don't love PayPal as an investment, but my goodness, is this thing going to go lower? Like, is anyone really going to lose money buying PayPal at 60 bucks, like meaningfully lose money? Like, I don't think so. Then again, the opportunity cost if you go heavy into it versus even something like Nvidia, which one could say is more risky, but you know, definitely has a lot more upside baked into it. But I don't think they're taking PayPal to 50 bucks. Like maybe 55 at the worst. I don't know if they actually take it down that low. Carnival Cruise, that's down a little bit. SoFi trying to push 29. That's green. I would definitely if I had to pick between SoFi and PayPal, I'd pick SoFi. Um, but I just feel like the bottom hopefully is in for PayPal. Baba right there, that's up 2%. They had a great earnings yesterday. TSM that's up to like TSM getting sold off yesterday was also stupid. like like a lot of these chip names that got sold off yesterday made no sense given how pivotal they are in the supply chain ecosystem regardless of who's going to be the winner and so you're seeing some of those names start to recover as the sell-off was a bit aggressive grab right there's that 525 that's green SanDisk up another 3% on the day circle that's upcor that's up 1.72% then Nvidia trying to hold 182 Kathy Wood did buy Google yesterday and again I I deeply respect Kathy, but just like sometimes the timing of their buys are very weird. She bought 174,000 shares of Google. She also bought Cororeweave, Meta, Hood, and Square. She sold AMD 106,000 shares, GitLab 358,000 shares, and 354,000 shares of pound share. I don't hate the Google buy. It's just I mean, literally, it's at alltime highs. So, I guess they think it's going to 350, but you would imagine they would wait, but it doesn't seem like they waited. And so they bought some more Google 319. Google down about 1.2% on the day. Wow. Hoodie, is she really going for 12? No, she touched 124 already. She actually touched 124. There you go. That's a pretty inc. I mean, again, if we can just normalize this range towards the end of the year, I'd be happy. Obviously, there's room for upside if we continue meaningfully moving higher in the the broader bull market, but I think this 120 125 range is a meaningful range for Hood to be a New Bank right there 1722 that's still up and then Nvidia holding on holding on to 180. Tesla, does Tesla go red? Tesla goes red. All right, so you're starting to see some some of these names sell off. Tesla and Google, the first names to go red. Meta just went red again. Amazon just went red. All right, so four of the MAX 7s go red. Do we have a candle on Nvidia down? Nvidia was at 182. It's a red candle. Not that aggressive. Nvidia still up 2% on the day, but you do have some red across the board. How about Apple? Apple hit 280 yesterday. Apple 277. That's holding up. And then Microsoft 42, that's holding up a little bit as well. All right, we're going to have to see. We have a long day. We have a long day. Hopefully we end up green before Thanksgiving. There you go. Robin back to 124, but a lot of these names are holding up now. Again, Robin Hood tends to move with a lot of other categories. The fact that Robin Hood independently is up 7% on the day uh indicates that this prediction markets thing is being priced in pretty heavily and it seems like that's what the market cares about more than crypto price action. Um, Amcor, that's up 1.4. Figma that goes down. Coinbase is up 1.4% on the day. TQQQ, which by the way, IBKR put out their top 10 stocks that were traded yesterday. Uh, retail continues to be heavily excited for technology. So, the top 10 stocks were Nvidia, Tesla, AMD, Pouncer, Meta, Google, TQQQ, QQQ, Amazon, and then SOXL, which is the triple lever semiconductor ETF. Again, when when things get ugly, the money seems to go to safety. At least we've seen some of that rotation, but a lot of that money seems to be going back into tech and just leveraging up on that tech exposure, which is kind of wild because we only had a 5% draw down. I mean, imagine if we had a 10% like would people really heavily just like if things like if a video got to 150, you know, if it didn't just stop at 169. I wonder if that would be a moment of legit panic for people or if a retailer is so trained on this buy the dip mentality and so convinced of this AI revolution that that dip would seem like a miracle for a lot of people and they'd be like, "Thank goodness, I've been waiting for this for a year." And they would buy the dip and and you know, if that happens, we'll see. But at least over the past week, we got a hint of it and people bought the dip even though a lot of these stocks are still down from uh from their highs. Is there any news on Hood? Yes, Hood is basically making their own exchange for prediction markets. That's the big news that came out yesterday. And so this is not just a random recovery that Hood's having. And and quite frankly, this news could be a sell news as well, but as of now, it's a news that's getting bought up. Um they're working with Susuana Group, which is one of the largest market makers in the world, and they're creating a new joint venture to operate a CFTC licensed exchange in clearing house for their prediction markets. And that's why that stock is green. Uh economic data, do we have PMI? Let's see. Or do we get PMI soon? We are going to get PMI in four minutes. Okay, so we'll get PMI in a second and we'll see what that looks like. Uh we got the jobless claims this morning. Again, it was lower than expected, which is relatively good. Rate cut probabilities are still at a healthy 80%. So, the market is still pretty excited about that. Um talked about JP Morgan, talked about Bank of America. Oh, there there was a really big uh piece of viral content yesterday that came out as well. Um, actually, let's listen to this Sundar clip before we talk about that because that's a little bit of a deeper topic. But here's Sundar talking about data centers in space.
>> I'm constantly thinking in that time frame. One example of this is project suncatcher
>> two weeks ago where we announced we're going to build data centers in space. Obviously, it's a moonshot. Some of it looks crazy today, but you know when you when you truly step back and envision the amount of compute we going to need, it it starts making sense and it's a matter of time. And so how do you make progress on that? You work back and have 27 milestones and and get get underway. So in 2027, hopefully we'll have some TPU somewhere in space. Uh maybe we'll meet a Tesla Roadster which is going around there too.
>> That's kind of crazy. You got people saying it's a bubble and then you have the CEO of a $3.9 trillion company saying, "Yeah, we're going to have TPUs in space because we're going to need so much compute demand that we're going to have to go off this planet to be able to build these data centers." And here's another clip of Cindar talking more deeply about their strategy on Gemini 3.
>> Historically, like other than maybe your your Gaia or your Google account, there hasn't been there wasn't this through line across like this whole suite of different products that Google has. And now it feels like Gemini is this through line across literally every single one of our products.
>> I think Gemini to me is like a very clear manifestation of what what is the AI first strategy.
>> Yeah.
>> Because now you have something tangible like Gemini and Gemini, you're right, improves everything from search to YouTube to cloud uh to Whimo. What I loved about the Gemini 3 launch, we shipped it across many of our products. But it was fascinating for me to see, you know, on X, it could be C-pilot or Replet or Figma, you know, people all coming together, they're also sim shipping.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. And and to me, that's innovation at scale, right? It's not just us. Uh it's other other companies in the world. Uh it's been extraordinary to see. Sundar is having his moment. He is the guy when it comes to AI right now and he is having his moment. Nvidia right there. A little bit more of a red candle. 180.9 as that goes down. Google trying to go green. Wow. Hoodie. Market really likes this news. Market really likes this news. 12577 on the day. Oracle 5% as well. Wow. 5% on Oracle. Back above 200. 185. You know, 350 was aggressive on Oracle, but 185 was also aggressive to the downside. So, it looks like it's trying to normalize around that $200 range. UNH also a nice green candle right there. Same thing with Oscar as UNH is up 2.5%. Um, Rich Buddy says, "Would you sell into this market momentum? Can you do a poll on that?" Yeah, let's do a poll on that. I think that's a a good question to ask. So the question is very simply, we've had so far as of 9:45 on Wednesday, November 26, three days of green. Maybe things change by the end of day, but we've had three days of green. 83% of you said green. Simple question. Are you taking profits into this green? Even if you're not selling everything, obviously if you're just trimming, you're d-risking a little bit. I mean, look, I I think it's a fair question to ask. I just like based on what we talked about in the morning, the rate cuts are coming, more likely than not. We did a lot of analysis and we've had a lot of ups and downs and twists and turns on it, but it looks like the rate cuts are coming. Uh, earnings growth continues to be strong. A lot of these stocks are still down from where they were at the highs, which I think is a good thing. It does they don't all need to go back to the moon as anytime soon. and these retail sales are now challenging the narrative around the consumer being in a horrible position. So then the the number one thing that I think would lead someone to be really cautious right now outside of liquidity and rate cuts and labor markets which again potentially are resolved if we're going to get this rate cut is this Michael Bur versus Nvidia argument about AI being a bubble. And so I mean I didn't sell over the past couple weeks. I'm likely not selling into this. I think this is a pretty good setup towards the end of the year. Maybe I'm dead wrong, but I'm not selling Nvidia at 180. Like, I'm just I'm not doing that. When you look at their earnings, it's like, no, that doesn't make any sense. Robin is kind of a forever hold for me. Same thing with pounder. Um, now if you have some swing trades, then yeah, maybe like, you know, if you bought something on the dip and you're kind of like, yeah, I think I think that sure some profits can be taken there. But a lot of these names, if they're rerating, wow, S&P 679, if we can get 680 today, that'd be a big deal. If a lot of these names are not rerating, but getting back to their sort of narrative that was strong before, then I don't know if it's a uh easy thing to do in terms of selling into the strength. But obviously, if the volatility of last week was too much and if we revisit even a part of that going into December, which is very possible, you might get a hawkish cut by JPAL, you might get Trump that tweets something, you might have some China issue, like anything could happen and you just want to have some more cash, then this is the time towards the end of the year where people start raising cash. I just wouldn't go net short and get out of the entire market if that's the intent of the the question on should you sell. Nabius right there that's up 7% on the day as that one continues to go green. Cory right there 7537 that's up 5.6%. Apple at 277. Nvidia still at 180. S&P are we touching 680? Not yet. 67905. 67905. I trimmed some Google. Okay, that I understand. So, so yeah, I should caveat with like if a position is up a lot in a short amount of time. I mean, yeah, taking some profits here is not crazy. But then again, to hedge against that argument, Google's doing everything right. And I don't think anyone's saying Google's like now overvalued. Is it cheap as is it as cheap as it was a couple months ago? Obviously not. Is it like egregious? Is it like Tesla 200p? No, not even close to that. So, I can understand someone saying, "I'm not selling my Google. I'm holding this on for a very long time." Not, you know, like why would I get rid of it here? Unless you think it's like just overextended, but in terms of just getting out of the market at these levels and being done for the year, I don't know. You would have to get a real sort of bearish case going into the end of the year. Uh, PMI, let me pull this up. Let's see what we got right here. I think it's a beat. Chicago PMI. Okay, here we go. Let's pull this up and see what we've got.
>> And it's not very good. This is a November read on Chicago PMI. We're expecting a number above 40. We end up with 36.3.
>> Okay, that's a miss. That's a miss. That's another re That's probably why we had some red candles right here. That is another reason we probably need some rate cuts. Raika probabilities just went up slightly went up to 83 from 82 but they did just go up. That would be the lowest level going back to May at 24. It's now been 2 years since we've been above 50 or expansion territory. November of 23 was the last time we were over 50. So Chicago manufacturing doesn't seem to be doing very well, but that weak greed is definitely pushing yields up a bit, which really makes one scratch their head. We do see the uh stock market also responding in that vein. Now granted that this may bring an ease, so I understand what the stock market's doing, but I think on the side of interest rates, it's multiaceted. Maybe it's the runoff of the pricing potentially pricing in of pass which pushed yields down yesterday.
>> So going back to the question of do you sell? I think that clip is emblematic of the the psychology here. We just got some bad news. Pretty bad miss on Chicago PMI. Market's higher. Robin Hood's up. Pounder's up. S&P's up. Why is the market up even though it had a little red candle? Because we're going to probably get that rate cut. are probably gonna I mean that that I I I think if anything it really solidifies the idea of a rate cut. Do you want to go into 2026 knowing we will probably get some weak economic data? It's inevitable given all the signs that we've been seeing. Maybe not horrible catastrophic data but definitely weaker data. Knowing that that bad news will inevitably be good news for the market S&P high of days right here because we're going to get the Fed easing which is really good for risk on assets. Or do you think the weaker economic data will inevitably lead to bad earnings growth because if people don't have their jobs, if PMI is lower, if we're contracting, not expanding, that overall economic activity is going to be down and that means a lot of the earnings multiples that we feel comfortable giving are going to start to compress and as a result stock prices are going to go down even if we get rate cuts. I think that's the question you have to ask yourself. Will the economy lessen to such a extent in 2026 that the rate cuts will not be able to save it? And if you really do feel like that, then yeah, selling makes sense because you don't want to be around for the multiple compression because if the earnings don't live up to the hype, then obviously these earnings are going to get compressed. S&P is trading at the highest multiple in history or at least not at like 2021 levels. But we're still, you know, pretty much up there. But if you think it's not that bad and the rate cuts to be there and the earnings growth are going to continue, then that is your bullc case for for 2026. BMR making a move right here as well. 6%. Ethereum is not moving like that. So Ethereum is basically flat on the day. BMR kind of recovering everything that it lost that it lost yesterday as well. All right. So, you're seeing some of these crypto plays get some momentum. Um, JPAL will be live on December 10th. The FMC meeting is honestly in a couple weeks, so it'll be happening pretty soon. And we'll find out kind of how he thinks of the market. Then, we're going to get jobs data going into the end of the year from November, which will also be really important. Yeah, BMR getting a little bit of MNAV expansion here as it's had a couple days this week of expanding much higher than what Ethereum has moved at. Robin up 8.29% on the day. Street really likes this argument around prediction markets. Best Buy is up. Cole's still up another 5%. Coreweave's up. Nebia is still up 7%. IN is up 2%. Weeble holding 5%. Bitcoin 87,000. And then you got CleanSpark which had their earnings yesterday. pretty good earnings as well as they've transitioned into a AI HPC play and that stock making a move up 9%. Not that crazy. Not that crazy to see some of the moves that we're seeing here even with relatively lower volumes on a day like this. Let's look at the heat map for the day. Um, wow. The only thing that's red in tech is the googs. Look at that, dude. Eli Lily is taking a little bit of a breather. It's had a good week. Service Now is down. Salesforce is down. Meta's down a little bit. Amazon Tesla's slightly down, but everything else pretty damn green. And as well, yeah, Z, I don't know why Zcal's down. We looked at their I didn't go that deep into the earnings, but they beat on the top and the bottom down 10%. Not sure why the street was upset about their numbers, but there's something there's something that's going on there. That one down about 10.4%. Nvidia right here at 180. I think Grab is waiting for the extraordinary uh general meeting for GoTo on um on December 17th. So, if you've been following the story, the GoTo CEO, he got ousted a couple days ago. They're replacing him with a new guy. That new guy is Soft Bank's pick. Soft Bank has a stake in Grab and Goto. It looks very likely. I mean, we don't know if it's going to happen, but it looks likely that an acquisition is getting ready to happen. And I think that also is explaining a lot of the darkpool orders that we've seen over the past couple days of like 30 40 million shares. So, that meeting is on December 17th. We're going to get a lot more data on what happens for the trajectory of Grab. But that will be very important to see if consolidation in that region ends up playing out. S&P bit of a red candle right there. 679 to 678. Why did they get rid of him? Because he was opposing the takeover. And so SoftBank was like, uh, your stock has been negative for five years. We need a return. Grab is obviously the winner here. They're the ones that are now profitable. They're the ones that have their stock up 60% over the past year. So yeah, we're going to need you guys to come together. I think that's what happened. I think I think a soft bank representative came to the boardroom and he was like, "We're either doing it my way or the highway and we own a lot of shares in your company." So, you can either listen to us or the stock is going to zero. That's how it happens. That's how it happens. Nebas, are we getting a move right here? That is up 5%. Wow, that's a headline. Apple iPhone shipments to beat Samsung for the first time in 14 years. Uh that is consistent with what we saw from Bernstein that was putting out some data um two weeks ago about iPhone 17 sales. Dude, that's crazy. Apple iPhone shipments to beat Samsung for the first time in 14 years. Apple is set to ship more smartphones than Samsung in 2025. Uh this will be the first time it will have done so in 14 years. 243 million iPhone units likely to end up with 19.4% of the global smartphone market versus 18.7%. Well, I helped them by buying an iPhone uh this week or last week. But I mean, my my sister, by the way, she she was telling me yesterday like she she upgraded from an iPhone 15 Pro Max to the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and she thinks I mean, there's just a remarkable difference. Now, granted, it has been two years, but she's like, "Dude, the 17 is legit." Like, it's it's it's like unbelievably fast. And so, that along with the broader super cycle of upgrades, especially in China, could be leading to to that excitement. Okay, Nvidia gets a red candle. There you go. Dell's getting a red candle. Oracle is getting a red candle. All right. A little bit of whipssaw to the downside. They're not going to let us go to Turkey Day without a fight. Little bit of a whipssaw here on the red. S&P is still green. Where's Hoodie? Yeah, even Hoodie. 125 to 123. There you go. Down 7%. Dude, I was I got to show you guys this video. I was watching this video the other day on YouTube of this like proprietary trading firm in New York and they were like making some vlogs of like the interns and like how they train them to trade. It's kind of crazy. I'll show the video later, but it's like you literally see just the guy at his desk with a headset at looking at seven screens and he's just like trading and he's looking at all the same news that we're looking at and he's putting in orders, selling, executing, but he's doing it professionally for a trading firm. And it's kind of crazy because there are professional people that literally do not care what the stock is. They just want to know, do we think it's going up? Do we think it's going down? Do we go long? Do we go short? How do we get in? How do we get out within sometimes seconds, sometimes minutes, and how do we make money? Like for a lot of people, they are not emotionally attached to Apple, but they see that Apple headline around uh beating Samsung, they're like, "Okay, cool. Bullish. Buy some we'll get out pretty soon." Yeah. SMB, SMB Capital, that's the name of the firm. If anyone wants to look it up, SMB Capital is quite interesting because a lot of them are reacting to the same news that we're that we were reacting to. They're just, you know, professionally trading it. I'm sure a lot of you guys do that as well as you're watching the show. No, he was not watching AK media, but he they were they were talking about the same headline like I think this they were do this was like a July vlog they did and so they were talking about Palunteer, they were talking about SMCI, they were talking about Tesla and it's just crazy because it's like the same stuff we talk about every day. Amazon right here 229. That one basically losing all of its momentum uh as the rest of the market also starts to sell off a little bit. Fear and greed just hit 19. So we are well above six like we were at last week but uh still at 19. Thoughts on ASML being a top pick? Who is uh what firm said ASML is their top pick for next year? I mean, I I don't I don't think I hate that. Uh these guys have a monopoly on lithography. So, there's not that many people competing with them. It's just the earnings have been kind of wonky, which is why they got hit all the way to 650 earlier in the in the year. JP Morgan. Yeah, I don't hate I dude I this is a company that really does deserve a deep dive and I would have to commit a good two weeks to learning about this company in depth because I do not know how to explain lithography that well. But there's not that many companies that engage in it either. So I can understand why ASML is a top pick just based on its pure ability to have a competitive barrier to entry. S&P continues the red candle 677 as that one goes down. Thoughts on Uber? I think Uber's cheap at these prices. I think Uber just like look Uber Uber's Uber's cheap. I think Uber's narrative with the robo taxi stuff has been annoying. It's not stopped it from having a good year. But I feel like it is stopping it from having an explosive year because you could argue Uber is relatively undervalued here. It's just every time I think it makes a run, you get robo taxing news and the market starts thinking, well, we know that robo taxes aren't coming anytime soon. But do we really want to buy Uber knowing that they might not be a full leader in the space? And that's where I think it starts selling off. But it's cheap. Uber chase at three times sales. I mean, this is not like the most expensive tech stock in the market, especially after the draw down from 97. S&P 500 677. Apple just went red. on the day. Lyft actually has been a better stock this year just because their free cash flow margins have been better. Lyft is up 2% on the day, but Uber is obviously a much much larger company. Uh McKenzie's agents and robots US report says today's AI and robotics could technically automate 57% of US work hours if companies fully redesign jobs around them worth up to $2.9 trillion a year by 2030. Okay, so Anthropic came out with a research report similar to this headline from McKenzie that said that an analysis of 100,000 claw conversation showed that 1% of G of of of labor 1.18% of productivity could be increased, which would be double the amount of the largest increase we've seen in the past 5 years, which was back in 2019. And that could automate a job that is equivalent to paying someone $54 an hour. I think if we actually start to see the ramifications of AI replacing those types of white collar jobs and again you're going to see a lot of productivity and earnings growth, but you might also see a lot of layoffs as well. So that that's going to be the nuance that I think the market's going to have to to navigate. Um, okay. Is there a headline for some of the red? Let's see. Let's see if there's anything or if it's just 10 a.m. normal shenanigans. Maybe PMI. I mean, we did pump on PMI because it was good news was bad news, but maybe we could be going the opposite direction as well as the market's digesting it. Um, oil prices are relatively stable. Ukraine stuff, uh, Zalinsky is meeting with Trump or he's going to be meeting with Trump soon. Trump tweeted yesterday that there are some key points of disagreement, but overall the consensus is there. The Washington Post reported that Russia's likely to definitely reject this proposal. So, you don't have any full stability there in terms of what's going to happen, but maybe some progress is being made. Let's get an update on jobless claims as well. They were lower than expected and that helped rate cut probabilities this morning as well. unemployment claims that Americans file from last week. And actually, we had good news there, which was it was lower than expected and actually matched the lowest level since February. 216,000 jobless claims filed in the week of November 22nd. Better than the 225 expected. So, four-week moving averages ticks down if you want to smooth it over. Um, so it continues to be the low hiring, lowfiring economic environment. And yes, there's been a lot of angst around the labor market lately with some of the alternative data, the ADP data that we've been tracking sort of on weekly job losses, but jobless claims as filed by the states of Americans filing for those benefits continues to paint a picture of lack of layoffs and that that's it just continues with this mixed picture that we are getting on the economy. Some good signs, some not so good signs. I mean, continuing claims are still near a four year high and Challenger layouts are up 60% yearon year. I'm not sure how we can call that a no fire uh environment.
>> No, I mean it's it's mixed. There are mixed reports on it. Challenger, first of all, has always tended to be a little negative, but yes, I agree. October was really bad uh in terms of those in those layoff notices. It's just it's not showing up in the weekly unemployment claims in terms of any kind of elevated number of layoffs there. And I think that that it jives with what we're hearing from companies, which is if you are providing, you know, what consumers want right now, then you're selling it at full price. I mean, did you hear what Urban Outfitters said? Yes, they said customers are looking for deals, but they also said that, you know, that when they have the right assortment in merchandise, they're doing pretty well. November, traffic and sales remain robust. We have observed a slight shift in consumers behavior. We believe customers were waiting a bit longer this year to make their purchases until seasonal promotions began. So again, the deal, the choice, the priorities, but they're still buying. And Urban has discounted less than it has in previous years. And that's one thing that's actually helping the company. This is a stock that's up like, look, 90% over the last year. And it's not the only one. If you look at Tapestry, if you look at Ralph Lauren, some of these retail stocks have been doing very well. It doesn't happen when you have a weak consumer environment. It does happen when you have the upper income doing better and when you are really nailing it when it comes to what consumers want. It's not universal. The restaurant stocks are telling a completely different picture which is weaker spending pretty much across the board. Just look at the some of the the index here or some of the names in this group. It's not a rising tide lifting all boats in consumer discretionary right now.
>> No. No. And if you look at retail sales inflation adjusted last month is was lower last month than it was in September of 01 or 21 I should say
>> because we still have a little inflation which gets factored into those numbers which are still growing but to your point the spending is growing because part of the higher spending is
>> the higher the higher prices that we're seeing. I mean if you HP I mean demand not necessarily consumer maybe more of a barometer for enterprise demand but also individuals on on PCs and printers. America revenue is flat in constant currency reflecting demand softness in North America, particularly in commercial. I mentioned the restaurant stocks, the hotel stocks as well. U they they've been okay lately, but they've lagged other parts of the consumer like casino stocks. I don't know if you've noticed that. So there is a real divergence here on where consumers are spending and what the market is telling you on what they're choosing and how David Rosenberg took this up this morning saying you know maybe with the the increased affordability concerns and the higher cost of living they're spending less on certainly restaurants less on vacations but
>> that is a real divergence so hotels flights and casinos catching a bid along with these retail stocks retailer stocks u like Kohl's or abro but then you have the the food stocks, you're obviously seeing the sort of cautionary spend by consumers in a different place where they might not be willing to pay $15 for a burrito. And you know, as a result, you're seeing a little bit of weakening in certain areas and not any weakening in other areas. And so if anything, it it muddies up the picture on the state of the consumer, but it doesn't paint a full-on black or white narrative that the consumer is absolutely horrible, which is good because the consumer not being horrible is a good thing for the broader markets having the ability to continue earnings growth. Uh Doug says, "Imit you made a comment earlier saying that retail believes in the AI trade. I submit they have no choice. If AI is coming for your job, retail has no choice but to hedge by owning the AI." Yes, I agree. I mean, I think we've been talking about this a lot on the channel that the only way to hedge against AI taking everyone's job is owning the company so that you get all the margin expansion and be in the asset ownership class of the ecosystem around AI. The the the push back from that from the AI doomers is that it doesn't matter if you own the AI stocks because if everyone's laid off, there's no like productivity to even go around, right? Like if you're an engineer in San Francisco making $300,000 a year at Meta and then you get laid off, like Meta, you're not going to be spending that much because you got laid off, which means the advertisers might not be paying Meta that much to target you because you don't have the discretionary income to spend. And so that's the full-on duoristic perspective. The other perspective is that Meta is going to have so much freaking money because even with even if the advertising spend because they're going to just have so many new ways to make capital uh and the lines of revenue given the efficiencies in the business, especially if they don't have to pay you $300,000 a year, which is a decent sum of money if they can save that money and pay 200 bucks a month to some agent to do what you're doing. Like that that's a massive level of savings. So long term, you know, maybe that labor market dumeric scenario is possible, but in the short term, Meta Stock, Amazon stock, you know, if Amazon replaces millions of people with robots, it's going higher because operating margins are definitely going higher. Tom Lee just tweeted, uh, so there's a chart. Tether bought more gold last quarter than every central bank. We talked about the story a while ago. Wow, Tether bought 26 tons of gold. Tether is a stable coin company. Tom Lee says, "This reinforces what we said earlier this year. Crypto stable coins are the biggest buyer of gold in the world and have been the singular driver of higher prices since early 2026. This is not bearish for Bitcoin, but is setting a higher future price for Bitcoin. It definitely explains why Bitcoin has not been mooning though. I mean, if all that money I mean, you're talking about a crypto stablecoin company that's valued at 500 billion for their last funding round, which is Tether, that's buying gold. Now, the reason they're buying gold, by the way, they're not buying gold because they like want to turn it into a a necklace. Um, they're they're tokenizing it. So, Tether is launching tokenized gold. I mean, there's a couple of exchanges that have already launched tokenized types of gold. And so, you need to have the reserve asset if you're going to tokenize it, just like if you're going to tokenize dollars, you need to have treasuries. Um, but that also means that, you know, maybe a lot of that money that could have gone into some of these other crypto assets is not necessarily going there. Nvidia back to 180, S&P back to 678. So, I agree with Tom. It's not long-term bearish for Bitcoin. It's um it's just short-term. You know, some of that liquidity is not coming into into Bitcoin here. Where is gold? Gold is 4140. Gold's had a little bit of weakness down to 3,800 a couple weeks ago and then it just bounced right. I mean, I I'm not a commodities guy, but my goodness, I've been surprised by the rally in these comm like, who would have thought gold would be up 60% on the year. Who would have thought? Who gold is outperformed the S&P 500 by 5x? Like, if you asked me that back in January, I'd be like, no way. Even if we have geopolitical uncertainty, gold is not going to outperform tech stocks. and it did massively. So, that was a big year for a lot of people that went heavy in gold. And now the question is, can that continue in 2026? You did have some analysis this morning on gold. Um, Deutsche Bank said they think gold will be 4500 by the end of 2026. And their main argument is ETF inflows are strong and central banks continue to buy. I think JP Morgan has 5,000 on the target as gold. Your uncle would have. Well, he he's still, dude, he has a lot of calls on silver. Like just straight up calls, not even just stock. And I think he's still holding on to it, but silver is silver is his main pickup choice. Silver's had a great year as well. Yeah, gold market cap increased 10 trillion this year. I think it was 20 trillion in January and now it's like 27 trillion, 28 trillion round about. I don't think it hit 30 trillion yet. It's at 28.9. 28.9, which is pretty damn incredible. Um, okay. Let's see what other headlines do we have. Talked about some of the reach. Oh, this was that piece of content that's going viral. So, I'm not going to I'm not going to go through all this because there's a lot to go through. I will say though, uh, this picked up yesterday. This is kind of an old post. It's from February, but it kind of picked up some momentum yesterday and I saw it for the first time. Maybe some of you guys have seen it. Um, it's kind of convincing. I put it in the chat. There's this dude who put a lot of evidence together and he's like, "Hey, Jack Dorsey is Satoshi." And I'm not going to lie, when you go through some of the evidence, like he put out this entire PowerPoint now. Maybe this guy just has too much time on his hands. But like it it really did make sense. I'm like, "Dude, maybe maybe Jack Dorsey is Satoshi." So, anyone wants to read through that, you might have your argument on who uh who is the creator of Bitcoin, which if it is, it's crazy because that means Jack Dorsey, his net worth is way bigger than what people think because he has a ton of Bitcoin that he probably might not sell. Jack is not smart enough to be Satoshi. Okay, Jack is very smart. I don't I didn't love him as a CEO of Twitter. I don't love him as a CEO in general because I think he's very like he's not like Vlad, which is hyperfocused. He's like very, you know, thinks about a lot of things, has a lot of projects and stuff, but he is a smart guy, dude. He's an incredibly smart guy. He was just asked recently and his answer was not no. That's such a jack answer. That's such a jack answer. Um, all right. What else do we got? Dell's still up 3%. A little bit of that draw down. Grab right there is up about 2%. Starting to reverse some of those red candles. Nvidia is still at 179. Google's still down. I think Google down is a nothing burger. Uh, it pumped to 330 after being at 270 last week. It's going to take a breather. So, it's probably healthy that Google chills out at 320, 318. Tesla right there 417 and then Apple at 277. Um, app loving that's a three. Robin as well getting taken down from 125 to 123. Um, let's see. John, thanks for the super chat. Amid, do you think Openi wouldn't be able to commit all the promises of spending? If so, should I be worried as an AMD shareholder? The answer to this question is I really don't know. I mean, AMD has committed 1.4 trillion. Like, my gut tells me, there's no way in hell they're going to be able to spend that much money, but I think they're going to spend a decent chunk of it as the revenues scale. Now, if Gemini gets in the way and businesses just don't use ChatBT as much, then yeah, that could create a an existential threat for CHAT. But I I think they will turn into a very large company. Uh, if they were to pick between their vendor financing, I don't think they would not pick AMD. Like I like I think the deal they have with AMD should be prior especially because you know OpenAI gets equity in AMD. So maybe they don't pay Oracle the 300 billion they said they were going to pay which now seems like a fantasy to be honest but but but AMD the 60 to 70 billion they were going to pay. They know there's a lot of upside for them in the future to get 10% of the entire company. So I think as an AMD shareholder like OpenAI will stay committed but if there's general issues with OpenAI's ability to grow as a company because of whatever obstacles that come in the way obviously that could be bare case for not only AMD but Nvidia Broadcom a lot of those names but I think if they had to pick between their vendors AMD would be on that list. Okay, what else do we have right here? If Google LM is already good, chatb is unnecessary. You know, I've been playing around with a lot more than one LLM recently because I've been asking more questions and I've wanted to see kind of the divergence in responses. I will say there are use cases where chatbt is just better than a lot of the other ones. And I don't know if that's going to exist forever, but you do have a decent chunk of topics where GBT is just better. And right now, I think the LMS have like Claude is really good for coding. Um, Gemini is getting really good for multi-purpose and image generation. Chad is good for like conversational stuff. So, I think a lot of them are just not fully super LLMs yet, but eventually that's coming. Here's another chart that came out yesterday. This is from Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research. Cash levels in US equity funds have declined to 1.2% of total assets, the lowest in the last 20 years. This is below the February low of 1.3% aka more money has gone into the market and today's level is also half of what funds held in 2023. As a result, the cash and liquid assets in US equity mutual funds is now 155 billion which is a lot of money but that's the lowest since the 2020 pandemic. So when you look at something like this then you look at the option volumes we saw last week of 3.5 trillion. Then you look at what JP Morgan said, which is that or sorry, Goldman Sachs on their trading desk said that hedge funds have been buying the highest in over six months over the past two days. It seems like money is coming into the markets. It seems like money is coming into the markets and people are buying these dips and maybe that's why you've seen a little bit of the stability of the S&P, which is not that far off from those alltime highs. 677 on the day for the S&P. Dualingo, what do we see? Duolingo 1862. Wow, that's up 6%. Okay, Duolingo having a little bit of a move. Um, stock draft update. Matt is catching up. He's back at 20%. I'm at 25.7. Steve's at one. Tanner's at 15. And Chris is at 6.3. still down 60% on Dualingo, but that's what we got. Why is Crowd Strike down? I think it's cuz Zcaler is down. Um, you have a bunch of the You have a bunch of the cyber security names that are taking a bit of a hit. By the way, take a look at this graphic right here. I know we talked a lot yesterday about Meta. Um, cheapest Max 7 on a forward PE basis at 21. S&P is at 22, Nvidia's at 24, Microsoft's at 25, Google at 29, Amazon at 29, Apple at 30, and then Tesla at 189. But Meta's trading lower than the S&P 500 on a 4 PE basis, which is quite incredible. This stock draft is going to end in June of 2026. You know, should we do another stock draft for 2026 in general? Should we do like a January to end of December 2026 stock draft? Then we would have two drafts. But I feel like that would be fun. Honestly, I would probably take my entire portfolio just get rid of that damn Green Owl. Like I'm pretty happy with the picks I have is just freaking Dolingo. Chris said it yesterday. Maybe we should do that. That would be fun. That would be kind of fun. We can maybe have some different rules for it as well. That'd be pretty cool. S&P right there, 678. Um, big Dolingo again. Well, buying Duolingo at 180 versus 480 definitely would be helpful, but I probably I just I don't know, dude. May is is Duolingo bottomed or is sentiment the worst it's ever going to be for Dualingo? Like that's the question. And honestly, I don't know because 2026, you know, they've got to really reacelerate growth and they're already growing nicely. It's just the narrative of them being commoditized is the tough part. Yeah, we're going to be starting uh to talk about portfolio management and construction for 2026. I've been drafting a lot of thoughts myself. Have a bunch of different ideas coming up, bunch of different kind of articles I've been writing out. It'll turn into videos and so I'm kind of organizing my thoughts as well. Obviously, the draw down over the past couple weeks has kind of shifted the landscape of like how to because now you just have lower stock prices, right? So, you're thinking of what should be the strategy for 226. One thing I was talking about Steve last night though um Meta, Amazon and Microsoft are at their lowest multiples on an EV to EVA basis and Meta on a PE basis in about three years. I mean is that the play for 2026? Just go long meta Microsoft Amazon. That's a really simple portfolio in 2026. really simple to maybe trim some of the winners, rotate into some of the losers and go long on three of the seven greatest companies on the planet. Nvidia, by the way, although it's had a better year than a lot of those names, still up 35%, Nvidia still again trading at a 24 times ne like it's not that expensive. I just if the theme for 2026 is the rich get richer, the big get bigger, which is I remember Steve and I did a stream back at the end of 2024. That was kind of both what we believed in. You had all these analysts on CNBC talk about small caps. And I remember both of us were just like, "No, the small caps cannot be the answer next year." And small caps have done well, but IWM up again on the day. I I think it's not been the type of return. I mean, small caps are up 11%. If you picked a decent MAG 7, you're you're beating 11%. If you pick the S&P, you're beating 11%. So, it's like it's like maybe the big get bigger is the theme for 2026 again. I think it's crazy to imagine that that couldn't be the theme. Would you be building a dividend portfolio for income? Yes. A portion of I've been looking at some dividend stocks. portion of the portfolio in 2026 is definitely going into some dividend plays. Um, by the way, Beyond Meat right there, 16%. I don't know what the headline is, but Beyond Meat is pumping. You know, to be honest, you know what's the dividend play I've been looking at? It's not a high dividend, but I I mean, is it that crazy to take a bet on it? Good old PayPal. Like if I buy PayPal, it would not be off the assumption that I'm expecting this stock to go to the moon. It would purely be I think it's bottomed and it it shouldn't go back into the low 50s. And PayPal has some decent call premiums. You can sell some aggressive calls every month and if it gets sold, who cares, right? And you still collect a little bit of that dividend. So yeah, BMR and Nvidia now give a dividend as well. That is also fair. But PayPal's up there. Verizon obviously is another really good one. Chris has talked a lot about this one. 6% dividend. This one's also basically oscillating around 38 and 42. Do we really think PayPal's going below like 55? Like 57 I think was the low last week. Like do we really think it they're going to take it? Like if they do, this story is going to be studied for a long time. Look at that chart. Went public in 2015 at 30. got to 300 in six years. 10xed and now it's a double from IPO at 61. And I don't know. I don't know if they're really going to take it that much lower. Yeah, BMR is paying a one-cent dividend or they will start paying a one-cent dividend. Does the winner get a prize in the stock draft? No. Oh, I mean we we kind of had this like thousand dollar bet, but I don't think any of us it's kind of just more bragging rights. It's not really an actual prize. Why is Beyond Me pumping? What is the news? Why did these guys go up 16% just now? What is the market like about this? Yes, IBM also has a dividend. I don't see any news. You probably had just a whale come in and buy a ton of stock and they might just dump it in a bit. But I don't see any headline here. Uh why are they paying a 1-centent dividend? You know, I don't love the BMR 1-cent dividend move either. I think they want to be classified as a dividend stock so that some of these dividend funds can be like, well, we want some crypto exposure. We also want to make sure that we are eligible to buy it. It needs to pay a dividend. So, I don't know. I don't think it's the greatest idea, but nonetheless, if it incentivizes more funds to get in, maybe it's not a horrible idea either. Okay, let's see what else we've got going on. Let's get a little bit more coverage on some of the consumer stuff and then we'll keep going from there.
>> I don't know, more on gambling
>> although some of those are are as lever some of those gambling names are as levered to Macau as anything else. which has been certainly Vegas. Yeah.
>> But I think yeah and you know some of the the sports gambling as well has been in a sort of up upturn or uptrend here. I think the broader takeaway though for the consumer is while there are signs of stress there are also some real signs of strength and today's exhibit
>> and and that's the divergence. We got Mark Mahaney on as well. Let's get his thoughts on Google as he's been pretty bullish on this name even through the draw down
>> on Google six months ago because of the DOJ and because of um and because of chat GPT and I just think this market was way too negative. The stock was oversold to 15 times earnings. Is it overbought here 29 times? No. But I think that the the pitch you make for u it's very hard to see a material rerating in the multiple the multiple going materially higher from here. But fundamentals look great for the company and this this big broad pitch they can make of we've got the leading AI model. We've got the broadest way to monetize that of any company in the world. Oh yeah, and we've got the lowest cost infrastructure because we're vertically integrated up and down the tech stack. That's a very powerful pitch. And so I think this stock is now a high quality compounder. It can largely hold the multiple although watch for some negative catalyst coming from GPT in the next 12 months but it can largely hold the multiple and the stock can go higher from here. I think there are better candidates from here, more dislocated opportunities, but you know, all the credit goes to Google and I think the stock can still compound. I think you can still hold it.
>> Yeah, I have made the point many times the narrative has shifted so dramatically around this name as you point out in a relatively short amount of time when it was all about my god their monopoly in search is going to go away and then to your point of course the upcoming DOJ at the time but then the remedy from judge ma was virtually nothing. All right, that's not a question but this is which is you just mentioned chat GPT. I mean, this race is not over yet, and there is a view in some ways that it might be winner take all. How do you see it?
>> Oh, I It's not winner take all. You're going to have a couple of uh large winners, and uh No, we I mean, I want to make sure we don't lose. We haven't heard from Chat TPT in a while, but we will. Uh we're going to get that billion BAU announcement or billion wow announcement, weekly average user announcement. I think that probably comes in the next two to three months. And then I think it's almost inevitable that Chat GPT, OpenAI are going to launch an ad model next year that they may not call search, but it's going to look like, feel like, smell like search. Uh, and it's going to be a paid lead gener lead generation model that won't impact Google's revenue anytime soon. But, you know, that will give them a run for the money in the next, you know, call it two, three, four years. So, those that, you know, do we happen to chat GPT is still out there. Let's not forget that. And in the meantime though, I I think what's wonderful about Google right here and now are the fundamentals. I think you're going to have accelerating search revenue growth, accelerating YouTube growth. Google cloud growth is going to stay solidly in the mid30s. And then Whimo, we've had this dramatic acceleration in in Whimo rollouts to to different cities and they by far own the robo taxi market. Hats off, credit to them. So I just think the fundamental setup on Google is super strong now and the valuation, you know, largely reflects that. So I it's it's still a buy for me. I'm sorry. It's a it's not just a hold. It's a buy for me because I think it's a high quality compounder kind of in a way I thought Meta was. Uh but now I think that the riskreward between those two stocks probably shifts a little bit and makes me think a little bit more about Meta here. it's more maybe more attractive than Google
>> on just on valuation because the the the knock of course on meta is maybe I guess historically been about capex worries but now it's lack of enterprise uh I just wonder to what degree and how how enthusiastic can you get about meta here
>> well you have to believe in a product cycle and uh you have to believe that there's going to be a super product coming out of all these investments in super intelligence my guess is that there will be we're going to see a tool an app a platform form that comes out of uh becomes out of meta and I you know the market now if we just swing back and forth the sentiment does on these names um you know the market's skeptical by the way Meta released an image generation model a week ago and no one cared. So, it's like I think for Meta in particular, he's right, there's going to need to be that that consumerf facing use case because at the end of the day, they're a consumer company um that billions of people will use and it's not an LLM like that's Gemini, that's GPT, that's Claw, that's Grock, it's not really Llama. So, what is it? I think that's what the street is. And if if if Zux comes out with something that is very obvious to be a winner in the age of AI and billions of people will use it one day, I think the street's going to be really happy. But right now, the street's just wondering what is that product? that uh that Meta can be an an AI winner. But you know, this company has actually got some pretty good proof points over the last two to three years. They've proven they have factually proven that they can deploy AI to improve their platform for both users. That's shown up in rising engagement and for advertisers. That's shown up in the fastest ad revenue growth rate across the industry at scale of anybody. So, they've proven that they can deploy AI and the market seems skeptical that they can kind of repeat the trick. And my my guess is that though we're going to get some sort of product announcement. I don't know exactly what that is. Uh but you know my guess is that we're going to get that in the next six to 12 months and you're going to get a rerating in meta stock from you know kind of like 20ish today back up to kind of 25. Both of these companies are companies that are going to give you you know mid- teens maybe high teens revenue growth margin expansion and a lot of share buybacks. That's a 20 to 25% earnings compounder. both of these names and those stocks that that warrants a mid20s PE maybe a 30 PE. Uh so I you know if you get a dislocation opportunity in one of the names like I think you're getting in Meta now you can kind of weigh in a little bit more. I have a slight preference for Meta over Google right here. But is is it enough that that clearly they're monetizing a a lot of what they're doing in terms of AI and advertising, but is that enough given just how much they're spending what more than hundred billion dollars this year building out a hyperscaler?
>> You're you're asking the right question, Sarah, because uh you know the advantage that Google has is they've got so many different ways to monetize AI directly through cloud. They're embedding Gemini 3 into all of their apps and features. They're making them better. uh Google um uh um Google's enterprise offerings workspace uh not just cloud but then also their core search business and you don't have as many monetization shots on goal with meta you just don't but you know we're going to see I I the asset um uh uh meta AI and whether they could turn that through a a better LLM whether they could turn that into a much more effective uh asset a digital AI system that's what all these companies are chasing if they can do I think they probably can do it that the odds I think are better than what the market fears.
>> All right, so let's ask the question right here in the chat. Which one do you think outperforms next year from these prices? Google or Meta? I'm pretty sure most people will say meta, but it is an interesting question because like what if there's not a lot of AI monetization opportunities next year and the street still just feels that it doesn't deserve a a massive premium. Tesla right there 419 that going green. S&P 678. Dualingo one of the best days it's had in a month up 7%. Meta still red and then Nvidia at 180. But then again, Google has had a crazy run. So valuation wise obviously Meta might be more in tune. Wow, it's closer than I thought. 5545 for Meta. That would be like 8020. He's right though. Google has a lot of I think that's the one thing that a lot of the bears missed on Google. It's like they have a ton of ways to monetize AI. cloud obviously being one of the most important ones but because they own the consumer YouTube uh AMD getting a pump right here as well 3% search obviously AI mode Gemini then you have their bets with Whimo now the TPUs could become a business for them and so you know you're seeing that type of opportunity right there which is very exciting for Google for Meta I think it's a little bit more confusing outside of advertising and again I I'd be curious to see like what and and again this is where meta like Google had all these lines of businesses and they eventually like figured out how to monetize Meta. I mean unless there's a line of business I'm not aware of it's it's reality labs glasses and then ads and WhatsApp is and Instagram Facebook are included in that glasses are a dud for now. Reality Labs is losing money so it's just ads. So they would have to potentially create a new line of business which is not impossible. I wouldn't bet against Zucks to do it, but what is that source of ROI that Z has paid billions of dollars for all these researchers to to come up with? I mean, realistically, I would love to know in the chat like what what else do you think Meta can do to make money because right now 95% of their revenues are from advertising and like it I am I that's it's something as a meta shareholder even I am asking myself that question like where do they get another AI opportunity? Now again I will say this they don't need another thing for the stock to be worth more than it is today. If they're a onetrick pony, that one trick pony can take them to a three, three and a half trillion dollar company because the business is so good, but they're also spending a lot of capex and the market's just like, "Hey, like do you need to spend all of this and keep wasting this capex if you don't need to spend on that many GPUs because you just don't need that many GPUs for advertising? Like what else are you guys trying to do?" And they already have dating that just fuels their advertising network. Again, monetizing WhatsApp will again be an ads business. Maybe there's some level of, you know, uh, commissions and fees they will take from WhatsApp merchants, but a lot of that is rooted in an ad. They don't have a cloud yet. I think there's a world in which they come up with even Zucks teased on the last call that if they have excess capacity for data centers they might end up building their own cloud which I think would be very bullish if I mean Zuck said that companies are coming to them asking for more products and services in the age of AI outside of just their foundation models for advertising to kind of be a full stack suite of services which what does that sound like? That sounds like AWS. That sounds like GCP. That sounds like Azure. Maybe the meta is not going to be at that scale, but if they could offer it to some extent, I mean that I think the market would really appreciate that. And then you have the metaverse, which I don't know if the metaverse is going to be that exciting for them, but right now advertising kind of is the the main argument. Threads is taken. That is correct. Thread they already are starting to advertise on threads. I think threads has 240 million DAUs, which is crazy because it's like they launched it less than two years ago and it's already at 250 million DAUs. Meta Cloud running Google TPUs, that would be hilarious. If they're using Google TPUs to run their own cloud services, that would be kind of funny. I feel like in that case they would have to buy even more Nvidia GPUs, which is the bulk case for Nvidia. But the point is I wouldn't bet against Zucks. I just think that is the question that the street now is concerned about. S&P 678 as that stays green on the day. I don't use threads, but there's a lot of copycount accounts, copycat accounts. Like if you type in my name, you'll find a ton of these bot accounts that are like just copying and pasting my tweets. You can't even doing anything about it. You can't like like there's just too many. You can't get them to like stop or anything. I'm just like whatever, dude. So, there's a bunch of people that reached out to me. They're like, "You're on threads." I'm like, "No, but there's some people that are pretending to be me on threads." I've tried using threads. It's just not my cup of tea. Like, a lot of it's more pop culture and this and like like I care about the news. I care about the markets. And so, it's definitely tailoring itself. Uh, you know, people that care about Kim Kardashian's latest relationship. Meta needs GPU for video graphics and not TPU. Yes, that is also fair, especially for what they're doing with with image generation. Uh S&P 678 is holding on. Zeta, by the way, great earnings from Zeta last week. Great earnings guidance. Stock's not been able to hold its pump, but 1825, that's up one and a half% on the day. We got Dan Ies on. Let's pull over to him. He says Nvidia is the Rocky Balboa of AI. I'm not going to make you guys mad and say what I was going to say. Um, but let's just say that I'm not exactly sure what the hell Rocky Balboa is. All right, Dan Ives, what's going on?
>> Bullish on Nvidia, writing, Nvidia is the indisputable Ra Rocky Balboa champion of the AI revolution, and that is not changing anytime soon on the chip front. pleased to say that Jan Dan joins us now. Dan, great to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Okay, I want to ask about the post because you have that post of them saying like, "Congrats Google, but we're better." They also responded to Michael Bur's take down of the depreciation thing. It kind of gives a feeling that like Nvidia cares about the fact that their share price is falling and they're trying to fight back against it. What What do you make of this sort of PR push they're doing?
>> Yes, I I view it a little differently. Look, I mean, at the end of the day, like there's one Godfather Bay and that's Jensen. I think Jensen right now it's the recognition that they're transparent. In other words, like Nvidia is not trying to hide anything. They're ultimately saying like, hey, we are out there front and center and it just comes down to demand and supply is 12 to1 for their chips. I mean, I saw that being in Asia for the last three weeks. So them congratuating Google, AMD and others that are going to be successful, it continues to be Nvidia's world and everyone else is paying rent. But the reality is is that they are not going to sit there and hide behind some PR when it comes to, you know, whether it's Bur or anyone else calling it a bubble. I mean, Jensen's going to be out there front and center because in my opinion, it continues to only be 10:30 p.m. in that AI party that goes to 4 a.m.
>> But, you know, Okay, so Rocky Balboa is the sequel to Rocky 5. Really? It took them 15 years to make the sequel? I I I genuinely did not I had no freaking idea. But this is a very large franchise, I guess, for them to come out with these many movies. But I did I did not know that it's the main character. Rocky is the main. Yeah, but that's the name of the movie, right? Rocky BBO is the name of the movie. 2006. And it says this is the sequel follow-up to Rocky 5 that came out in 1990. No, dude. That's his name. Okay. Well, I I don't know what to say. This makes me think a lot of Intel back in the day when we were all rushing out to get the 386 and then the 486 and maybe the Pentium, right? But then Apple was like, why are we giving them these margins? Let's make our own chips. and so did everyone else. And now Intel obviously needs a sort of government bailout in the form of a stake purchase. Why isn't Nvidia vulnerable to the same kind of you know vertical integration at these if Meta, if Google, if Amazon all make their own chips as they are doing.
>> It's a great point and it's a I I get the comparison. They're four years ahead in my opin of of really anyone else in the world including Huawei, right? So it comes down to like now will there be a gap narrow? We big tech's going to continue they're going to go and make their chip. You'll see that they'll vertically have that echos and and that's a great thing because the reality right now is like 12 to1 demand and supply. In other words, Nvidia doesn't have enough chips to ultimately meet demand right relative to what we see. But it speaks to my point. But the second, third, fourth derivatives of AI point out you have three to four trillion that's going to be spent in the next few years. To call this a bubble, it's wrong. Somebody stop that cover tech stocks in the late 90s. This is it's a 1996 moment, not a 1999 tech bubble moment. That continues to be our view.
>> How does that 3 to four trillion of spending get funded? Um, famously Sam Alman was asked on stage a couple of weeks ago how he's going to fund his $1.4 trillion in capex plans with only 13 billion in revenue. And he just got so angry that he declined to answer the question, right? Um I see that you know uh chat GPT has uh right now I think two uh they they have um a $20 charge right for uh um the account that I pay double because I have a work and a and a and a and a a personal account but um they're not making massive amounts of revenue. 35 million people are signed on and it could turn out to be like the fster or even maybe the myspace of AI. Where does this revenue come from?
>> Yeah. Well, see, look, today it's still enterprise. And like when we think about the enterprise, only 3% of companies have gone down the AI path. So when you look with and that's just in the US, globally, that's just actually starting with sovereigns, what we're seeing in Asia. So when I look at open AI, I view it as it's not just going to be a chat GBT. It's about what that's going to be on the enterprise consumer. The consumer applications haven't even started relative to
>> But it has to come quick, right? I mean, remember when the.com bubble burst? It took years and years to make up the revenue that we needed to pay for the fiber outlay in the beginning.
>> Yeah. And I think for OpenAI, for every dollar that they're spending in terms of the stakes that they're taking, they're just like Nvidia, they'll get 12, 15, $20 back in terms of revenue.
>> If we're though talking about who wins the enterprise race, I mean, wouldn't that be Google though? They already have relationships with 40,000 companies. And then when it comes to consumers, they know that name so much better. I mean, increasingly obviously they know about OpenAI and Sam Alman and Chachi BT, but especially with that enterprise relationship. Who's to say that Open AI wins out on that horse race?
>> Look, I think there's going to be many winners, right? I mean, from Nvidia on the chip side when you talking about Microsoft where they stand on the hypers, Oracle, and I think that stock's been, you know, way oversold here. Look, the reality is you go back earlier this year, the the New York City cab driver was bearish on Google. Now look at it because it's my view. It's not just on enterprise with with GCP with Google Cloud with what's happening on chips and with Broadcom, but also, you know, you look out, they're going to ultimately have that Apple deal. I mean, Apple is going to have to bet on Gemini as their AI partnership, which is another benefit here. So I think it just speaks to our views that you know it's not just about Nvidia and I believe Nvidia ultimately is a stock that goes much higher here 225 250 but it's about the second third fourth derivatives playing out across you know I think the world and for the first time in 30 years the US has headed China when it comes to tech. So Nvidia at the lowest in the month. Is this just like the most incredible buying opportunity that we're going to see for this company?
>> Every time this sells off, you own it because it's my view. It's 5 trillion and ultimately it's 6 trillion because look what there's only one godfather and that's Jensen. And there's one chip in the world fueling the AI revolution and that continues to be Nvidia. There will be other like anytime if there's a deepseek moment you'll have googled TPU you know there's gonna be other things that happen but nothing is gonna get what I view as really this Rocky Balboa of the AI revolution which is you know Gen 10 and video
>> you must have the most fun
>> Dan I's relatively consistent in the midst of a bubble narrative or no bubble narrative on his take on AI And he continues to call Nvidia the Rocky Balboa of AI. Dude, you guys are getting mad at me because I said it's the name of the sixth movie, but it is. When I Googled it, it says Rocky Balboa is a 2006 American sports drama film. That's why I said it's a movie. Now, I get it given the 5,000 comments that it's it's the guy's name in the movie, the protagonist, but it's still the name of the movie. That's what I got when I looked it up on Google. So for everyone mad at me about that, I don't know what to tell you. Don't know what to tell you. I found out two things. This is why I'm thankful for you guys as an audience every single day. I found out who Daniel D. Lewis is. By the way, I told Steve on the phone the other day, he was like, "No, you didn't." I was like, "Dude, I told him I didn't know." I was like, "Why would you say that?" I was like, "I was being authentic. I'm not going to lie about it." He was like, "Goodness gracious." So, I learned who Daniel D. Lewis is and I learned who this Rocky Balboa guy is. So that that's this is this is a productive week for me in terms of learning about this stuff. This is embarrassing. Okay. It it it is perceived as embarrassing, but like I genuinely don't know these people. People think I'm trolling with this stuff. If it if it's more embarrassing than it is more funny, and I think a lot of you would say it's not funny, it's embarrassing. Then why would I be trolling for the hell of trolling? Because then it's just not even funny. Like I'm genu I I've I don't like I haven't seen Rocky. I haven't seen Gangs of New York. So I don't know these guys. I have seen Inception. I have seen Interstellar. I have seen Wolf of Wall Street. I have seen The Dark Knight. And I have seen High School Musical. And I think that that that that ecosystem of of of movies that I've consumed over the past 28 years that really sharpens my ability to discuss these topics. But you know, the the other characters outside of that sphere sometimes they don't know about it. It is what it is. It is. Bro just found out he's not funny. Oh my gosh. Irwin says, "My truth is that I'm closer to Amit than the chat in the movie knowledge." Dude, I think there's a ton of you that are closer to me in movie knowledge than than the chat. And so, I know the chat gangs up on me, but there's plenty of people that probably relate. with how I think about movies. Rocky Balbo is Rocky's full name. Okay, now I understand that. I got it. Understood. Bouncer right there 165. Abberrombie still up 4% of the day. Robin Hood 124. Guys, market's holding on. We're not really seeing a massive move to the downside. We We I mean, it's 10:49, so we're past 10:30. So, you're also not getting sort of a a crazy whipsaw down. We did have a little bit of that yesterday. PMI was not the best. Market seems to not care. Nvidia still holding 180. Nvidia still holding 180 right here. Okay, don't insult me, dude. What movie was R2-D2 in? I know what freaking movie. Okay, that was like I know that was Star Wars, right? I'm not that culturally incompetent that I don't know where R2-D2 came from. See, I could have trolled right there. I could have said something stupid. The troll, but I genuinely know where R2-D2 comes from. It comes from Star Wars. Now, have I watched Star Wars? No, dude. It's Star Wars. It I It's Oh my goodness. This [ __ ] is Hold on. No, it's Star Wars. It's not Star Trek. It's freaking Star Wars. Don't troll me. It's Star Wars. I just Googled it. It's not Star Trek. What are you talking about? Then the Google has Star Wars character. No, no, seriously. Like I I'm not even playing right here. How are you guys spamming Star Trek? Look at the screen. It says Star Wars character on Google. I don't even know if you guys are trolling right now if you're serious. Because if you're actually trolling, like I I would be scared because I'm pretty sure it's Star Wars. Yeah, it's a fictional robot character in the Star Wars franch. Okay, you guys are trolling. It's not freaking Star Trek. Thank goodness. I can't I can't take two L's back to back, dude. I can't take two L's back to back. No way, dude. I really got scared. My heart dropped for a second. I was like, dude, I because then then you guys would really think I'm trolling for the hell. I'm like, I'm not. Like, I'm pretty sure it's Star Wars. Thank Thank goodness I was right about that. I had to check. Yeah, of course I had to check, bro. like 50 comments saying it's Star Trek and I've never seen Star Trek so I have no idea anything about that either. Tanner says we just locked in as a unit. That was good. Oh, Tanner did Tanner TW. Yeah, Tanner contributed. Tanner said Star Trek as well. Peak rage bait. Peak freaking Dude, Steve got rage baited the other day. Someone in his stream Steve cursed, right? He said the f word and someone in someone in his stream was like uh don't say don't don't curse and Steve went off like he didn't really go off but he was just like it's my stream I'll do whatever I want and we were talking about it the other day. He's like can you believe someone had the audacity in my stream in the chat to say that I can't curse. I'm like Steve as you get bigger and more people start to watch you're going to have people that say [ __ ] just to say [ __ ] And I was like, you can't respond to that because then you kind of look like a dick if you're like, it's my stream. I can do whatever I want. Even though you're right to say that technically, but it just it comes off as kind of cringe of like singling out that one person and being like, I'm allowed to say what I want. But it's also like it's peak ragebait because it's like, you know, it's like someone telling you you can't curse on your stream is obviously going to get a reaction out of someone, especially like Steve because Steve doesn't take any [ __ ] But the Star Trek thing is peak peak rage bait here. I had to Google it though. That's why we're bullish Google, dude. We've been been using Google AI every day for like a year just to get immediate updates on what's going on in the market. All right, what other headlines do we have? I think I mean I don't see any other crazy headlines, dude. It's relatively light. Uh, we had the PMI news, we had jobless claims. Um, we looked at some of the options market yesterday. Brad Gersonner tweeted. He said, "We own Google, Broadcom, Nvidia, Openthropic. Not smart enough to pick just one winner, but I don't think that Benoff's tweet is much signal." He also says, "Chatbt." Wow, this is some information because he's a major investor in them. Is almost at 900 million weekly users. Last number we heard was 800 million. So, you got Gersonner leaking some information right there. Eventually, they'll probably get to a billion weekly users, but you do have Gersonner that is a bit excited around the broader AI sphere. Um, Amid, are you going to buy any consumer stocks? I mean, that's a question that I would ask the chat as well. Are you guys thinking of getting into any of these consumer names? The problem with the consumer names is that I still feel there's any level of weakness next year. Like you just don't want to be in Chipotle. Granted, you know, the stock's been cut in half this year. So, is it a good riskreward? Maybe from a from a mitigated risk perspective. Is the reward going to be there next year? I don't know. $15 burritos might not be the most exciting next year. So, I'm already in one major consumer company, which is Hood. And I guess you could say Meta is the second consumer company I'm in. I mean, Amazon's a consumer company, but that cloud business is really the the majority of what the street cares about, but like actually getting into like Urban Outfitters or something. I don't know if that's the play for next year. I don't know if that Oh, if I were to pick So, I haven't done enough of a deep dive on Dutch Bros, but it is becoming more and more compelling, especially at these valuations. It's down from 70. Is it down for the year? I think Bros is still down for the year. Bros, no, it's up 5%. Okay, so hasn't moved too much. It's up 11 over the past year. It's up 35% over the past five years. I just have never tried their product. So, I need to like go to the West Coast and actually try it. I don't So, Shake Shack has some issues. I mean, I I read a report on them a couple months ago that turned out to be relatively accurate around some of the broader end problems they're having with the upper class consumer, which tends to be a bit more of a Shake Shack spender. You know, honestly, I've never invested in restaurants. I really haven't. The one rest, if you had a gun to my head, you said you have to hold a restaurant stock for the next 10 years. Honestly, dude, honestly, it would be Texas Roadhouse. And I don't know enough about the valuation. I don't know enough about the numbers. I really haven't done a deep dive on them ever, but every time I go to Texas Roadhouse, packed. Absolutely packed. It's not like you're, you know, it's not like doing the volume that a McDonald's is doing, but my goodness, this is People love this place in the US. and they, you know, they haven't really expanded that strongly across the country. Yeah, I'd pick them over Cheesecake. Now, granted, I'm just speaking off the top of my head. I don't know much about the valuations here, but I really do like Texas Roadhouse as a restaurant. I think Cheesecake is great and I think that one will do well. But I think in terms of growth opportunities, like Cheesecake is way bigger than Texas Roadhouse in terms of the number of restaurants and locations to my understanding. So, I just think there's a bigger upside to Texas Roadhouse long term. Cabba is still a bit expensive, dude. Cabba, I know it's down from last year. Last year got to like 150, right? Yeah. December 4th last year was 147. Um, I know it's down a lot, but like the average price per location at their stores is still a bit aggressive. At 150, it was like 10 million a location or something. It was kind of ridiculous. Cabba right there up 5% on the day. I still have never tried Cabba. Sweet Green is another one I was looking at earlier in the year actually. Um, this stock just decimated. I'm happy I did not end up getting into this, but um, they had a management change and that management change I looked into because that management change given the guy they were bringing in and his talk on operating margins and then I started getting some salads from the place, I was like, "All right, let me look at it." But at the end of the day, restaurant businesses are tough. They're really tough and you've got to have a a really strong moat, which at the end of the day is your brand to be able to expand. So, I think Texas Roadhouse would be my my pick. Um, Chili's is up 50%. Dude, I haven't looked at Chili in a long. The parent company is eat, right? Yeah. Isn't that up 50% for the year? Eat stock. It's up 11% for the year. It's up Yeah, it's up 50% from the lows. Yeah, I've been to Chili's a couple times in my life. Never really love Chili's, but that is another name that has done relatively well. Nvidia right there, 180. Meta is about to go green. S&P looks like she wants to get back to 680. And then Tesla goes green as well. Oh, Wing stopped. Dude, Chris was talking about Wing Stop in 2023 a lot. It's done well since then, but I never got into it. It peaked at 350 and then it sold off. Yeah, I've just not looked deeply into this one. I al I also I just I don't eat from a lot of these places. Texas Roadhouse is the one that I really do enjoy, but the other ones I I don't tend to eat at that often. Um Tesla goes red again back and forth by about 1%. Uh what's your upside target for SoFi? I I think I said this like two months ago. I feel like ever since we got into the rate cutting cycle, I think 35 end of year by SoFi is not crazy. 40 is I don't know, maybe a little up there. Noto's got to get this thing above 45 for like 60 days or something by like June, which is definitely or I think it's 90 days. So, I mean, the thing really does have to move if he's going to get paid heavily, but this thing ending above 30 if we get another rate cut by end of year is not not crazy to imagine. You know, the other stock that I've been I haven't deeply looked at, but Door Dash, I mean, the amount of Door Dash that I've seen around the city is just incredible. I know they had a crappy earnings. I know that they're having some issues with consumer demand, but that business model is quite incredible. You just have a lot of people that just order food and they don't want to go out. That's why Uber Eats has become such a great business for Uber as well. It's just so contingent on the consumer at the end of the day. That's the problem. Yes. Next, S&P inclusion is December, I think 5th. SoFi could get announced. Um, yeah, December 5th they're going to announce it. I mean, look, SoFi has a shot. I don't think it's happening December 5th. If it does happen, that'd be amazing, but I think next year they have a much better chance of getting there. What do you think about Reddit? I am actually working on a deep dive on Reddit, so this will be one of the next deep dives. Uh, I like Reddit. I don't know if I love Reddit. Multiple is still up there. Now, the growth, they're living up to the growth. So, I think they deserve the multiple. I think there's a broader AI story in Reddit that doesn't get talked about as much, but out of all the advertising stocks, they are growing the fastest. So, I I just don't know if 2026 you go like gigal long on Reddit. Like I I I think I think I think the opportunities to go long on in 2026 given the market environment we're in and given the volatility and unexpectedness of what we get into next year is not a name that is up a lot. You still have to look for an opportunity. And Reddit is up 5x from the IPO over the past year. Like Reddit has done very well, more than 58. IPOed at 30. It's at 200. So that's where Meta and Amazon that have not moved becomes very exciting. These are amazing companies and they haven't moved. So maybe there's something to to look into there. Micro Strategy, are we red on the day? Micro Strategy is indeed red. trying to go green, but it is red right here at 171. Um, okay. Let's see what else we have. It's 11:00 a.m. Do we have any headlines? No, we're not seeing anything. We are just seeing a lot of this retail trade. That's what people are talking about. these retailers coming back to life kind of challenging the homebuilder narrative, but outside of that, nothing too crazy. If we can get that 680 close on the S&P, I think that's what's going to be very, very exciting for the market. 67957, that's a 68% as that one's trying to go green. I think that's it. I think that's most of our stuff. Jason said, "If either the S&P 500 Q's can hold above pre-market highs, we will continue higher, but if they lose pre-market lows, we should expect to reverse much other progress." Okay, so basically that 677 level Jason's watching pretty heavily. S&P, she's going for 680. She's trying here. She is indeed trying at these levels. 689 is that alltime high for the S&P. Uh Gus says, "What are some stocks that people own that are a bit oversold right now? I'm starting a portfolio. I hear Meta and Microsoft are good ones. What are some other ones that are cheaper?" I mean, that's a great question for the chat. What are stocks that you think are oversold and that have Meta, Microsoft, Amazon level of quality to them in terms of the multiples they're trading at? Even with the draw down, you know, there are a lot of names that still I don't know if you would I don't know if you would easily say they're oversold, you know, because they were up so much now. Like I don't know, PayPal to me maybe gets but PayPal is not the highest of quality. But I would say that's probably oversold. Applovin now again Apploven has the SEC probe, but I would definitely 750 to 520 it got to last week. I would say Apploven's probably oversold at 580. their growth warrants a premium. It's just that SEC probe could be stopping them. Yeah, I would agree with Novo. I know Novo failed on the Alzheimer's drug this week, but I would I would also agree with that. Novo is a very high quality company. They just didn't get the right results this week. Rob, is Roblox oversold? Roblox at 94. Year to date, Roblox still up 60%. It's down from 135. So, it is down a ton, but still up a ton for the year as well. Uh, Celsius, well, Celsius is starting to recover a little bit, right? Celsius still up 52% year today, down from 60 to 40, but you could argue that's oversold. Weeble, you would have to really believe in the quality of the management to turn this thing around next year. Is it oversold? I mean, did get to $80 at one point. Now it's at nine. So, maybe from that perspective, I don't know, dude. I just I think there's a clear winner in this space. But at 4 billion, getting this thing to 8 billion shouldn't be that crazy, especially if they have any narrative turning argument going into next year. Uh, Matt said I can hop on for five. Yes, Matt, let me send you a link. Matt, I'm sending it to you on X and we'll get Mr. Matt Money onto the show. What are are people traveling today or is are you guys like leaving the state or going anywhere else? Matt, I just sent it cuz I I mean my cousin is traveling here, but I'm not doing any crazy traveling. S&P 680. Did we get it? Did we get it? Wow, we got it. See this? This is what happens when Matt's about to come on. He pumps our bags. Look at that. S&P 680. Local travel. Staying home and relaxing. Going to the dispensary. I mean, that Thanksgiving meal might taste better after that. Uh, yes. SPY is down 1% from alltime high at close. Oie, thank you for the super chat. I mean, we are relatively close to getting to those levels. Doesn't seem like a lot of people are traveling or flying. Seems like most people are just staying at home. For Bur, do you think he would have gotten these many substack subscribers if he didn't go short AI? No. Like, there's no way. the reason people are subscribing and paying, which I haven't paid the $380 or whatever to to to subscribe to him because like I don't know. I just I don't want to like I don't want to pay that much money for him to like I'm willing to listen to his argument 100%. I'm willing to read it, understand it, but like paying $400 to access like I'm like no dude like like that's a little aggressive. You think he gets 83,000 subscribers if he doesn't have something interesting to say? And what's interesting? Well, if we're living in a full-on bubble, that's pretty interesting. And if the world's most valuable company is literally calling you out in a memo to sellside analysts, that's really interesting. So, 100% I think uh the subscription growth has been based on, you know, him going short AI, but he's also making like millions of dollars. I mean, I don't know what the conversion is on those $83,000 subscribers, but it's a lot of people that would pay $380 a year. And again, if it's a lot of investors, for investors, $380 is not a lot of money, especially if they think your thoughts can save them from losing all their gains if it is a bubble. So, he definitely has a subject matter that people are are curious about. All right, folks. Let's bring on the man that uh got the S&P 500 right here to 680 all the way from his car. This is the first time we got Matty money from the car.
>> Matt, is this
>> car man?
>> Is this what it looks like?
>> It's a Ford. It's a rental Ford F-150.
>> Looks like a Lambo to me.
>> How are things? How are things, dude?
>> Good, man. How are you? I'm assuming you're traveling for uh Thanksgiving. Uh, yep. Traveling. Uh, I had to work the past couple days, so I was just hanging out in a hotel. I'm about to to drive to good old Mama Farley's. It'll be a good time.
>> Do you Do you like Texas better or you like the East Coast better?
>> Oh, man.
>> It's a good question. I think you're gonna say Texas, but your heart wants to say the East Coast.
>> I think you're right on that. I think that's a good that's a good I like living in Texas, but I don't have a lot of family. have a good friend group now in Texas. Um, but I think home home will always be the Northeast.
>> Yeah,
>> I think Yeah,
>> I agree. Um, all right. So, I guess did you have anything particular or I can hit you with some questions here.
>> Just wanted to say hi, man. Happy holidays. Happy to see that you're doing so well. And, uh, man, it's uh, it's interesting. I'm I'm liking your thoughts about a lot of the the consumer-based names. I'm I'm agreeing with you a on a lot of them. A lot of them are traced a good bit, but it's it's a tough business. And so, um, a lot of it as well, like you were talking about Cava and Sweet Green, it's like they're coming down from like absorbently high cost bases already. So, it's like
>> unless unless the fundamentals show up, it doesn't make sense.
>> I agree with you. Let's start off with that. I mean, would someone asked the question, would you go long any of the consumer stocks into 2026 seeing a little bit of this retail momentum and seeing the oversold capacity on some of these names or do you say, hey, Meta is too attractive to get into Chipotle?
>> Meta is attracting some of my capital right now. I don't have that that Chris Patel money, but uh but I have been buying a little bit of Meta here and there. It's just too cheap to ignore. Um, but I've been adding to Dutch Bros a little bit. I I think it's it's it's pretty cheap if you look at the valuation. I know you haven't, so it's okay. But, uh, I've been adding to Dutch Bros since it's it's retraced back into the 50s. Um, I don't know. I don't have the the perfect answer, but yeah, Meta's been getting a lot of my capital. It's it's kind of stupid cheap where it's at today. So you don't have Chris Patel level of conviction, but is this something where you think it could be as big of like a Google or Amazon position for you one day?
>> I guess at these levels,
>> I could see it building up to that. Yeah. Um maybe it'll be tough to with starting out where it's at. It took me 3 to four years to get my Google and Amazon p positions to where they are. So, it'd be tough for Meta to just like show up. But, uh, let me think. If I had a 100 shares, I'd probably have to get to a couple hundred shares for it to match how much my uh my Amazon and Google is. So, it'd be it'd be pretty tough. it it requires some capital or trimming of other things. Uh which I've done in the past. You know, it depends on what's on the auxiliary, but on the auxiliary now, I guess Dutch Bros is really the only one that's like auxiliary if you talk about core positions. Uh but I don't know if I would want to trim Dutch Bros here.
>> Yeah. No, it's a fair point and it it definitely I think warrants more of a deep dive from myself, especially as it's down 20% of the year. uh Rock Lab at 4180. Are you buying the dip? Are you holding? Do you think this is an appropriate valuation? How are you thinking of this stock right here?
>> Well, valuation I think always depends on on on what you're holding in your time horizon um and and your risk tolerance as well. But I'm buying um I was the only time I haven't been buying Rocket Lab in the near term was when it briefly jumped up into the 70s and I was like give me a second here and I think I hit the pause button on my normal cadence buys uh on Robin Hood uh because you do that automatic buy on on Robin Hood. I think I hit the pause button for like one or two weeks and then I was like, you know what, I got to buy the company. like I I'm I'm I'm a believer that it's going to go to over hundred billion dollar market cap if not more. So I was like it might not be the best but I was like the way I look at it sometimes is I was buying shares at $3.50 $3.60 I buying some at 70. You average it out it would have been buying pretty much at like 30 bucks 35 bucks. So I was like you know what you know instead of buying it at 350 I bought something at 35 which I would have bought anyway. So, um, that's kind of the way I looked at it. So, I was like, you know what? Let me continue to buy. And I've been buying ever since. I think I bought a decent trunch. Nothing crazy. When it went down to Did I get the 38? I definitely got $42, but I don't know if I got the 38 on the dot or not. Um, but regardless, I think it's a it's a good opportunity for the people that have that long-term time horizon can handle the volatility because there's a lot of catalysts that are waiting and as those catalysts get pushed back, then so could the uh so the the volatility can increase as well as we've seen,
>> right?
>> No, I agree. And when you have an average that you have, your margin of safety is so strong that averaging up is not the craziest idea. Um, this is a chart right here from Bloomberg that everyone's looking at. Assets under management in US leverage ETFs hit a record 239 billion in Q3. It started to come down over the past couple weeks given people have been deleveraging, but those leverage 2x invidia ETFs for example have gotten some momentum. Which leads into kind of my last question for you, Matt. The state of this bull market. Um I know you've just been buying the dip and you really haven't cared too much over the past couple weeks. Do you think we're out of the woods? We're close to alltime highs. Do you think there's some hiccups left for the end of the year? How are you thinking of how this year ends out?
>> How the year ends out? I would say it's going to be flat to higher. Um I think some select names will will kind of be cooled off a little bit. Um like the Palunteers I feel like have cooled off a bit. Um not to say I'm not going to stop buying. I'm not going to stop buying. I'm going to keep buying Palunteer and and a lot of these other companies. So, I think it just gives an opportunity while they've retraced a little bit to to kind of pick some up and and maybe give an opportunity of entry for people that were saying, "Hey, I'll buy if it gets to the the 150s. I'll buy if it gets to this or that." Um, but I think overall the market is strong. I think you're just seeing people see that there might be some hiccups that need to be answered. uh like an AI space. I think a lot of people are starting to get weary of how much capital is being spent, if it's actually going to show up. Um so I think uh I think some of that needs to be kind of answered because you're seeing literally hundreds of billions of dollars across the bank 7 go into this space and I think it's it's it's all happening very quickly and I think a lot of people have been very optimistic. So with that optimism, I think the stock prices have run a bit. Um, but at the same time, these stocks aren't trading at like sky-high prices. I mean, you talked about it earlier in the stream. You have some of these companies on a on a price to earnings basis trading at close to 20. And with the multiples that they have in terms of their growth, it's it's justified. Like, uh, buying Google here is probably a little bit more scary, but buying like Amazon, Microsoft, Meta, it's like almost a no-brainer, especially if they're able to keep up the pace of growth that they have. So to me, I I believe we're going to end either flat or higher on a lot of these names going into the end of the year. And uh specifically, I think we're going to have a cut here in in about a month or so or less than a month or so. And so I think that's going to help. But I think the easy money's been made for this particular bull market in this cycle. And I think in the next 12 to 18 months, you should expect a rollover at some point.
>> You think you think crypto's topped? No, I've I've been um so Steve I I want to be very clear. I'm very particular on my words on this and and Steve told me that um you know I was like, "Hey, your crypto winter is right." It's like, "No, I don't think we're in crypto winter yet. I think we have another peak." I'm in agreement with with Tom Lee and Michael Sailor, not necessarily on their valuations that it's going to go like absurdly high. I'm still trying to understand and think through. I do think we're going to have some sort of peak between now and the next six months. Um whether or not we get to all-time highs, I'm not 100% certain on that. Um but I'm cautiously optimistic we'll have a peak uh and then we'll go into crypto winter sometime in 2Q3 Q next year. Uh but um but yeah, I'm cautiously optimistic we'll see a reversal. I think this is a good opportunity for people to see what a taste is of crypto if it goes down. I think a lot of people were under this impression that crypto never goes down, crypto winter is never going to happen again. I think this gives people a good sneak peek as to hey are you actually um you know positioned appropriately. Is that something you can handle? And uh because I think when crypto winter actually occurs it's going to be much worse than that. And so it's one of the reasons why I never got into BMR. I don't hate BMR. I think BMR is a great idea. Same thing with Micro Strategy. It's just too late in the tooth for me in terms of the crypto cycle to be buying some of those names. And I'm looking really looking forward to in the next 12 to 18 months starting to pick them up.
>> I think that's fair. I think that is very fair. And if we do have that upside momentum coming, then you know, maybe this deleveraging glitch that Tom's been talking about could also be correct.
>> Could be. Yeah.
>> All right. Good stuff, Matt Money. Uh very thankful for you as a friend. First and foremost, there is his Twitter right there in the chat. Hope you have a great Thanksgiving. And dude, you gota I know you've been teasing coming to New York for Christmas, but got to get you out here.
>> You're the man, dude. I don't know why it cut me off, but uh I'm going to hang up. Happy holidays and I will uh see you see you guys next time.
>> All right, enjoy it. Talk later.
>> All right, that was Mr. Matt Money. Hopefully he does come out in December. Oh, I was supposed to ask him if he knows who Rocky Balboa is. He could have defended me if he said no. You guys think he knows who he is? Because if he didn't, I wouldn't look as uh it wouldn't be as egregious of a thing that I said today. Of course, he knows. See, you guys are just all assuming that he knows. Let's call Steve right now. Let's ask if Steve knows. Let's see if Steve picks up. Let's see. Steve's gonna get mad. Yo, Steve, what are you doing?
>> Uh, working.
>> Are you actually working?
>> Yeah.
>> Are you like like you're legit like doing emails and [ __ ]
>> Would you like me to tell you how many emails I've already sent today?
>> No, that's okay. That's okay. You can keep sending me emails. Uh, okay. So, I'm live. I got to ask you a question.
>> Okay. I don't have the lotto numbers.
>> It's not about the lotto numbers. But you can't get mad at me when I ask you this question.
>> Oh god. Don't you love when people start with that?
>> By the way, you know the S&P is at 680.5. We're up almost 1% on the day.
>> No, I have not looked at the market at all.
>> Dude, what kind of stock market? Like, what do you like? Do you even care about the What do you mean you haven't looked at the market? It's 1120. Yeah, it's 11:20 and I've been trying to get a lot of stuff done because the office is closed in the next two days.
>> Yeah, but you didn't even take a glance at at at
>> No. Well, dude, I get when I get busy, I get it to the point where it's 4:00 and I haven't even had lunch. Sometimes other days I can go to Pis and get a chicken farm. Today's just not one of those days. But you didn't even take a glance at the pre-markets. Like
>> I will take a glance right now for you. I'm
>> just saying, dude. Like, how do you not look at the mark at least once?
>> Well, you I trust me, I wish I could. Get busy.
>> Okay, so
>> the market's doing good. Look at that.
>> Here's the question. Do you know who Rocky Balboa is?
>> Don't even Why would you do that?
>> Because Dan I today is like Nvidia's the Rocky Balboa of AI. I'm like, who the [ __ ] is Rocky Balboa? Rocky Balbo of AI. Dan Ives is amazing. I need to talk to Dan and be like, Amit has no idea about any of these references. We should just tell him he needs to go on vacation. Get him a freaking cabin in the woods somewhere with no freaking service and all he gets is a DVD player and a TV and DVDs.
>> No, but then I looked it up and I was like, "Oh, it's a movie." And the chat got even more mad. They're like, "It's the name of the guy." But I'm like, "It's a 2006 movie. That's what like No, no, no, no, no. Don't do that,
>> dude. I'm looking at Google right now. 2006, 1 hours and 42 minutes. Rocky Balboa.
>> Now, I know you're trolling me because Rocky Balboa is actually the sixth movie in the stupid series.
>> Why did they call it Rocky 6? Why did they call it Rocky Balboa?
>> Because
>> because what? How am I supposed to like know that? That it's a six sequel.
>> How do you even realize how many of these freaking things I've sent you from reals? all the training montages. That's Rocky Balbo, Sylvester Stallone from Rocky 4.
>> Again, I don't just like you don't have the time to check the markets. I don't have the time to easily click on all these reels that you send me. But I like I no one can get mad at me for saying it's a movie when I look it up and it says Rocky Balboa 2006 sport action film.
>> Man, we've had this discussion before where I've said hot tank, Rocky 3, and Rocky four are better than Rocky. How was I supposed to know the guy's last name is Balboa?
>> I guess if you've never seen the movies, you may have a point. As crazy as that is, because Rocky Balboa is just nostalgic.
>> Okay. So, thank you for saying I have a point because I know what the Rocky movie is
>> because you Yeah. No, and I can understand it from that aspect that you may actually not know who Rocky Ball is because you've never actually seen the movies. But the fact that that is even like a thought is crazy talk. It's crazy talk. That's like saying LeBron's better than freaking Jordan. It just doesn't make sense.
>> I just wanted you to say I have a point. Now the chat can at least at least understand that Steve said I have a point.
>> But but hold on. I didn't say it's a good point. I didn't say it's a good point.
>> I I don't need it to be good or bad. I just need there to be a point. The pencil has to be a little sharp. There has to be a point.
>> Like there's certainly a little bit of a tip on that pencil, but it's the smallest tip. I don't even know if he's white because the fact that you actually don't know who Rocky Balboa is is so sad. I just I don't understand. Like I really don't understand. I just don't. How have you gone through life? Like you were a teenager at some point. How did you not freaking blast the Rocky Ford music while you were lifting? Like what's going on?
>> I watched documentaries when I was little. I don't watch Rocky movies. Like I didn't
>> No, you're too busy watching [ __ ] High School Musical.
>> Well, one could argue that if you were to compare both movies, and I can't make the comparison because I haven't watched, so I'm not going to make the
>> No, no, no. I wouldn't even go down that road. Do not say that publicly what you want to say. Get it out of your head. Just get it out of your head because you'll lose half the chat.
>> I haven't I'm not going to make the comparison. I haven't watched the movie so I logically I cannot make the com. I'm just saying maybe one day
>> after I watch it.
>> I haven't watched it so I'm not going to make the comparison. I'm not going to do it.
>> My brain is hurting. Like my brain is actually hurting.
>> Okay. Well, I just wanted you to say I have a point. So that's it. Thank you for the
>> I mean
>> the analysis.
>> I just don't understand how you've never seen any of the Rocky movies.
>> Did you at least see Creed?
>> No. I know Michael B. Jordan's in it though.
>> Oh my god.
>> Right. He's in that [ __ ] Yes, he is. He's Adonis Creed.
>> Adonis Creed. Yeah. And Creed 2 came out a couple years ago.
>> And Creed 3.
>> There's a Creed 3. Okay. Well, no. I I haven't watched this.
>> Creed three,
>> but I know I know Michael, by the way, people
>> people don't
>> 2 is Rocky Ford 2.0.
>> Okay. Well, wait. West again in it. They got Sly in it.
>> No. So, hold on. His name His name His name is Apollo Creed in the movie.
>> Apollo Creed, man.
>> So, I'm really happy. I'm really happy.
>> His father was Apollo Creed.
>> Well, I'm really happy Creed 3 wasn't called Apollo Creed. It was called Creed 3. Just like Rocky Balboa should have been called Rocky 6. That would have like
>> it couldn't be called Apollo Creed because Apollo Creed died in Rocky 4,
>> so it couldn't have been called Apollo Creed.
>> Well, I'm happy they put a number next to the name of the movie. That would have saved us a lot of time today because I was like, "Guys, it's a movie." Everyone's like, "No, it's not a movie." I'm like, pretty obviously says it's a movie on Google.
>> Tech technically, it's a movie and it is a movie in the Rocky series, but it is actually the person. And after five of them, they came back and just made a movie called Rocky Balboa. Then coming back to fight,
>> by the way, you definitely just spoiled the movie.
>> Yeah, you're not gonna freaking watch it, so it doesn't matter. What are the chances of you actually watching it?
>> You don't know, dude. Thanksgiving, I might actually pull these movies up.
>> Oh, yeah, sure. Okay, I'll believe that. But listen, there's no way you're watching that the same way you're not watching Friday Night Lights or anything like that. So,
>> all right. Well, I appreciate you just letting the audience know it's okay to not know the last name of the guy. That's
>> I didn't say it's not it's it's not it's okay. It's definitely not okay. I'm just saying that it's
>> it's understandable.
>> Yeah, it's understandable. Never seen the movie,
>> but I didn't say it's okay.
>> It's not okay. Let's be very clear about that.
>> All right. Thank you, Steve. I'll see you later tonight.
>> Jesus Christ. What is it going to do with you,
>> dude? I still don't get how you haven't looked at the market all day. That's I'm like, what? It's 11:00 a.m.
>> Well, yeah, I was busy. But this is actually quite enticing now that I'm looking at it.
>> We'll talk about it tonight. We'll see if Triple V knows about Rocky. She probably does, but
>> I'm gonna make you a pretty big bet. Uh, I will make you a sizable bet. There is no way him or Derek do not know.
>> No, they probably
>> No, they probably do.
>> In fact, if I was to text Derek right now, he would think I'm [ __ ] with him that you don't know about this.
>> He probably would. He probably would.
>> He probably would.
>> All right. Well, now this week I learned about Daniel D. Lewis and Rocky Baloa. So,
>> yeah. Who cares about Daniel D Lewis? Like the fact that you didn't know about Rocky is Daniel D. Lewis. I can understand that. Who gives a [ __ ] Overrated. But Rocky, like really?
>> Well, shout out to Dan Ives. I mean, he used the analogy. It got me down the rabbit hole and now
>> Can we set Can we set up just a 30 minute interview with Ives just about movies? Forget stocks,
>> dude. Honestly, movies.
>> Honestly, he would be down for that. I think he would be down.
>> Let's do it. Let's do it.
>> He's got good taste in movies.
>> All right, I'll hit him up. hit them up. Let's do 30 minutes on movies and we'll see between me and Dan how many movies you actually had in
>> All right. By the way, the chat's not loving your DDL overrated take. But
>> well, okay, tell the chat to name me five amazing movies he's been in.
>> It's a good question. I can name five amazing movies DiCaprio's been in.
>> I mean, anybody can, but in all seriousness, like Daniel D. Lewis made me five amazing movies. Not that he did an amazing job in, but five amazing movies because you can have an okay movie that an amazing actor makes an amazing movie.
>> Yeah, that's a fair point.
>> I will go I'm going to go to his IMDb right now is now that I got freaking sidetracked.
>> All right, Steve, I got to end it anyway. We can't spend too much time on this. I got to get out of here. But I'm happy you explained to me who BBO is. Yeah, like his best freaking movies are Gangs of New York and Last of Moheagans. Like don't tell me There Will Be Blood is a great movie.
>> Oh, you're okay. I should have shut you off before you said because that's the only movie they spammed three days ago when I said that's the like
>> There will be blood.
>> There Will Be Blood. I don't know if you're getting away with that one.
>> Look at that. They're already the chat's already coming in like what what did he just say? See, honestly, you're a real friend, bro. You just took a lot of the heat off my back. And you know, this is why I love you. This is
>> like There will be blood. It was a good movie, but wasn't a great movie. Like he did I will say he did a good job in Lincoln. I will say that. I mean, but once again, like The Boxer, not a great movie. Age of Innocence, not a great movie.
>> All right. He has not been in a lot of good movies. So,
>> all right, we'll talk about it tonight. We'll see you tonight, Steve. Thank you for the education on this.
>> Yep. Later.
>> Later,
>> dude. You get Steve going about movies, he will freaking go off about movies. There you go. There's his take. It's okay for me to not know the guy's last name, and There Will Be Blood is not a great movie. uh S&P 680.65. Folks, we are really getting some momentum here. If we do the math, we are exactly 1.2% away from alltime highs on the S&P. 1.2% away. I mean, last week we were staring at 659. Today we're at 680. A lot of these names haven't fully recovered, but they're definitely not at their absolute lows. Tesla still at 419. BMR back to 30. Robin at 124. Duolingo's up 7%. PayPal's up a little bit. Nvidia holding 181. And the fact that Nvidia is still down from 197 and the S&P is 1% away from all-time highs. I mean, it really means that money has started to rotate, which is good. It's also very healthy. AMC 35. Look at that again. And Amcore multiple is very very cheap. So makes sense why this one's getting bit up. Amazon 231. This was at 219 on Monday. Coreweave was at 64. It's at 75. Cipher up 4%. Cleanspark up 5%. The retail stocks keep going with Abberrombi up 5%. New bank up 4%. Padlin here now almost 167. And if we end out like this in the next few hours, might be a decent end to this week as we get into Thanksgiving. Google Red is like, yeah, not that big of a deal because again, you just can't be that greedy on Google. Like the fact that it's holding 300 is incredible. I mean, there are people buying Google at $319 today and they are thinking that's a fair price to pay. So for all the people that paid much below that earlier in the year, you have tons of new biders coming in that are ready to buy it higher. So I think Google holding these levels is definitely nice. Rocket Mortgage, how about this one? Jason likes this one. This one's up about 2% on the day as well. And AMD is up 4%. No earnings today after the close. There was John Deere had earnings this morning. Um, that stock's down 5%. I'll see what their earnings were like, but outside of that, we have no other earnings on the day. Deer beat by 3% on EPS, beat by 8% on revenue. So, you had a double beat for for John Deere. Okay, that's what you got, folks. Uh we will get into the market close and see what we've got going on right now. S&P 500 at 680.64 up about 83% on the day. Uh if I do not see you on the market close, have a very very very happy Thanksgiving. Um and if I do see you then, uh we will do a sign off towards the end of the day. Again, this will be my last day for streaming for the week. I will not be streaming Thursday, Friday, Saturday or Sunday. So, pretty much the end of the week for me here. And Friday again, very low volume. So, it's just not going to be I think anything super meaningful. But we'll be back on Monday. And next Monday is what are we in December? Wow. Next Monday is December 1st. That's all right. So, we start off the last month of the year next week. Don't come back until you watch Rocky. Oh my gosh. You know, me and my cousin tend to watch movies. Maybe she loves uh she loves the freaking Marvel movies though, like the Iron Man, the Avengers [ __ ] So, I think every time she's here, we end up just watching one of those movies. Maybe I'll convince her to watch Rocky and we'll try to watch that. Uh, but I think that's it for us today. Again, I'll be back on the close. We'll see how this ends up playing out. But that's pretty much what we've got. And if we can keep this green, that'd be three days in a row of a 1% green move. That's three and a half%. Again, we were down 4% for the month. That's pretty much reversing a lot of the pain that we had. I know, you know, some stocks are still hit pretty bad, but the health of the bull market and for those stocks to inevitably get back to their all-time highs, you need the broader markets to do well. And the fact that we're 1% away from the alltime high is not too bad. Not Not too bad at all. So, it's going to be exciting. It'll be really exciting. Triple V is not a she. You might have misheard Steve. It is a he, but I'm pretty sure he knows a lot more about movies because uh he told me to watch Lord of War, which I actually did watch last weekend and I thought that was a really good movie, but he probably knows more about about Rocky. All right, I think that is it. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh Mr. Stiva, thank you for the $50 Canadian super chat. Deeply, deeply appreciate it. Thank you for being here and thank you for the super chat. again incredibly grateful for this community. Uh if you were to ask me what am I most thankful for, it's this the fact that we're all here every single day able to do this every morning uh and every afternoon. And you know it's it's not easy to build a community of people that like all are believing in sort of that same north star which I think for most of us is financial independence and the way that we get there is a very topsy and turvy journey in regards to you know navigating the stock market but having fun along the way making real lifelong friends being able to do the meetups which by the way I think I'm signing the contract with my new manager um next week she's coming over to Jersey and we're going to officially sign the ink and so um yeah the structure of the meetups is I think going to I no you know not guaranteeing anything but I really do think we can take the meetups to a next level next year and uh it'll be fun and that'll only reinforce kind of the community that we've created and you know we all have one life and I think one of the biggest parts of life at the end of the day something that we're all searching for is community is some sense of belonging no matter how much money you make it's not fun if you can't really enjoy the money and the the process of making that money with people you care about. So, I think we'll try to continue that in 2026. Hopefully, we continue to have a bull market and we'll keep navigating the markets every single day. It should be fun. New York should be the first meetup. It should be fun. Although, I am thinking of doing it in February instead of January because Steve made a good point last night. January 25th might be the AFC NFL Championship game. And so we were trying to do it on that Sunday. Maybe we still have to keep it on that Sunday, but maybe a week later would make more sense on the off week before the Super Bowl. So, we'll see. But I'll get you guys I'll get you guys some more updates going into the uh the new year. Probably early December, we'll have some updates. Yes, we will have a market close. So, we'll still have a market close and then that's it for today. All right, so that is it. Let's do word of the day and then we are out of here again. Thank you everybody for being here. We got to change the prompt on the word of the day because I think I gave it a prompt of like give me super intellectual words and every time I ask it gives me like like this abstract philosophical word. So we got to make a better prompt. Give me a word of the day. What's the prompt? What do we do? because we've had like seven or 10 of these like philosophical words every day. You still suck for not knowing Rocky. Give me a finance word. Give me a word of the day that is about finance but not a basic finance word. Okay, let's see. This is actually kind of cool. Hold on. This is actually not a horrible idea. We'll actually learn something every day with this. Contango. A market condition in futures trading with the futures prices is higher than the expected future spot price, usually because of storage, insurance, or carrying costs. Give him a movie he needs to watch every day. Contango. Oil futures moved into contango signaling that traders expect spot prices to fall in the coming months. I actually Yeah, shout out to Michelle. That was a great suggestion. I like this. This is like I could actually use these words every day. It's a legit a jargon word. Yeah, we can I can say this in the midst of my vernacular as I'm ranting about a topic and just bust out a contango and just sound smarter than I am. The AI trade was in contango 100%. There you go. Let me ask another question to chat. If I am live streaming to an audience and I say I don't know who Rocky Balboa is, should I be embarrassed or should the audience feel bad for making fun of me? Let's see what super intelligent says. Dude, chatbt taking the easy way out. Honestly, neither. No. No. Pick one. Don't take the easy route. Let's see if she glazes me. Let's see if she If I had to. Dude, I love AI. They're always on your side. They're always on your side. The audience should She obviously knows I'll feel better if she blames you guys. That's one thing I've noticed about these LLMs, bro. They They always want to make sure you're feeling decent. Not in a dramatic way, but in the sense that mocking someone for not knowing a 50-year-old movie character is lazy humor. It's loweffort chat behavior. Bro, she's roasting you guys. You're not expected to know every piece of pop culture ever created. Obviously, they are expected to treat the streamer like a human being. Wow. So, if one side has to be embarrassed, it should be them, not you. You missing Rocky Balboa isn't a flaw. Them acting like it's some type of moral failure is cringe. I think I'm going to upgrade to chatb. You see how it says get plus? I might have to click on get plus. That was a hell of an answer. That was a great answer. Thank you so much. That's exactly what I was thinking. Dude, she roasted the crap out of you guys. Good, because you were so right. Rocky Balboa is like a cultural boomer test. Not knowing him in 2025 isn't a moral failing. It just means you didn't grow up in the 70s. If anything, your audience should feel a sting of embarrassment for expecting everyone to have encyclopedic knowledge of their era's movie. Wow, guys. That's not me saying it. That's super That's billion hundreds of billions of dollars of GPUs were trained to get that answer. What do you want me to say? If you're bullish in video, you have to be bullish that answer because if if it did if it had a bad answer, then the Nvidia chips would be useless. That was a hell of an answer. And so if you think that is the correct answer, and if you're bullish invidia, you've got to believe that all that training was worth creating that type of a response. A moral failure. A moral failure is what she said.
>> Okay, hold on. We do have to ask Gemini. Let's see if Gemini Let's see if Gemini Hold on. Let's see. I We got to ask one more. We should Grock unhinged, too. Grock's gonna be like, "You're freaking stupid." Let's ask Gemini. Dude, if we go two for two, if we go two for two on this, let's ask Grock as well. Let me ask Grock. That was a hell of an answer. Okay, Groich, neither. I'm going to be like, "No, pick one." They're trying to get the easy route here. Okay, let's see what Let's see what Gemini does. Pick one. Don't take the easy route. Uh Grock said neither as well. Dude, all these LMs, they're saying the same [ __ ] I'm going to tell it neither one or no, you have to not take the easy route. Dude, that was an incredible answer. Mocking someone is loweffort chat. She said you guys are loweffort. She said you guys have lazy humor. She said you should be embarrassed. You're going to let AI talk to you like that? I didn't say it. AI. Wow, Gemini. The audience should feel bad. Gatekeeping is cringe. Mocking someone for what they don't know is the lowest form of conversation. They are confusing famous with mandatory. That is main character syndrome on their part. And then pop culture is not an IQ test. Okay. Can we go three for three? Can we go three for three on Thanksgiving? Grock, the audience should feel bad. Gatekeeping of 50-year-old movie references. Peak nerd snobbery. It's like mocking someone for not knowing every Marbell character or beetle song. Wow. This is why we buy Nvidia. This is why. Dude, I should Every time you guys make fun of me, we should just go to super intelligence. We should just go to super intelligence. You guys, I'm not saying it. I'm not I'm I have said nothing. You guys saw my prompt. My prompt wasn't biased. I asked a simple question. Hey, I'm live streaming. I didn't know this reference. The audience made fun of me. Who should feel bad? And I even She tried not to say you guys, but then I said, "No, if you had to pick, what would you pick?" All three of them. I'm sorry, guys. This is just the nature of AI. It's the nature of large language models. If you believe in all these hundreds of billions of dollars of capex, you got to believe in these answers. So, I love AI. I need to buy more Nvidia just because of this. I need to buy more Nvidia because of this. All right. Thank you everybody. There needs to be one more context needs to be provided. I said I'm streaming. I said the audience made fun of me. You guys definitely made fun of me. I said, "Who should feel bad?" Chat GBT said, "You guys have a loweffort behavior of lazy humor and you should be embarrassed." AI, that's why we buy AI stocks. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. Again, thankful for all you guys. I will see you guys on the market close. We'll see if we can end out this green day and um yeah, we'll keep going from there. If we can really get this 1% green. Wow. S&P 681. Goodness gracious, dude. We I mean, if we can get that 680 close today, would be very bullish to see and it would be a nice end as we get into Thanksgiving. All right, that's it for me. Thank everybody. I will see you guys on the market close later today. Bye everybody. Have a good one.