[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. Israel and Hamas have agreed to a ceasefire deal that would bring relief to Gaza after 2 years of fighting. Under the terms of the agreement, Hamas will return all of the hostages still in Gaza, and Israel will release some Palestinian prisoners and partially withdraw its troops from Gaza City. The deal was announced after days of negotiations between Israel and Hamas in Egypt and builds on a 20point peace plan for the region released by US President Donald Trump last month.
>> If Hamas rejects the deal, which is always possible, they're the only one left. Everyone else has accepted it, but uh I have a feeling that we're going to have a positive answer. But if not, as you know, baby, you'd have more full backing to do what you
>> The Israeli cabinet was meeting to approve the deal Thursday night, but negotiations about what comes next are set to continue in the coming days, and it's still unclear whether the ceasefire will lead to a lasting peace. More than 67,000 people in Gaza have been killed, 20,000 of whom are children, according to the Hamasun Health Authority. and a UN backed body declared famine in Gaza in August. Of the 250 hostages Hamas took in its October 7th attack, 48 were still being held and 20 are believed to be alive. For the average person, it is a day of cautious optimism about what the future may hold. Relief that this devastating two-year war may be coming to an end, but also I would say a day of solemnness because there has been so much destruction inflicted in the last couple of years.
>> Jamanna Bureti is Bloomberg TV's Middle East correspondent. So many people have died. You're talking about 90% of the strip being uninhabitable at this point. So there are still lots of questions about what happens in the day after. And ultimately the bigger question for all of this is about whether these two potentially future states can actually coexist and live side by side. I'm Sarah Holder and this is the big take from Bloomberg News. Today on the show I sit down with Jumanna Bureti along with Ferris Algul who grew up in Gaza and covers the territory from Canada today and Galite Alstein who covers Israel's government from Tel Aviv to discuss how this deal between Israel and Hamas was brokered, what makes it different from past agreements, and whether it could set the stage for a permanent ceasefire. [Music] Jima Berseti Ferz Al Ghoul Galit Alstein thank you for being here we're talking on Thursday afternoon in New York Thursday night in Israel and Gaza Jima walk us through the highlevel terms of this agreement
>> President Trump put up a post on Truth Social in the middle of the night around 2 a.m. local saying that both Israel and Hamas had agreed to phase one of the peace deal and on the back of that that would secure the release of the hostages. 48 of them in total, 20 of them thought to still be alive in exchange for about 2,000 Palestinian prisoners and detaininees. Now, alongside that, Israel, per phase one of the agreement, would agree to withdraw to a pre-agreed line known as the yellow line per the peace plan that would still keep Israel in control of around 53% of the Gaza Strip. Alongside that, it would also facilitate the passage of humanitarian aid, much needed within the Gaza Strip. So, a huge step from a diplomatic standpoint, but again, still just phase one of this 20point plan. And at this point, there was no reference about some of the longerterm questions that still are outstanding visav governance, full Hamas disarmament, the extent of IDF withdrawal. The first phase of the plan aligns with Trump's vision by securing the release of the Israeli hostages who are alive. Hamas in the past had refused to discuss this possibility or option of releasing all the living Israeli hostages. But this time it is different. This time Trump's plans enjoy backing and support from the world including the Arab and Muslim countries. particularly including Qatar and Turkey. Those are the two countries that have a good relationship with Hamas and where Hamas leaders usually stay. This was one of the reasons why Hamas came to agree on this. And let's not forget the timing and the situation in which the plan was presented. It comes as Israel went ahead in its plan to take over the Gaza city which is the main stronghold of Hamas. After 2 years of war, Hamas has been losing on a daily basis in terms of manpower and weapons. So, it was being weakened. Also, let's not forget that Hamas in the south of Gaza Strip where most of the displaced people are staying there. Hamas had faced increasing challenge from militias and armed groups that are backed by Israel as well as clans. For the past two weeks, Hamas had been fighting with some clans in the south of Gaza Strip and this adds more pressure into Hamas
>> and Gal. You know, there have been other ceasefires brokered and broken over the course of this war. Are there signs that this agreement and this ceasefire is different?
>> Um, yes. I would say that that there are. First and foremost, in this case, Israel is getting all the hostages back, both the living and dead hostages, and that's a very big deal, and that wasn't made possible until this deal came through. I think that also there's never been an agreement to a comprehensive deal that we still need to see um if can be realized fully. And at the same time, there's always been talk of partial deals, temporary ceasefires, and this time, what's different is the fact that all the hostages are coming back right away, and the fact that there is a sort of horizon, even if it's not 100% clear on what the next steps are supposed to be.
>> Galit, at this point in the war on Gaza, Israel has become increasingly isolated on the global stage. Its economy has been damaged. What kinds of pressures has Israel been under to end this war? And what does this agreement say about Israel's position?
>> So, this is um Israel's longest and most expensive war in its history. The costs have many faces. I mean, one very major factor in the costs of this war has been the extensive use of reserve forces. Um so so this has been a very big um burden on government finances and to afford this usage of reserve forces and also other military expenditure. Israel has had to um raise a lot of debt over the last two years. Last year we saw a record-breaking borrowing spree that the Israeli government went on. Now, while Israel still has pretty good access to international markets and has very deep pocketed local um market, the costs are pretty high as this adds up, not just now, but obviously also moving forward. Another thing that's been impacted, and this is all obviously connected, is um Israel's growth rate. So, Israel has been slumping in its growth rate for the last two years, and this year doesn't look very promising either at this stage. So there's we're seeing a sort of contraction of the economy. Um we're seeing a drop in GDP per capita. I will also say that in terms of the Israeli population in comparison to what they were used to before the war, it's been a big change. Um there were many new taxes that were imposed. There were many cutbacks on social services on civilian expenditure by the government. So everyone is feeling a difference in their standard of living now versus what they were used to before the war.
>> How much is this an economic question versus one of international pressure to stop this war?
>> So I think um the international pressure and the economic pressure are in a way connected. The Europeans were threatening to sanction Israel economically and that was a pretty serious threat if it were to be carried out. And I can also tell you that in terms of local businesses who rely on exports to Europe and elsewhere there there was very much a growing concern that even if countries or governments haven't yet sanctioned Israel in Europe for example then private companies were reluctant or were starting to be reluctant to do business with Israel. So to that end I would say that it was more about you know international pressure and Trump putting all his weight behind this proposal but it wasn't disconnected from economic pressures mainly from Europe.
>> We talk about you know war fatigue about the economic pressures about the pressures coming through from the international community with so many nations around the world just a couple of weeks ago pushing for Palestinian statethood. But I would also add one more thing which is the last time the ceasefire elapsed in March of this year, the situation politically in the region for Israel was different. And since then what you have seen is a war with Iran that has diminished the capabilities of the Iranian regime. Probably not administered the fatal knockout that President Trump has said it has. But ultimately what you have seen is a a severe diminishment of what their military capabilities uh can offer. You've also seen a similar kind of dismantling of Hezbollah as an entity in Lebanon and uh the installation of a Lebanese government that's more pro- West and more pro- US. And of course, you've seen the deterioration of Hamas and their own capabilities in addition to a lot of pressure from the US administration to control the Houthis. And so, if you think about it from a regional perspective, Israel has managed to inflict quite heavy blows on some of their regional adversaries as well.
>> Coming up, as negotiations continue, what it would take to broker lasting peace. [Music] Thursday's ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas follows 2 years of war in Gaza. Past attempts to broker peace and pause fighting have failed to hold long term. But international pressure combined with the mounting humanitarian and economic toll of the war have brought Israel and Hamas to a point where they could agree to the first steps of a more comprehensive agreement. I asked Jumanna Bersi who covers the Middle East for Bloomberg about the key turning points that led to these negotiations. I think what's become apparent from this process and this isn't a surprise to anyone but President Trump is transactional by nature and earlier on on Bloomberg television uh one of our colleagues was speaking to the deputy foreign minister and was asked about President Trump's role in the process and was given a lot of credit for it and she actually said he is focused on the endgame he's less focused on the means of getting there i.e. he is transactional. He wanted to get to this end result. I think what became apparent from all of this is also the state of the relationship that President Trump enjoys with some of his Arab Gulf allies as well. If you look back at the last couple of weeks, things really started to increase the momentum. There was a lot of a drive and focus out of the US administration after the DHA attack that took place. Um this was an attack that Israel ministers they were targeting Hamas officials on Dha but also unprecedented in nature. Uh and at the time Qatar was iate about the infringement of its sovereignty and reportedly at the time as well President Trump was also very angry that Israel had gone this far and taken this step. The perception from the administration was that perhaps in this case Israel had overreached. And so what you've seen since then is a massive diplomatic effort out of Qatar and other Arab states in the region to get in Trump's ear. I think one big difference this time around is you do have a lot of buyin from these key Arab states, from the key mediators, from the likes of Qatar. They've thrown their weight and their support behind this plan and they helped put the plan together the week of the UN General Assembly. Well, one key point in Trump's plan is that Hamas hands over control and administration of the Gaza Strip to another entity. Ferris, do you get the sense that they are willing to do that?
>> Hamas said they are looking for intraparestinian talks or dialogue to be held in Cairo to discuss the future of Gaza. In the past and currently, Hamas has always said that they are ready to relinquish power. But one of their analysts said that while Hamas will not be directly in the government, it cannot leave the entire Palestinian scene or arena. And the sticking point is the issue of Hamas weapons, the disarming and uh the departure of its of some of its leaders or or officials or members from the Gaza Strip. But I think talking about this issue will be less intense or easier when there is no fighting for the Palestinian people and for Hamas. The most important thing is that the daily bloodshed or or and fighting and attacks stop. I talked to people after the ceasefire. Many of them say regardless the terms and conditions, the most important thing we want to see is that the war stops, the attacks stops, the aid gets in, and we can return to what is left of our houses. Many Palestinians have been upset and angry at Hamas and this sentiment has increased during the war. I spoke to some of them who were agreeing that Hamasia needs to depart and needs to step down having been controlling Gaza for more than 18 years since 2007. Hamas itself says we are giving up control, giving up ruling. But the question is to what extent Hamas is ready to give up. Are they just going to stay out of whatever body that will run the day-to-day affairs in Gaza and control from behind the scene or will they act as a shadow government? So I think uh the all of these issues need to be tackled in the upcoming rounds of talks and those talks will not be easy. Uh the chances of their success is less than the chances of their failure.
>> And Kal, I want to go back to something you said earlier that this agreement is different because it's comprehensive. It's not partial. It's not temporary. It is a comprehensive ceasefire agreement. What signs are you seeing from the Israeli government about whether the ceasefire will hold? I think that the general thinking and the general sense is that given how invested both US President Trump is in this plan as well as regional players, I think that that first and foremost gives a sense that this time Israel will not be at liberty so to speak to decide solely on its own that for example it wants to go back to fighting. it will kind of need to be more coordinated with the US. And while in the past the US has backed um Israel um asking to finish the job in Gaza to defeat Kamas as they called it, that could turn out to be more complicated this time around. At the same time, I would say that things are a bit vague on on what happens next. And you know, Israeli officials have said both on and off the record that um if Hamas refuses to disarm, Israel could see itself going back to fighting. So one, I think of the main things to look out for moving forward in the negotiations is this issue of Hamas disarming. And there will be a discussion because that's not very clear in Trump's plan. And maybe it shouldn't be because it was more of a general outline, but what weapons exactly constitute that disarmament?
>> And Gallet, you mentioned that the timeline of negotiations and the details are still being worked out. But Jimo, what do we know about what sorts of negotiations will be unfolding in the coming days and over the weekend?
>> Well, in the short term, the immediate focus is on implementing the ceasefire. Once the ceasefire has been agreed to, then per the terms of phase one, Israel would withdraw to this pre-agreed line that would leave it still controlling just over 50% of Gaza Strip. Once that happens, then Hamas would be given 72 hours to return the living hostages. The deceased hostages, the timeline is slightly longer. And so, you would think also there will begin uh a series of operations to retrieve the bodies of those deceased. So that is what's going to happen in the short term. Right after that, there are going to be lots of discussions about the flow of humanitarian aid. It's also been a very thorny topic. Who will be administering it? Where exactly the aid is going to be coming from? How many lorries will be put in or or allowed into the Gaza Strip on a day-to-day basis. So these are technical details but extremely important details as well because the population of Gaza has been suffering from a famine and severe malnutrition for several months now. Well for us we've talked before about this long path to rebuilding that Gaza has ahead of it if this ceasefire holds. You know international experts have said parts of Gaza are experiencing famine. Children are going hungry. The UN estimates that nearly 2 million residents of Gaza have been displaced. What does the ceasefire mean in the short term for the people of Gaza? And what are the first priorities for aid once the fighting stops?
>> The issue of reconstruction of Gaza is still far because it is complicated. I think if Hamas is to stay in power, the reconstruction will be out of reach. In the short term, the Palestinians in Gaza need urgent uh remedial and intervention programs to mitigate the crisis resulted from the destruction of clinics, primary care centers, schools, the infrastructure, the sewage networks, uh the water pipelines and all these issues to ensure there will be no spread of disease. is for example because of the situation
>> and then of course finally you have the question of who is going to be governing Gaza. Fattis was just talking about the fact that Hamas want to be involved in discussions around the future even though they have said that they are willing to uh give up or relinquish their actual role in government. But at this point there is no viable alternative. And in the peace plan, they've talked about setting up this committee of eight political Palestinians. What does that look like in practice? So, still a lot of negotiations have to take place over the next coming weeks and months. This is the Big Take from Bloomberg News. I'm Sarah Holder. To get more from the Big Take and unlimited access to all of Bloomberg.com, subscribe today at bloomberg.com/mpodcast offer. If you like this episode, make sure to follow and review the Big Take wherever you listen to podcasts. It helps people find the show. Thanks for listening. We'll be back tomorrow. [Music]