Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. Gold is hitting new highs as global tensions and trade wars show no signs of abadating. What a momentum trade for the yellow metal. Gold has now risen over 20% since the dovish shift from the Fed back in Jackson Hole back in August, crossing 4,000 for the first time ever. And as the price booms, African nations are doing their best to cash in. Cumulatively from January, exports from the smallcale sector reached 51.5 tons, which is valued at approximately 5 billion US. On today's next Africa podcast, we'll look at how goldri countries can capitalize on the price rises and how big the windfall could really be. I'm Jennifer Zabasa and this is the Next Africa podcast bringing you one story each week from the continent driving the future of global growth with the context only Bloomberg can provide. Bloomberg's Africa Mining and Metals correspondent William Clauss and our precious metals reporter Jack Ryan are both with me this week. Thank you both so much for joining us. Jack, let's just start with you. Last time we were talking about gold on this podcast, the the price was creeping up to 3,000. Many people have their predictions for the end of 2025, but now we're seeing the metal around 4,000. What's what's some of the factors behind the rising price? Recently, there's been kind of like this long laundry list of things that have been driving gold higher. So we had obviously the resumption of rate cuts and that's good for gold because gold obviously doesn't pay interest. So when interest rates become lower then it becomes more appealing relative to cash. So that's something that the market has priced in and it's priced in further rate cuts. And then beyond that we've had things like the attacks or the perceived attacks on the independence of the Federal Reserve. And that I think is something that really got the attention of people who are invested in gold because then you get the potential for a kind of goldilock situation where you have low rates if you have a kind of Fed and potentially hotter inflation. Gold also is seen as a bit of an inflation hedge. So kind of a heads I win tails you lose scenario for gold. swirling beyond that. I think probably most people would agree more geopolitical tension in the world than there has been maybe five 10 years ago and all of that stands to benefit gold. Goldilocks, no pun intended. Exactly. William, jump in here. When we take a look at some of the big gold producers on the continent, have we seen them all benefit from this current wave of enthusiasm? So when we talk about African countries which do produce significant volumes of gold, we're talking about quite a few of them. The likes of Ghana, Mali, South Africa, Bikina, Faso, Sudan, Guiney's, Zimbabwe, and the DRC. And that that's not all of them. And between those countries, you've got a sort of differing mix of types of gold production. So on the one hand you've got the sort of big industrial commercial formal operations owned by well-known multinational miners like Barrack or Anglo Gold or Goldfields and on the other hand you've got this production which is done by hand and rudimentary tools and one of the big problems for African governments not just now but for for a long time has been this second kind of gold mining which is often unauthorized and illegal which results in most of the gold being smuggled out of the countries and therefore doesn't benefit their treasuries at all. So the the easiest way, the most obvious way in which African countries are benefiting right now is the countries that have more of these big industrial operations, places like Ghana, Tanzania, Mali, and you know, they're making loads of money, loads more money than before, just because the royalties they're receiving, in other words, a percentage of every ounce of gold produced and exported have shot up so much, even if overall output hasn't changed a great deal. And it isn't surprising, I guess, or it would be surprising if it wasn't like this, that some countries, I can think of Ghana and Ivory Coast to name just two, have been trying to capitalize even more on the gold price by changing the rates so that the state receives a bigger chunk of the multinational companies turnover from their countries. Have they been successful in doing that? Well, it's always a bit of a fight because if you introduce new laws, it's quite hard to implement changes to the rates companies pay overnight because often companies will argue that they have clauses that mean they're exempt from new legislation for a period of time, maybe 5 years, maybe 10 years. So, it's it's really really difficult to do quickly. And the sort of most obvious example of this has been in Mali where the military government there has got into the most almighty fights with its biggest investor. Yeah. And those contracts date back years, decades. Uh William, you've spent quite a lot of time in the DRC. Let's dig into what we're seeing from the country in particular and their plans to increase extraction. Why does that stand out to you? Well, Congo is it's a bit odd in that there's tons and tons of gold there, but it's only got a single industrial mine. It's called Gibbali, and it's co-owned by Barrack and Anglo Gold. It's it's absolutely massive. It's very impressive, but there's only one in a country that should probably have quite a few more geologically speaking. And what's more, the government thinks or says it thinks that it loses out on about 60 tons of gold smuggled out of the country every year. Now that's that's worth more than 7 billion at the moment. It's a poor country and the government would very dearly love to take its slice of royalties and taxes from those volumes. So in short, they haven't really been able to do a great deal to increase legal formal production because mines take a long time to build. But there's a new mines minister in town and what he's trying to do and what he said he's doing is that he's really focusing on deals with gold miners both major multinational players and smaller exploration firms in an effort to develop more operations like Cabali where it's easier to capture the value from that kind of production. And William, what about in Ghana? What are you watching for? What are some of the projects there? So Ghana is doing something interesting. It's got plenty of these big industrial operations run by international mining firms, but it's also got loads of this smallcale activity which is known as artisal mining. And there's a new government in Ghana which has been all over that and trying to organize it better and close the leaks and benefit more from that industry than before. And basically they've got this state-owned body called the Ghana Gold Board that's been set up to purchase and sell this kind of production and it's in an effort to curb smuggling and boost the local currency. Nigeria's tried to do something similar for years to let the central bank buy all the gold and boost its reserves like that, but I don't think that's been as effective as in Ghana. I don't think Ghana's released the latest data for the third quarter yet, but their gold board bought I think it was5 billion dollars worth of gold in the first six months and it says it wants to buy more at least three tons a week in the future and is aiming for sales revenue up around sort of 12 billion a year. Let's take a quick break, William and Jack, and when we come back, we'll unpack more about this boom and potentially how long it will last and whether or not some countries are actually taking a bit of a risk betting on the long-term high of the precious metal. We'll be right back. Welcome back. Today, we're talking about gold's continued boom and the countries across the continent looking to cash in. William Clauss and Jack Ryan are still with me. Jack, before the break, we talked about some of the people on the countries looking to cash in on this price increase. How sustainable is the price of gold right now, though? There's a number of analysts that have their own projections for the end of 2025, but could people start investing in more extraction only to see the price start to fall? I know that's a difficult question to put to you. I think anytime someone looks at a price chart and they see a straight line going up for 2 years, it probably should make them, you know, nervous and maybe gold is a less appealing investment now than it was 2 years ago given it's more than twice the price. I think in terms of the miners probably many of them will be hesitant to you know ramp up their capbacks invest rather than returning cash to shareholders because I think the philosophy now that a lot of the kind of investors share is that that's really what miners should be focused on disciplined about spending and handling cash over. Most of the gold miners now are make or nearly all of them are making bonanza levels of profit. you know, maybe cost them $1,200 to $1,600 to dig an ounce of gold out of the ground and now they're going to get $4,000 for it. So, they're really making an incredible amount of money and there's there and there's an incredible margin there where gold could fall by $1,000 and they'd still be making lots of money. The unusual thing about gold is that supply the demand dynamics are are not really so relevant when you're trying to analyze, you know, where the price will go, which is unlike, I think, pretty much every other commodity that I can think of. And that I think makes it harder to analyze cuz really it's it's a metal where the price is all about sentiment. I think it will be stronger supported if we don't see an end to some of the trends that we've seen over the last few years in terms of maybe the multilateral system and kind of trading relationships and just positive relationships between nation states generally. If they don't continue to deteriorate or if they begin to recover then gold might suffer from that. But other than that, most of the tailwinds are still blowing in its at its back. William, let's just talk about some of the other risks for some of these gold producers. Many of the countries with the gold reserves are, you know, relatively unstable, as we were mentioning, controlled by military. Honta is dealing with illegal miners. Do you think that affects the appetite for investors in some of the projects across the continent? I'd say so. Yeah. But it's I mean it's hard to calculate how many more mines there would be in places like Mali or how much more investment if the government was different or the security situation was better. But what I would say is that there are still a few companies which want to build gold mines in Mali and are raising money to do it even after Barrack Mining got deep into its problems and ended up losing its mine at least on a temporary basis and executives at another company were detained and effectively held hostage while Marley negotiated with that company. You know, perhaps this company I'm thinking of, it's called Dubani Resources, is very, very, very brave. Or maybe Barrett just played its hand very poorly, but you know, there is still interest. But if you you look at the geology and gold deposits in some of these riskier countries, there should be more industrial mines there and there would be more appetite at this time in this market if say northeastern Congo and Sudan were safer or Bikina Faso had a different government. If we do see the price continue to rise, does that affect what you are paying attention to with some of these projects or will they continue to invest and push forward as you were just mentioning regardless of the price swings? No, I don't think they'll push forward regardless because there are other places you can do this. So I think you know there's always going to be a bit of Congo risk associated with building a new industrial gold mines in Congo. It's it's you know you see this with other commodities when prices are skyhigh too whether these reputations for being a risky jurisdictions are deserved or not and a lot of these African governments would say they're unfairly treated in the way they're seen by Western investors in particular. It definitely does act as a drag on investment that probably would go in if the consideration was based exclusively on on geology and deposits. William Claus and Jack Ryan, thank you both so much for joining us this week and for your reporting. You can of course read all the latest reporting on gold across Bloomberg platforms. Now, here are some of the other stories from the region we've been following this week. Nigeria is planning to raise as much as $2.3 billion in a euro bond sale in the fourth quarter, potentially joining other African issuers, taking advantage of lower borrowing costs. And Egypt is asking its liqufied natural gas suppliers to delay shipments scheduled for the rest of the year on weaker than expected demand. And you can read more of these stories across Bloomberg platforms now, including the Next African Newsletter. We'll put a link to that in the show notes. This program was produced by Adrienne Bradley and Tiwa Adabio. Don't forget to follow and review this show wherever you usually get your podcasts. But for now, I'm Jennifer Zabasanja. Thanks as always for listening.