Hello my friends. Today is March 14th and this is Markets Weekly. All right guys, so we're at war. This is the second week and no one knows how long this is going to go on for. Last week we had GDP data, big disappointment. PCE inflation a little bit hotter than many would like. But at the end of the day, like we talked about 3 weeks ago, once this war breaks out, it's going to overshadow everything. And that's what's happening right now. So today, first let's talk about how we're on the path to a pretty severe global recession and secondly, let's talk a little bit about private credit since that's in the news all the time. All right, starting with global recession. So, you know, let's break it down high level. What is a recession? Recession is basically negative growth, right? You're producing fewer goods and services this year than you did last year. And an easy way for that to happen is to just have fewer inputs, right? If you have fewer inputs, you're going to have fewer outputs. So if you look at this chart right now, you can see that the straight up Hermuz is basically shut. Before the war, you had many ships transiting. Today, very few, mostly Iranian and Chinese ships are going through. Now, what usually transits through the sh of Humus, it's what you would expect, a bunch of oil, gas, fertilizer, and as many people are noting, uh, things like helium as well, which Qar produces a lot. So now that you have the straight of Hammoose shut, a lot of fewer materials are going out to the world. So factories are fewer inputs and so there there's just going to be fewer stuff produced, right? So we're we're heading into a global recession. Now depending on how long this is going to go on and whether or not the loss in uh production capacity is permanent, uh this could become a very very severe recession. If you look at energy prices, looking at the futures curve for Brent crude, you can see that over the past few weeks, even longerdated futures are shifting higher, that's the market becoming concerned and increasingly pricing in the possibility that this oil shock could last for some time. So, why aren't ships transiting through the trade of Amamoose? As we talked about last last week, part of it was due to insurance coverage. No one wants to be going through this without uh their their cargo insured. But that looks like it's mostly been taken care of in part due to support from the Trump administration. So why aren't ships going through? Let's hear it from the Secretary of War Pete Hegsath.
>> The only thing prohibiting transit in the straits right now is Iran shooting at shipping. It is open for transit should Iran not do that.
>> So as Pete is saying, no one wants to go through because no one wants to die. So, if you're riding a a giant oil tanker, a giant natural gas carrier, well, you know, you're basically have some very combustible cargo. If you hit a mine, if you get hit by a drone, by Iranian missile, by Iranian artillery, you're going to your ship is going to blow up and you are going to die. And that that's a kind of a downer. So, you have a lot of ships that are that are just kind of stuck there uh in the Gulf, not wanting to leave, and a lot of ships not going through, not going inbound uh because no one wants to die. So the straight of Harmuz is going to be closed de facto until uh the war is over. So ultimately this is going to be a question as to just how long the war can go on. Now last week we we did have some sound from the Trump administration saying that hey maybe maybe they would like to you know climb down the war is almost over and so forth. But as we also mentioned last week he's not the one driving it. There are three people at the table. It's not all about him. So, it really does seem like the Trump administration was totally unprepared for this outcome. Last week, remember he was talking about uh taking out the leadership, the people revoling, having a big revolution, a big regime change, and and he did not even fill up the u uh the SPR heading into this. So, it really seemed like he was totally unprepared for this. And now reporting last week shows that yes, actually uh the administration dismissed this possibility. Basically, they did not plan for the closure of the street of Hamoose, which is what the Iranians have been threatening uh for for decades and decades and decades. It's basically unbelievable. And in fact, the uh the the military side, General Kaine, who by all accounts is an outstanding general, uh was actually leaking to the press aggressively ahead heading into this operation, trying to discourage the administration from doing this. But you know, at the end of the day, it's not his call to make. This is a decision by the foreign policy establishment, a political decision. And according to Trump, it's basically, you know, Jared Kushner, uh, Steve Woodoff and Pete Ted and himself calling the shots. And they ignored all the warnings from the military establishment. And they just went to the into this totally unprepared and are totally flailing. Honestly, it's so unbelievable that you actually have uh people on Twitter giving these huge uh galaxy brain 3D chess takes that this is some kind of huge global conflict with China. There's, you know, playing a grand strategy. But guys, guys, guys, at the end of the day, um who's benefiting here, right? Russia was not able to sell a lot of oil. Now, Trump is giving waiverss to India to buy Russian oil. Russia continues to pump. They're making a lot more money than they did before. Iran selling more oil today than they did before, selling it to China obviously. And it looks like um you know the US is removing military equipment from South Korea and sending it to the Middle East. You know, I'm guessing that that military equipment being sent away is beneficial to North Korea and to China. And of course, US allies in the Gulf in Korea are feeling that they are not being protected that this security guarantee that the US was offering doesn't seem to doesn't seem to be very good. So dude, this is a total disaster for US foreign policy and for the global economy. So there there is no 3D chess here. If you if you look at the history, right? So we had the Vietnam War, 60,000 US soldiers died, ultimately defeated by a bunch of people living in grass huts. We had the Iraq invasion, really, really big disasters. Trillions of dollars spent. Don't know what we got out of it. You got Afghanistan and so forth. So the inevitable conclusion is that the foreign policy establishment is really, really stupid and they got us into this war totally unprepared again. So uh any 3D chess assumptions that that's you know very obviously I think not true. So if it's not up to Trump who is it up to? So again the second player of course is Israel. Now it doesn't seem like they are giving up. Again like we mentioned before being able to have regime change or bomb Iran is Prime Minister Netanyahu's dream of 40 years and polling shows that Israeli support for the war is very strong. It's quite weak in the US but it's very strong in Israel. So it doesn't seem like they want to give up either. Now the last player of course is Iran. So Iran doesn't seem like they want to give up either. So the new Ayatollah Kamini I guess Kamini Jr. um he uh he did not make a he did not make a televised statement. Apparently there's some indications that maybe he's injured. But he did give a written statement and it's very clear, right? He wants to close the trade of Hermuz and potentially open up new fronts. And what he wants is security guarantees that the US will not attack them just again. So for the past year, again last year, Israel and the US attacked Iran. It's 12-day war. It's over and then a couple weeks ago they attacked them again. So Iran doesn't like to be attacked. They want to feel secure. They're demanding that the US relinquish its bases in the Gulf. So that's a pretty big demand. Don't know if they'll get it, but that's what they want. Um, and actually there's this kind of funny propaganda video put out that was actually featured in the Financial Times about Iran's strategy here. Let me play a little bit. And as you can see, their strategy is basically to squeeze oil prices to the moon, implode the global economy, implode the Arab states uh, who at the moment are allied with, uh, with the US uh, to try to get what they want. And honestly, this is a very powerful strategy. It's basically the same strategy that China used against the US during the US China trade war. So the US put tariffs on China. China basically stopped shipping of rare earths. And that was a severe choke point for the US. Without rare earths, you really can't produce missiles. You really can't even produce cars. So it really would have destroyed the US economy. So, at the end of the day, Trump kept looking for an off-ramp, got it, and now he's going to go uh hang out with President Xi and China uh next month. So, that was able to get uh the US to back down. And Iran is doing the same thing. They have this choke code on the global oil supply and among others. And they're they're using it. And if this continues, you know, you could see oil, you know, some people think it could go up to 200. So Rory Johnson, very good independent oil analyst, is is quite concerned about this, which is something else that's worth noting that as we move into this very politicized atmosphere, it's possible that a lot of the big banks and other big establishment research houses may not be able to give you the straight story. Remember that time where there was uh some analysts at a big bank writing about the sell America trade and he actually got talked down from from uh from I believe Secretary Besson. So we are in a period of censorship and there's going to be a lot of misinformation outside. So I think I I highly value the independent voices that that I get on on Twitter for example. Now with oil going that high you are definitely going to have huge huge problems in the global economy. In the US I think we are the largest producer of oil. Uh you know it's going to be tough for us. We are a relatively wealthy country. people will pay more at the gas pump for but for many poor countries it's going to be a catastrophe. You add on to that higher fertilizer prices that's going to cause food inflation. Uh you know you could you could even easily have severe severe civil disorder in some of the poor countries. If you look at this chart here you can see that a lot of the people who import fertilizer are these poor countries that are dependent upon Gulf sourced fertilizer. Um some people are making the comment that helium is a very important industrial input into things like semiconductors. So maybe that impacts the production of chips which of course is a very part important part of the AI trade going on. So this is definitely a huge catastrophe and if it's not resolved very soon you could even have permanent permanent supply shocks. So as we've just discussed last week, a lot of these plants as after their storage is maxed out, they have to turn off production. It takes a while to turn it back on. Same thing for refineries as well. Once refineries are not getting crude inputs, maybe they they turn off and to turn them back on. It it takes time as well. So the US's strategy right now is basically just escalation, escalation, escalation. They're just going to keep bombing and bombing and bombing. And we have news last week that the president did this huge uh huge operation of bombing. But bombing really doesn't win these wars, right? You there there's no there's no end to this. Like this is the same thing we did in Vietnam. You keep bombing, you win every engagement. Use napom, you blow everyone up. But at at the end of the day, you can't end the war that way. You have people all over along a huge coastline that can easily launch drones or whatnot to prevent shipping. they can just hit one one vessel every now and then and that'll be enough to scare everyone. So the only solution uh that I can see is honestly you can go on a full-on ground invasion and try to take it over and you there is reports that maybe the US is authorizing some Marines to go through and maybe slash a force or something like that. I think that's quite difficult. Iran is a huge country. There's 90ome million people there and this is something they've been preparing for for some time. uh you could go nuclear, try to just turn the whole thing into Gaza and maybe uh you know maybe get a Hiroshima solution. That's not, you know, not a popular way to do things, but it is a potential option. And the last I think is that, you know, maybe Iran actually does win. Maybe they could get the US to back down or maybe or maybe they eventually get a nuclear weapon. So Iran has the raw materials, but by many accounts, intelligence accounts from the US that they don't have a weapon. And part of the reason they don't have a weapon was because the the previous Ayatollah uh forbid it. And they were also afraid that if they got a weapon, then the US and Israel will start to attack them. But now things are a little bit different. They have a new Ayatollah. We don't know how he thinks about this. and also well he they're already under attack and the regime is is threatened right now so they basically have nothing to lose and for them maybe the best option is Russianly speaking to try to get a nuke as far as as found as soon as possible become like North Korea and just have that as a as a deterrent. So uh Anuka is basically ancient technology, right? The US had it in the 1940s. And think about how much technology has advanced between then and now. Like your cell phone today is faster than the fastest computers back then. So from an engineering, it's more of an engineering problem. And you know, maybe they get help from other countries, but there's it's really obvious that if they wanted one, they could get one. don't know how long it will take but you know if they had one you know maybe that's a solution whereas you would have mutually exor destruction. So as this blockade continues to go um you can see the the immediate impact is not just higher or prices but higher interest rates as well. The market is pricing in increasing inflation concerns. Now this is pretty obvious in a place like the Euro zone where you have a onemandate central bank whereas the central bank only cares about inflation as gas prices go up and the Europe of course uh was dependent upon Russian gas then became dependent upon US and Middle Eastern gas and of course in some places turned off their um nuclear reactors. They're in some big trouble right now and so this could really spike their their energy prices. market is now pricing in rate hikes from the ECB in a few months and you know maybe that that that could happen depending on how how long this energy shock happens for the Fed though it's a lot harder now the Fed uh the market is basically pricing out rate cuts they were pricing in a few cuts uh this is a lot harder call because at the one hand uh the Fed is a dual mandate central bank you got full employment and price stability so you can't just look at inflation and secondly the standard central banking operating playbook is to look at these negative supply shocks as transitory. So you look through them. So if you are operating just from the standard playbook, you this should not impact how you conduct monetary policy. The one wrinko to that of course is that we've had too many supply shocks over the past few years. There's co there's tariffs and so forth. So there comes a time where it may not be possible for them to look through this and that's going to come down to individual judgment. Um the market pricing is in part what the market thinks the economic conditions will be and partially how they think the Fed will react to it. We're at a time where the Fed is also changing themselves. We would have a new Fed chair and who knows maybe Cherp will resign so we get another Fed person on the board as well. So whatever it's pricing in right now, it's going to be wrong and it's going to be hard to have a a very good pricing on this. If I had to bet though, I think the market is way too hawkish right now. It's it's much more likely in my view that we would have a new Fed that is inclined to interpret things to be more doubbish and they have enough support to do that because of course you look through supply shocks and of course we have a very obviously weakening labor market and are very likely to be heading into a global recession. So um let's just see how this goes. It really has potential to be a disaster. I think people are looking at the stock market and thinking all is well. A lot of people, you know, have always been fading stuff like this, but you know, part of this is just support heavy into opex. And I get the sense is a little bit like uh radiation damage, right? So, the damage is already there, but you just don't feel it. Now, this oil shock, the straight of her moose closure is a really big deal. So, hopefully, let's hope that this ends soon. If not, things are going to get really bad. All right, the second thing that I want to talk about is of course private credit. Now private credit has been in the headlines over a lot. People are freaking out because well for good reason actually. So on the one hand you see the big uh private sorry private credit sponsors. Their stock prices have have declined significantly right look at country companies like Aries and you also hear all sorts of headlines about investors in private credited funds trying to withdraw. So it seems like we're having a little bit of a run on the private credit funds. So the all of this began I think in large part due to the AI stuff. So a lot of the private credit so high level private credit is basically a shadow bank. They borrow from investors and they lend to middle market companies. After the great financial crisis there was a lot of regulations that limited the lending capabilities of commercial banks. So the riskier companies were kind of squeezed out and so the private credit funds step in to fill that gap. They have less regulation, higher risk tolerances and we had a pretty benign macroeconomic conditions for some time. So private credit funds were doing very well. Some of the publicly traded ones, they're called BDC's, they were offering investors yields of over 10%. Right? So it was a pretty good business and everyone poured into it. Now it's it's a shadow bank because it's doing this bank-like activity, but it's not actually legally a bank. And also there's less likelihood for it to run. In a bank, your liabilities are mostly demand deposits. So people can go and withdraw deposits anytime they want. In private credit, uh it's more longer longer term money. It's locked up, say quarterly or so forth. So there's less of a likelihood of a run, but it's still possible. So there's a lot of reports that investors are trying to with redeem uh their their money out of the funds. It's capped at 5%. some some of the sponsors are waving that letting people draw out more. But, you know, when you want to draw out, you want if when you want to get your money out, but you can't, you're ced by these uh by these gates, you kind of panic, right? Because you're seeing that maybe AI may be disrupting a lot of the software businesses that these funds lend to and you're worried that maybe you might be have some losses. So, there is kind of a panic there. Um, I don't really worry about this because at the end of the day, the private credit world is just say 1.5 trillion or something like that. Sounds big, but it's kind of small in the financial system. And the people who are exposed, well, they're largely large institutional investors who are able to bear this loss. It doesn't really touch upon the core banking system. Now, some of the retail exposed products, they're not financed even in in debt. They're financed with equity, right? That's what publicly traded BDC's are. So, when you're funded in equity, it's it's really quite uh elastic because you don't really face these redemption problems. the losses that you suffer uh just kind of show up in lower equity prices. So that's kind of some elasticity there that absorbs absorbs it. So it does generate a lot of bad headlines and you do have some linkages between say the private credit funds and the commercial banks. Over the past few years, commercial banks have lent a lot to what's called a non-bank deposit, non-bank financial institutions. It's not just private credit funds, it's private equity funds, dealers, it's all sorts of stuff. It's even private mortgage companies. It's a whole lot of stuff. Some of it is private credit, but honestly, it's a small piece of the lending portfolio of the private banks and also uh it tends to be highly secured. So, I don't think there's going to be much contagion into the banking system and at the end of the day, this is just a small part of the US financial system. So, we're going to be okay. This week is a Fed meeting. My expectation is of obviously there's going not going to be any change. Um we're going to have descents. I think Waller will actually descent. Um, no one is very good at predicting this war. So, I I um this is what happens to interest rates. It's outside of the Fed's hands right now. All right. But I'll still be back to uh give you my thoughts. All right. Talk to you all Wednesday.