All right, everybody. Welcome back to part two of the All-In podcast, episode 263. We promised you a part two because we are very lucky that my dear friend Shvvin Pishavar was able to set up a very important historic interview for us today. None other than Prince Resa Pavi is here and we have a limited amount of time with you uh Reza. And uh may I call you Resa or should I call you Prince Resa?
>> Sorry. Thank you.
>> Uh,
>> thank you for having me on your program.
>> It It's great to have you and this is a moment I think you've been waiting 47 close to 50 years for which is we are at this moment in time looking at potentially the people of Iran being free. You left the country and when you were 17 years old to become a pilot and now you are looking to help your people with a transition post this military activity this operation essentially a war that's going on right now that we all hope gets resolved quickly. I think people would love to know what is your vision for Iran post this uh military action.
>> Well, thank you again for the opportunity. Before I get into that, I wanted to simply uh stress the importance of this intervention that to us was like a rescue mission. It was literally an a humanitarian intervention to protect more lives that would otherwise be lost under this extremely brutal and repressive regime that as you know has massacred as of late uh tens of thousands of innocent and unarmed citizens in order to equalize the playing field. This was a much needed uh intervention that a lot of Iranians asked for and fortunately it did happen. But what's the next step? Where are we headed to? The most obvious question will be once the regime collapses how do we manage the transition. I've stepped in to lead this transition with the help of many of my compatriots from various sectors. We believe that a stable transition will lead to a address the immediate needs of the country but then set the country on a path of redevelopment and reconstruction which is of course something that we were always hoping for that could not have happened under this corrupt mafiaike regime. Iran should have been had it not been for the revolution today's South Korea of the region. Instead, it has become the North Korea of the region. Why? Not because our people are not gifted or talented or capable, not because we lack uh natural resources. It's simply because of a corrupt bad management and a regime that basically took our country hostage, used it as a launching pad to export an ideology. And that's why we are here today. A different Iran, a democratic secular Iran will first and foremost bring about the opportunities to our nation. But it will open Iran for business again. Iran is one of the most untapped economic opportunities of the 21st century. And it could tremendously uh change the shape of our world in terms of what would be beneficial to the Iranian people of course but also from the vantage point of a country like the United States and billions of dollars that will be generated as a result of doing business in Iran. We figure about 1 trillion in the first 10 years to the US market but also billions of dollars that will be invested into Iran and everything that we need to have done in order to rebuild our country. These are crazy opportunities that uh we can look forward to. And it all starts with uh moving towards this recovery and transition. And when your father was in charge, it was a monarchy turned into a dictatorship. And to be clear, the hope now is to evolve into a democracy with free elections for the people. Average age of people in Iran now early 30s, 31, 32 years old. What would that look like? what is a possible timeline and you are uh have said on other programs and on your YouTube channel which I suggest everybody go search for and follow right now because you're speaking directly to the people on X and on your YouTube channel. What is what is the condition on the ground from the people you're talking to? You said you've been talking to uh people in the military, civilians and other leadership. They're ready to move on. What's the timeline and what are they telling you is happening on the ground today as we sit here?
>> Well, I think that now the playing field has been equalized, meaning that the people could finally, of course, awaiting the end of this campaign have a better opportunity to re-engage the streets and take over uh their homeland. uh of course part of the equation is how much implosion from within the regime and how much defections from the regime in the sense of joining with the people this time and not be an instrument that will halt the people's progress but instead help the people in that transition meaning uh whether people are in the military or security forces as well as the civilian bureaucracy unlike what happened after the fall of Saddam Hussein and debatification the scenario of change in Iran is totally different and let's not forget Iran is a multiple century old nation state. It's a country that is extremely unified and united for this common purpose. Under this tent, we have diverse uh groups that are joining in this national campaign. People who are on the right, the center, the left, monarchists, Republicans, ethnic groups, religious groups, every sector of society is engaged. I have had tremendous amount of support coming from inside Iran. We have the support of the uh intelligencia. We have the support of universities. We have the support of the working class. We have the support of uh the diaspora that can bring a lot to this equation. I think this is a good recipe that will allow us to manage this transition but set the country to clean up, be ready for business and create the opportunities that will finally impact first and foremost Iranians who have been starving as a result of this regime's corruption, but have a true opportunity to get back on track and improve their livelihood. And I think it's also good for those who partner with us in this process because there's a lot to be uh done that will be win-win as opposed to be lose-lose to the benefit of this corrupt regime. That has been the story of the past almost five decades. So the difference lies about this change and how crucial it is. And of course the reason we want to have a secular democracy, the final form to be determined by the people of Iran through pre-elections and a constitutional process. But most importantly is that under equality and the rule of law, all the opportunities that has been denied our nation as a result of his discrimination, as a result of uh pretty much disenfring the majority of Iranians, now it creates a true opportunity. And as I said earlier, I think Iranians are quite gifted. As much as it is attractive to uh an entrepreneurs in the outside world looking in, there are so many gifted and talented young Iranians who will have a fair chance this time, a true chance for being uh using all their creativity and genius uh to bring our country back online. This will be an excellent fantastic partnership that we're looking forward to.
>> So you've spoken about wanting to be on the ground there. What conditions and what timeline do you have for yourself? And this seems like a a pretty high-risisk thing to do. It' be pretty brave of you to uh go to the country now. What conditions have to be met for you to go to Iran to go home for the first time in 47 years? And how close do you think we are to the people taking the streets now and for starting this transition?
>> Well, to be honest with you, it's very difficult to put an exact timeline. uh factors that will expedite it is the level of separation from the regime, the level of defections, uh the strengthening of domestic organizations and structure, how can we partner with elements from within that are not joining this campaign. All of these are factors that will contribute to the rapidity of the of the transition. As far as myself being there, obviously there are security concerns to make sure that it's safe enough for me to go there. I'm no use to anyone if I'm dead. So obviously we have to keep that in mind but I would like to be able to be there as soon as possible. Uh to be able to help as much as I can in this process. Obviously being in a country is an advantage. It's hard to do things from far away. I had no choice to be living in exile because of the circumstances. But I think that the opportunity is presenting itself and um the the first opportunity that is created for me to safely return to Iran will obviously be there. Just this morning, Trump said there will be no deal in Iran until unconditional surrender uh is given by whatever is left of the government there. What do you think of that condition? Is that the right move? Do you agree with Trump's ultimatum?
>> Well, let me look at it from the domestic prison. In order for a successful transition to occur, it has ultimately to be something that is legitimate in the eyes of the Iranian people. We haven't lost so many tens of thousands of lives just to settle for a continuity of the remnants of this regime. That will not fly. People will want to have a clean break. The alternative will be for all those who align with the secular democratic alternative. And there are some four core principles that who whoever adheres to to that including people who may today peel away from the regime um would be able to agree to work together on that platform. The first and foremost issue is of course Iran's uh territorial integrity. That's an issue that is very close to the hearts of millions of Iranians representing every aspect of our diversified uh country in terms of ethnicities, religions and what have you. But we find ourselves in this united uh uh cause under one flag and under one nation. The second element that is a prerequisite to democracy is a clear separation of religion from state. That's a critical element for a democracy to occur. Equality of all citizens under the law and the rule of law obviously is a critical aspect that guarantees all of the rights we're talking about. and the democratic process itself, meaning uh the fact that people can elect their representatives to go to this constitutional assembly to debate the issues of what the next system could look like and what it laws should be ratified by the people which would bring us to the election of the first parliament of this new democracy and of course the election of the first government of such democracy at which point the transitional government hands over power to the elected uh representative of the people in the future government. That's pretty much the the the the direction that we hope to manage this transition and I'm playing a role in bringing about this transition with a very well-crafted plan that is in detail explaining particularly focusing on the first 100 days. I created an organization called IP which which is Iran prosperity project but it first focus is the first 100 days. How we immediately stabilize the situation in Iran. How can we maximize the remaining elements that will join with us to be able to survive regime change and have a place in the future? These are the first components and then we move forward with the plan. Two quick questions. Under no circumstances, would that be a monarchy? Uh I think uh is a question everybody has for you because you're the prince. This is a democracy. We don't have princes in democracies. And then number two, what do you ideally see as your role in the transition? And then would you like to have the opportunity to run for president and to lead the country out of this horrific nightmare of 47 years?
>> My focus is on the process, not the outcome. And in as a neutral arbiter, I'm not taking sides with one form versus the other. That's for the people of Iran to choose. And I think the world has seen successful models in both a republican system and a monarchic system. examples uh a republic that you have like in India or like in Israel or in France or the United States are not exactly the same but that's under the republican structure. In terms of parliamentary monarchies we have the example of Japan, Sweden, Spain, other countries. So I don't think that necessarily you can equate democracy with one outcome in particular. It could be both models that people can emulate. So at the end of the day, you know, again, uh it's not for me to choose the outcome. I'm here to be a bridge towards that outcome. That's the function of a transitional leader, not to run for office or not to have an aim for personal uh position or power or authority, but to be the element that unites the country towards a common purpose and allow the nation to decide what is their preferred system. That's what elections and free elections should be all about. and the ballot box is the only means to measure uh people's uh opinion and the majority will decide on that and that's the process that I'm in business to bring about. What do you believe the people of Iran want and in that monarchy subset there are the Gulf monarchies uh the kingdom UAE Qatar they are obviously distinctly different than a parliamentary you know system. So I assume you wouldn't want to see that. What do you think the people of Iran will vote for?
>> Well, just what you said. I mean, we a democratic system clearly uh outlines how it should be and and how it should not. Uh I mean, if you want to look at the closest monarchy to the United States, technically speaking, is Canada. And you know, if you want to look it that way, and I think Canadians are quite happy with a democracy that they enjoy. And again, we have very good models of republic. Case in point, the United States. At the end of the day, as I said, it's for the Iranian people to determine what would be in their best interest. Having looked this time, unlike what happened, by the way, 50 years ago, nobody had a clear idea what Kmeni was suggesting in terms of this as they call it or the tutilage of the supreme leader. By the time he took over and power was established, it was too late. And since then, we've been hostages to this regime. This time, in full transparency, the Iranian people ought to have a clear idea of different models presented to them. And on that basis, having understood every aspect of what it could be, then they make their choice. This is a process that should be totally transparent with enough time for debating different ideas. And again, as I said, let the democratic process unfold and let the people vote in majority. What is their final uh choice? I'm not here to determine an outcome. Again, I stress my role here is to manage this transition and create an opportunity that people have been deprived of for half a century to finally have a say as to what they would like to have for themselves in terms of sovereignty and determining their own future democratically. Final question, and I'll get into a bunch of details with you, Shervin, uh, as to the plan, which I know you're helping construct, and I'm assuming you'll help execute on. Trump says he's going to pick the next leader. Trump says a lot of things. He says them sometimes in a provocative uh, way, but he said he's not sure how you would play within your own country. There's obviously people holding up your picture. There are people who are maybe vying uh to take control of this from the previous administration. Are you in touch with President Trump and what's your relationship with him today? What's your best plea to him or your argument to him to work with you?
>> Look, uh there's nothing hidden in the agenda. Everything is transparent and I've been communicating with the administration by uh Steve Witkov who announced it publicly. That's was our channel to President Trump and of course on the other side in the legislation with members of Congress, senators and Congress people to understand a little bit from the American prism what it is that we are proposing here. I don't think that President Trump or any other leader in this world would presume that it is up to them to determine who should be the next leader in Iran. I'm sure as democracies they respect the right for people to make that choice and as western democracies it should be going without saying that they would believe that the the right to choose the future leaders is only up to the Iranian people. If the intention is to assist that process if the intent is to support the Iranian people in their democratic aspiration you provide them with the help but the choice should be theirs. That has been my position and I don't think there's a disagreement on that whether it is with President Trump or other world leaders that I've also talked to about this matter.
>> As I let you go, what should the American people know about the spirit, the culture, and the people of Iran, including the people who fled in 1979 like you and your family?
>> Well, I I know many Americans who have many Iranian friends. As a matter of fact, if you just look at the Iranian diaspora in the United States alone, you will see how much uh interaction there is between Iranians who are now Iranianameans, if you will, many of them, and the kind of relationship they have built with their American counterpart. Many people have uh connections via marriages. Many people have connections through business affiliations. Many people have worked with Iranians. Many of the high-tech companies including Silicon Valley employ so many Iranians or they are themselves entrepreneurs. This is the kind of potential and I'm sure Shervin will talk to you more about that. But this is the kind of connections there is. And for Americans that have traveled to Iran or have known Iranians all these years, they know what what what country it represents, what amount of culture, arts, um I mean civilization in a true sense Iranians represent and they've been completely suffocated under this regime. But once Iran is uh is uh you know free from its shackles uh I'm sure a lot of Americans know um what difference there is between an Iran that wants to be friends with America that is not the regime that has from its inception called death to America or death to Israel for instance
>> but there are Iranians who actually love to America. Let me just give you a last parting thought because I think every now and then I need to remind your audience and other audiences. We talked about other countries in the region. Remember 911?
>> Yes.
>> And how many people on the streets of many of the so-called allies of the United States were celebrating that attack on that sinister day. The only country in the entire world in the entire region that actually stood in candlelight vigils in sympathy to the victims of the 911 terrorist attacks were no other than the Iranian people themselves holding candle light vigils in Iran. And they've been messaging America for years now. We are not your enemies. In fact, they've been chanting slogans in Iran saying they lie to us. It's America. Our enemy is right here. This is the Iran I'm talking about. This is the people I'm talking about and I know many Americans both in the civilian sector including military forces in America know that and I think that's something that I'm sure I'm not the only one uh you know talking about this. You will hear from other Iranians who will pretty much confirm what I just said. That's why this partnership is so vital for us because together we will be able to rebuild um uh you know a different world. Iran will bring an element of stability to the region and beyond and that can only play to the interest of America itself. We need to have this vital partnership and I think we'll be able to succeed because I see everybody now is very much committed to work together towards uh bringing this agenda forward. Well, we're we're all praying for the people of Iran to have a democracy and what an amazing moment it will be uh when you get to return in whatever capacity and help this transition and 93 million people who have been suffering will be living free in a democracy and the impact that could have on the world and obviously that region would be by far the largest democracy in in uh the Middle East. uh and and this could have ramifications in terms of humanity that would be absolutely stunning and beautiful and the prosperity would be amazing. The Iranian people I met in my life uh Prince when I was living in Los Angeles, all these great Persians I would meet uh were some of the most joyful and industrious beautiful individuals I've met. They remind me of my Greek and Irish heritage, including you, Shervin. So, Prince Resin, thank you so much for your time. I know you're extremely busy. It's very important for the all-in audience to hear from you uh and to understand what's going on in your vision and we would love to have you back when you're on the ground uh with your people and that your people are free.
>> Thank you again. Looking forward to it.
>> All right, Shervin. Thank you so much for setting this up.
>> I ask for very few favors for my friends, but as a good friend, you made this happen for the all-in community. So, we I thank you for that. And uh as I as I said to to the prince, the people and and the Persians here in the United States, maybe you could tell us a little bit about your story and and what this means to you and then we can get into your involvement here and what you hope to see in those first 100 days.
>> Of course. Uh first of all, Jason, thank you for opening up this tremendous platform to the Iranian people and to the prince. Uh as you can see, uh the crown prince Razip is a is a great man. uh the most courageous man that I've ever met. Uh and he's the highest integrity human I've I've met as well. Uh we're very blessed as a people to have a leader like him. Uh who has lived a very clean life uh and has uh stepped up in a very courageous way. has put it all on the line for his people and his legacy uh to play this tremendous transitional role to evolve the Iranian uh nation to a democracy. Um and this long nightmare of 47 years that all of my Iranian brothers and sisters have suffered through um uh is almost over. And uh also a tremendous gratitude to President Trump uh for his courageous leadership on this matter. Uh I don't think any other president uh would have the courage and the principle and the values to take on this Islamic regime of terror. As you saw last month, uh they massacred uh over 43,000 Iranians who were just peacefully protesting. They gunned them down with anti-material bullets. I I put a post of a Coca-Cola can next to these bullets. It was bigger than the can. Uh that's what
>> and this is super important to to meditate on for a second here. This regime
>> is a murderous and evil regime to turn those guns and mow down 40,000 in over 40,000 individuals peacefully protesting is just an act of savagery and brutality that I think most people don't appreciate and uh or don't fully appreciate. Um and we there hasn't been enough coverage of that fact.
>> No.
>> And you are a bipartisan type person. and I've known you for many years. You were a super uh funer of uh Obama. He he wasn't able to get this done. Biden wasn't able to get this done. Bush wasn't able to get this done. This has been something that presidents have struggled with. And you got to give Trump credit here. There's a lot of debate over why this is happening. Is it Israel driving it? Is it the relationship with China? We talked about that in part one. At the end of the day, as a son of Iran, what matters is that the people are free. All these other conspiracy theories theories and motivations do not matter to you or the people. Yeah,
>> absolutely not. I uh but one of my key principles is our our our sec our moral security precedes our physical security. So this has as much to do with American uh security as it does Iranians security and livelihood. As you saw, this regime is not only uh evil enough to mow down 43,000 innocent people in 48 hours. Their reaction to this liberation operation is to attack over 12 countries in the region. Imagine if they had a nuclear bomb, they would use it.
>> They would use it. There's not even a doubt in my mind that they would have used it by now uh if they had it. Uh so this is uh incredibly important for America's national security. Um as uh the prince mentioned 9/11 uh happened. Uh that's the same kind of ideology except the problem we have in our modern time is that basically criminal and terrorist organizations have taken over sovereign nations with nuclear bombs or seeking nuclear bombs. Wherever you have Russia, uh China, uh you have you have North Korea and you have Iran. uh and then you had Venezuela. So the president has not only uh gotten rid of the Maduro in in Venezuela, he has now uh begun this process of dismantling this this Islamic regime who is absolutely uh not a legitimate government and not a legit legitimate u nation state. Uh and the only leader that uh is legitimate to lead us to a transition process to become a democracy is uh the crown prince resale. We are very lucky uh I think in our modern times to have three leaders who are living at the same time and leading at the same time as President Trump, President Netanyahu, um Prime Minister Netanyahu and and the Crown Prince Resali all at at in this one moment in time. I think we're living in biblical times when 107 happened. Um, I started the Israeli Iranian alliance with Michael Eisenberg, Michael Bhine, Jesse Matin, Sean Rad, uh, and we started to host these salons with the crown prince. One was in New York, Michael Eisenberg flew in, Dan Lo, lots of, uh, leaders came. Uh and that was the beginning of the process uh that was seated with a breakfast with Michael Eisenberg as a VC and the number one VC in Israel uh 15 years ago where we said we have to do more between Israeli and Jewish community and the Persian Iranian community and someday we're going to have uh tea in Thran. And we wrote an op-ed last year about this. And we began to build these bridges. Uh and this connection between the Jewish people and the Iranian people goes back 2500 years. Cyrus the Great, who's in the Bible, uh freed the Jews from uh slavery in Babylon, returned them to their homeland in Jerusalem, and rebuilt their temple. uh and that he is celebrated for that courageous act uh in the Bible and in in uh Jewish religious uh you know holidays and and it is a tremendous connection that goes back now 2500 years later in kind of biblical symmetry you have the Jewish people helping free Iranian people from their slavery and at the same time there is a connection between America's beginning that many people don't know is that Thomas Jefferson was uh a student of Cyrus the Great who declared the first declaration of human rights and a lot of the principles that went into the Declaration of Independence of America and the founding of America and the Bill of Rights and the Constitution have had its roots in Cyrus the Great and Persian history. And so this connection between America's founding and the principles that the Iranians uh espoused for 2500 years uh is this beautiful connection between the Jewish people, the American people and the Iranian people.
>> And this could have such a tremendous impact on the region. You have essentially a lone democracy in Israel. Uh and now to have 93 million Iranians in a democracy, if if that can be achieved, and listen, there's a long way to go. this could spiral out of control. This was a very high-risk move uh by Trump. President Trump should give him a lot of credit for that, but he has to own this. So, let's be humble and and we got to pray for the best here. Things can spiral out of control in these kind of situations. But let's hope that we do get to democracy there. I'm curious, Shervin, you've spent a lot of time in the Middle East. I have over the last 3 years gotten myself educated and caught up I hope and have started doing business there and and really meeting a larger swath of people. The Gulf monarchies have modernized incredibly starting with the UAE, Saudi uh now the kingdom and of course Qatar uh as well modernizing Oman, Kuwait. What would Iran going straight to a democracy if that is even possible? What would that do to the region in your mind? I think that uh everything it what what the Gulf countries have done uh is a tremendous case study of what the potential for the Middle East truly is. Uh being blessed uh by God to have oil gas the way that most GCC countries have and Iran uh so has uh gives them an advantage to be able to have the resources independently to develop themselves. And when you look at what happened in UAE over the last 25 years, I went to UAE in 2001 2002 and there was a smattering of buildings there.
>> Yeah, I've seen the pictures of Dubai then and now.
>> It's extraordinary. It's incredible. And it it reminds me of what America was like in the 1950s when they came from back from World War II. Eisenhower buil built the interstate highway system and America developed into this superpower. Uh and and in many ways the GCC countries espouse that American mentality of everything is possible. Anything is possible. And they've manifested their greatness. And you look at Iran, you have 93 million unbelievably brilliant people who have been held back. You look at the Iranian diaspora in America. just our fellow friends who many people know Dar Uber myself at Uber of course um Omid Cordistani at Google and Ali at at data bricks um you know pier at eBay when you add up the numbers it gets to trillions of dollars of value have been created by this small population of Iranians in America and especially in Silicon Valley and I've been blessed to be part of that circle and you know one thank God for America America that we had a a safe sanctuary to come and develop our brilliance. But there are as many there's uh as many brilliant Iranians way more brilliant Iranian.
>> Yeah. On a numbers basis it's it's a magnitude more.
>> And so this will be a free democratic Iran will be the greatest peace dividend and economic dividend to be gifted to the world and to the region. So I think what'll happen is um we will have an acceleration of the Middle East becoming this uh unbelievable place where innovation and investment in the future is happening. We're at the dawn of AGI and advanced super intelligence. We have quantum computing which you and I you know and Emil Michael and others have done with our you know our our spa um and D-Wave. These these technologies are are going to fast forward humanity and being able to tap into the resources of the Middle East and Iran in in human capital and in the oil and gas wealth to be able to unleash an accelerated future is something that uh we all look forward to. And one of the things the team uh the crown prince's vision uh this is a 175page report right here the Iran prosperity project and I'm blessed to be an adviser there with many other very talented uh Iranians um and this piece by piece month by month uh has a sequence of of plans to rebuild Iran as the crown prince was talking about so that when there is a free Iran there will be a a four-month process C to get to a a referendum. Um, and then a six-month process to u assemble uh Iranians to to write a constitution. Uh and then a 14-month process to actually finalize uh the the constitution and then have a vote on the constitution. So you'll have a a sequence of events that will then lead to uh a legal framework uh where uh the the the new Iran will be able to actually execute on this on this tremendous plan uh and rebuild uh all aspects and all sectors of the economy. Uh and that'll lead to um you know uh this new Iran that we're all have been dreaming and praying for.
>> And and so this plan's been worked on for some time. He seems like he's got, you know, a third or so of the constituents there who are in favor of him. There are some people who are strongly opposed. Last time his father was not perfect. He's answered many of the hard questions about his father's uh tenure. What are the chances that the existing regime, what's left of it, there are people in that who would collaborate on moving to a democracy where specifically religion and the government were separated. This was something NBS was able to do in Saudi, but not without strong resistance and great risk to himself. This is a high-risisk thing, you know, with some of these radicalized individuals who want religion to rule over democracy. So, maybe you could unpack that a bit.
>> Absolutely. The vast majority of Iranians uh want a a separation of of uh church and state um of mosque and state. uh and uh we've seen what 47 we've had an AB test uh in Silicon Valley speak of what happens when you have a system that is controlled by mullas. Uh it has led to absolute disaster and mayhem and evil. Um and uh so the vast majority are out there and they're saying Resa Palvy's name. If you look at the videos from uh January, they're saying Javit Shaw, they're saying his name to return. he called on them to come in the streets at 800 PM on the on the ETH and 9th. Uh and they came out in droves and by the millions in response to him. So the idea that we don't know who the Iranian people want uh to help lead this transition process, the proof is in the pudding. You just have to look at the videos and look at the the actual facts. Uh and that's the he's the only leader that uh Iranians are are by name calling out for to to come back and they're also calling for for Trump and Netanyahu to please help save them from this uh you know terror uh regime and and as we've seen in the last week their prayers have been answered uh in a tremendous way. And what is going to happen is basically a dismantling and a defanging of this regime's capabilities to use terror to use our military uh capabilities. Uh and we have to let the that run its course. Uh as the president said, this is probably about 4 weeks of work. Um you know, there was a leak uh I think in the Washington Post today that the 82nd Airborne was uh activated. Uh and that's a signal uh that uh this is going to potentially um lead to even more support uh in this liberation operation to uh completely dismantle this regime. Uh defections are a big part of the strategy that
>> have the defections started yet or is that too risky for the individuals on the ground? What what what are you hearing through your back generals? Well, I I the the crown prince had a a a a system for people to communicate securely with him and his team and over 50,000 people in the military um have actually responded to that. Uh you saw some uh defections that were went viral uh during the protest and before the protests of of different military members. We expect that that as the dismantling process continues and many of the as you saw the the the the top leadership that the IRGC was eradicated in the first 24 hours. The the the the supreme leader was just an absolutely evil man. Uh was gone in the first 60 seconds. He spent 47 years threatening the world. He lasted 60 seconds.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's going to continue. Um and so uh I think it's going to be a very rational thing for the rest of uh uh who remains to realize that if they don't actually have a complete surrender and uh you know capitulate and for the ones that haven't actually uh executed the orders of genocide against the Iranian people, there'll be an opportunity for people to actually um be a part of the reformation and the reconstruction of Iran. Um the plan actually says uh even people in the military will be able to one even have early retirement for the ones that didn't actually um execute uh those uh you know uh acts of terror against the Iranian people. And then others who are talented and have the the ability to to serve and want to serve, they'll also be able to show up at work and continue to get paid and have some role uh wherever in the military and the government. So there's this isn't going to be a hunting down of people. The hunting down is happening right now. There'll be a process of peace and reconstruction um and rehabilitation. Uh that'll happen. And we're going to also need to have a lot of like um you know specialists to come in and help people with the trauma that they've been through.
>> Sure.
>> 47 years. Uh this is be a multiple multi-threaded
>> multigeneration trauma. Yeah.
>> Multigenerational. Yes. Uh tell me about uh the Kurd the Kurds being backed Msad and um the CIA are uh backing reportedly militias in the west and that's going to play a role. Yeah,
>> I think you know we we have to be very very careful because uh a red line for the Iranian people is uh we have existed at a as a country for for 5,000 years as a people for 5,000 years. Whoever invaders came in or out, we always outlasted our invaders. These these people uh who have t had taken over for 47 years were occupiers. They weren't really truly Iranians. They were occupiers of this country. Uh and they'll be booted just like Gjas Khan and everyone else who who came into Iran were booted. Um and so uh it's very important we if if if there's any kind of separatist movement, we will lose the goodwill and the support of millions and millions of Iranians. Um and so
>> it has to be one country.
>> It has to be one country. The territorial integrity of Iran must be protected. That's a red line for the crown prince. It's a red line for the Iranian people. Um, and so that's that's incredibly important uh to to uh project that wherever there's collaborations that can happen uh to to be able to work together uh to fight uh for uh the deliberation to be completed and for a march on to Tehran and the crown prince being able to come back to lead this transition and physically come back to his homeland. Can you imagine that after 47 years of being away from his nation,
>> me uh being away from my
>> You've never been able to go back or have you snuck in? And
>> I hadn't been back for you know I basically I was born in 1976. My dad the the last Sha was sending a lot of the top brilliant people on scholarships around the world. Iranian community in uh graduate school and universities was the largest population in 1970s. he was educating this whole um class of people and we were going back to to rebuild and build Iran into this great nation. We're at the cusp of greatness. So my father came to Washington DC uh where I am right now and uh I grew up here uh on 16th Street in in in Washington uh and he got his master's degree at Catholic University uh 1976 to 1978. Uh, and I remember when we first came, it was a bicesentennial of America now 50th anniversary. And so he returned, we returned to Iran 1978 um, right before the revolution. Really bad timing. And my dad had been promoted to head of radio and television for the Shaw. And uh, this all happened. The revolution happened, was coming back. And my dad made the courageous decision to help uh the US embassy get radio communications devices to them, do foreign language broadcast to tell u foreigners in Iran how to get out of the country. This was from the different embassies and put my father Abraham on the execution list. So he went into hiding for 10 months. I didn't see my dad for 10 months. and uh in kind of a kismid moment as someone he helped get a job in radio and television came to my our home and said to my mom I want to help and she didn't trust him and said I don't know where he is but she checked with my dad and and they came back and my dad said no you can trust him and that guy was the new head of security for the Meridabad airport in Thran and he personally met my father and I remember this moment I woke up to my brother crying and my dad was at the door after 10 months to say goodbye cuz he didn't know if he was going to survive. Uh and he went to the airport um met his friend and he walked him onto the Air France flight and uh you know crying he he flew uh out uh and came to America and the people he had helped helped him uh get his papers and everything in order and then we were stuck in Iran for two years. Saddam invaded, bombs were falling on us every night and the signs were going off. So then we escaped with my mom and my brother and sister. Came to America with $35. My dad was driving a taxi while getting his PhD. My dad a
>> great paradox.
>> My mom was like, "Yeah, I did Uber." Actually Uber that was one of the things in my first meeting with Jason with uh with Travis. I told him that story and I and I I know that like growing up in a orange and black taxi cab in in in Washington DC helped me win the Uber deal against all the greats in venture.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it's all full circle. Only in America would that be possible. You know, this the son of a taxi driver and a maid. Uh you know, coming to America with nothing be able to have the blessing of the life that we've had. And I've never forgotten those roots. I've tried to to serve America. Um and um I'm uh you know uh now now helping in any way that I can to uh uh help the crown prince in this transition process for a free Iran and and rebuild Iran into something great. So make
>> what's extraordinary to me about the Iranian people is they have maintained even under this oppression that spirit 47 years later. I I don't know if you've ever seen the Anthony Bourdain
>> Yeah.
>> uh you know episode when he goes there. Yeah.
>> And it was always touched me. I don't know if this was like a decade ago when he did it
>> and he said, "I can't believe it. This these people are Americans. They're they're eating Pizza Hut. They're listening to music. They're having some beers on their back porch. They're dancing. They are on VPNs, you know, understanding culture and what's going on around the world. even under the oppression, women, gays, uh, everybody in between, uh, they're suffering and they're still have that joy of life that every Persian I've ever met will stay with you like the Greeks or the Irish and they will close the restaurant. They will talk and the restaurant closes the door, the owner of the restaurant sits down and you just talk for another hour. Some of the most beautiful people I've ever met and uh, it's just I'm so glad that you are engaged in this. uh very much appreciate you bringing the prince. Thank you Jason understand the soul of the Iranian and that is exact we're the we love to host our friends on the social and uh and u you know there truly are as American as you can be uh we love our freedom uh we've suffered for so long uh and we're so thankful for uh President Trump uh having having the courage to take on this evil regime and we look forward to uh hosting all-in pod in tan
>> that would sooner than later.
>> One of the great bucket lists of my life to be able to go to and host the podcast there and have tea with you in
>> Let's put on the schedule a year from today.
>> Best food in in the world. I can't wait.
>> What's the signature? What's the signature for you? What's the signature dish? What's the What's your favorite?
>> Everyone loves the the Persian kebabs, right? But the kebabs in Iran are something else. There's like it's a it's a tremendous uh
>> you know food culture. Uh and the national dish is called orabzi um which is a stew of lamb and and my mom was like the greatest version cook in the world and she would cook it for three days. Uh and these foods I can't wait to to break bread with you in a free room. It'll be
>> Yeah. I mean that's one of the things the Greeks and the Iranians share is that love of lamb. cannot wait. All right, my brother. Um
>> thank you.
>> I'm so glad you're engaged in this. Gives me hope. Um and
>> good luck in the next uh three, four, five weeks. Let's hope and pray for the best.
>> Thank you
>> to the all-in audience. We'll see you next time. Bye-bye.
>> We'll let your winners ride.
>> We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you. Queen of
>> your
>> besties are my dog taking your driveways.
>> Oh man, myasher will meet me.
>> We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. Wet your feet.
>> Your feet.
>> That's going to be good. We need to get merch.
>> I'm going all in. I'm going all in.