About two minutes away from the end of the trading day, Katie Grifeld and Matt Miller in for Roma Bosik. And here to help take us through the closing bell, we're joined by a global simal cast, Carol Masser and Bailey Lipult. He's in for Tim Stenovic, bringing together all of our audiences, Carol Masser to parse through the most crucial moments of this trading day on this Monday. And the dip buyers, they're back. Yeah, right. What a different tone from Friday. But, you know, also uh we got to write a love letter to OpenAI and Broadcom because the semiconductors really some outperformance up about 5%. A lot of it, you know, barely had to do with Broadcom today. And who even cares about a government shutdown in a market like this? Yes, we've not we've barely t talked about it today. Didn't even mention it. Didn't even cross our minds. And yet, the MA major averages are up almost 2%, S&P up more than one and a half%. And Katie and Matt, guys, the bond market's closed, but stocks are partying. Yeah, I think uh I think to some extent the administration took the teeth out of that shutdown by agreeing to pay or finding the money to pay the military at least um on Wednesday when the next check is due. But I think it's really interesting that we've gone so far so fast. You know, BTI was out with a note yesterday saying that we're um still above the 50-day moving average and have been for 113 days. That's the third longest stretch since 1990. That's before Bailey and Katie were even born. That might be true actually. But I mean it's a good point that we have been so strong for so long and we really haven't seen a dip to buy in quite a long time. So of course a lot of this is open AI but a lot of this is just folks seizing on a sale right now. And that's definitely was the story of this market action on this Monday. You can see the S&P 500 looks like we're going to finish about 1 and a half% higher. You take a look at the NASDAQ doing even better. That's a lot of that chip influence coming through there. The NASDAQ finishing 2.2% higher on the day. We show the Dow Jones here. I wouldn't. It's not my favorite index, but we'll do it. It's up about 1.3%. Carol Masser. I know what's wrong with the Dow. She likes the small caps. The thing is it's a price weighted index. How much of a signal can you get from that? Matt Matt, remember way back when we only used to like talk largely about the Dow? I remember Dow 6000. I know. All right, let's go to the S&P 500. We'll put the Dow aside for a moment. Uh most names in the index higher, guys, today. 359 gaining ground 142 to the downside. Matt, two unchanged. Take a look at the uh industry groups moving higher and you'll see um pretty much all of them that aren't defensive did. So, you've got consumer staples down. And if you uh look at the S&P, which is, I think Katie agrees, you know, much better yard stick. It's the index you you can see that um you had a lot of consumer staples on the downside, Proctor and Gamble, uh you had Philip Morris at one point one of the biggest losers on the index. Altria Group also these are things that you know you uh either need to buy again every month or you're just addicted to so you have no choice. Um but for the uh for the most part you had every other group rising healthcare you see down but really just unchanged. All right guys, let's get to some of the individual gainers. No surprise I'm going to talk about Broadcom. Of course, ticker AVGO up as much as uh almost 11% finishing the day with a gain of just shy of 10%. Number two gainer in the S&P 500, number one gainer in the NASDAQ 100. No, number two, forgive me. Uh but nonetheless, uh really just pushed the whole semis sector higher in today's session. This as uh OpenAI signed a multi-year agreement with Broadcom to collaborate on custom chips and networking equipment. So, it's the latest step in OpenAI's ambitious uh plan to add computing infrastructure, but it really gave some juice to Broadcom. All right. The other thing uh that was kind of a broader uh story today was um when you look at rare earth and critical mineral stocks uh rising following strong gains among Asian peers, fresh tensions between Beijing and Washington over China's exports of critical minerals, fueling bets on alternative suppliers. So, two names I just want to uh show. Critical uh materials, critical medicals. Yeah. Try this again. Uh shall we try that again? Take two everybody. 3 2 1. Critical metals up almost 55% in today's session. And then MP materials up just about 21%. Remember MP materials is the one that the US government has taken a stake in along with some other uh investments in raw materials companies. And then I got to mention Warner Brothers up uh almost 4% here. this as the company according to reports that cited people familiar with the matter rejected Paramount Sky Dance's initial takeover approach for being too low. Can I just go ahead can I just uh interject with a little bit of an editorial comment? This is very Roma of you. So go ahead. I know I'm like what? I thought I could get through it and then just pass the baton. No, because Carol, because you and Tim were there at screen time last week and I Lucas Shaw's conversation with David Ellison was amazing. It was amazing. I understand so much more about the company, about the industry, about their aim. Um, that's funny because Laura Martin of Needam said, she goes, "I don't feel like that David Ellison has really laid out his strategy that he keeps making these acquisitions but not kind of saying what the overall strategy is." I'm just just sharing you cuz she talked with us at screen time. I just thought it was good. So good. Go back and listen to it if you haven't. Or buy tickets for next year. Bailey, there were stocks that fell today. There are stocks that fell today and the worst performer in the S&P 500 is not in the Dow Jones Industrials. Katie, that is fast and all. Ticker FAS falling the most since March 2020. This came after earnings. CEO told Carol and I that their stock was actually priced to perfection and that's why they were down. But analysts called out some soft pricing overshadowing results that at the top line actually weren't that bad. And I want to call out this second and third worst performers in the S&P 500 casino stocks. We saw both Las Vegas Sands and Win Resorts under pressure each falling more than 6%. Not because people aren't going to Las Vegas, but there's a holiday on the other side of the world and that's Golden Week. And we saw Macau data disappointing. So investors really selling down those two stocks. Again, Las Vegas Sands ticker LVS down more than 6% worst drop since earlier uh in the month, but closing at the lowest level since June. And guys, I just want to wrap up with one of my favorite stocks to cover. Beyond Meat, ticker BN. Is that cuz you like to eat it? I do not like to eat it. It's I'm questioning I question it. It's a little concerning how it bleeds, but it was it was at one point one of the best stocks to IPO ever. Very real. It was it was it was you know it's a very logical fundamental uh argument at least when when the stock was trading for whatever number it was but closing at a record low losing about half its value. This came after debt investors swap their notes for shares diluting investors. So it does seem like uh slow burn to the end for Beyond Meat. Yeah, pour out some beet juice for Beyond Meat. The bond market was closed today. It was one of those weird days where equities were open, bonds were closed. I want to take a look at TLT here though. This of course tracks 20-year treasuries and beyond. And you can see that it's just about flat on the day. It opened up lower. That would have meant that yields were higher, but you can see it finished just about unchanged. So that sets us up. Well, shall we talk about Taylor Swift though because she did have an impact in the stock market here. I I wonder if Carol if you know the way that Katie talks about Taylor Swift and her impact or her importance respectfully. Um yeah, I call her What do you say? I call her the Bob Dylan of our generation, the millennial generation for millennial women. And I'm willing to back that up. I'm not the biggest Taylor Swift fan out there, Carol. I am a huge fan. But just in terms of her impact, I think that that's a pretty fair characterization. Well, you know what's interesting? You talk about impact and you know some of it is just what she does up on stage um fighting for rights in terms of owning your own um material if you will but she's also become pretty wealthy and with money comes influence and I just want to mention I know we're going to go back to Taylor but there's an interesting story on the Bloomberg about how kind of Wall Street's been getting ready for this incredible wealth transfer of like 105 trillion to pass from elderly parents to children but Bailey there's actually a different kind of wealth transfer uh already underway and we're talking about women who are actually becoming billionaires after the death of their spouses. Yeah. Bloomberg reporting that more than a dozen women in the world's 500 richest people have become billionaires because of that overseeing fortunes totaling 365 billion dollars. That's a lot of money to be. Yeah. And it means a lot of influence whether it's you know philanthropy um finance consumer goods get like a lot of things. So now we go back to Taylor who is pretty wealthy and she's influential. You know Katie and I uh we used to co-anchor a show called Bloomberg Open Interest. It still airs I'm told 9 to11 weekdays. Tune in. Um we talked to Sally Crotch on that program if you recall and she said that um we're going to see like I think massive numbers like 35 or 40 trillion dollars shifted in this silver tsunami. Maybe it was uh even more. But the lion's share of that is going to shift from the control of men to the control of women. So that's going to be as it should. It's really interesting too. You think about all the different ripple effects there. One of them being what does this mean for the financial advisor community. There are a lot of things that we'll have to adjust to sort of accommodate what that new phase of wealth looks like. I heard Carol and Tim talking to April Ruden about this last week. Oh my god, I'm so God, I'm just warmed. He's your biggest fan. I thought we were going to talk about the docu series. Like she's going to make she's going to make a six-part docu series about the eras tour, which regardless of how you feel about her music, even if you think that she only had one good album in her entire catalog, the one about the cardigan and folklore. Uh, exactly. 1989. But sure, you still can't deny the impact that her AOS tour had on, you know, the global economy. Really? I saw it in Toronto and let me tell you that was a production.