[Music] Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market futures. We are live folks. It is Sunday. We've got 14 minutes until once again the stock market opens up. Thank you everybody for being here. We got a lot to discuss. We got a lot to get into. Hope everyone had a good weekend. It's time to open up the markets. Dude, it's been a long 48 hours. I have got the jitters. I am ready to get back into these markets. It was a long week last week in terms of all the emotionals up and down. little not only the the emotional up and downs, but the uh actual financial up and downs. But I'm excited. I'm excited to get back into it. This is going to be a fun week. Uh hopefully it's going to be well it'll be fun. I don't know if it'll be uh you know tears of joy or tears of happiness, but there's going to be some tears that eventually we'll we'll laugh about in some way. Uh we've got Tesla and Netflix earnings. So, we'll talk about that. That's going to be big this week. It officially starts off big tech. last week had a great earnings for for uh well not for tech but for TSM which was one of the tech companies that reported ASML and uh all the banks and consumer discretionary companies pretty much good across the board except a couple of the regionals we'll talk more about that but the other regionals on Friday were pretty good so we're going to continue tech earnings into this week with Tesla and Netflix we got CPI on Friday again the government is still shut down so I don't know what the CPI process is going to look like but we're not going to get any other macro data outside of CPI so that'll be important on Friday uh and then Trump and Xi are going to be meeting towards the end of October, early November in South Korea. So, uh I think this week you're probably going to get a bit more of an update in terms of what those negotiations are going to look like. China over the weekend pretty friendly. I mean, they said some stuff that you wouldn't think would would uh entail, but they want to be super hostile and Trump kind of reciprocated with some of his comments that he made on Friday as well. So, I think we'll get more negotiations or more understanding of what the negotiations look like. we will get some of these earnings and uh we'll get some macro data with CPI and hopefully a little bit of negotiation for the shutdown. We'll see how that plays out, but hopefully it's not too bad. If the audio is delayed, refresh YouTube, it usually fixes itself. It's either a Streamyard thing or a YouTube thing. It's it's happened to me. It's happened to a couple other people. Um if you refresh it, I think it will fix. Or if you just give it a couple of Yeah, refresh. Yeah. Yeah, refresh should fix. or give it a give it a couple minutes. It should be should be okay. All right. How is everyone's weekend? I went home. Uh we have a uh Indian holiday tomorrow. So, I'm going to go back home again tomorrow for Diwali for those that celebrate. Happy Dvali. That'll be tomorrow. So, went home for a bit. Kind of just got to chill with the fam. And now I am back. Steve and I are getting what are we getting? Uh steaks tomorrow for lunch. So, that'll be super fun and that'll be exciting. But overall this week we're going to have a lot to talk about, a lot to get into and we'll keep going from there. Two announcements logistically and then we'll keep actually three and then uh then we'll get started with everything that we got going on. I don't know if we're going to shoot some fireworks to be honest. There were I had a bunch of neighbors yesterday though that like dude at like 1:00 a.m. they were shooting up fireworks and I was like, "Okay, this this is a bit aggressive at 1:00 a.m. It's getting kind of loud here." But we're going to see if uh if that still happens. Um okay, three things. number one, and they might not be in the chat right now, but they probably will be in the chat. Market open, market close. Uh, folks, we have officially extended the AK media team and brought someone on fulltime. Cactus Jack. Those of you who are in the chat every day probably recognize Cactus Jack. If you're listening every day, you you probably don't um know who he is because you don't keep up with chat. He is now full-time with AK Media. So, Cactus Jack is essentially our personal Bloomberg terminal. And when I say hour, I mean the entire chat because the level of speed that he has dedicated to getting us updates and news about what's going on in the stock market, every single market, open, market, close has been remarkable. And uh you know, a week ago, I mean, I've seen him for like two years in the chat. A week ago, I'm just like, "Bro, like why are you doing this every day?" And he was just like, "Wow, I just love being here. I love the community you built." And I'm like, "Okay, well, I feel bad that you're doing this every single day for free. Uh, and I also think we might as well formalize this relationship if you're going to be here anyway." There he is. There's Mr. Cactus Jack. And, uh, he said, "Let's do it." So, Cactus is officially part of the team. If you ever see a post from Cactus, uh, it is most more likely than not accurate, whether it's earnings, Trump tweets, headlines, whatever it is. So, if you see him in the chat, think of him as our our personal Bloomberg terminal. At this point, his full-time job now is to just research, get updates on the market. And it it really is going to help me do my job better, which is communicating all the information and finding all the updates in real time. And uh having a trusted source that I can rely on and make sure that we can convey everything that's happening in real time, which, you know, for a lot of people, you make decisions based on the headlines that come up when you're trading. That's really important. And so, Cactus uh will be full-time with us. So, very excited for him and uh excited to expand the team a bit further. And I think it'll make the show better because quite frankly, I mean, I you guys can probably already tell I've started to get a bit overwhelmed with just like everything that's needed to to make the show happen every day. It's a lot of research, a lot of just pre-planning, post-planning. It's booking guests. Like, it's a lot of [ __ ] you know? So, at this point, I think starting the expansion makes sense. And uh yeah, that's why we're going to do it. So, shout out to Cactus. He'll be here every day. And he is officially starting out on the team. Second update. So, I told you guys post Miami that I really want to take the meetups more seriously in 2026 in terms of planning, logistics, infrastructure, security, all this stuff. Like basically, it was a fun idea in my head to do these meetups. The fun idea manifested into like a real community building event from 50 people in New York to 350 people in Miami. And it kind of dawned on me that if we're going to do this, we should do this. You know, it shouldn't just be me managing through a Google form how to get all this stuff done. to like actually have real infrastructure so that we can put on a good event for as many events as we can do and it actually allows us to like go to different parts of the world, travel, book these venues and make it happen. I had a meeting yesterday with a PRmanagement agency and uh it was a very good meeting. Like it was a it was one of those meetings where it's like it's clicking on all cylinders and I really like the people that I met yesterday. No confirmed official deal. They're going to be in Jersey in November and then I'm gonna meet them in person. And um yeah, he's my Jamie like Joe Rogan. Exactly. Cactus Jack is our Jamie. 100% he's our Jamie. Um I I I think I I think we have, you know, I'm really uh in, you know, I I make decisions a lot of times based on intuition. I don't need to shop around too much. Cactus Jack was an intuitive decision and my intuition ended up being right because he immediately was like, "Yes, let's do it." And based on the meeting I had yesterday, uh very very excited for it. And and the cool thing about the meeting I had yesterday is this is not some super super big like management talent agency yada yada. This is one person who spent 10 years working at that agency and now she's starting her own firm. And that's what really got me excited because I would not just be one client that's part of like the cog in the machine of all these other people that the agency manages. I would be like one of honestly I don't even know if she has any other clients. I mean, she literally quit five weeks ago. So, like I think I might be her first client, which means she would be very motivated to get the job done and really take this to the next level. And uh I met her through a contact that I met in Miami and the guy I met in Miami has 40 years of experience in event planning. So, and so he's not some just random dude that hit me up out of nowhere. Like this is a guy who's been following the channel for the past couple years. Really, really cares about the authenticity and the vibe of the community because you know that's the biggest thing about these meetups. They are not money makers. that like this is not some grand vision to profit. The vision is how do we create an experience for people that don't have a community uh in investing and do it across the world and do it in a way that can be successful and I think the first five meetups we've done Toronto, Boston, Miami, California and New York showed that there is demand for this but now we got to make it structured and so I am very very excited for that. Again, we don't have an official deal yet, but uh I think if we can get that deal done by the end of the year, then the planning of venues across the world is going to get a lot easier. And it'll be pretty cool to make this happen. So, should be fun. Should be very fun. The first location I can I think I've already said this before, but the first location, by the way, Ethereum, I'm trying to get to 4,000 right here. Uh likely will be New York in January. Likely will be New York. So, um hopefully if all goes as planned, the New York happens in January. And if it does, then I'd be very excited to kick off New York again. And then we'll see what we can do um in the other locations. And then there was a third update. What was the third update? What was the third update? I said it was Cactus Jack. Uh the the talent planning stuff. I forgot the third one. I feel like there was an important third. Oh yes, the third update. Dude, the substack. You guys have been absolutely like just it's it's been I think I'm falling in love with writing, dude. Like this thing is cool. I you know, usually I take Saturdays off to like just like not think about stocks and the market and stuff. I already started working on the next two deep dives. I have already started working on the next two deep dives. So the companies were BMR and Duolingo. BMR and Duolingo. I know BMR a lot of people expected. Duolingo caught a lot of you guys off off guard. Matt Money did guess it though on Friday. Dude, I am I am just really I don't know. I I've never been a writer, but the the the process of really sitting down with your thoughts and not speaking them, but writing them out, it's annoying. It's hard. I like don't love it as much as I love talking. But it's a new challenge and and quite frankly, I I really am wanting to embrace this challenge. So, deeply deeply appreciate anyone who subscribed. If you didn't, I'll put the link in the chat. There was no payw wall. So for anyone who wants to read the deep dives, you can uh read it whenever you want and whatever future content comes out on the substack, feel free to read it. I mean, I'm thinking of so many other ideas, too, like Palanteer's Q3 earnings. Like usually I make a video on that. I'll continue to make a video on that. But I also would want to write out my thoughts on Palunteers's earnings. Robin Hood has earnings up coming. I want to write out my thoughts on Robin Hood. like just the process of writing. Like literally this weekend, bro, on Saturday, I'm over here getting ready on the next two deep dives and I'm starting to research and type and I'm like, damn, bro. I didn't know I would like it this much, but there's something about it that I really do freaking enjoy. And uh it's kind of like a new life for me in terms of content creation. I never thought the written word would be a way that I engage in content. And after I wrote that grab thesis back in um back in June, those 17 pages, like I kind of started liking the idea of it, but then I kind of got away from it. And then, you know, over the past couple of weeks, I was just like, well, why don't I try that again and see what it feels like? And it it really it really did feel awesome. So, deeply deeply appreciate anyone who subscribed. It will be free forever. Looking forward to a lot more written word. Got a lot of good feedback on it. Uh Mr. Tom Lee was nice enough to uh retweet it as well and share it to his audience. So, he said, "Primary fundamental analysis done by a few individuals today. Appreciate the work." And yeah, it was it was super cool. And the BMR one was, you know, I spent a lot of time trying to understand it. And you know, we as a community have spent a lot of time trying to understand, you know, we gonna we're going to make some money off BMR. And so, you know, I still have my position. I added a little bit at 4950 on Friday, and I continue to believe that it will play out. But just writing everything out in your, you know, you you never know if you're going to be right or wrong, but just being able to document all of it through the written word, I think, is really special. So, exciting stuff. And yes, I will post the graph thesis on Substack that'll probably come out next Friday. I don't have to, you know, redo that one. I'm going to update it because I already wrote it out. So, I'm going to just like copy and paste it into the Substack format. But, there are some things I do want to update, especially because we got Q2 results. Uh, and you know, we got a bunch of new products that have been released in the past couple months. So, I will update that graph thesis. By the way, the uh COO of Grab did a new interview. This is like seven to eight interviews in the past month from Grab executives. They have not done this for the past five years. So, I'm thinking it's going to be a good Q3. We'll see how it plays out. But, um, yes, I will update that as well. And we'll keep going from there. Oh, we got to talk about Amcore. We will have to talk about AMCore. We got some updates on Amcore over the weekend and we got we that that will intertwine with Nvidia. So, we'll talk about that after we uh after we see how these stocks open on the overnight markets. All right, so we got two minutes and then we got a bunch of headlines. We'll get into those headlines. Futures are green for those that didn't see it. Uh very excited to see how this market opens. I mean, look, it's it could it could be a low liquidity Friday or not Friday, Sunday overnight markets and this fades by Monday morning. But you do have Bitcoin and Ethereum that are finally not being as weak as they were. Uh, you know, Bitcoin got all the way down to freaking 102. Now it's at 108. Ethereum got to 3,400. Ethereum back to 3,800. So, not really fully breaking out, but nice to see them getting a little bit of a base. I have decided I will be buying SoFi. I might even do it tonight. I'm taking a SoFi 500 shares earnings gamble. I'm doing it because if it goes up, I want to be celebrating with everybody else. If it doesn't, I'll be back holding with everybody else. So, I kind of want to get it at like 2650 and below. I feel like I don't know, maybe we'll get it this week, maybe not. If we see it below 2650, maybe we'll buy it tonight. But, I'm going to go for 500 shares and we'll see what happens. I mean, Tanner is freaking screaming about a million members and [ __ ] I'm like, "All right, Tanner, if it's that serious, let's see. Maybe maybe not can deliver some goods." So, that's what we got. All right, overnight markets. They should be opening in 15 seconds. Let's see some of this price action. see what we got. Then we'll get into the headlines. Again, thank you everybody for being here. Three headlines for AK Media. We hired Cactus Jack full-time. He's going to be our Bloomberg terminal. Uh meetups, I think, are in the right direction in terms of the planning going into next year. I really do think we're going to be able to do it in a in a more sophisticated way and and hopefully visit a lot more cities. And then finally, the Substack. Deeply deeply appreciate everyone who has subscribed to that Substack. All right, let's get into it. Overnight markets are open hoodie 132. There's a green candle. That's up 2%. Fell all the way down to 127. No, it fell to 122 Friday at 2 am. Palanteer right here at 178. That's green by about a third of a percent. Tesla, we got some updates on Tesla. We got to talk about that. 440.80. Uh, we do have earnings on Tesla, so that's going to matter as well. Nvidia, that's green, up about 08%. S&P, that's green. AMD, that's up a little bit. AMD was at 240 241 last week. Uh, closed at around 232. SoFi, 2683. All right, we're up 1% of the day on SoFi. Grabby Grab 571, that's green. Google 253, that's green. Reddit, that's up. Amazon, that's up. Meta, that's flat. Salesforce is up. You pretty much got green across the board. PayPal's green. Apple's green. SMCI is green. BMR should be like 52, right? BMR 5204. 5204 for BMR. So, we are green on that as well. Uh, I don't know if Amcore trades overnight. Oh, no. Well, it got to move 3230. It's probably very low volume but up from 31 to 3238. Jensen literally mentioned AMC in an interview that he did today. So we'll we'll play the interview and we'll talk about it. But uh I I I you know even at this price trading at 1.15 time sales I I think there is some upside there if they can keep executing. Hims now got wrecked on Friday down 15%. It's recovering a little bit up 2.43%. Uh but this one did really take a hit. I think it was after the Trump comments around Ompic, but you know, there might have been some other issues with lawsuits that kind of just flood into the narrative. Eli Lily, that's flat on the day. Archer, Verizon, Archer's up 2%, Verizon's flag. GameStop's up a little bit. Oh, the Game Store um or GameStore, GameStop CEO, what's his name? Ryan Cohen, he'll be live tomorrow on uh TBPN, which is like this tech bros podcast thing. And uh he'll be live at 12 p.m. Eastern. I'm going to be curious to see kind of how he talks about GameStop. He hasn't done interviews in a long time. So, we'll see what Mr. Ryan Cohen has to say. Iran, Bitcoin miners, those got wrecked last week as well. Granted, they've had a phenomenal phenomenal year to date. Cipher, Clean, Spark, Wolf, all of them are pretty much green. Bit farm's up 10%. Look at that. Bitform's 550 from 5 to 550. Not too bad. Marathon's up two. Riots's up one. Galaxy's up 4.3%. Rare Earth stocks are green overnight. MP that's up. TMQ that's up. CRML that's up. LAC that is also up. Where is Rocket Lab? Are we at 70? Rocket Lab is at 67. ASTS I think closed at 83. We are now at 85. That's up 2.34% on the day. Um, that stock right there up 7% as well. Again, the financials last week crushed it outside of the regional banks, but the regionals that reported on Friday did not show that there was some systemic structural problem with credit even though that became the narrative. And that's kind of why I think the S&P recovered towards the end of the day on Friday. But KRE regional banking ETF that's also up a little bit as well. Snapchat, what do we got there? That is slightly green 770 up by about 5%. Talk to Invest Answers about Salana. We have DM'd. He's going to be on the channel eventually. We're just trying to find out the schedules. Uh I'm a fan of his channel. I mean he's he's been on the Bitcoin Salana Tesla thesis for a very long time. So we'll get him on eventually and hopefully we'll continue to get some updates on that. Google 253, S&P slightly green. I mean, not crazy crazy preaction. Walmart's flat, Lyft is up a little bit, the VIX is down, which is good to see. Iran again up 2%. Duolingo, so Duolingo was one of the companies I did a deep dive on. I have a lot a lot of respect for Duolingo after that deep dive and and the number one reason why is the section where I talk about their data advantage. Like as I was writing that and researching it, it made me realize, dude, big tech doesn't have the data advantage that Dualingo has. And I know that's crazy to say, but in this specific niche about language learning, I really do think there is a moat. Now, I go on to say at the end of the article why I I'm not establishing a position, but I I don't think people are going to be upset in five years buying dual like I think it will outperform the market, which is what you care about, right? I just it's not enough. It's not I'm not confident the value. If you go through the valuation section, it's not like, oh my goodness, this is the most compelling opportunity ever. Like that's just not it's just like the numbers show you that even if you, you know, really get a bit more aggressive on your multiples, maybe you're getting a 2x on this over the next 5 to 10 years, which is great, but it's not like in the age of AI, something that's so compelling when there's all these other infrastructure plays that are a little bit more solid than Duolingo and don't have to deal with the competitive threats. But I have a lot of respect, a lot of freaking respect for what Lewis has built um from a data perspective. And you know, it seems like they're probably going to continue to grow topline the way they've been growing. Lift right there, that's up about 1.3%. How about Uber? How's that doing? Uber is 9249. Okay, that's up 2% as well. Navitas, I don't think that trades overnight. Yeah, it doesn't trade overnight. You got a little bit of a jump, but a lot of that is not a ton of volume that's there. And then where's SoFi? Are we 27? So 527 of course of course it jumps when I'm trying to buy it. We'll see. Let's see if we get to freaking 2650. That's kind of my zone. If we don't then we'll buy it. I I don't want to pay more than you know 2850 for this. Realistically I would like to get in low 26s but let's see this week if we get an opportunity. Netflix is going to be a big earnings this week even with all the Elon backlash controversy they had for the past couple weeks. So we'll see if that can be recovered. 1202 Robin Hoodie 13250. They do. The NBA is coming back in two weeks. I mean, prediction markets have already been crushing it on Robin Hood when the when the I actually know a little bit about the NBA. I kind of don't know anything about football. So, I'm probably going to take some prediction market bets when basketball comes back and I think that's just going to keep ramping up the contracts for them. Also, I got some of you guys that DM'd me emails from Robin Hood. Uh, they are officially inviting people to their beta of banking. So, a couple of you guys emailed me the screenshot of Robin Hood inviting you to be inside of the beta for banking. So, I think maybe January, February is where they start to ramp up banking and they're trying to just make sure they have the logistics of it planned out. That's probably also why they've started giving out so many of these credit cards as like a precursor to get people into the banking system. So, that could be a nice tailwind going into Q4 of this year and then Q1 of next year. Pounder right there 17892. We'll talk about pounder as well. Sham Sanker CTO wrote a pretty spicy article for the Wall Street Journal in an op-ed. So, we'll talk about what he said. You got pounder right there that's up half a percent. Tesla's up half a percent. Then Nvidia is up.33% on the day. All right, that's what we got. Nothing too crazy. Nothing too crazy. Uh stocks are green, which is nice, but we're going to really see tomorrow kind of where it goes from there. Nebas as well at 100 14. Quantum's up again, dude. They they they weren't even that weak last week. I mean they they were like kind of weak. Some of them really got hit but the rest of them just like kept chugging along. So they have taken on a complete life a complete life of their own. Coreweave that stock 137. Uh and then BMR are we up a little bit more? BMR 5170. Okay. So just below 52. ETH and Bitcoin. Yeah they're flat. Bitcoin 109. Bitcoin did break out to 110 this morning. Now it's back at 108. And then Ethereum right there at 39.68. All right cool. Let's get into some headlines. I think we'll start off with Jensen, dude. Jensen did an interview on Fox this morning. Great interview. Uh said a lot of stuff that I think is really important. The big headline for uh Nvidia is that on Friday, this was after the market closed. I think right when the market close ended, we shared the headline. Uh Nvidia and TSMC have officially developed the wafer for the Blackwell chip in America for the first time ever. So this is what Jensen had to say about that and how he went further into the re-industrialization of America for semiconductors.
>> Sunday briefing. Honor to have you here.
>> It's great to be here, Peter.
>> So when President Trump first announced tariffs earlier this year, your company was hit pretty hard. On Friday, though, you announced that you're going to start making the wafers for AI chips in the United States. Can you tell us more about what your plan is? Yeah, this last week was a historic week. Uh we manufactured the most advanced AI chips in the world in the most advanced fab in the world here in America for the first time. Uh all of this started with President Trump wanting to reindustrialize the United States. His terrorist was a pressing uh agent in making this possible at this at the at the speed that we're doing. Jensen just said his tariffs were a pressing agent in making this happen. So you got Jensen giving Trump a lot of credit right there saying the tariffs are the reason why we're able to do this. That's probably what Trump wants to hear. It's, you know, good for Nvidia shareholders for him kind of staying aligned that way. And obviously for the American re-industrialization project around semiconductors, Jensen is leading the way. He's also glazing a bit, but you know, he's trying to get his company to 10 trillion, so it's what you got to do. And now at uh uh just in shortly after less than a year, we're now manufacturing the most advanced chips for AI here in the United States. This is just the beginning of it. Uh with the partnership of the supply chain in Taiwan, TSMC is in incredible partner in a strategic partner for United States and in bringing manufacturing of the most in most critical sector of technology here to to United States. Uh this is just the starting point where after that with Foxcon, Amcor, Spill, uh Wistron, so many of our other partners, we're going to bring the entire
>> Amcore mention. We got the Amcore mention. One of the only companies that can do packaging in the United States, works very closely with TSM. Trades at 1.15 time sales. I don't know if it's going to work out, but Jensen's not mentioning that many seven billion dollar companies in these interviews. entire supply chain of building AI infrastructure back here in the United States. By the end of uh the next three or four years, we'll probably manufacture we're on on target to manufacture about half a trillion dollars of AI supercomputing technology to be installed here in the United States.
>> And you were in Arizona at the plant on Friday. You said there that this is the single most important chip being produced in America. What does it do that makes you say that? Well, Nvidia is at the epicenter. We're the engine of the largest industrial revolution uh in human history. The last ones were steam engine, electricity, information technology. And now we're creating artificial intelligence, digital intelligence that augments all of the things that we do. It's going to affect every single industry. There's not one industry that's not affected by intelligence, of course. And so this is going to revolutionize every single industry. We're at the beginning of that industrial revolution. We've manufactured now several hundred billion dollars of this chip called Blackwell. You apply electricity to it. It processes you know information and what comes out of it is digital intelligence. It's a kind of a miracle thing and uh it's hard to understand kind of like electricity back in the old days. uh but soon AI will be everywhere uh in the world and it's going to be used by every company. It'll be used by every industry and this Blackwell chip is the engine of that artificial intelligence. And so we're super excited that we're manufacturing that for the very first time here in America.
>> In the last 3 years or so, and we can put this up on the screen, your company's stock is up 1,500% because of the surge in AI demand. Is that sustainable or are we in an AI bubble?
>> We're actually at the beginning of this industrial revolution. The way to think about AI is that in order for AI to be produced, you need a factory. That factory takes energy. This is one of the most important things that President Trump did for the technology industry here in the United States is to recognize that energy is necessary for this industry to grow. President Trump's pro-energy initiatives has made it possible for us to sustain our growth. You take the energy, you put it into these AI factories and it produces digital intelligence. We're about hundred couple hundred billion dollars into this journey. We have trillions of dollars of AI infrastructure to build throughout the next decade. And so this is a just in the very very beginning part of that journey. Uh we know that AI and you were just talking about this. It is going to replace millions of people's jobs basically in the next couple years. But you now are saying that the next generation of US millionaires are going to be plumbers and electricians. We have a lot of plumbers and electricians watching right now. Why is it that you say that they are going to become millionaires? Well, we're going to have to build these magnificent factories. Magn magnificent factories for chips, for packaging, for these AI supercomputers, but also for these factories that are producing digital intelligence. All of these factories requires extraordinary skilled craft. This is something that that uh our country needs to to really really celebrate that the the the the skill craft professions are are severely um uh underresourced. We just don't have nearly enough of them. Plumbers, electricians, uh technicians, networking networking technicians building out these incredible factories. We need a lot of them. Hundreds of thousands of them, maybe even millions of them. And so we're at the beginning of this new industrial revolution. And any industrial revolution requires skilled craft. And I really appreciate the the work that was done in Arizona. In fact, if you look at Arizona in just a very short period of time, we went from groundbreaking to standing up this incredible advanced fab with TSMC and all of the professionals and all the the workers in Arizona. uh they came together to build uh the world's first our first AI chip here in America. So I really appreciate all the effort they put into it. They worked around the clock. It's incredible what they've done.
>> And so I mean look, you've got Jensen obviously very bullish on this AI revolution. You know what else is he going to say? He's he's also talking his book. But Nvidia is putting up the growth to be able to justify that which is, you know, why it is more believable than not. Last week HSBC updated Nvidia or upgraded them to 320. uh they which would be a $7.5 trillion company. So you got a lot of the Wall Street firms saying, "Look, we agree with Jensen. It's not a bubble. We indeed are at the beginning. We think Nvidia is going to do 350 billion of revenue in 2027. The street's at 250. And we think they're going to do $11 of EPS. The street's at eight bucks. So if they were able to put up those numbers, like it just again doesn't really feel that the bubble argument has as much weight. Now, one argument to support, not the bubble argument, but rather the argument that maybe Nvidia is not going to be able to put up that growth is the lack of selling in China. Here's what Jensen said a couple days ago uh about China. Obviously, he's super bullish for America, and what he's saying about jobs, manufacturing, all of that is music to Trump's ears. But this was when he took a little bit of a different approach uh implicitly criticizing that Nvidia should be able to sell into China.
>> We hope that we could create American technology that the world's built upon. Well, a lot of the AI researchers are in China. You know, China has about 50% of the world's AI researchers. Uh, incredible schools, incredible focus in AI, lots of passion around AI. And I think it's a mistake to not have those researchers build AI on American technology
>> on first principles. I think that's a mistake. And so the question is how how do you balance winning staying ahead on the other hand ensuring that the world builds on American tech stack that's the balance and in order to balance you have to have nuance and it it's probably not you know all or nothing and so nuance a nuance strategy that that that um uh changes that that um uh you know is is a uh changing over time uh has a a you know that allows United States to stay ahead while we continue to win researchers around the world is probably the right balance and and that that's what I would advocate at the moment uh we are 100% out of China and so China is 0% of we went from 95% market share to 0%
>> and so I can't imagine any policy maker thinking that that's a good idea that whatever policy we implemented uh caused one of caused America to lose one of the largest markets in the world to 0%. But anyhow, in all of our forecast, if there are any shareholders out there, all of our forecast, we're we're assuming zero zero for China. If anything happens in China, which I hope it will, it'll be a bonus. But it's a large market. Uh China is the second largest computer market in the world. So look, he wants to sell into China and the reason he wants to sell into China is obviously to, you know, help Nvidia's growth, but also because he does believe and I think Jensen is pretty authentic about this. I mean, like, yes, obviously he wants to increase Nvidia's earnings, but he does also think that the Chinese are very sophisticated. He has a lot of respect for the Chinese and if another deepseek moment happens which who knows anything could happen and it's not being built on Nvidia but it's China that's getting the upper hand that obviously would not be a good thing for American manufacturing and American technology. Now Sham Sanker CTO of Palunteer he wrote an article uh on Friday and the title is why the China dubs are wrong. the original title why it was Jensen Huang is wrong about China and I think that got a lot of well it got a lot of clicks got a lot of people seeing what Sham is saying but they kind of changed it to why the China dub is wrong. I think the print version came out with uh the actual headline which is what was the one it was uh Jensen Jensen Huang is wrong about China. Yeah. So look what what did Sham say if you read the article? It's not really a critique of Jensen per se. It's not even like a hey Nvidia sucks or anything. Sham clarified his thoughts after he posted the article saying Nvidia is a great you know American company. It's rather the question of dude this is not a joke like we are in a moment with China that if we don't figure out how to resolve it aka create all of the stuff that we need to we need to create for ourselves to survive which is semiconductors first and foremost pharmaceuticals labor that can't be outsourced and ruin American jobs. All of that stuff is super super important. And as you can see, Shawn right here said, "Nvity is a great American company and Jensen is a great American entrepreneur who cares deeply about our country. This is about the CCP and what they continue to do to undermine America." If you listen to Palmer Lucky on Joe Rogan, he said, "Uh, China's invading Taiwan by 2027." Now, I don't know if that's going to happen. I really hope it doesn't because that would suck. But they're going to have a lot of problems to worry about when it comes to the forget the stock market. We're just going to have a bunch of issues. But like if that were to happen, you know, this this is not even a discussion anymore. We would be in a full-on war and that would not be the best situation to be in. So I think what Sham has been trying to say and what he's been talking about really for the past couple years now is the Chinese Communist Party is not someone that we can easily negotiate with and we have to have a hardline stance which I would imagine he is uh on the side of Trump in terms of how aggressive he's being with China and to Sham who probably you know might not have the same type of interest as an Nvidia shareholder. I don't know if Sham owns Nvidia or not, but he might be thinking, look, the justification of Nvidia selling chips to increase the American tech stack is not a good enough justification for America giving out our technology. There's a counter perspective to that, but I, you know, some people on Twitter tried to frame it as like Sham saying we need to get into a war with China, and you can obviously tell they didn't read the article. I don't think anyone would be advocating for a war and Sham did not advocate for a war but rather he said look there are some serious structural issues and we need to talk about that in a way that is not the most dovish about China which I think is very important and you know for those that think it's fear-mongering okay but Russia did invade Ukraine like if and if if you for anyone who really thinks it's fear mongering you should watch the 60 Minutes CBS uh episode on Taiwan they did this I think late 23 early 24 might have been mid 2023 it's it's on YouTube just type in CBS60 Minutes Taiwan and you'll have the head officials from the defense ministry to the prime minister saying it is not a question of if it is a question of when. So they take it very seriously. You know we in the west tend to be a little bit more subsidized from having to worry about that stuff but it's definitely not something that you know shouldn't be worried about. So regardless you got Jensen advocating for American manufacturing but you also have Jensen advocating for Nvidia being able to sell into China. I don't know if we're going to get to sell into China. I quite frankly think Trump is holding on to that last bargaining chip metaphorically and literally that he has with the Chinese which is Nvidia. There's probably a reason they you know we haven't fully lifted the export controls and until we get to a meaningful negotiation I don't think we're going to which might take until mid 2026. So that 60 billion potential guide that Jensen gave out for if we get China revenue that's not happening in Q3. I think it would be very unlikely. maybe second half of 2026 if the China stuff is resolved, but ultimately we're going to have to see how this ends up playing out. So, that's what we have on Nvidia and that's what we've got going on. All right, we got a bunch of other headlines. Let's get into those and we'll see what else we got going on. Again, the Amcor mentioned was also pretty cool. Um, it was nice to see Amcore, $7 billion company, get that mention. Again, there's not many companies in the supply chain in America in particular, and Amcore is one of them. By the way, before we move on to some of these headlines, I did want to play this video cuz I don't think any of us, at least this video was new to me, have seen what it looks like to build these chips. This is inside TSM's factory in America. Uh, and I think it's worth just taking a look at what actually happens to build all these semiconductors.
>> Our clean room is just massive. I get goosebumps. The first hallway that you find is what we call the silver highway.
>> What we're looking at right now is the automated material handling system. We have about 700 unified pods that carry the wafers.
>> They're flying through the fab [Music] and they're just speeding up and down and zipping left and right, going everywhere, going to a tool, dropping it down. I use them every single day for thousands of my wafers going to anything. As far as how to make a semiconductor, I think it's still kind of magic to a lot of people.
>> In each one of these machines, there is a lot of high-tech going on. Plasma ignites. Molecules and atoms move around. We can fit billions of transistors on a single chip. One transistor is 10 to 20,000 times smaller than a human hair.
>> To be able to do this is incredibly difficult. We are tricking light using extreme ultraviolet technologies to be able to print line widths at that geometry. It really blows the mind. You stand in front of something that has as many transistors as the stars in a galaxy. To make these chips exist, we try to make the impossible possible. This is the job of an engineer here.
>> All the technology that we take for granted, it would not have been made possible without semiconductors. Everything around us has a chip inside it.
>> All that we use, the way we live, the way we work, those chips, guess what? TSMC makes most of those.
>> The technology that we're working on here is the building block of so many innovations going on around the world right now.
>> This technology is making AI a real thing. You need these really advanced chips for those that nobody else can make but TSMC. It's quite incredible, dude. It's quite freaking incredible. We get to be alive during the time where this is happening. And this is the worst it's ever going to be. The chips, this is the worst the chips are ever going to be. This is the worst the results of what the chips produce, aka the tokens and the actual intelligence is going to be. Like, it's only getting better from here. It's only getting more sophisticated from here. It's only developing in more uh intricate ways in regards to the manufacturing process from here. And as a result, we as investors, I think, have one of the greatest opportunities of a lifetime. I mean, you need for a industrial revolution, you need the excitement of the output of that revolution, in this case AI, and you also need the excitement from an investor base that is willing to take a bet on that future. And you know, based on what Jensen says, he thinks we're in the very beginning of that journey. Now, the stock prices may not feel like we're in the beginning of that journey, which is why you have all the talk of the bubble, but if the earnings continue to grow, and we're going to, you know, find out this week how much these earnings are growing, TSM, TSM, MT, and uh TSMC and ASML already kind of gave us a glimpse of how much it's not slowing down. Again, 57% of TSM's revenue was high margin GPU chips, not cell phones, which is just going to show you that this business really isn't slowing down. And again, if you listen to the earnings call, they continue to say that this is not a demand problem. This is them being able to build out as many fabs as possible to make this happen. So, it's pretty cool. It's pretty cool. Relle says, "This is the worst it's ever going to be, only if we're not killed by a meteor." Yes. You know, I had a dream. I had a dream last night that a nuclear bomb was dropped. And I don't know what it is about my dreams. I have had, dude, since I was freaking 14 years old, I've had this dream that a nuclear bomb is dropped. And that that wakes you up, right? Because you're not really allowed to die in your dream. And I've had this dream like three or four times that someone drops a nuke and then the you know when like when a nuke explodes like it it it re re what's the word? Re reverbates. That's probably not the word, but like it it starts spreading and then eventually it's going to spread to you, right? And you're going to like disintegrate because it's going to kill you. And as soon as it gets ready to come to me and you see the light, boom, I wake up and I wake up and I'm like, "Well, that wasn't pleasant. Someone just dropped a nuke." Like, I don't know why this has happened in my dream so many times, bro. But it's a shock wave. That's what it's called, but it's happened. No way. I've had this, too. Maybe some of you guys have have felt this, but I don't know. It's weird. But the the crazy thing is like if we don't have a crazy pandemic again or or a nuclear war or China invading Taiwan, I mean the next 10 years should be relatively strong in terms of the overall GDP growth of society. Yeah, the mushroom cloud. And if that's the case, um you know, hopefully this is what hopefully this is how it ends up playing out to be pretty exciting. I did not watch Terminator 2 yet, even though so many of you guys say it's a better movie than not. Jose says nukes time to go long. Maybe that's maybe it's telling me to just buy Oaklo, bro. Maybe that's what my dreams have been. I mean, been having these dreams for a while. Know about Oaklo for a while, so I might as well have pulled the trigger there. Oaklo down about 1% right there. But again, it's it's it's one of those things where as long as we don't have some massive screw-up globally and some world war like this is a revolution that is happening in front of us and everyone wants to be part of it. the Chinese, the Japanese, the the Middle Eastern, I mean like everyone across the world understands this is the next growth curve and everyone's trying to hop onto it. By the way, the Nikkay up 1.5%. So very nice to see Japanese markets up 1.5. Year to date, Japan up 23% absolutely crushing the S&P. We'll see how the S&P performs towards the end of the year if we can get back uh back to back to back 20% years, three in a row. But you got the NK that is green as well. All right. So, uh, that's what we had with Jensen. Oh, last thing I'll say on this, this, we'll get on to all the other macro headlines. Here was Trump this morning about China and what he's thinking going into this negotiation.
>> I'm wondering what China is thinking right now. Did Xi Jinping congratulate you about the success of the peace deal?
>> Well, I heard he did. There was a statement put out, but
>> because in the middle of
>> a meeting with him,
>> he squeezed the US by tightening the export controls on rare earth minerals.
>> He did. and I raised our tariffs to 100% uh on top of what they're already paying, which is far worse. Far worse. We'll see what happens with China. I've always had a great relationship with them, as you know, but uh they're always looking for an edge. You know, they ripped off our country for years. They they made with with uh Bush, with everybody. They made Obama was terrible. Terrible. And you know, I I I really liked Ronald Reagan. I loved him as a president, but he was not good on trade. He really wasn't good on trade. On trade, he wasn't good. But he was uh good in many ways. But I will tell you that China in particular, boy, they did a number on our country. They would they they took money out. Now it it's reversed. I mean, you know, we're doing very well with China. I don't know what's going to happen. I can't tell you. We're going to meet in a couple of weeks. We're going to meet in South Korea actually with President Xi and other people too. But we're going to meet we have separate meeting set up.
>> If you put that 100% tariff on top of what's in place already 157% tariff on China, can that stand? What is that going to do to the economy?
>> It's not sustainable, but um that's what the number is. It's probably not. You know, it could stand. But uh they forced me to do that. I think we're going to do fine with China. I get along great with him. He's a very strong leader, a very uh, you know, amazing man. You look at what he's done and what he's, you know, where he's his life is is an amazing story. It's a story.
>> All right. So, the point is, you can tell in that clip. I mean, he doesn't sound the most aggressive with China right there. His tweets last week were a bit more aggressive in regards to, I'm going to tariff them 100% and they can't keep doing this to us and we're not buying the soybeans. And then in that interview this morning, he's like, "Well, you know, I like China. I'll figure out a way to work with them. I think everything will be okay." So, I think that's another reason the markets, at least the futures right here, are relatively flat to green. I mean, no one's necessarily freaking out as much about China as they were during the week. And if you do freak out about it, I mean, it seems like the market will be a very temporary freakout because they know that we need China. China needs us. Uh, on Thursday night, China said decoupling from the US would be irrational and not possible. So you got the Chinese foreign ministry as well not saying that you know they want to decouple from us because they can't and they know they can't. And so I think that threat of whatever people think could you know really mess up this rally is out there. It's possible but it might not be as meaningful as some people think. Tesla right there 442 that's up 63%. You got pound share up8 and then Robin Hood 131.80. We do have a report right here from Bloomberg saying Trump mentions US is thinking about purchasing beef from Argentina. that came out literally four minutes ago. Uh Trump might be talking to the press near Air Force One. So we might get some footage probably in like 10 20 minutes from that and we might get some more quotes. But Bloomberg says Trump is thinking of purchasing beef from Argentina. Probably a little bit more leverage he's trying to gain on China. And that is one update we have from Trump. I didn't know Argentina was a big exporter of beef. I mean, didn't Trump Trump Yeah. Trump on Tuesday or Thursday said that we're gonna get the beef prices down dramatically. So, maybe Argentina is going to be key to to getting those beef prices down. All right, so let's get into let's get into some of the other headlines we got going on and we will keep going from there. I mean, we got a little bit of red in the futures right here, but again, futures were relatively flattish to green to start uh when we got into overnight. So, you got the S&P going down 46 cents. I mean, it's wasn't up that much in the first place, but 663 right there on the S&P and that one's slightly right. Is Bitcoin giving up 108, Bitcoin 107? Yeah, look, here's the thing before we get into headlines. I think the the playbook for this week is I mean, let's do a poll right here in the chat. But, um, I think it's gonna be choppy, dude. Instead of October, I think we're having Choptober. I think we are having Choptober. Green or red this week. And the reason for that is because a October tends to be volatile and we had two really good months, August, September. So we're kind of due for some choppiness. And then b it's like we need a lot more good news to start of culminating and intersecting with each other for the uh excitement I think that it would take for us to get to 7,000 on the S&P. And you know, we listened to Tom Lee on Friday. He had a bunch of different arguments for why S&P 7,000 is still intact. I agree with a far majority of them. But I think the number one thing we're missing right now, we need earnings, bro. We need earnings. We need really good earnings. And until we get those earnings, I don't know if we're necessarily going to even have a chance to expand the multiple. Now, the bank earnings have been good. A couple tech companies have put up good earnings, but Google, Microsoft, Amazon, I mean, these are the guys that really have to show that there's not an issue, that there's not a threat of a bubble. Although you did, I mean, we'll get into this when we talk about the headlines, but Satia Nadella said some stuff over the weekend that got a lot of people wondering about OpenAI. Um, but yeah, I think it's going to be choppy this week. I don't know. I have no idea. I mean, a lot of us thought October would be green, but then again, a lot of us also recognized that September and August were so green that we probably were due for somewhat of a pullback. And look, 670 to 663 is just not the biggest pullback in the world. It just is more painful because we haven't experienced it in so long. And so I think emotionally we just have to learn how to navigate it. But like logically this is nothing. 670 to 663 if we go back to 655 that's just it's nothing. It literally is nothing. It's what happens all the time. And so until we see some major levels break you know 640 and below the chop is likely healthy which hopefully sets us up for a good November December. All right let's get into some headlines. Uh, this one a lot of people are going to be surprised by. A lot of people are going to say a three-letter word as soon as I say it, but nonetheless, uh, here it is. Chamath, Don Trump Jr., and Laura Ingram are launching a new spa. Did Did you Didn't think you'd be hearing that tonight, did you? You didn't think you'd be hearing that tonight. The spa is in the the Cayman Islands. Uh, Lauren Ingram, for those that don't know, she has a show on Fox. Don Trump Jr. is Trump's son and then Chamath is the the king of Spaxs. Um it is called Colombia Acquisition Corp. Uh none of these three people will be the CEO. Omid Malik will be the CEO. He has ties to all three of these people and uh mainly Don Jr. I mean it seems like Don Jr. is the one who's kind of spearheading the effort on this. I don't know why Chimat's in it. I don't know why Lauren Ingram is in it, but they're in it. Blake Masters, he's a very close confidant of Peter Teal. He's on the board of directors as well. Like it's very confusing who they pulled together to do this, but they're doing it. And I went on the uh SEC filing and I command FedEd casino because Chimat's last spack had a warning that was no crying in the casino. And when I command FedEd it, I got zero for zero. Meaning there's not a you can't see the command F right there, but if you try to command F, I'll put the link right here in the chat. There is no warning to retail investors that you cannot cry in the casino. I thought there might be a warning, but there is no warning. So, this is not the same chamat that he's leading American Exceptional Corporation, which is actually a much better deal. He doesn't get paid unless the stock moves up 50%. There's no additional warrants. There can't be any dilution. Like, there is a lot of guard rails that were way better than 2021. This [ __ ] I don't know what's going on with this [ __ ] Like, I saw this headline today and I was just like, "Okay, so I guess these three are are bringing some innovative company to the uh to the masses here. So, look, I know people want to say top here, but the the point is if this thing goes to zero, it probably doesn't affect the other parts of the market, but the fact that this is here, I don't know, dude. Like, what what could they possibly be bringing public? Like, like what is it going to is it going to be another grab a gun? Is it going to be another gun shop online comp? Like, it's going to be a media network for conservatives. like what is this? Cayman Islands already is just like okay. So it's like I don't know. It's it's going to be kind of weird, but we'll see whenever that ends up coming out. There's no ticker, by the way. There's no ticker, but the official name is Colombia Acquisition Corp. And when we get the ticker, we'll probably get some more updates on this. It was filed October 17th, so it was filed two days ago. And uh those are the details. All right, so a Bitcoin casino. I mean, maybe. Why not, right? Why freaking not a Bitcoin casino? All right, let's get to some other headlines. Gold. So, gold now accounts for over 20% of global central bank reserves, the highest share we've seen in nearly three decades. Gold has been crazy. Uh I think all of us are still kind of struggling to understand what is happening with gold. Why is it running in the way that it's running? And a lot of the reason quite frankly is not only because of Tether trying to tokenize gold, which is something we discussed last week, but also the idea of central banks thinking that gold is the new treasury or the the the quote unquote new US 10-year Treasury. And because of how liquid gold is becoming, because of how many inflows are coming into gold, especially from retail investors as well, that you know, if you go to your local Costco, their gold bars are just getting sold out every single day. It's quite incredible to see this playing out. The fact that central bank gold holdings are rising to me could be potentially putting out the argument that gold is not just becoming a trade. Gold is becoming a legitimate way that central banks are thinking of assets. And as a result, you know, a lot of people are saying there's a bubble in gold. Maybe there's not. If it has that much liquidity, maybe it's not. Now, gold did tank tank. Look, I'm becoming like you guys, bro. Saying tank over everything. Gold is up a little bit right now, but gold did go down from like 4380 down to 4238. I mean, so it is down a little bit, but still up 7 of 65% for the year. Silver from 53 to 51, not that big of a deal. Still at 51. I don't know. I don't know. If gold is this much a part of central bank reserves, I don't know what slows it down outside of people feeling that, you know, outside of people getting so euphoric about gold that it becomes a legit bubble or the idea that gold um the the idea that gold is not as attractive as an investment opportunity because maybe, you know, it's run up so much people are just not interested. I mean, the fact that Bitcoin is up 20% this year and freaking gold is up 70%. Goes to show you how insane this rally has been. So either it's going to attract more and more inflows on dips or people are going to say you know what gold is just not the space I should be in because you know why would I waste my time being in gold given how much it's run but ultimately we're going to have to see how it plays out. Here's a clip from the compounding friends talking with an expert on commodities on what's going on with gold and then we'll keep going from there.
>> This we've never seen this before.
>> I mean I I am I am you can't not be surprised at the velocity. Gold is up 60% on the year.
>> Well, the the velocity of the move that's taken place just over the last 3 to 6 weeks is is absurd. I mean, it's in a good way. It that's got to be a little surprising for anybody. But, I mean, you go back to the turn of the year and you start seeing what was bubbling up in gold and and we get to 3000 and and you see Trump policies and you see the ddollarization. um you see the central bank buying consistently central bank buying uh and uh basil 3 you know which actually took effect in July of 2025 so it's now officially a tier one asset on central bank balance sheets you look at that I mean our thesis was gold's going to go to 5,000 we just didn't think that this is going to happen this
>> it would happen by Christmas
>> yeah okay that seems to be the trajectory that we're on
>> yeah there no one's selling
>> well there well there is no reason to sell I mean the most of the buying is coming from central banks and they're putting on their balance sheet and it's a move away from the dollar and there's there's you know we think there's proof that that China has understated their their gold reserves by 20%.
>> You think they're quietly accumulating
>> quietly? Oh yeah, certainly. And okay and so I I I think if gold and I've sat I've sat down with a with a a CEO in in the gold mining space and he asked me, Bill, what would make this what would what would what would ruin this? What what could make it go down?
>> What would ruin this uptrend in gold?
>> Yeah. And and I and I I I said at the end of the day, I I don't know what would because the massive selling that would take this away would have to come from central banks and they're not selling. What we could get though, I mean, we could certainly get a 10% and this at the time gold was at 3500 to 3,700 or so is just breaking out and yeah, we could get a 10% move, you know, probably if just deleveraging. Maybe at this point it could be a 20% move. I was going to tell you the only thing that ruins this is a global recession where these central banks are forced to sell gold in order to do stimulus in their own countries because that is literally what ended the gold bull market in 2011.
>> So Josh is absolutely right about that. In 2011 when you had more stimulus a lot of these central banks had to end up selling gold to be able to finance the stimulus. if we avoid a global recession, which I mean, who knows? But if we do for the next couple years, and you know, the reason the gold bubble popped in 2011 and didn't even recover until 2020 is because of a recession. If we avoid a recession, maybe gold really doesn't need a reason to get liquidated. European sovereigns, Asians, or they all so like,
>> but how does that change if it's a tier one asset now on their balance sheet? It is as good as cash.
>> Yes. But if you need the money, you need the money.
>> Yeah.
>> The other thing that could end it is if people get too excited about gold.
>> Yeah.
>> Like big leverage coming in on the long side. I don't know. Phil Phil probably has like better better guesses than I do, but like it it eventually does end, but it doesn't have to end for 10 years. Like there's no
>> it could be a big cycle here right now.
>> It could be a big deal, right?
>> It definitely. And I and I I think what could end it? I mean, there could obviously be a number of things. And you look back even co and I remember that it was like the first week of March whenever that Monday coming out of the oil Saudi Arabia and Russia oil news and oil's down 10 bucks. Gold made a high that morning but then within weeks and in the co shutdowns it was I think 300 bucks. I think it was 1,700 to,400. And so gold really sniffs out inflation and it doesn't it may not react how you would expect during the inflation. Like in 2022, Fed's hiking rates, the dollar is strengthening, gold was whacked, but it smells inflation. So it's going to it's going to see it and it's going to react prior to the inflation. So I would say what we're seeing right now potentially could be more inflation but then you're also getting the GDPs of of Germany and Japan and things like that that the dollar is actually rising in and over this last week last couple of weeks when gold's been breaking out which is a pretty interesting phenomena.
>> That's rare.
>> Now the weird thing about this is again and this is what we were talking about with Chris on macro Thursday he was saying hey you know gold going up is a sign of inflation. The problem is the tenure is coming down and so the tenure is up a little bit right now but we were below 4% and the the tenure coming down is a sign of the the credit market saying we don't think inflation is going to rise as aggressively and we want to lock in our rate. We're not, you know, commanding a premium from the the the bond market on giving us a better interest rate because we think inflation is going up and so they're locking in their rates which is why bonds are coming down as more people buy them. But gold's going up which is the exact opposite thesis. So it's weird, right? It's like it's it's just like it's a very weird set of events that have happened. Gold usually doesn't go up 70% in a year. Neither does silver. Copper is up, I think, 30% this year. And and you know, one could argue that yes, a lot of these commodities are going to be needed as well in data centers, which is a fair point. Uh but I think, you know, the large majority of these central banks that are buying it aren't really buying it on the data center thesis. So, you know, it's something to keep track of if you own silver and gold. I mean, you've had a really good year. I know a lot of people are more into tech stocks and equities and not necessarily into commodities. I'm, you know, definitely not a commodities investor. I I need to learn a lot more about them. But this has been a historic year, an absolute historic year. And yeah, platinum all-time highs as well. And it's pretty incredible to see this happening in front of us. IN right there up 5% the overnight markets. Futures flip green. S&P goes green again almost 665. Nvidia slightly red. Tesla's up. Pounder's up. Hood is up. You got all these names that are starting to go back green. All right, Tesla. Let's talk about Tesla. So, we've got earnings coming up on Wednesday. Uh, I'm going to put a poll right here in the chat. By the way, about 70% of you said we would go green for the week. So, we're going to see how this ends up playing out. Tesla pump or dump. We'll do a bunch of these pumper dumps before the actual earnings. What do we think? Pump or dump on Tesla. Tesla's stock year to date was lagging heavily until the past month. It is now only up 15% year-to- date. It was down at 1.40%. So, the fact that it's up is good. Um, here's my perspectives on Tesla. First of all, I finally updated to 13.2.9 on FSD, um, which is not 14, but I don't have 14 available yet. Hopefully, I get FSD 14 soon. I will say, uh, the nagging, which has been my biggest gripe with FSD for the past couple of weeks, really past couple months, quite frankly, is starting to get way better. I mean, and I don't know if it was just me, but on the previous version, you couldn't even glance at your phone. like you glance at it while it was charging on in the Tesla and you would get a warning to pay attention. And now I actually pick up my phone, I can check a text message, I can change the song when I'm looking at music or I can look outside if there's some scenery and when I, you know, look back at the road, I don't have this massive warning telling me to pay attention. It's gotten a lot better. A lot better. And I'm only on 13.2.9, so I would imagine 14 is even better than this. But uh I am a very very happy owner of a Tesla as for the past couple days of not having to deal with the absolute nonsense that was you look away for two se not even two seconds two milliseconds and boom you get hit with a warning. So I think that's really good that has changed. Now does that actually affect the earnings? Probably not because you know FSD is not something that they're selling like hotcakes yet. Uh I think what's going to affect the earnings is the is the delivery. So they delivered basically 500,000 cars, 497,000 um and that was better than expected. The problem is I think everyone has already baked those into their estimates. So the street for this earnings is expecting negative growth year-over-year again. However, the earnings they're expecting are 44 cents of EPS and 26.5 billion of revenue. There have been some EPS revisions to the upside, about 17 of them over the past couple months. So you do have analysts getting a little bit more bullish, but um I don't know, dude. I I I don't want to be super bearish Tesla. I just don't know if anything Elon can say will be enough to actually get this to move. The fact that the compensation package is going to be voted on and likely go in Elon's favor. The fact that he bought a billion dollars worth of stock. I mean, I think those two things and then the fact that they had 497,000 deliveries because of the EV credit going away and so they really took advantage of that. I think all three of those things are priced in and it really helped Tesla get from 330 where it was stuck at now into the 400s and now it's kind of you know in that 420 to 450 range and I would love to you get your perspectives as well from the chat. What could Elon possibly say no not forget Elon because Elon can say anything and then the stock can go up or down. What can Tesla the company do on Wednesday that will actually get the stock to blast into the I don't know 470s 480s like 480 was where it was at December I guess alltime highs we'll frame it like that and and I don't know do people have high expectations because I don't I really don't and I don't know if I should but just using Elon's words from last quarter he said don't expect a ton of growth until the end of 2026 and so I think a lot of the move on Tesla right now is the compensation package, the XAI shareholder vote potentially coming true and uh Elon buying a billion dollars of stock. I don't think it's really fundamentals. And so the question then becomes, you know, what can they put up? Energy is going to be good, but energy doesn't lead to the bottom line significantly. Um again, the deliveries are already baked in, so people already know how much they're going to deliver. It's still going to be negative year-over-year in terms of earnings growth. And then revenue is going to be negative as well. They still have, you know, they're going to probably have 38 billion in cash when they report. They're not going to do a buyback. We know that's not happening. Yes, optimist. And I've been I've been saying like this like a broken record over the past couple of at this point I would say five quarters that Elon needs to announce an LOI, a letter of an intent, a letter of intent with a Walmart that is ready to buy 100,000 Optimus. Just even the announcement of a Walmart or a Marta Libre or any of these major companies in their factories are ready to to to you know buy hundreds of thousands of optimism. I mean it doesn't even have to be revenue. could just be a little email that the CEO of Marta Libre sends Elon like, "Hey, if you if you get it ready for us, we're ready to buy it because they would be ready to buy it." I mean, they would obviously love to have that infrastructure inside of their their their ecosystem and supply chain, but you know, it's not ready yet. The robot can't really do anything yet, but I don't that would be exciting for him to announce like he did with the semis. Okay. So, yeah, like look, people are waiting for a lot of things. And then the other catalyst that we didn't even mention is the new affordable vehicles, quote unquote, that are not affordable in my opinion at all. I mean, is that going to be something that can get the stock to go up? No, not really. I don't think so. I mean, if you're going to pay 36,000 for a Model Y, you might as well pay 40,000 for like I really I thought that was just a weird thing that Tesla did. And it kind of goes against what their mission is, which is get people into the car and then monetize them with FSD. Like a $4,000 retracement on it's I I don't know. I really don't know. And I'm not even trying to be bearish here. I don't think the stock has to tank because everything's baked in. So if they have negative earnings growth, it's like, okay, we already knew they were going to be negative. But does the stock have to explode? I don't know what would the company do that could possibly get it to explode outside of Elon making people feel happy while he's talking during the earnings call, which he does every time. And then in a couple days, people are like, well, Elon says a lot of stuff. So I don't know. We're going to have to see. But Mega Pac major beat mega mega pack. Yeah, mega pack could beat by like two 300%. It's not going to change the bottom line, right? I think that's the issue. You know, they could grow energy instead of 120% by like 190%. It's just like it's going to add very incremental net income. It's just not going to make a deal. So, as bullish as unless energy, you know, unless energy, unless you know, all this data center energy stuff we've been talking about, Tesla obviously is an energy play and Tesla's going to benefit from all the data center hype around energy, which is not really hype. and we need a lot of energy. But could they come out with a, you know, 800% beat? Could they come out with like one of those Nvidia May 2023 quarters and say, "Yeah, you guys expected us to do 1 billion. We did 10 billion." Could could that actually be because even if that doesn't, you know, lead to the bottom line significantly. Just that alone on the headline could get people to think, wait a second, why am I buying all these stupid random energy stocks that barely have why am I not buying Tesla as the energy play? I mean, that could be the wild horse here, but I but but we already know how many gigawatts they uh they deployed in in 12.6, I think it was, which is up double year-over-year. So, again, you we kind of already know the answer to that. It's not going to be that massive, but we're going to see. We're going to see where it plays out. And then you have to add a flat option. It's always pump or dump. It's always pump or dump. You got to make a choice. 52% of you say dump even though it's probably going to go flat to be for this stock. It's probably I mean I think flat would be the best scenario to be honest but then again I don't think it needs to dump like why does it have to like if the street's willing to give it a premium for all the different reasons that are not related to this to the company itself then that's fine and people are willing to pull forward the growth before FSD and Optimus ramp that's so I don't think it needs to go back down to 330 by any sense of the imagination but I also don't think it needs to go you know up to 500. So, Wednesday we'll be live and we're going to see uh we're gonna see how this ends up playing out. Well, that's what we got on Tesla. I will say my own personal opinion here, the people that are upset that Elon is like getting this compensation package, I don't understand it. Elon gets paid if he takes a company that's worth a trillion to 10 trillion, give or take a little bit on the exact numbers, but that's the point. He's got to 10x the stock and people are complaining that he's going to make a trillion dollars. It's like, okay, but you're going to make 10x, too. If you buy at these levels, whether it's, you know, maybe 7.5x, 8x on the exact numbers, you are going to substantially increase your investment at the same time that Elon's going to be getting all this money. So, like, what are we talking about here? How is this even a concern? This is the most shareholder friendly package that I think we've ever seen on Wall Street. And it's very similar to the 2018 package, which he completely delivered on. S&P by the way, 665, high of days in the overnight markets. So, I don't know why people are that upset. I don't know if they just hate Elon or they think he doesn't deserve the money. I mean, like, I guess the trillion dollar package is what's triggering people, but I'm like, you're going to also 10x your investment. Like, he has to get a lot of [ __ ] done for him to make a trillion dollars, but you will also benefit by sitting back and doing nothing and just letting him figure it out. And, you know, even if he only 2x's or 3xes it and he doesn't qualify for the trillion, you're still up two to 300%. Like I don't understand how it can logically be an issue outside of him not executing, which is possible, but if he does, he deserves to get paid. So, I don't know. I don't know why there's so many people that are upset about it, but I do think that uh that should work out. BMR right there, 5134, that's up 2.9%. ELF down a little bit, Apple down a little bit. ETH trying to push 4,000 again, 3939. And then Bitcoin back up to 108. Okay, we got some Trump quotes. Do we have the video yet? Let me see. We are getting some Trump quotes in. Um, he must have been talking. Oh, he's he's probably leaving Mara Lago and that's where he was probably talking on Air Force One. Okay, we got some quotes. Soybean quotes. All right, soybean quotes. May maybe Oh, that's why that's why the S&P just went green. Okay, here are the quotes. Here are the quotes. Okay, we got a lot of quotes, dude. We got a lot of quotes. All right, here we go. You guys can see this. All right. Uh, Trump says US is considering buying beef from Argentina. Trump will announce Colombia tariff rate tomorrow. Trump speaks to reporters aboard Air Force One. Okay, that's what I thought on the plane. Uh, Trump says Modi had told him he's not going to be doing the Russian oil thing. Trump says India will continue to pay massive tariffs if they don't restrict Russian oil purchases. Okay, a little bit of hostility with oil or with India. Trump says, "Do not want China to pay rare earth game with us." Trump says we can lower what China has to pay in tariffs, but China has to do things for us, too. Aka, we're willing to negotiate. That's bullish. Trump confident of reaching soybean deal with China. Okay. The soybeans took away uh Wednesday's green close from us and they're giving us a Sunday overnight green overnight market open green as uh as Trump gets friendly on the soybeans. Look at that. S&P 66530. Nvidia's up, Tesla's up, pounders up, hoodie's up. Even Grab is moving 2% on this. Reddit's up. Amazon's up. Dude, we better enjoy it now. I don't know if we're ever going to have a market cycle with a president like this. I don't know if we're ever going to have the ability to lose money and make money in such a fragile and uh I guess I guess spontaneous way than with Trump as president. This is what we got. This is what we got. All right. So Trump saying good stuff. Confident of reaching soybe soybean deal with China. We can lower the China tariffs. China has to do things for us too. Trump just says China does not should not play rare earth game with us. All three of those things to me seem relatively bullish in getting a deal with these guys. They're going to be meeting November 1st in Seoul. So hopefully by the end of the year we can like definitively finally have a deal with China and we can put this past maybe. But hopefully that's what's going to happen. All right, so that's what we got. I'll see if I can get some of that footage in a bit. should be probably posted in like 10 minutes and then uh we can see what Trump we can see what Trump had to say. Um okay, so let's go to Oh, I already got some clips right here. Hold on. I already got some clips. Do I have the soybean clip? No, I don't have the soybean clip. Okay, I have a couple clips, but not the soybean one. So, we'll when that's posted, we'll uh we'll pull it up. All right, so some other headlines. Uh leveraged ETFs. We talked about this last week. Leverage ETFs continue to grow massively. Uh we are at an all-time high on the number of leveraged equity ETFs that are out there. As you can see right there, October 2025 all the way from 2011. We have never had these many leveraged ETFs. Now, last week the big headline was 5x leveraged ETFs are getting ready to come into the system, which is going to be kind of crazy. um 5x leverage. If the stock goes down 10%, you know, the the the the ETF would go down 50%. However, adding to the leverage quite literally is this stat that came out over the weekend as well, which is the expansion of margin loans. So, US margin debt has hit 1.13 trillion, which is a new all-time high. In 2021, it was 900 billion. So, we are well above the 2021 highs of margin debt. Now, why does this matter? Well, if things start going down and people get margin called, they will have to sell equities to cover their margin and that creates an onslaught of more selling. Every time we've had historical margin highs, as you can see on the chart, it was a top March 2000, July 2007, July 2007, May 2018 that started, you know, the 20% decline going into the end of the year. Um, October 2021, and now September 2025. Now, do we need to have a cataclysmic crash because margin is higher this time? I don't necessarily think so. At the end of the day, we've already covered a lot of the nuances between this market in 2021. I think two weeks ago, I went on an entire rant about 2021's promise of technology. It was web 3.0. 0 which was absolute garbage compared to AI. So like there's a reason people are going on margin to buy these tech stocks because they see the actual growth potential and so obviously there is a fundamentally differentiated way of thinking of the nature of this market but nonetheless it's not something to ignore when there's that much margin in the system. There's going to be people that are potentially going to have to deal if we have any level of a pullback with getting margin called. Uh so it's definitely something to pay attention to. And speaking of margin calls, even though last week there are probably people that got some margin calls, take a look at what Bank of America showed, investors had their largest inflow last week in technology stocks last week. Last week, which was the recovery week sort of after the the the original Trump Truth Social Post. Uh last week you had soybeans, you had a bunch of random comments about cooking oil with Trump and you had, you know, threats with India. you had all these different headlines and still tech stocks was what everyone loaded up on. This is retail and institutional. So I mean look at the end of the day it does not seem like the market wants to stop buying Nvidia and Amazon and Palunteer and Tesla and all these phenomenal companies and as long as these guys can put up the earnings growth which is most importantly what's going to make the justification of all these inflows and potentially inflows on margin make sense uh then then I think we're going to be okay. S&P 500 right there up 16% but they've got to put up the earnings and that's why this earning cycle is going to be very very important to see it to play out. If you limit margin to only a small percentage to buy max seven companies is really that risky. Look there's a lot of different philosophies on margin uh you know and there's a lot of different sophisticated ways that people use it. I would say if you're taking out margin and then you're buying something super speculative, which unfortunately if we're going to be honest is the majority of people, like the majority of people get access to what they think is free money from their brokerage and they think, "Oh, let me just take this and gamble on XYZ, buy zero DTE options, which by the way are still at all-time highs right now." So, it's like you you can't deny the fact that margin has been used in a very inappropriate way every time it gets to these levels. However, those people might end up being right. I told this story before, but I knew a guy on Twitter who took out margin to buy pounder at 50 bucks. At the time, look, we had just gone up from freaking 10 to 50 in less than a year. And I see him buying thousands of shares at $50 on margin. And he's publicly talking about it. And in my head, I'm like, dude, I love Pounder, but like goodness, great. We just had a 5x. Like, now you're borrowing money to buy a stock at 50. Like the odds are, what if we take a retracement because it's up 5x in eight months? That guy was a genius because he borrowed at 5% to buy an asset that went up 300%. I mean, there's there's no way about it. He was right. Like, if if you're going to borrow at 5% or 6% or 7% and you're going to buy something that's going to triple like you made a really good deal, dude. I'm sorry. Like, you did a great job. Like, you you you nailed it. And so, in this bull market, I don't think he's alone. I think there's a lot of people. There's probably some people in this chat that have done something similar to that that have taken out margin in end of 23, call it mid 2024 and absolutely nailed it. Call it luck, call it whatever you want, but at the end of the day, Palinger put up the growth. And you know, even I didn't expect it to get to 400 billion this early, but the fact that it got there was enough for him to probably take some profits and then pay back the margin and and keep the difference. So, you know, from that perspective, I I think that's why margin has worked out so well over the past couple years. We saw IBKR's margin is up 80% year-over-year. Robin is Robin's probably going to have record margin loans as well. And margin is a juicy juicy um sector of all these brokerages. Schwab is giving out record margin. And as long as the bull market continues, I don't think it's a top signal because it's the margin was a top signal every other time when you had a cataclysmic event 2007 housing crisis, 2021 interest rates, 2000 tech bubble. The cataclysmic event is what causes the bubble. Now some people say causation is not correlation and you know maybe the margin is the the precursor before the cataclysmic event. Maybe maybe but if it's not because everyone's screaming bubble which is actually really good because it's creating this wall of worry and the margin debt going higher is not the signal to get the hell out of the markets because there's some cataclysmic crash coming then the game continues and people will still be able to leverage and their cost of borrowing will go lower because the Fed's going to be cutting rates. And as the Fedi as as the Fed continues to cut rates, you know, you're going to continue to see uh more people not have to pay as much. And if assets go up, when the Fed cuts rates and the cost of borrowing capital goes down, that's just more money coming into these assets at the end of the day. So, we're going to see how this plays out, but I think that is uh that is kind of the analysis right there on the on the on the margin debt situation. Um, okay. I'm trying to get some more of this footage. Oh, do I have this? Trying to get some more of this footage of this Air Force One stuff. Okay, let's Is this it? Is this the right one? Let me see. We have a couple clips right here. Yeah, this might be it. All right, so we'll skip around here and we'll see if we can get the China comments. Let's pull this up.
>> I think really a very lot. Uh you probably just saw the piece on Steve and Jared. It's very good.
>> Yeah, because otherwise I'm not going to make a deal. No, I want them to buy. We have a 20% amount of money in tariffs like they've never paid before.
>> Okay, this the China stuff.
>> You know, they paid a lot during my first administration, my first term. Uh now they're paying an unbelievable amount of money to the United States. They probably can't pay that much, and I'm okay with that. We can lower that, but they have to do things for us, too. It's no longer a one-way street. Yeah.
>> What would you lower it to, do you think?
>> Depends. I mean, we'll have to see what they want. One of the penalties we have in because they're sending in fentinol, we have a 20%, as you know, a 20% tariff on that, but they'd be paying about 157% tariff, which is, you know, record setting type tariff. Uh, I don't want them to do that. I want to help China. I want to not looking to hurt China, but they have to give us things, too.
>> China, Mr. President, on soybeans. Are you confident that you'll be able to
>> have to buy soybeans? One of the things I want is China's going to buy soybeans. I want China to stop with the fentinol. We very, you know, normal things. I don't want them to play the rare earth game with us.
>> But you want them to. But do you think they will make a deal on soybeans?
>> I do believe. Yeah. Because otherwise I'm not going to make a deal. No, I want them to buy. Our farmers have been boycotted by China as a negotiating point. I don't want that. Our farmers are great and in particular our soybean farmers. And I want them to start buying soybeans at least in the amount that they were buying before. And I believe they'll be able to do that.
>> Sticking with soybeans and on Argentina, you're, you know, you're looking to that deal with Argentina, the bail swap. So,
>> are we expecting beef?
>> Are we expecting a beef
>> with you? I assume you're talking about beef. Yeah. To get beef prices down. The only price we have that's high is beef. And we'll get that down. And one of the things we're thinking about doing is beef from Argentina. But my question is, what do you have to say to US farmers who feel that the deal is benefiting Argentina more than it is them as they are
>> Argentina's fighting for its life? Young lady, you don't know anything about it. They're fighting for their life. Nothing's benefiting Argentina. They're fighting for their life. You understand what that means? They have no money. They have no anything. They're fighting so hard to survive. If I can help them survive in a free world, I happen to like the president of Argentina. I think he's trying to do the best he can, but don't make it sound like they're doing great. They are dying. All right. They're dying.
>> What do you mean by a beef deal, sir?
>> Uh, we would buy some beef from Argentina. Uh, if we do that, that will bring our beef prices down because our groceries are down. Our energy prices are down. I think we're going to have $2 gasoline pretty soon. We're getting close. And everything,
>> folks. Nikki is up almost 3%. I don't see the headline for why Japan's moving like this, but Japan is moving. There might be something going on. Maybe it's these Trump soybean comments, but uh it's a pretty big move on the NK right now. The one thing that's kept up is beef. And if we buy some beef, not I'm not talking about that much from Argentina, that would help Argentina, which we consider a very good country, a very good ally in a place. Although I must tell you, if you take a look now, South America is turning. Those South American countries are starting to turn very much toward us.
>> They're getting away from socialism and you can go right down the pack. But uh they are they are starting to turn. It's pretty amazing.
>> May I ask you about Israel again? Um were do you feel that Israel was justified with striking when it did?
>> Striking where?
>> In Gaza today and overnight.
>> I'd have to get back on that. I'd have to get back.
>> What is the next step?
>> Because we're going to be determined. You know, all of that. All right. So, those are the comments. Uh, he doesn't want to play the rare earth game with China. He wants soybeans to be bought and he wants a deal to be made. Uh, especially in the context of tariffs and well, basically China finally buying a lot of the product that would help US farmers. And I think he's holding that Nvidia chip as bargaining to only give to them when they confirm they're definitely going to buy our beef and not have these export controls on rare earth minerals. Uh not sure again why Japan is pumping right here. I think it might just be because the broader S&P is based on Trump saying this. Wow, look at the S&P 6573. S&P is really moving on this China stuff. Tesla's up 1%. Nvidia's up half a percent. Palin is up. Hood is up. AMD, look at that from 230 to 237. That's making moves. SoFi 27 not too bad and then Google 254. I'm not sure I'm not sure what was going on with the Nikk I don't see a single Japan headline that's really giving any analysis here. Last week was the the election of the the prime minister becoming official. uh today it might be might be something going on with the US potentially the 5-year Treasury in Japan is going up. Maybe people are selling Japanese bonds and buying stocks. That could be happening. But you do have the NK going great. Yeah, I mean that could be the reason people selling bonds and buying equities. All right, so that's what we got with Trump. That's what we got with soybeans. And overall that's helping equities in the overnight markets. We'll see what happens tomorrow when the market opens and we get a lot more traders coming in. Now we are getting towards the end of October and here's another survey by Bank of America. Take a look at institutional fund manager cash levels. So this is not just retail that's buying the dip. It is not just retail that's plowing in money. It is at the lowest level in history. 3.8%. 3.8%. 8% on cash. We the institutional guys. Now the I think the reason for this is what Tomley said yesterday or on Friday, which is 22% of fund managers have yet to have only met their benchmark. Aka there's uh 78% of fund managers like that math. 100 minus 22 78. They call me a quant. They call me a quant. 78% of fund managers have not met their benchmark. So is that right? Hold on. 100 minus Oh, thank god. Yes, I thought it was. Okay, that's good. So 78% of fund managers have not met their bench. They're going to have to chase. They're going to probably have to chase, right? And so 3.8% cash levels, you would imagine that 3.8% when rates come down probably gets down to, I don't know, 3.2 3.3. Money market funds lost a little bit of money last week. So you finally got a week of uh outflows after five weeks of inflows. Lost about 17 billion. Still 7.3 trillion on the sidelines. So you got the Fed easing, you've got the AI capex tailwind, you've got earnings growth, which is supposed to be, you know, double digits, which would be phenomenal. Like I cannot stress how phenomenal it would be to have 10% earnings growth across the board. Usually you get, you know, on average seven to, you know, realistically five to 7% and in the bull market you get eight to nine. We are in a real bull cycle where you could get potentially 10 to 12, which would be incredible. Then you got all this money on the sidelines and then you have fund managers that are ready to to probably buy the dip. I don't know. It feels feels bullish. Now, you also have a little bit of a flush out of all the stocks last week that were going crazy and you have them come back down to reality. Oaklo instead of being uh 193 is at 162. Now, people might think 162 is still stupid, but nonetheless, it's at least not at 193. And so, Robin Hood, as much as I love Robin Hood, I don't think it really deserve to go to 150 before they put up earnings. And if they put up really good earnings and Bitcoin does well, market does well, I think Robin Hood should get back to those levels to end out the year. And it could be a really good bull run. But did it deserve to go from 120 to 150 in 7 days? Probably not. That was a bit aggressive. Back down to 132. A lot more reasonable. So, I don't know. I think we're we're getting some more reasonable ways to be thinking of this market, especially after the past couple weeks. And if we take another draw down this week of 1%, it's not going to be the worst thing in the world. But I think it will help set up a really good earning cycle to beat and then for a lot of these stocks to potentially make new all-time highs if um the broader market atmosphere is to buy the dip on companies that are putting up good earnings. And I don't think that's the worst thing in the world. Now, having said that, some quick thoughts on Palanteer right here. Uh dude, I've been saying this for the past couple weeks. I think they can make a run to 200 by end of year. I've been like, so so we we are about a month away, not even a month, like two weeks away from pounder earnings. This is when I start to really dig into pounders numbers. Usually two weeks before the earnings, I start to go deeper into the numbers from last quarter and start to make some predictions and think about what's going to happen. I've been studying it for the past couple days now. I think they're going to put up 51 to 52% growth. Street's expecting around 48. And I think they're going to guide from 45% closer to 49% for fiscal year 2026. If that's the case, and what really triggered me to really to start going deeper on on what's going on with Palenteer is is is this whole Salesforce Dream Force con where, you know, Mark Benov's like, we'll get a rule of 50 by 2030 and we're going to do 60 billion in revenue. We're going to grow 10% year-over-year. I'm like, wait a second, that's not an exciting story. It's just not. Salesforce is deeply undervalued. It will be a higher market cap company in 2030 than it is today. But 10% growth and a rule of 50 is not exciting. It's just not. And then you had the headline on Friday where Mark Beni off apologized for saying that Trump should send the National Guard to um to San Francisco after two days ago saying that he should. So yeah, I think I I thought it was quite hilarious. You know, whatever political side of the aisle you're on is fine, but the fact that he couldn't keep an opinion consistent for two days. I mean, like, does the US government really want to work with someone that can't actually, you know, hold on to to an opinion because they're so worried about what people think? or do they want to work with a company like Pounder that at the end of the day is going to support the government regardless of if it's a Democrat or a Republican. I just think US government growth for Palier, US commercial growth and then if any international commercial revenue we start seeing an inflection in this is the most exciting story in software. It just is it is the most exciting story in software. Now having said that the caveat here is $200 is a freaking what's the market cap on that? How many shares outstanding pound is 2.5 billion? So that's what 20 more bucks. Yeah. Add 50. That that's what half a trillion basically give or take 10 15 billion. So like does a company doing four and a half five billion deserve to be worth 500? No. Probably not quantitatively. However, I think the reason the stock will still move quite frankly and I'm thinking of buying another 100 shares going into earnings is is this simple idea. There's no other company that's growing at the level the pounder is growing at in AI which is the hottest sector. There's no other company that has the margins pounder has which I think will increase the perception of the the the runway for the trajectory of growth. Right? If you can go out 10 years and really model out the margins inflecting, then it's not to say the stock is cheap, but it's not like the most overvalued company on the planet right now. And then third, if there's any level of growth internationally, government or uh uh commercial, that begins to compound with the US um uh um essentially strength. I think the stock goes higher, dude. I really do think the stock goes higher and and then you we just have to have a bull market end of year. You know, we can't have S&P at 650 and have pound at 200. That's not going to work out. But I kind of like that pounder has been flat for basically two months. I I like that the market is taking a breather because that will set up earnings to go really well. And I just can't imagine when Paler puts up 50% growth, what is the street going to say? We're bearish. Like like what is it like, you know, the most the street can say it's it's priced in already, the stock's flat, which is like all right, whatever. It's flat. Like okay, but they're not going to be bearish on 50% grow. There's no way. There's no other software company growing 50%. Not at this scale with 60% free cash flow margin. So it's like I think there's a world where Palter really delivers this quarter again and this one plays out to 200 by end of year. There's also a lot of December call option volumes for that 190 200 strike. I mean I think it's possible. So if you have pounder look I wouldn't sell any covered calls around 200 210. I would go even further out unless you really think it's just too aggressive for them to get there that's fine. But I think there's a world they pull it off. And it's in November, which is good because we're getting out of October and, you know, maybe we're getting a lot more tech earnings coming in to kind of help the market digest all this momentum. And if that's the case, that would help. Yes, App is doing 70% revenue growth. That is fair. And Apploven does have a multiple on it. Now, the multiple has been compressed because of this SEC probe. Uh, but again, Apploven is advertising. You know, it's not the most exciting story. It's a cool story. It's fun, but it's not the AI implementation that is saving a hospital millions of dollars every year, right? Like that's just not the story. So, I I I just think Paler is a real shot to put up a one of those quarters and as a result potentially for the market to continue expanding and rewarding that multiple. So, that's what we got on uh Palunteer. I think that's pretty much all our headlines. Oh, this headline right here. Apple's iPhone 17 spurs the strongest sales growth since the pandemic. Looks like Apple is Apple up right now. I mean, it looks like iPhone 17, but let me know in the chat. Have you bought an iPhone 17 or anything else? Apple right here 252. I bought an iPhone 16 a couple weeks before the iPhone 17 because I needed a new phone. But, I mean, it does look like this is a pseudo super cycle for people that have been waiting to upgrade, which is bullish Apple. And you know, if we continue to see more excitement around Apple, you know, maybe this stock's closer to 275 end of year. This was the chart I was talking about right here. Zero Dday options, zero DTE remains at historical highs. This, I think, is more retail than not. I mean, I'm sure there's institutional investors that are like using zero DTE to hedge. Dude, there's a lot of retail investors that love that. I have never done a zero DTE ever. I've never understood taking that type of a g. I mean, I understand it logically, like if you're right, you make like 3,000% in a couple hours, but most of the time you're going to be wrong. But the the these options rake up so much volume. So, this continues to show how much excitement there is in the in the broader market. By the way, today is Sunday, October 19th. For those that don't know, some stock market history, um, this was one of the worst days ever in the stock market back in 1987. 1987 you had its worst day in history. S&P 500 fell 20% in a day. Dow Jones was down 22% in one day. It was Black Monday, October 19th, 1987. Uh I think the market took a couple years to end up recovering. And you know, there still isn't the the best evidence of documentation of why. I mean, there's a lot of theories here and there, but it was just one of those days where everything fell apart. And imagine 20% down in a day. That would, you know, the closest we got to that and I see a lot of you guys saying you did end up buying the 17. So there is a decent amount of people that upgraded their phone this cycle as well. The closest we got to that was April, right? April was uh 6,000 to 4,800. It didn't happen in a day. It happened in I think three weeks for the draw down to fully play out. It was less than three. I think it was two weeks. Well, Mar do you guys remember March? March sucked. March was not fun, but March wasn't like the bottom fell out. April was the bottom fell out and everyone was like, "Holy crap, like this is just bad." And then, you know, it ended up being a buy the dip. But we have not had a 20% draw down on the S&P since 1987 in a day. Even during COVID, it was not down 20% in a day. So, we've come a long way since then. But, nonetheless, America has continued to persevere. S&P 500 still green overnight overnight futures. Yeah, look at that. 66589. It's the best it's been in the overnight markets. We'll see if this continues on the market open. Nvidia right there almost 184. Tessy 444. Look at Tesla getting a boost right there up 1.1. Palanteer almost 180. And then Hoodie 13267. My parents mortgage rate at the time was like 14%. Yeah, interest rates being that high definitely didn't help back then. I was actually actually listening to Draen Miller. There's this interview from him in 2009. Um I'm sure some people here have watched it, but I'm like halfway through and and he, you know, there's some good clips that I'm going to take out and show everybody, but he's he was talking about the psychology of managing a lot of money and making big directional bets. And you know, most people know Ducken Miller for the story that when he's bullish on something, he doesn't just go 100% in, he goes 200% in, right? Like you're talking about margin. This guy has loaded the boat on very specific directional trades, particularly in the currency market, which is, you know, not just being bullish on a stock, but you're or bearish on a stock, but you're like, you know, navigating an entire country's currency with with a with a position. And he's been pretty successful. Now, he's had some some big losers like in Indonesia, but he's had some big winners as well. So, it is quite incredible to kind of see how some of these people have managed money over time. And a lot of the the psychological traits are the same with with people that are not managing $10 billion like me and you. I it's all about emotion. It's all about the stomach and it's all about cutting your losses and and maybe having more conviction than not. It's it's it's the the size of the money is the difference, but the actual philosophy really isn't that different. And so, yeah, I mean, I think every day as we manage our own money, it's the same type of philosophy and principles that we have to navigate as well. Robert says, "I'm managing 20 billion." See, we got some people in the chat that are, you know, big time right here. You know, you know, it's funny that you met you said you you're managing 20 billion because Draen Miller doesn't even like managing more than 10 billion. And we he actually just got to to this part of the interview. Let me see if I'm there right there. But he he he he doesn't like more than 10 billion because he thinks that it's almost impossible to effectively manage. Yeah. Here's here's the the clip right here. I'll put the link for anyone who wants to watch this. Let's go right here. Believe something. I'd have no problem putting 100% of the fund in it. again with the liquidity strength I me constraint I mentioned earlier and I I I will say that unlike my competitors and who knows have the right model I learned very very very early on cuz I think we were the biggest at the time um at least for me it's very difficult to run a hedge fund with more than $10 billion effectively and you know being from the equity school and having learned currencies and bonds, I felt I had a lot of weapons. So the funds that to me over 15 or 20 billion and still raising money, I don't understand that. And we have tried religiously to keep our assets around the $10 billion level because my belief is if we let our assets blow up to 40 or 50 billion and immodestly we certainly could have any time in the last 3 or four years based on the record. I would just have horrible performance and the assets would leave anyway. So our philosophy has been to grow it organically and then when you get to 10 billion start squeezing clients out and manage our own money to try and keep it there because in the long run a I've got an ego problem. So I like I like performing. Um after a while it's not about the money you make, it's about it's how you feel about yourself. Um
>> quite incredible, right? I I I recommend people watch this if you're just interested in the concept of how professionals manage money because all of us even if we're not professional we're managing our money, right? And a he says we could raise more money because you know they've averaged 25 to 30% at his prime which was beating pretty much every other hedge fund. So they could have obviously raised you know much more than 10 billion but drugs like look that's too much pressure. I don't know how to manage that much money and B it's harder to perform and I have an ego issue and I want to make sure I can keep up my 20 30% every year which means I have to be very selective with the money that I manage it it really is quite incredible but these same principles they're you know universal for most people when trying to navigate the the process of managing money whether it's 100 thousand or or a billion. So that's what we got from there and that interview was from 2009. So that was right after the uh the collapse and there's a lot of lot of good values or at least good lessons. I think
>> that drugs talked about right there.
>> I'll make sure to keep my fund at 10 billion. Yeah, I I think I think I can make sure to keep my fund below 10 billion. I I'm just like drugs. I don't want to manage more than 10 billion either. And I will make sure of it. I will make sure that I uh I keep those assets below 10 billion for now. Uh E Penny, thanks for the super chat. Thanks for your deep dive. Thank you for checking out the Substack again. Deeply deeply appreciate those that uh got into it. I'm finding a new passion for written word. You know what's so funny? I was going to tell this to Steve tomorrow. And by the way, uh I think we're done with the close. Steve is about to do alternative assets weekly. So for anyone who wants to listen to Mr. Steven Fiorillo talk about Pokemon cards and all those other alternative assets, I'm putting the link right here. You guys know the deal. CRN, you can spam it in the chat. Last year, I was telling Steve he should start YouTube. And he was telling me I should start seeking Alpha. It's so funny. He was like, "You need to write articles." I'm like, "Dude, I don't care about articles. I don't enjoy the process of writing." And I was like, "You need to start YouTube." He's like, "Bro, I don't want to sit in front of a camera and talk. Like, you know, I I have my process of content and I and I and I write my articles." And a year later, it switched. Like, now he loves YouTube. This man was live till like 1:30 last night. He freaking loves live streaming. And I'm starting to really enjoy the process of sitting down for weeks doing research and then turning that research into written word that's consumable. And the best comment I got on the deep dives is that a lot of you said the way you read it was almost the way I sound on the live streams. A lot of you guys were like, you know, it's fun because I'm reading this in the way that I would be listening to you speak on YouTube. And you know, I I really appreciate that because I tried to to keep some a level of an authentic voice. And uh you know, I threw some jokes in there as as always. And the people that found those Easter eggs found it. Shout out to Samantha. If you know, you know. If you know, you know. I'm not going to give it away, but if you know, you know. If you know about Samantha, you know about Samantha. It's it's in the deep dives. Specifically in the Dualingo one. If you know, you know. But I want to I want to keep that same authenticity. I want it to really sound like it's me. And uh yeah, we'll keep doing that going into the future. So there you mispronounce words and now you're misspelling words. Exactly. Yes. Exactly. I think there were definitely a couple grammar errors there, but we'll try to we'll try to work on that in the future. All right, cool. So the summary for the overnight markets are as follows. Trump signaling really good stuff with China in regards to not getting into a massive tariff war. That's bullish. The Nikkay likely up because the US is up based on these China comments. Jensen did a big interview uh first wafer for the blackwell chip was created in the United States over the weekend was the announcement. Markets really like that that is official and American manufacturing is coming back. And then in terms of the macro stats, leverage is high, margin debt is high, cash allocation is low institutionally and option volumes continue to go higher. All of those things will either be bullish or bearish based on earnings. And this week we get Tesla and Netflix. We had a bunch of other companies, but Tesla and Netflix are the most important ones. And then the week after that is really when we have our Super Bowl. And if those companies can execute, then I think this multiple for the S&P can continue to sustain itself and expand towards the end of the year. If the earnings growth is really there, we just have to see if that growth can be there. Summary is risk on. That is correct. I mean, we're cutting rates and earnings are good. We're cutting rates and earnings are good. Unless there's a massive structural change like in the credit markets, and you know, based on the research I've done on regionals, it doesn't seem like it's that big of a deal. We'll see how it plays out over the coming weeks, but rates are down, earnings are up. That should be the recipe to to get some momentum. All right, thank you everybody for joining. Uh, let's go to Steve's chat for those that want to hear about some alternative assets. CRN, we can spam it in the chat. There he is, Mr. Alternative Asset himself. He is live. I'll see you guys there in the chat and we'll keep going from there. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. And once again, thank you all for the support on the Substack. Really means a lot. We we actually got to number one in business on Substack. Um and uh you know, we're above 12,000 subscribers and we're we're number two in bestsellers or something. So really, really, really appreciate it. I'm going to try to take it very very seriously. There is no payw wall. So, for anyone who wants to consume the content, it will always be free and hopefully we can continue to get better in written word. Thank you everybody. I'll see you guys on the market open. Bye-bye.