Welcome everyone to the OnPy podcast. I'm Steve Pacen.
>> I'm John Michael McGrath.
>> Today on the pod, the government is making big changes to the province's student assistance program after suspicious findings at Ontario's private colleges.
>> We'll take another look at municipal elections, this time in Missaga, Milton, and [music] Cora Lakes.
>> Will government house leader Steve Clark be reprimanded over his role in the green belt scandal? A liberal MPP wants to force the debate. And in your [music] column, my column, I'm going to talk about one of the stranger long-running subplots in Toronto's election this year.
>> And I'm going to stay in the capital city for a look at one of the best races for council between Nate and Nat. Plus, stay with us after the show for a special interview on gun violence. It's Friday, [music] October 9th, 2026. So, let's get to it. [music] JMM sir,
>> our traditional sugar as we start every episode.
>> And I looked at your shirt [laughter] today and again for those listening on podcast, we should just describe it. It says Amity Island welcomes you and that shirt looks like a little
>> fin from a shark. Yes, indeed.
>> Dorsal fin.
>> Those of us of a certain age well remember I think it was 1975. bottom bottom.
>> So, yes, of course, this is a reference to uh the movie Jaws, and uh anybody who's seen the movie uh remembers it well. And uh but you know, I think it's important to remember that the shark is not really the villain of the film. The villain of the film is the mayor who insists on keeping [laughter] the beaches open despite a rash of shark attacks.
>> So, it always comes back to politics with you.
>> It always comes back to politics and we are going to be discussing municipal politics today uh even more than usual. Uh and so uh you know uh let's count our lucky stars that uh while there are mayors of varying qualities across Ontario, none are quite so bad as the mayor of Amity Island.
>> You know, I forget his name in the movie, but Murray Hamilton was the actor who played him. And he was absolutely perfect in the role. He was a complete slimeball with no ethics. Only cared about keeping the beaches open so that AMD Island could enjoy, of course, a very econ economically buoyant summer. Yes. And uh you're right, the shark just does what sharks do. Sharks.
>> No, it's just a force of nature like the T-Rex in Jurassic Park.
>> Yeah, it's the [laughter] damn mayor who couldn't get his act together. Okay, that's a good point. Well, okay. What premier am I wearing today? I am wearing Oliver Mowat. Oliver Mowat was the premier a long time ago. We're going back to the 19th century. But Oliver Mowat is the longest serving premier in Ontario history. He served, if you can imagine, almost 24 years as the premier of Ontario. And we're going to go down the list of some of the top longest serving premers in Ontario. and you will see the method behind my madness. Oliver Moit's number one. Number two, tick the box. There's Bill Davis. Almost 14 years as premier from 1971 to 1985. Number three, Lesie Frost back in the 1950s. This was the guy that Doug Ford matched in terms of three straight majority governments. Lesie Frost was the last guy to win three straight majority governments, 51, 55, and 59. And he served 12 plus years as premier. Number four, the man they called the chairman of the board. That's John Roberts. He was premier from 1961 to 1971 and he served nine plus years. Number five on the list is Daltton McGinty. Yes, Daltton McGinty. And what's interesting about his story, he served only two days fewer than Roarts. And I remember asking him after he left office, you know, did you think about asking Kathleen Win if you could hang around as premier for just three more days so you could have gone higher up the list? And he said, "I actually knew about that, but the wind people wanted the transition to take place when they wanted it to take place." And he said, "I thought it was my responsibility to exceed to their wishes." So, no, he's number five on the list instead of number four. Even though if he wanted to be a, you know, if he wanted to push it, he probably could have been higher up the list. So, McGinty at number five. Look who's at number six now. Doug Ford is now, as of Sunday, going to be the sixth longest serving premier in Ontario history. He is the 26th premier and he's already number six on the list. Eight years, 104 days as of Sunday, and he will be passing on Sunday, number seven on the list, and that's Mitch Heppern. Mitch Heeper at 8 years and 103 days was the premier. I think he won his first majority in 34. He won his second majority in 37. He is the youngest premier we have ever chosen in the province of Ontario. 37 years old when he became premier. So how about Doug Ford going, you know, hanging around, hanging around, and now as of Sunday going to be the sixth longest serving premier of all time. Well, I think I said on election night in 2025, you know, uh, you had to grant that with a third straight majority, he was going to be, you know, the one of the most consequential premers in Ontario history just by dent of this year term of service. And if he serves until the end of this current legislature, and we don't know when that will be. Um, but if you assume it will be four or five years, he's going to move a few more ranks up that list.
>> He will pass McGinty, he will pass Roards. He'd be number four, I guess. Yeah, indeed. And if he wants to serve until he's Let me just think for a second. If he wants to serve until he's 77 years old, [laughter] he can pass Oliver Mowat. But um Oh, no. I I'm not suggesting it. I'm just saying that's what the math suggests.
>> Uh that would be arithmetic. Yes. [laughter]
>> All right. Enough of that list. Let's get on to what we need to talk about. Off to issue one. You know that Ontario's post-secary education system is made up of publicly funded colleges and universities. But the province also has hundreds of privately run career colleges that train and educate tens of thousands of students annually. Some of those colleges, however, have raised red flags when it comes to student assistant program funding. And this week, the government has started multiple investigations. JMM, what's going on here?
>> Right. So last week the Canadian Press reported uh thanks to a Freedom of Information request, thank you journalists, thank you Freedom of Information Laws, uh the CP reported that uh volumes of money that were being spent on uh OSAP grants for students uh at these career colleges were unusual. Um I think it's important to set here the context, right? Um the government funds universities and colleges directly. Uh these career colleges are funded by their student fees, but those fees however are eligible for OSAP uh loans and grants. So tax dollars are implicated here. What the Canadian press found was very large increase in OSAP costs for seven specific career colleges which collectively received $385 million in OSAP grants. uh that is not a huge sum in the context of a $200 billion budget, but it is equal to the OSAP grant funding that went to all publicly funded colleges. So, this is all playing out in a legal hearing at the moment as well where government officials allege uh a few different kinds of I'm going to editorialize you say shady conduct. [laughter] Um that all basically amount to uh these colleges being um uh again the allegation is uh that they are diploma mills functionally that they are creating fake classes enrolling fake students to collect very real money. Uh these allegations we need to emphasize have not been proven in court. Uh nevertheless, on top of the existing legal proceedings, the government has uh done its own internal investigations and referred this matter both to the Ontario provincial police and they have asked the auditor general to step in uh as well and investigate. Um the auditor general in the course of her investigation might also uncover um uh material that uh she can also refer to the OP if uh she finds that there's uh grounds for a criminal investigation. On top of that, uh, and maybe more, uh, immediately, the government is also pausing all OSAP payments to all career colleges, which is a pretty precipitous step to take a month into the new academic year.
>> Well, absolutely. I mean, if you are, where are we now? October. So, these students have been in school for a month. They obviously have their their loans and their classes and their schools all chosen and they're going and all of a sudden if you pump the brakes as the government appears to be doing, you have the potential of kind of disrupting the educational lives of thousands of students here. But but the gist of this is there's a billion dollars in total going to these private career colleges and as a result uh you mean the taxpayer does have an interest to see how that money is spent?
>> Yes, absolutely. How big and how serious a problem do we know this to be at this stage of the game?
>> So, as I mentioned earlier, there are hundreds of of these colleges around Ontario and the investigation, at least uh as the the CP's reporting uh elaborated uh you know really does focus on on seven uh of the most problematic ones, but uh the the government has raised some other uh issues. It's important to say that some of the the people warning earliest about uh problems in the sector were in fact the the career colleges themselves. their their association uh career colleges Ontario warned as far back as 2023 that there were some bad actors within the system and they were warning the government that something had to be done. Uh they were not listened to in a timely manner it seems. Um as I mentioned the province uh has uh said that they have other grounds for concern. Things like you know nominally separate colleges that all somehow share the same ownership and the same address. um you know uh questions about uh how genuine these places are as as actual operating colleges. Um they also uh in some cases seem to be colllocated with um immigration recruitment uh firms. Uh so lots of questions about what is exactly going on there.
>> You can connect dots here which we should be careful not to do but you can see why investigators are interested.
>> Yes. Uh this is one of those cases where uh you know nobody has proven fire but there sure seems to be some smoke around if I could put it that way. [snorts]
>> Um so this is very genuinely a very big disruptive announcement for these colleges for these students. uh the career colleges Ontario has has you know asked the government to sort of reconsider this very large and precipitous uh step uh because as far as we know right now the vast majority of students and the vast majority of career colleges have have not done anything wrong. Again math is important here. So there's a billion dollars of tax money in total through the OSAP program going to these private career colleges and seven of the hundreds of career colleges get 345 million of that billion.
>> Yes.
>> Just seven.
>> Yes.
>> So again fire I don't know smoke
>> seems to be. Yes.
>> Yeah. So okay the effects aren't limited just to career colleges here right? It goes beyond that.
>> Right. So our audience will recall uh earlier this year the government made some major changes to OSAP uh and and how OSAP supports were partitioned out. Uh they said that uh the reason was unsustainable cost growth in uh the OSAP system. And so they shifted the burden on students from uh a system where most supports were being distributed as grants to one where it was increasingly reliant on loans. loans obviously having to be repaid and so students bore more of the the financial burden. Um and and again they the government cited increasing costs uh of the OSAP system. But what again the CP's reporting has found is that uh you know most of the growth in uh OSAP spending was coming specifically from these career colleges. uh by their count 95% of the increased spending in OSAP grants between uh 2023 and 2024 went to these uh problematic colleges. Uh Ontario Liberal MPP and critic Tyler Watt says that students across the province were made to bear increased costs for their own education because of a handful of bad actors uh saying in a release uh quote the government took a hatchet to a problem that needed a scalpel.
>> H governments sometimes do that. Sometimes it's easier to paint everybody with a broad brush and then figure it out afterwards. But yeah, I I take his point. Now, on the subject of job training, which we have been talking about here, we do have a bit of an unusual update on the whole skills development fund fufura. Let's call it that. Okay. And again, may maybe a little background's required here because we are, you know, going to take people back to the skills development fund which seemed to go to friends of Tories in some cases. Do we want to put it that way?
>> Yeah. So the issue was this uh skills development fund was uh supposed to be you know basically broadly speaking job training money and it seemed to very frequently go to uh firms or other uh organizations who were close to the progressive conservative party or who had made donations to the progressive conservative party. And one of the companies that came up in these investigations was Keel Digital Solutions which was a like broadly speaking an online learning uh company. uh and they had received money through the skills development fund and um the government named KE as uh a company having engaged in uh some misconduct. They had their funding through the ministry of colleges and universities frozen uh leading this week to the company being ordered into receiverhip. Keel CEO uh was Rob Godfrey, a son of prominent conservative and businessman Paul Godfrey uh who uh was the uh CEO and then chairman of Post Media who of course one of the largest newspaper chains
>> and former president of the Blue Jays and former chairman of Metropolitan Toronto had a long career in politics and he goes way back Paul Godfrey. Um, so, uh, that's how we get to Paul Godfrey, who alleges in court documents as part of Keiel's, uh, receiverhip that he was compelled by the premier's office to use his connections to Post Media to publish a letter uh, across that chain's newspapers as part of Ford's pre-election messaging in 2025. And I I of course want to credit the folks at the Trillium who broke this story. the threat, so to speak, was that uh if he did not get that letter published in Post Media's uh papers, uh that uh his son's company would be denied uh funding. Now, to be very clear, the premier's office uh flatly denies this claim uh calling it categorically untrue and disconnected from reality. Uh and it's important to note that by 2025, Godfrey was no longer formally connected to uh Post Media. He was no longer CEO, was no longer the executive chairman and the the company Post Media. Uh again, uh reporting from the Trillium here, uh the company denies any knowledge of uh what Godfrey described.
>> This is a pretty extraordinary story because Paul Godfrey is one of the sort of longest in goodstanding conservatives in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. And the notion that he would make this allegation about the progressive conservative government um to which you would think he would be somewhat aligned is pretty extraordinary. Um, having said that, you know, his son's reputation has also been affected here throughout all this. So, we hasten to add these are all allegations. Nothing's been proven in court. Right.
>> Correct. It is it is sworn testimony in court and at least theoretically carries the possibility of perjury as all sworn testimony does, but it it has not been proven in any uh sense. Uh, and you know, it might never be because sometimes that happens. Um and and while we're talking about, you know, his connection to Post Media, I think one of the things worth saying is, you know, uh one of the responses post media said to the Trillium was I'm going to summarize here, but basically said like it would not require a threat for us to publish the letter from the premier of Ontario. If the premier of Ontario or any major prominent politician wants to run something in our opinion pages, like they're welcome to.
>> You just have to ask. [laughter] Yeah, pretty much. That's right. Um so you know there there are at the very least there are questions to ask about this allegation but it is an extraordinary allegation to be made in this context. Um and it is certainly the kind of thing that I would expect the opposition parties to be bringing up in question period when the legislature resumes sitting uh just a few weeks from now after the municipal elections.
>> And speaking of municipal elections, nice segue, buddy. Off to issue two. Time once again for our regular feature called Municipal Election Watch. We stayed up all night thinking of that title, didn't we? [laughter] Yeah. Anyway, we countd down to the local elections that are taking place in this province in 444 municipalities on the 26th of October. This week, we're going to start off with the city just to the west of the capital, and that is Missaga, where they have one of the more vicious mayor's races going on right now. Holy smokes. So, I saw some of the tape from these from one of the debates. I guess it was a week and a half ago or something like that. And wow.
>> Yeah. So, [laughter] our audience probably recalls that this is something of a a rematch, perhaps a grudge match between uh
>> perhaps a cage match
>> between former mayor uh Bonnie Crombie, who was of course also former uh Ontario Liberal leader uh and Carolyn Parish. Uh Krombie was the mayor. She left to become Liberal leader. uh Parish then won that office in the special election that followed Cromby's departure. And now Crombi uh is trying to get her old job back. But that's not all because this is a race, this race also includes two other candidates uh from the prior election, uh Alvin Tedjo and Dipica Deura. Uh so these four candidates held a debate last week. Uh and it's I think safe to say things got a bit heated.
>> Oh no, they got more than a bit heated. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Um, Parish referred to Crombi as the blonde bombshell and alleged that city staff were terrified of her return to the mayor's office. Um, that was just one of the uh spicier clips that got pulled from that debate. Uh, in the aftermath, I think all four candidates when they had a moment to cool down uh acknowledged to varying degrees uh that this was not, how to put this, it was not the the height of Socratic debate. [laughter] Um and we got some polling about exactly this issue thanks to uh liaison strategies. Uh they asked uh how voters feel about the race so far. It's not great. Uh 31% of respondents uh told the pollster the campaign so far has mostly been personal attacks while only 17% described it as mostly fair debate. Uh another 30% say it has been a mix of both. Although the race has tightened, I've seen other polling which says Crombi and Parish are within a few points of each other. And then Alvin Tedjo, who's a member of council, has sort of moved his, you know, moved himself up into the race. And I think all three of the top candidates now are all within about 10 points of each other. So, it's closer.
>> It's it's definitely gotten much closer as you say. you know, Tedjo, who I think in some of the earlier polling had really uh struggled or seemed to be struggling has definitely come up uh to the point where I I think you would say he's he's much more competitive now. Um but but definitely a neck andneck race between Crombi and Parish as well. Now, we do like to talk about policy from time to time on this show, every once in a while. And we're going to do that right now because I think it's safe to say I think it's fair to say Bonnie Crombie has advanced one of the more intriguing policy options uh as it relates to uh transit planning in Missaga. You want to take that?
>> Right. So, uh KBI has promised to extend TTC's line to subway. This is what we used to call the bluran fourth line west from Kipling Station into Missaga into Square 1. Uh again, polling from liaison finds that 65% of voters support the idea. Uh but when asked to choose between a TTC subway extension or more frequent GO train service on the Milton line, which runs through Missaga, if for people who don't have the GO train map memorized, um support between those two ideas is is roughly evenly split. Um and I like that Leaison asked this question. They asked how confident respondents were that the subway extension might actually get built. uh and by a three to one margin they are pretty skeptical.
>> Well, it's interesting that uh we we know the antipathy between Bonnie Crombie and Doug Ford and yet this is a play right out of the Ford playbook which is to say subways subways subways. Uh now she can't do this on her own obviously this is multi-billion dollar project uh if it ever happens. So she would need agreement from both the city of Toronto presumably the province of Ontario and maybe even the feds to kick in some money as well.
>> Yeah. So when for example the city of Toronto extended the uh Spedina Spadina subway line into York Region up to Vaughn uh that was a tripartite agreement um you know the feds might or might not show up for something like this but at at a minimum I would say you probably need uh the city of Toronto to agree because it's going to be the TTC that ends up having to run this. Um, and then you also need the province because that's where the money is going to come from realistically. And that does pose some problems. Now, we're going to go from policy. We're going to go back into politics for a moment here and say um extending the line to subway into Missaga sort of mechanically and inevitably is going to make the commute forbico subway riders a little bit more difficult. Maybe not a lot, maybe a little, but it's it's you're going to add passengers. Do you know any politicians from Atobbico who might have a view on this?
>> I do. In fact, uh we've mentioned him earlier. Uh he happens to hold the seat for Atobbico North and also the premier of Ontario.
>> Oh, [laughter] there we go. Okay.
>> Um and like so just on its own that's you know something to consider. Um but then you've got the point that like Doug Ford is not um neutral on the topic of Bonnie Crombie. [laughter] He has said in no uncertain terms uh that he wants to see her defeated in this mayor election and has promised to send an army to ensure that Carolyn Parish is reelected. Um so is Doug Ford really going to like open up the provincial wallet to to make this thing happen just so that you know he can help out Bonnie Crombie? I am skeptical. [laughter]
>> Call you skeptical. All right. Well, let's move on anyway here because last week we put the call out to people to please send us uh your views on what you think the great races in the municipal election campaigns are and a bunch of you have done that. So, we went through uh for our municipal election watch some of the emails we got from people and why don't we take a look at some of those right now. What's up first?
>> Uh right. So, we have uh an email from someone who we are choosing not to identify up in Cora Lakes. Uh, it reads, "Hey, Anpaly. Our current mayor Doug Elmsley watches OnPaly religiously every Friday. I'm sure he and others would be quite interested to hear JMM's take on our municipal election in Cora Lakes." Mayor Elmsley is stepping down as mayor after serving on council since 2006. We definitely thank him for 20 years of service to the community. And if [laughter] Steve Pac and JMM said that on camera, nothing would make him happy. I think we can do that. Mayor Elmsley, thank you for your service. [laughter] Um, a couple of notes on Cora Lakes's interest for your research. Two current counselors are running for council, plus three other candidates. But one Maril candidate's name would get your viewers attention, Doug Ford. And I know it's always surprising to the Toronto/GTA. Uh but another interesting municipal election fact is that of the 414 municipalities running elections, over 270 are using internet voting, many with no paper ballots at all.
>> Isn't that interesting? Okay, do we have a shot of this? Do we have a shot of Doug Ford's name on the ballot? Here it comes. And there he is, Doug Ford. Not the Doug Ford. Well, I guess it depends who you are, but it's not [laughter] the it's not the premier Doug Ford.
>> Thinks he's the Doug Ford.
>> Yes, you're right about that. Yes, but another Doug Ford is running for office. And actually, there's a little conf who knows how much confusion this will actually be. But if you look at the at the ballot for mayor of Toronto as well, and I think there's I mean, we know of the two top candidates running, Chow and Bradford, but there's something like 50 plus people who are actually running for mayor. And there's two named Cow.
>> Yes. There's also a Braden Chow, which has led to uh the incumbent mayor of the country's largest city having to inform her supporters specifically like I I think she's on line nine on the ballot.
>> Well, she'd be Braden Chow comes ahead of Olivia Chow, right?
>> Yes. And so she's asking people to make sure they take the right box.
>> So yeah, you know, don't just go down the list and say, "Oh, Chiao, take the first Chow." No, if you want Olivia Chow, keep going down the list. Well, and if you know, just maybe to spell out the problem here, I bet. But if it ends up being like a really close race, some of us are going to have PTSD from Florida year 2000, uh, you know, election counting horror stories, right?
>> You don't have to go to Florida. I'm going to tell Okay, here's my sorry, my old fogy moment here, but let's go back to 1981 in the province of Ontario. In the writing of Perry Sound, Ernie Ees, who would be a future finance minister and premier, Ernie Ees was running for the first time in 1981 on the Bill Davis team. And there was another candidate whose last name was Davis running against Ernie Ees. And Mr. Eves tells me that he heard from numerous people in that election who said, "Oh, isn't this nice? We can vote for Mr. Eves and Mr. Davis on the same ballot." And they checked both names, which is as a result, that's a spoiled ballot. Do you know how many votes Ernie Eves won by in that election?
>> Famously a tiny fraction, right? Six.
>> He won by six. 10 on election day and then they did a recount and it knocked it down to six. So these kinds of, you know, these kinds of scurry little things. Oh, two chows on the ballot. Doug Ford's name on the ballot. How many people will either vote for or not vote for Doug Ford in that other municipal uh election because they're either wanting to or not wanting to vote for the premier? Who knows? Anyway, be careful when you look at your ballots. That's the main point.
>> Moving on.
>> Well, no, before we move on, I do want to say something about electronic voting. Um, and I think this might be one of those topics that I have sort of changed my mind on. Um, you know, when municipalities first started rolling out electronic voting, I was really skeptical and I was really worried that it was going to go badly. And I think anybody who knows anything about, you know, internet security generally uh would be right to be uh at least a little bit cautious uh about internet uh voting. Um, and it doesn't seem to have been a problem. Uh we've now this is now certainly not our first election cycle where municipalities have uh gone uh digital uh and Corakes is just one of these uh as the email says uh many municipalities that have adopted electronic voting and I'm not sure if I'm ready to recommend it at the provincial or federal level. Uh, but it uh, as I say, it's it's something that I I was very very worried about when it first started getting rolled out, and it it just doesn't seem to have uh, materialized into as as much of a problem as I was worried about.
>> Good. Okay, next one.
>> Right. So, this is about Milton. Uh, Febrienne writes, "I would like to highlight an interesting maral race happening in Milton, Ontario. Milton has the longest serving mayor in Ontario, maybe Canada. 89year-old Gourd CR who has been mayor since 1980, elected 14 times as mayor. Mayor CR, you were elected for uh mayor the first time before I was born. [laughter] Uh there are now 10 people who are running for mayor. Uh Gourd recently showed up with Zanab Azim in a video calling for clean campaigning uh while sipping on milkshakes. Uh is this going to be the year that Gourd CR ends his marriel reign? Febrien S. Budman. Fabian, I can't answer that question because I cannot predict the future. But suffice to say, I met Zayan Azim recently at an event that we both happen to be at. I think it was in Burlington. She is a 20-some young Muslim woman who wears a hijab. And I got to tell you something, she is very sharp. She's very smart. I'm not saying that a 20-year-old, more than 20, maybe 21 or 22, but not a lot more than 20. I'm not saying that she's capable of knocking off the u 46-y year long [laughter] reign of the mayor of Milton. You never know, but um I I thought she was a dyn a totally dynamic politician and somebody who if she wants it could have a big future in politics. And do do we have the video of the milkshake the the the peace summit over the milkshake? Let's take a look at that if we can. I'm Zenna Bazine.
>> And I'm Gourd Cranks.
>> And we're both running for mayor of Milton.
>> And we're running against one another.
>> And while I like strawberry milkshakes,
>> I love chocolate.
>> And while I think you should vote for me, [music]
>> and I think you should vote for me.
>> As Miltonians, we always [music] work
>> together. We can disagree without degrading one another.
>> And let's show people that there's a better way to do politics. I'm Zenazim. and I'm Gord CR and we approve this message. [laughter]
>> Okay, a couple of things here. Number one, she's very lucky that the 46-year incumbent agreed to do a spot with her and give her this kind of prominence, which she otherwise probably wouldn't get. So, you know, lucky for her, and frankly, kudos to him for being prepared to sort of share the spotlight a bit in the interest of creating a bigger message, which is, isn't this good? You don't have to do it like they do it in Missaga. you can actually uh there there can be a little kumbayad at election time and it's not a bad thing.
>> Yeah. And so I mean a few things uh one you know we've discussed on the podcast before you know just how nasty uh municipal politics are getting in some parts of the province and we've talked about before about you know mayors and counselors uh genuinely worried about their physical safety in in some cases because there's really like some some some toxic stuff going on out there. So this is uh tonic. Uh this is a really uh delightful uh alternative to that. Um and also I mean a very um uh [clears throat] visual example of changing demographics uh in uh lots of GTA municipalities but in this case Milton uh where uh you know uh Gordon CR probably I don't think it's it's unfair to say uh you know represents you know the the median Milton voter of 40 years ago and uh Azim uh you know part of the dem demographic changes uh that are happening all over the GTA Um and and lovely to uh have both of them in that one message talking about the need to to work constructively together, you know.
>> Amen. Okay, we got more.
>> Yes, we've got another one from David Harrison who uh writes to us about schoolboard trustees. We've had a few people make uh broadly speaking this kind of a a query. My kids are long out of public school. Still, up till now, I've researched the trustee candidates and cast my ballot, thinking that I still have a responsibility to try and uphold and encourage an excellent public school system. But this year, should I bother given that the trustees that are elected next month won't have anything to do, at least for the foreseeable future, uh, David?
>> Now, David Harrison is a guy who uh, emails, I think, uh, quite a bit, which we appreciate. He is a a loyal and faithful viewer and listener, one of our regular correspondents.
>> Absolutely. And we hear from him all the time, which is great. He keeps us on our toes when we make mistakes. And he's got a really interesting question here because as I mean this points to the fact that there are several school boards around the province of Ontario that the province the provincial government has sort of put into receiverhip if I can put it that way. They have been in in effect defenistrated and their powers assumed by the by a provincial trustee who has been put in there and uh well I can give you an example. Uh Jill Permoleley is I guess friend of the show. Uh somebody who has been appeal uh school board trustee for a long time. She is running for reelection and she has sort of in conversation with me allowed. Some days I'm not sure what I'm running for right now. You know, I'm running for a job that doesn't really exist right now because the Peele board's in trusteeship right now. And even if I win, what authority, what powers, what um, you know, resources do I have to do a job? Not really any. So, it's it's a bit confusing right now to be sure.
>> Yeah. And in Toronto, we know that uh the the outgoing uh cohort of uh uh trustees who of course some of them are running for reelection. Uh but you know, there was an incident earlier this year where they were basically told that they couldn't even hold public meetings. Um you know there there's a very uh real question about you know what their uh uh role will be uh given that these boards are under supervision and even if the province decides to uh restore them to uh actual functioning school boards without the provincial supervision. Of course the government also changed legislation recently uh in order to uh uh restrict the spending and and some of the other authorities of schoolboard trustees. So quite aside from the supervision issue, there have been some uh very uh substantial changes in their roles.
>> Mhm. So I guess the direct answer, David, to your question is yes, you should you should still vote for a trustee on the possibility that if your trustee is in trusteeship or receiverhip or bankruptcy or whatever you want to call it right now, if the province changes its mind about that and the trustees then resume their positions of authority, you've got the person in there that you want. That's how I would answer that. Yeah, I think I think we are we are asked for our opinions so rarely [laughter] in democracies uh that when when we are uh given the chance to cast a ballot, I would say yes uh you should still uh you know research your candidates uh cast your your ballots and you know the the current uh supervision of these school boards I don't think is going to last for another four years for no other reason than at a certain point people connect the dots. and they start blaming the province for everything that's going wrong in their kids' schools.
>> There you go.
>> And I don't think that the Minister of Education wants that to persist very long. Um, so yes, uh, admittedly things are a bit weird right now, but I would say, you know, vote for the person who you want to be, uh, making these decisions when the supervision ends,
>> right? Have you, I mean, it was just this week that the signs are allowed to go up now. And in this neighborhood, we're in Toronto St. Paul's writing. Yes.
>> This TV station. Have you noticed signs for a particular candidate running for school board in this area? I
>> I admit I have not actually been walking like the the the neighborhood streets.
>> Okay. I I have I walk the streets. I don't have a bicycle, so I walk the streets. Tasha Keredan is running for school board in this area. Now, people may recognize her name. She's a longtime journalist and columnist for Post Media once upon a time. And I guess she just decided she's got enough complaints with the public school system that she's decided to throw her name in there. And okay, there's Tasha. Her name's on the ballot.
>> Yeah. I had somebody ask me, you know, why would you do this instead of, you know, if you're a conservative and it's a conservative government in Queens Park right now, you know, why would you be a trustee instead of I don't know, trying to get a job in Paul Collander's office. Um and and but I do think that there is I mean it they are two different jobs first of all and um it is it is one expression I think uh admittedly I haven't spoken to Tasha Keran about her reasons for running um but uh one thing that I think is going on more broadly uh among conservatives uh is a a real sense of things uh let's from the conservative perspective again saying you things have gone wrong in Ontario schools And quite aside from whatever is happening at Queens Park, there are are conservatives running for these jobs because they they really think that, you know, uh school boards need uh a a course correction. Um and so uh certainly I know that uh uh Miss Kurden is not the only uh conservative running in these uh uh races. And you know there there are people who who uh just genuinely disagree with what they see as uh the the direction of uh not just the Toronto school board but uh you know several uh school boards around the GTA.
>> Right. Do we want to do Dan Mlan's uh point here?
>> Uh right. So this related to uh the other question Dan Mlan uh who is an outgoing trustee uh in Toronto uh he uh writes in wondering what happens to the trustees who actually are elected in the boards under supervision. Will they actually be able to assume any duties? And you know, I'll just refer to what we mentioned earlier that, you know, at the moment, these trustees really don't have any duties. They are not even allowed to sort of hold public meetings uh with their constituents. Um I assume, as you said earlier, that the the supervision will end and that when it does, they will uh be allowed to resume all of the normal duties of a uh school board trustee. Um, but I guess the other possibility is that the government could introduce new changes with new legislation before that supervision ends. But that's obviously very speculative on my part.
>> Right. And with that, let's get off to issue three. Back in August 2023, Ontario's integrity commissioner found that MPPP Steve Clark, who represents leads Grenville, Thousand Islands, and Rita Lakes for the PCs, had violated the Members Integrity Act when he breached conflict of interest and insider information rules related to the development of protected land in the green belt. The commissioner recommended that he be reprimanded for these actions. Simple question, has he been?
>> Uh, no, he has not been reprimanded. Uh the integrity commissioners report came out in 2023 and under the law the the house the legislative assembly is supposed to debate that report within uh 30 days and can choose to impose the penalty recommended by the commissioner uh or not. And in this case they it's not that they chose not to impose the punishment. They just never held the debate at all.
>> And why not? uh well because the government controls the the timing and the schedule of the legislature and it decides what matters will be debated and when and they opted never to schedule that debate. Uh Clark resigned as a minister after the integrity commissioner report uh was released and the then government house leader now education minister Paul Kandra said that Clark's resignation was punishment enough functionally.
>> Are they not obliged to hold this debate? [laughter] You would think that the clear letter of the law would say, you know, you have to do the thing. Um, it turns out not so much. Uh, I guess I would draw the analogy to the, um, fixedterm election law that the, uh, government also ignored in 2025. Um, you know, we can spell out certain obligations for the government uh, in law, but enforcing those rules is is another matter entirely. And [snorts] without going too deep into the weeds here, you know, if MPPPS choose not to debate a matter in the House, and I guess we have to be clear here that like because the progressive conservatives are the majority when they make a decision to do or not do something that's that's basically the legislature speaking, right? Um there's really nothing to force them to do something they don't want to do. But when Doug Ford ignored the fixed election date law and called the election after whatever it was two years, he at least said, "Oh, and incidentally, this fixed election date law, we're getting rid of this as well." But he hasn't said that about this. So this debate really is supposed to happen.
>> Yes. So
>> what are the chances of it actually happening? [laughter]
>> Well, so that brings us to this week's news, uh, which is that, um, earlier this week, uh, Ontario Liberal MP, Dr. Adel Shamji. He did put out a call to hold Clark accountable here. Uh hold Clark accountable to Clark, oddly enough, because the uh current government house leader who is responsible for scheduling this debate would be Steve Clark. Um and and Shangji is basically asking him to uh schedule the debate on his own reprimand. Um I I don't love Shangji's chances of getting what he wants here. Um but he does say that there are other measures that he is looking at in terms of uh trying to force this debate. Uh but he is starting by asking Clark to uh allow the debate here.
>> Now a reprimand is a fairly broad word. What does reprimand in this case mean?
>> It literally just means uh the the reprimand the the expression of displeasure by uh MPPPS by uh by a majority of the legislature if they in fact uh voted to impose that penalty. Um, [laughter] getting back to what we were just saying about like shouldn't they follow the law? Like I do kind of think that the government should kind of hold the prefuncter debate just because I think we should expect MPPPS to follow the laws that they pass.
>> That's a good signal that we're a law-abiding society,
>> right? Uh, but the the way the law is written, um, you know, MPPPS are restricted to either uh impose this reprimand on Clark or not. Um, in theory, the law does allow the integrity commissioner to recommend more severe penalties up to and including declaring his seat vacant, i.e. expelling him from the legislature and holding a new election. Uh, but none of those consequences are are really up for debate at the moment. Uh, there there's no danger here of Clark suffering uh careerending consequences really. So again, you know, just like we know what's going to happen here. Hold the debate. the tourists can all vote to, you know, acquit uh Steve Clark, so to speak. That would be the majority of the legislature. You would have fulfilled all of the obligations of the law, and you could all move on with your lives. But
>> seems pretty clear.
>> Yes.
>> Well, speaking of moving on, we're going to move on with our lives. We're going to talk about our columns right after this.
>> Time now for our regular feature. It's called Your Column, My Column, in which JMM and I have a little chitchat here about the columns that we wrote for the TVO website over this past week. We chat about them here. We encourage you to go to tvO.org and learn more about them there. What do you want to tell us about this week?
>> So, one of the stranger uh aspects of the Maril campaign in Toronto this year has been the very public search by some conservatives in this city to find a conservative candidate who is not named Bradford [laughter] to challenge Bradford and Olivia Chow. and uh they eventually found a candidate Chris Alexander who dropped out of the race uh earlier this week on the first day of early voting. And it's just been such a weird sort of ride [laughter] to watch this this all unfold because it was pretty clear from early on that Bradford more or less had consolidated the uh conservative uh uh opposition to Olivia Chow in this city. um maybe not quite as much as he has in the most recent weeks. Uh but you know, Chris Alexander never entered the race with a spectacular ground swell of support and he left with only a few percent in some polls
>> and he got in very late to begin with. and he got in very late to begin with. And I find this all um uh very strange. And uh the reason, you know, like this is all sort of it it is admittedly inside baseball here and there's discussions about, you know, which conservatives were were backing which candidate. And is this because of genuine disagreements or is this because some people find Bradford to be um I think unlikable is [laughter] one of the words that gets used. Um, the Toronto Star had a a lengthy profile about uh Brad Bradford and and uh this this issue kept coming up that some people just do not like him. Um, again, it's all inside baseball and I I concede that. And I'm not uh urging people to vote for or against Brad Bradford. What concerns me is that it's it's kind of like political malpractice. It's it's it's a it you know political operatives, political advisers uh really just acting totally sort of disconnected from the observable reality of what was happening in this city. And someday a conservative will win the mayor's office again. Conservatives have won most of the elections in the post amalgamation city's history. And I would like to think that when that next conservative mayor is staffing up their mayor's office that uh they will find staffers and operatives and people who actually know how to like recognize reality and not be deluded. It's a good point and and you know what I I've been thinking a lot about what exactly Chris Alexander's path to victory looked like and I I guess it despite coming in very late and despite not apparently having very much money and very very many resources to run his campaign I guess his play was there's unhappiness with Brad Bradford's attempt to take down Olivia Chow and therefore I'm going to offer a different conservative voice from Bradford's when I get into the race it's going to be so obvious that I'm a superior candidate to Bradford and all of his support will bleed off to me and ultimately you'll have Bradford dropping out of the race and it will be a chow Alexander choice. I think that was the play but but that's really a one ina million shot and as we saw the other 9999,999 times that we would run this race. Alexander gets in with singledigit support, maybe got up to 10% at one point and then dropped down to 4% when the most recent poll came out and dropped out. And as I say, 99 times out of 100, that's what was going to happen. And I I will add just this is one of my hobby horses and I'm not going to go on too long about this, but Toronto has a problem particularly with mayor's races where people who do not have an extensive record in municipal politics uh think that they can jump in and make a [clears throat] name for themselves. Uh this has happened basically in every cycle since I have uh started watching Toronto politics and it never goes well. the people who tend to win uh with one exception. The people who tend to win are people who who already hold municipal office
>> and are extremely wellnown by the people,
>> right? And so the one exception of a person who did not already hold a council seat uh is John Tory. And John Torey, of course, an extremely well-known uh quantity in Toronto politics. So uh yeah, as I say, this whole thing's been very confusing to me.
>> Did you read Matt Elliot's column in the Toronto Star about all this? Matt's column was excoriating. Now, let's start by saying you and I generally speaking have respect for people who have the guts to put their names on a ballot. We're not going to do it, but you know, we need people to do it. And we
>> and and I will just very parathetically add, you know, I think Chris Alexander made some useful contributions to this campaign.
>> I agree. I agree. Um Matt Elliot's column was absolutely excoriating, saying for the fourth biggest city in North America, which Toronto is right now by population, the options on offer for the mayor's job he found to be pathetic. Uh I won't comment on that. I'll merely put that out there for people's edification. But if you want to go on the Star website and read that column because you may agree with Matt's point, uh, he certainly made the case extremely effectively and very, what's the word I'm looking for? With a lot of sandpaper, let's [laughter] put it that way. Yeah, let's do that.
>> All right. Now, what about you, Steve?
>> Well, I'm sticking with Toronto City Hall on on my column this week because I think there's one of the best uh races, not for mayor, but for city council that's happening east of Young Street in this city.
>> It's happening in my ward. It is happening in your ward. That's right. You know, uh we do like to highlight some of the great races that are going on in this province. We did so earlier in this program. About 20 minutes from this studio is Ward 19, Beaches East York. And the winner is going to be somebody named Nathaniel or Natalie.
>> Yes.
>> Nate or Nat, if you want to be more colloquial about the thing. Two very high-profile candidates. Let's bring up the picture first of Natalie Johnson, whom you will, I suspect, recognize. This is a shot I took of her just the other day. We had a cup of tea on the uh what was it? Buds Coffee Shop. Was that the name of the place? I'm trying to remember now. Oh gosh, where's my memory going? It's on
>> I know most of the coffee shops around my neighbor.
>> You help me with this. This is a Queen and Woodbine on the north side of Queen just uh just near Woodbine and we sat down on the bench there and had a chitchat for half an hour about her race. Now, if you recognize Natalie, it's of course because she's on television for 19 years as a CTV city hall reporter for most of those 19 years. Uh and five months ago she jumped into the race because she decided, you know, she got to a point in her career where she thought, I don't just want to bring attention to the problems I see in the city. I would actually like to try to solve them. You know, she brought attention to them as a journalist, and now she wanted to put her name on a ballot and try to solve them. She's lived in the area, loves the area, and so on and so forth. Given that this was Brad Bradford's former seat, there's no incumbent there, right? It was a wide openen race and she was the best known person has knocked on tens of thousands of doors and thought I'm going to win this thing. Politics is nothing if not unpredictable. Remember Nate Erskin Smith? Okay. Nate used to be the member of parliament federally for beaches east York. Then he left that job in order to run for the Scarbor Southwest Liberal nomination because he wanted to come to the provincial level in hopes of winning a seat in a bi-election and then eventually becoming leader of the Ontario Liberals. That did not work out because he lost that potential uh Liberal nomination. As soon as that happened, people started to say to him, "Look, Nate, you're whatever 41 years old. Your political career is should not be over. There's an open vacancy at city hall in the writing in which you live. run there, run for a city hall seat. Then Olivia Chow got into the mix and said, "You know what? It'd be good to have you running and good to have you on council. She sees a like-minded um a like-minded person uh potentially going there." He eventually agrees and he has to make what I can only presume was an extremely kind of difficult, awkward call to Natalie Johnson saying, "Remember when you and I met for coffee several months ago and I sort of encouraged you to get in and told you here are some of the things you got to think about and worry about?" Well, I'm getting into the race now, too. And you know, Nate, for all of the issues around him, and there are issues around him, has excellent name recognition. and his entry into the race has now of course completely changed the dynamic. You're not going to get a prediction out of me on who's going to win on the 26th of October, but it will be somebody I pred I will go this far. [laughter] It will be somebody who starts spelling their first name A T. And that's as far as I'm going.
>> Be followed by a vowel. [laughter]
>> But that's as far as I'm going. Yes, indeed. Yes, indeed. Um there has been one poll of uh the Beaches East York race uh but I am so uh skeptical of uh poll like ward level polls and or even riding level polls you know provinially and federally uh that I I'm not even going to repeat the uh the numbers here on the podcast. Um but I will be uh I will be watching this race. I will be voting [laughter] in that race. Um, and uh, yeah, no, it's it's uh, it has been a little bit of a drama over the summer.
>> Natalie Johnson turns 40 the week before election day. You can imagine what she wants for a 40th birthday present this year. Naterskin Smith uh, has been told by lots of his friends, "What are you banging your head against the wall making no money uh, you know, in politics for?" He's got lots of buddies who are on Bay Street making a lot more money than he is. But for whatever reason, he has a kind of a genetic predisposition to try to make a contribution to this world in politics and so he's giving it another go and uh you know as they say may the better option win
>> and we will see. Now, we should also remind viewers that TVO Today Live, which is the monthly town hall show that I host here on TVO, it is co-hosting with the Rottman School of Management at the University of Toronto, a Toronto mayoral debate. It's going to take place next Thursday, October 15th. It will be carried live on TVO at 7 p.m. Eastern time. It will be livereamed on all our digital platforms. And of course, there may be 50 plus candidates in the race, but I'm sorry to the other [laughter] 48 plus. Uh, you're not invited. This is going to be Chia big enough. No, it's Cow versus Bradford. Alexander's out right now. So, it's a two- horse race and we will have those two horses in the stable
>> uh for our debate next Thursday, October 15th. And we hope you'll join us. And with that, that is the OnP podcast for this Friday, October 2nd, 2026. You can follow our show wherever you get your podcasts [music] so that you get notified each time a new episode is available and you can see the video version of the podcast on the TV today YouTube channel.
>> Any feedback you have, we're always happy to get it, good, bad, or indifferent. Write us an email at onpolitics at tvo.org. And please include your first and last name and where you're located. And once again, before we go to our [music] credits, please make sure to stick around after the show because we've got a special interview on the topic of gun violence [music] related to an interview that, excuse me, related to a documentary that TVO is playing right now, which is truly spectacular and thoughtful and moving and poignant. [music] Our guest will be Dr. David Kauf who is devoting his life to reducing gun violence right now.
>> This week's episode was produced by Matthew Omera, editing by Colin Kish. production support from Jonathan Hollowell and TVO's digital media services team.
>> Lori F is the executive producer of digital. Vanessa Casease is vice president media.
>> You know that we always love to give props to our wonderful studio crew for making the video part of the podcast happen. So, thank you. Thank you. Control room. Thank you. And until [music] next Friday, bye-bye.
>> Byebye. Nikai Walks is a new documentary from TVO that features the journey of 16-year-old Nikai Foster, who was the victim of a random shooting while playing basketball in the Jane and Finch community in northwest Toronto. The film traces the fallout of his injury and looks at these systemic issues that make this type of violence all too common. Speaking to us now on this issue, Dr. Davidid Kof. He is a professor emeritus at McMaster University, past chief and chair of the department of radiology and a member of the Canadian doctors for protection from guns. He joins us in Hamilton, Ontario. Dr. Kofs, great to have you with us. Kui
>> Merci, it's a pleasure to be with you and I thank you very much for the invitation and I'll be really happy to share some thoughts with you.
>> Excell. Uh, thank you so much for joining us. Before we get started, could you give us a a little background on why you got involved with this group? Well, you know, we uh moved to North America and I and I've seen this horrendous uh mass shootings in the states and uh the only action plan which was coming out of that and I saw that again and again and again is thoughts and prayers and uh you know being pretty practical I not that I'm don't believe but I I don't think that thoughts and prayer is really very effective and certainly better ways to prevent these kinds of uh horrific uh uh incidents to to happen. So that's then there was the shooting on the Danforth and then CDPG came out after that and when I saw this group of doctors were kind of already exposed to uh through surgery and being surgeons or psychiatrists and already exposed to this kind of things uh getting together and trying to do something. I thought well maybe I should join and uh see how I can help with that and I'm very happy I did and I I [clears throat] believe we need we need to more more visibility and people to understand more the problem that we're facing with that.
>> Let me follow up on that Dr. Kauf as as not just a doctor but as a radiologist in particular what does gun violence look like for you? So for me uh I I had the vested interest in forensic radiology and for a number of years the corner services were we had corner services based at Hamilton and uh working at the Hamilton General Hospital we we used to uh have a lot of uh gun violence victims and a lot of shootings and uh I must say and I'm I'm sorry if I go in in these kind of things but u we x-rayed uh our um deceased patients in in the bag and I could see the uh impact and effect of uh of uh people taking their own lives with uh big shotguns and all you see on the X-ray just the mandible and nothing left otherwise. It's horrible. It's a it's a very very uh stressful experience and uh I don't want people to do that. That's uh it's it's it's a one-way thing. So, I've seen so many of those, not even talking about the the people wounded by uh high velocity weaponries and um heavy uh uh military grade uh guns where the bones are shattered. Uh you think that, oh, they're just wounded. But when you see how the the limbs look like you you think no way can cannot happen. So that's that's how I've been exposed. Uh we don't have the corner corner service anymore, but uh I've I've seen a lot of those.
>> And a quick followup, I know you are a professional, but how have you not suffered from PTSD or how do you keep your sanity in the face of seeing so much misery?
>> Probably by taking action. And that's one of reason why I joined the CDBG because if you think this is nothing I can do and uh there is no way we can act on that then yes you you get PTSD you get uh hopefully depressed you think that it's it's just misery but if you think there's something which can be done to reduce the amount of uh of violence and and shooting then I think that gives you a purpose purpose and it gives you a reason to fight and uh to stay up.
>> We normally think of uh gun control as a federal matter uh you know in terms of federal criminal law but of course people live in cities and they live in provinces and I'm wondering if you could explain to our audience what you see as the provincial role in uh gun control.
>> Right. So there are two aspects and the as you say people live in in remote areas. So most of uh this gun violence is suicide. I think is 69% of death by uh guns is suicide mostly in the north uh where people are isolated. It's uh mostly men, elder I would say old but more than 50. Um and they take their lives. They they suffer from um mental issues, isolation, um the feeling that there's no hope or no future and um they kill themselves. And uh killing with a gun is a is a one-way thing. You cannot you cannot just get back have second thoughts and think oh why did I do that and call 911 and uh and be saved with which is the case with most other ways of taking your life. So that's that's probably more of uh the um the the violence that we see and definitely the provincial role on that should be to provide more support uh psychiatric help uh access to services, education. Um I understand that uh the federal level is mostly legislation and uh trying to take away the guns. Uh but uh the provincial level is should should emphasize on uh healthcare and prevention. That that's really what we could do best and I'm sure we can we can help people with that.
>> You know it's interesting when media cover these stories and in fact when you gave an earlier answer the first example you gave was the Danforth in Toronto. we do tend to focus on the urban areas where these things can take place and yet I think if you look at the statistics it's actually in more rural and northern parts of Ontario that on a per capita basis more of this takes place. Um you know h how do we make a dent in this kind of phenomenon where guns in rural and northern areas are much more a part of the fabric of everyday life than they are in big cities. Right. So, the the the idea and the the role of CPDG is not to take away uh guns from people. We're not here to uh prevent hunters and farmers to have gun. They need to have guns on the property. Um they need to be able to defend their cattle against uh predators and things. So the idea and that that's a common misunderstanding that people have been used uh using a lot to try to discredit the CDBG. We're taking your freedom away. We are we are we have the right were law-abiding citizens and these law-abiding citizen we heard it so much that at some point it's it's it's just ridiculous. These are these law-abiding citizens were taking their own lives but they they don't see any any way out. Uh so we won't take these guns uh away but we want these people to make sure that they are stored in a in a appropriate way. They are locked in a in a cabinet the the the uh ammunitions are not in the same um location. So if you put more steps to kind of limit the access to the gun already can slow down the process. But mainly u we have to fight against isolation. You have to provide support. We have to uh uh detect uh mental issues and be sure that we can treat that before it ends up in a in a suicide or in violence. you know the example I I had because the gun violence is is a public health issue is is for me for my standpoint it's nothing other than that and it has to be addressed the same way but one of my neighbors for instance um had an episode of absence driving went to see the doctor and his driver license was taken away for the time of the investigation he couldn't drive uh as long as he was not cleared and he had told the uh examination, you needed DMR and everything. Um, the same thing should apply to guns. You cannot let someone with mental issues just manipulate heavy weaponry and uh and and be a risk for himself or for the community. So, we have to make sure that we have ways to uh identify mental issues and uh treat them and uh not let people have mental issues with to have access to guns. So that that's probably one of the first thing we can do prevention and mental support.
>> There was a private members bill in uh 2022 that was introduced by then MPP Mitsy Hunter that would have amended the Safe and Healthy Communities Act to make gun violence a public health issue. Uh it didn't make it into law, but your group supported the bill. Can you explain what that bill would have done and why you supported it? So I think the role uh uh I believe you you mentioned here um bin number nine and uh the idea was that the bill would have provided support uh for people who have been exposed to gun violence um and um it's mental health um it's and and really have support for that and it didn't go through because my I I don't know I'm non-p politician and I'm not too much involved in in in this kind of things but um I understand there was some kind of confusion uh if it was not already included another bill in bill 60 and uh people at the end of the day say well we don't need this one but I I strongly believe that we need to include that and we need to have uh this kind of mental care uh covered by OHIP and made available to people. So, um, someone needs to look a little bit what happened with this bill and, uh, we should resubmit and, uh, make sure that people have access to the support they need.
>> Dr. Koff, let me ask you one last question, which is to say, you know, there are two different avenues, I guess, that society can go down in order to make this situation better. uh you in one of your previous answers suggested uh people themselves can do a lot in terms of better gun safety, better understanding, better education, and then of course as you just described, there are also legislative solutions to this as well. Where do you think the accent should lie? More education or tougher laws?
>> Well, for me, I think more education is probably the the way to go. Um, you know, it reminds me we we've seen that years and years ago. I was I was still young at the time, but when uh safety belts were were made mandatory uh in the cars and um people have been screaming, you're taking away our freedom. We should be allowed not to wear the seat belt and fine. But if you look at uh uh the number of lives which have been saved just by wearing the seat belted and decreasing the amount of injuries and the cost for the society of uh um not wearing a seat belt, you think well there's there's common sense and now the first thing you do when you sit in your car is to fasten your seat belt. It's it's not even you don't even think about it. We've seen the same thing with uh smoking tobacco and uh it's not only lung cancer or but it's also this horrible lung disease which kill you know COPD and fisma and things like that and people will die from that and and slowly people got to understand even if the tobacco lobby was extremely powerful they started to understand that smoking can be dangerous and they have to uh take the uh the measures to uh to uh reduce the risk of dying from cancer and and they did it. Look now what the situation so of course um legislation have been very helpful by preventing and forbidding people to smoke in public areas in offices and restaurants and all that and and we should we should pair both but I believe that with education we can already achieve a lot by getting people to understand that uh they have to be careful. The other thing is why do people need to have a weapon grade uh military grade weapons? There there is no justification. Do I drive a tank on the 41? No. And I wouldn't be allowed to do that. So you know military weapons are for soldiers and for military they don't have so that should be definitely removed from the streets and from homes. Um so I believe that probably having both um a strong education starting in school and uh at at the youngest level to to explain uh young students that the risk and dangers of um having access to guns um and as well as having strong regulations and and laws. We we need both at the end of the day. But for us as doctors, we can help with education and prevention. Prevention is key.
>> Perfect.
>> Dr. Davided Cau, thank you so much for joining us today. Merci.
>> Well, we're talking to Dr. Kauf of course because of this documentary that we're playing on TVO right now. And you can watch Nikai Walks. That's the name of the documentary. And it's available on the TVO docs YouTube channel. and we will put a link in the description of the video so you can check that out as well. Thanks so much for joining us.