Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Catch us live weekdays at 7 a.m. Eastern on Apple CarPlay or Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App. Listen on demand wherever you get your podcasts or watch us live on YouTube.
>> Let's go to Galite Alstein. She is a Bloomberg News reporter. She is based in uh Tel Aviv. Uh Gal, thanks so much for joining us here. What's the feeling in Israel today as these hostages come home?
>> I think um for almost everyone in Israel, this is a very um happy day. We've been seeing um tens of thousands of Israelis flock um since early this morning to Tel Aviv's hostage square which has become a sort of gathering point um over the past 2 years for those who have been advocating for the release of the hostages and um it was quite a sight today seeing um about like I said 60 70,000 people um in the square and in all the surrounding streets um with a big stage that um kept broadcasting the images of the hostages is coming out. People were chanting and clapping their hands and singing and cheering and it was um indeed a very um happy day and I think um a sense of relief for a lot of Israelis here.
>> There was a moment in that speech when President Trump uh was talking to Prime Minister Netanyahu directly and he said he had a lot of guts uh for knowing when to stop the fighting and for stopping the fighting when when he did. Just get us up to speed here on what these last few days have been been like. We had President Trump unveiling this this peace plan a couple of weeks ago. The devil is in the details. Of course, we were talking about that just a few moments ago. What's going to happen here in Egypt and and going forward, but just just explain what President Trump was able to do, how he was able to convince Prime Minister Netanyahu to stop that assault on on Gaza City that was underway.
>> Yeah. So we to be to be very honest and transparent, I think we only know like part of the question the answer to that question at this stage. But overall um you know Netanyahu has has generally um insisted that Israel cannot stop fighting in Gaza and cannot stop fighting Hamas until it is totally defeated until it's um completely out of power and until all of its military um capabilities are are taken out. And what happened here is that um Trump I think um along you know with um Steve Witkov and Jared Kushner they um managed to do a few things. On the one hand, they managed um to convince um Hamas um by themselves through mediators that to to give up all the hostages at once, at least all the living hostages, because there are still 28 um dead hostages that remain in Gaza. And we understand that only um about four of them are going to be brought back today. Um so so that's one thing they managed to do. But in turn um what Kamas wanted was guarantees um that the war will in fact end after that happens and that Israel doesn't just get all the hostages back and then goes back to fighting. And um you know Trump has basically um personally guaranteed that this will happen and that the war will end. And we've heard him say multiple times today on the way to Israel on Air Force One when he came to the Israeli parliament that this is the end of war and that the US will will make sure that's what happens. So I think these are, you know, the two things that that m made a difference. You know, the the biggest sticking point moving forward will be whether Kamas some agrees to disarm. Um Trump's 20point plan says that that's what Kamas has to do. Hamas haven't agreed to do that yet and that's what Israel insists on. Um so we'll have to see how that plays out. But the sense is that the war at least as we as we've known it in the past two years has um in fact come come to an end. That's what it looks like today.
>> Thank you so much for joining us. Really appreciate your reporting uh from Israel. Geolstein, Bloomberg News uh in our Tel Aviv bureau. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this.
>> You're listening to the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern.
>> Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube.
>> Let's check in with Lori Calvina, a head of US equity strategy for RBC Capital Markets. Lori, it's kind of seems to be trade is one of the drivers of kind of market sentiment these days. We got a maybe a little bit of a softening of tone from President Trump as it relates to China. And I guess that's what the market likes to see here. What are you making of today's uh pre-market action?
>> Well, thanks for having me, Paul. Look, I mean, it's not unexpected to get a bit of a bounce, right, after kind of the big drop that we saw on Friday. I think it's going to be really interesting to see how the S&P 500 trades today. The kids are out of school in New York City. Um I'm guessing other parts of the country as well. Um they're thankfully not running around here for me. Um but the you know it is a quiet day on Wall Street, right? So let's see what we get in terms of the price action. But I think tomorrow is really going to be um you know kind of the the day where I think we start to hear a bit more from folks um you know in terms of how they're digesting this. And look, I'll tell you Paul, as I think back over the last three weeks, I've been in the UK. I've been running around the US to more cities than I can count and keep track of at this point and I heard a whole lot of things about people that they were worried about. Valuations, AI, capex, rate cut, pricing got pulled forward in the stock market, um labor, um inflation, you know, is that going to start to percolate soon? Are we going to see more of a growth response to tariffs um in the market? But the one thing I was not hearing about was that things could, you know, start escalating again with China. So, I think what we learned on Friday was that a fair amount of, you know, we're on a good path. Um, things are headed in the right direction. That was really kind of a firm underpinning of this market. So, we need to see how that plays out.
>> Um, it seems like quarter after quarter, Lori, going into earnings season, financials are held up as a bell weather, something that's going to tell us about the health of the market. It's going to give us some insight into the economy as well. So, tomorrow we've got JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Cityroup. On the heels of that, uh, we've got Bank of America and Morgan Stanley on on Wednesday. In this odd economy, in this moment, what are those particular companies going to tell us?
>> So, you know, we'll see what they have to say. Earnings revisions have been pretty resilient there. Um, so my guess is that we're going to have, you know, some pretty good messaging coming out of them, but we'll have to see. Um, the reality though, your comment about the bell weather, this was something we wrote about in our weekly today. And if I go back the last couple reporting seasons, you know, I could summarize, you know, what we've been hearing from the banks and and especially the big banks as don't worry about the consumer. Everything's fine. The stats all look good. Uh, you know, we're really, you know, proud of our consumers for being more choiceful in their purchases. Um, but don't worry, things aren't cracking. And that's that's not wrong, right? I mean, that's what they're seeing in the data. That's one perspective. But the problem is that you have a lot of people in the financial community that go around saying that as evidence of there's nothing to worry about. And if you actually go and listen to the consumer companies who have the boots on the ground feel, you know, there's some really uh you know, not troubling, that's not quite the word I want to use, but there are some problems. And so for example, what we've noticed in the recent consumer companies kind of those late cycle rep offcycle reporters kind of that came at the last tail end of the reporting season, they were talking not just about the low-income consumer being stressed, but the middle income consumer being stressed. There was one company over the last few weeks that said they were seeing stress in the consumer worldwide. We had another company that was talking about how socioeconomic issues are pressuring consumers across cohorts. So I think that we really need to take the financials with a grain of salt. It's an important perspective. It's one that we absolutely want to have and find valuable, but at the same time, they're not able to give us the full picture because only the consumer companies are really able to tell us about the composition of the spend under the surface.
>> So Lori, given that earnings are kicking off here, um let's put that in context of of valuation here. What are the discussions you're having with your clients these days about valuation across the market?
>> Everyone's worried. Um everyone's got sticker shock. And if you just look at our charts on just say the S&P 500 market cap weighted PE, you can do the same thing on the NASDAQ 100 either cap weighted or equal weighted. And we also look at the top 10 names in the S&P 500. And you've basically got forward PE levels that are sitting in line with the recent highs. Not necessarily tech bubble highs, not necessarily all-time highs, but highs that in recent years have been difficult for the market to move past. So you're not getting any valuation expansion in this market. And I think that's something, you know, the bottom-up stock pickers I talked to, frankly, are picking up on, and I think they're somewhat alarmed at some of the levels that they're seeing um in some of their portfolios. So, I do think that earnings are really the big driver here. And we have seen a fade in earnings sentiment. Now, that doesn't mean earnings are going to be a disaster, but the big pop in earnings surprises that we got in the last reporting season, I don't think that we're set up to repeat that.
>> Uh Paul, you weren't here. I was filling in for you. Lori was on and I brought up the fact that it seemed like analyst after analyst and strategist after strategist was was touting how this was a moment for small caps. And I I asked Lori if she agreed with that. And Lori rightly brought out her CV and touted her bonafides when it comes to her experience analyzing uh uh small caps in in in in her previous life. Uh and she was skeptical, I think I could say, about the the prospects for small caps. And I would invite her to take a bit of a victory lap here. Lori, what is your sense of where small caps are head? What does that tell you about the market more broadly?
>> Well, look, David, I mean, I always describe small caps as my first professional child. So, there's no one more than me who wants them to succeed and wants them to have that moment in the sun and wants them to have that leadership shift. But, frankly, you know, I I felt a little bit like I was shouting into the abyss over the last few months while the street was just going bananas on talking about small caps and calling for the beginning of this big outperformance cycle. And based on what I'm seeing in the recent trading data, it looks like, you know, it's kind of fizzled out once again. And that's not to say there's not incremental upside in absolute terms, but we're no longer seeing this part of the market outperform the S&P or outperform the NASDAQ 100. It looks like it may have just been another rate cut bet that fizzled out pretty quickly. Um, you know, I think as we kind of head into earning season, one of the interesting things on small caps that's been coming up recently is whatever challenges that are out there, you know, whether it's, you know, tariffs, for example, back when we had the tight labor market postco, small caps just have a difficult time managing around those challenges relative to their big cap companies. Um, so that's one of the things I'm going to be looking for in this reporting season is to see how small caps are managing through relative to their big cap counterparts. So Lori, given that backdrop, what screens well for you guys? I'm not sure if you do it by sector or by factor, something jumping out at you guys that kind of gets your interest.
>> So we mostly focus on sectors and we continue to like the financial sector. Um, you know, frankly, if we get a pullback in the market, they may not, you know, sort of hold up better on the way down. Um, they are cyclical in nature. Um, but we're not really concerned about that. What we've said is we like them on a 6 to 12 month view. So there is incremental weakness on a relative basis. In a short term, we'd still use that as a buying opportunity. Earnings revisions have been very resilient relative to other sectors. We're basically seeing the rate of upward revisions fade for most sectors in the S&P 500. X technology financials has had a little bit of a fade, but it's kind of pald in comparison to what we've seen elsewhere. Banks, consumer finance, um, insurance all screen well on our valuation and earnings work. And I didn't upgrade it, but one of the things we have been talking about in recent reports, and we actually said this specifically in the weekly we put out this morning, is that health care is starting to look a bit more interesting, especially if you think there's a market pullback that's already started or may be on the horizon. We are neutral all four of the defensive sectors, but healthc care is one that's been coming up in conversation recently. Valuations look good. Earnings revisions have been a touch more resilient than other sectors, and the flows look pretty good. Policy risk is still a big overhang, but we've had some developments on that. So maybe investors will be able to wrap their heads around that a little bit better than they have in the past.
>> Lori, very quickly here, I'm I'm curious what your process is as we get into earning season in in earnest. And I know a lot of that uh involves you kind of going through uh call transcripts, looking for for phrases that stand out. Paul asked about tariffs. I asked about he asked about valuations as well. What are you going to learn from those calls, do you think, or what are you hoping to learn from those calls with executives here in the weeks ahead? So look, we do use tools to, you know, sort of help point us in the right places and earnings call transcripts, but a lot of that's done after the fact. My team, we like to read top to bottom and we do speedread, but we tend to divide up different sectors. We have some knowledge that we've built up over time of which companies tend to be more insightful than others. And we look at the price action, frankly, to figure out what transcripts we want to focus on. Um, I'm really curious to know more about inventories. So, how much pre-tariff inventories are companies still sitting on? Another thing I really want to understand in both the corporate and consumer world is how much demand was or frankly was not pulled forward uh from the back half of the year into the second quarter as companies and and consumers were trying to get ahead of tariffs. I don't think we got good indications about either of those in the last reporting seasons. Companies were a bit vague. Analysts frankly I don't think were pushing hard enough to get answers to those questions. And on the issue of pull forward, a lot of companies said they also just they couldn't quite tell yet. So, I think those are some of my big questions. I'm also curious about 2026. So far, companies are deferring uh declining to answer when asked about 2026 tariff impacts, but any clues we can get there, I think are going to be helpful.
>> Lori, thank you so much for joining us. We always appreciate getting a few minutes of your time. Lori Calvocina, she's head of a US equity strategy for RBC Capital Markets, and we appreciate getting uh some time from Lori. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern.
>> Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg business app or watch us live on YouTube.
>> Let's talk about the residential real estate market here. Selma Hep joins us here. She's the chief economist for Totality. Uh she joins us here. some of the I the big issue in residential real estate is just affordability or the lack thereof. Is there a solution to this affordability issue? I think about the folks in their late 20s, early 30s looking to buy a house. That's tough out there.
>> Yeah, it's very tough. Well, first of all, thanks for having me. I'm also happy to be here today. Um, you know, it's really a lot it is right now about mortgage rates. Uh, and mortgage rates have retreated from recent highs. They're now averaging between 6 and a quarter and 6.4 for 30-year fix. And that is the lowest uh in about a year, which means that affordability is at its best now that it's been in uh over 2 and 1/2 years. Um so affordability is improving and honestly in some markets uh you do have quite a bit relatively quite a bit more affordability than than other markets. So in Midwest for example and also parts of uh uh Northeast uh it's it is clearly more affordable than markets coastal markets such as you know New York, Miami and LA and so in these markets you do now continue to see relatively stronger rate of home price appreciation uh despite all of this affordability challenges. So, you know, markets in um Indianapolis, uh Chicago, for example, uh even even Boise City at this point again are seeing relatively more appreciation over the course of this uh summer uh than other markets where uh for example in Florida um and markets that have seen cumulatively so much more appreciation since the onset of the pandemic and have as a result become so unaffordable and now home prices are in those markets are declining. So, it just really depends where you are uh in the country. And
>> some I want to just ask you another question about consumer behavior here. Paul asking about 20-year-olds and 30-year-olds. And I got to give Lisa Matteo credit for this. She flagged a piece in the Wall Street Journal for us this morning about how young people in particular faced with these higher than we're accustomed to mortgage rates have opted not to buy uh and see as more promising putting money in the stock market where you can get, you know, 9 10% return over time and and that's just a better deal for them as they pursue renting. Is is that bearing out in sort of what you see in terms of consumer behavior? What are young people doing if they're not buying homes? And what's it going to take for them to once again consider home buying to be so integral to our notion of what the American dream is?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think American dream is still alive and well. You know, it's just been a little bit postponed. Um, and with the returns that they're getting in the stock market, it allows them to make larger down payments down the road. So, we do see the uh median age of first-time home buyer be higher than it's been previously. Um, and you know, they're now tend to be about 10 years older when they buy their first home than they used to be. But I think survey after survey shows that again, American driven dream is alive and well. Um, and so what they're doing is, you know, and and the fact that we can uh in many ways still work remotely or don't have to go to offices 5 days a week. uh people are moving to areas that are more affordable. Uh they don't have to be in central cities, especially if they have families and you know they're looking for good school districts. Uh you know, they tend to move a little bit further outside the cities. They tend to stay with their parents for longer to save for down payments. Uh but again, you know, in our survey, in our data, for example, of mortgage applications, areas that are more affordable in Midwest, for example, uh the share of first-time home buyer is really high. it's five 50 or 60%. So, you know, it just again depends where you are in the country uh and where it's more affordable to buy, people are buying and younger buyers are buying.
>> And so, here again in the uh in the New York metro area, we're dealing with the nor easter here today, which just once again highlights um the cost of insurance, if people can even get insurance, whether it's for hurricanes or fire or whatever. Talk to us about insurance costs. I mean, we've been hearing a lot about that is really a press on on a lot of people.
>> Yeah. Insurance costs have been a big constraint on the market and in markets that have uh where costs have gone up a lot or have higher risk of natural disasters, you've seen home sales being impacted. So, in those markets, home sales do tend to fall out of contract because people cannot get insurance. Uh overall insurance costs have gone up about 40 to 50% again in some markets significantly more particularly in Florida and actually parts of Midwest where you don't think about insurance costs being high but they are because there's persistent tornadoes for example or hail um and so not big natural disasters but more persistent natural disaster that's uh where we see large increases in insurance costs. Um again it's it's it is a big concern but you do do see some stabilization in the markets you know there's been regulatory changes in markets like Florida and and California for example and that's helped improve accessibility to insurance but when you think about you know cost in insurance continuing to go up uh forecast after forecast do show that those costs will go uh continue to go up you know really the big biggest thing is concentration of um residential valuation in areas that are have high exposure exposure to natural disasters.
>> S let me ask you lastly just about what you're seeing when you look at survey data about the US consumer. How he or she's feeling about the economy. His or her prospects going going forward at a moment here we're kind of struggling because we don't have the data that we're used to having the harder data that we're used to having because of the government shutdown. From your surveys from the so-called softer data, what are you learning about the the health and optimism of the US consumer today? Well, unfortunately, especially unfortunately for the housing market, uh consumer confidence does remain fragile. Uh you know, there's been a lot of as you said, economic uncertainty, policy uncertainty. Most recently, what seems to uh weigh on consumers mind is job security and income stability versus for example uh fears of tariff or tariffs earlier in the year. The other thing we do see is again bifurcation, income bifurcation. So uh upper income households are doing better. Uh and when you look at home sales activity, it's it's performing better uh and price stability is better in uh upper income uh or upper higher uh higher priced uh homes than lower price homes. So again, it's it's about income uh and it's it's it's there's regional variation, but I would say that uh consumers are continue to be very fragile and they are very responsive though to mortgage rate changes, you know. So with most recent decline in mortgage rates, we've seen uh consumers are coming back uh in home buying to home buying market.
>> Selma, thank you so much for joining us. Always appreciate getting a few minutes of your time. Selma He chief e-commerce for Kality. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Surveillance coming up after this.
>> You're listening to the Bloomberg Surveillance podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube.
>> Let's get right to it. David Maxwell, managing director of Sustainable Development Capital. Uh co-manages a€ 650 million euro green energy solutions fund investing in energy transition and infrastructure across the US, Canada, UK, and Europe. Uh David, thanks so much for joining us here in studio. Braving the Nor Easter. We appreciate that. Is this administration supportive of the energy transition from your perspective or is it kind of a headwind here? What what are you guys figuring out so far?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. Um I think the important thing to focus on is the problem. So I think we all know that in the United States there's going to be a surge in electricity demand um driven by the AI boom by electrification by onoring and the question is what do you do about that? because we don't necessarily have the um generation capacity or the transmission infrastructure to meet that growth in demand. And so I think that um the general consensus is that an all of the above approach is required and in that context um certainly things like distributed generation and energy efficiency are massively important in terms of filling the gap. I think when it comes to things like the big beautiful bill which was passed on July the 4th, certainly there are going to be headwinds, some headwinds associated with utility scale solar and electric vehicles. But at the same time, if you really look at the the text and the way that the uh the BBB has been discussed, there have actually been lifelines thrown to in fact major parts of the energy transition and technologies associated with it. You know, these include um things like um some runway for um distributed um solar to continue to benefit from investment tax credits until the end of 2027. You know, the big beautiful bill supports geothermal. It's quite useful in terms of batteries, um hydroelectric power, um carbon capture storage and other components. So, I think that we just have to take a pragmatic view. One one of the positives that has come out of discussions and we recently hosted an event during New York Climate Week was that actually the fact that this has been passed and that there's policy certainty is a very positive thing for the types of sectors that we invest in and certainly uncertainty is unhelpful and so actually we feel pretty pretty good and comfortable and quite bullish on the investment strategy that we deploy within STCR.
>> I'm curious how much you and investors can tune out some of the politics surrounding energy right now. So I think of friends who live in Rhode Island or Massachusetts who have seen such great expenditure and investment in wind farms uh on the ocean. Now we see administration taking a very adversarial approach to that. Obviously this is being fought out in the the courts. But when you look again at that level of investment and put it in the crucible of of politics, is it your sense that cooler heads will prevail uh enough has been built, these are close to being finished that they'll they'll end up being operational or is it something that actually should be of concern to those who saw the prospect of this kind of broader based uh energy future and are now wondering if we're going to have wind energy and and other types of energy going forward?
>> Right. I mean, I think the thing to focus on and I think what will prevail is the concept of economic imperative. Uh so going back to the theme, there's going to be an explosion in energy demand in the United States and there has to be some way to meet that growth in demand. You know, if you look at the kind of investment strategies that we um deploy within SDCL, they focus on downstreams, they focus on energy efficiency, where where the energy is consumed, how it's built. Um and those sorts of themes are quite in some ways immune to to the policy because they don't rely on policy incentives. Energy efficiency distributed generation can really stand on its own two feet. And certainly you know in discussions with some of the CEOs that we do business business with and our portfolio companies they are feeling that in time to come and not very long in sort of two or three years post 27 that these types of technologies should and can stand on their own two feet. Ultimately, I think that's what's going to drive um the energy markets going forward and actually you can see that there's a confluence of opinions um across the pond as well in Europe and Europe. Um
>> one of the things I I talking to your colleagues is energy efficiency. How much energy is lost from like where the energyy's created like an oil well to before it gets into my home. I mean energy loss and energy efficiency is it's a huge issue. How do you guys talk about that? 2/3 of energy 2/3 of energy is lost
>> from the point of extraction to the point of use. It's a staggering statistic. And so that's one of the things that um we identified at when our company was established. If you can go to a hospital, if you can go to a data center, um if you can go to a school and you can save them energy and you can reduce some of that energy wastage by primarily two things. by installing on-site generation, which removes all the transmission and distribution losses associated with that large 2/3 energy loss. And if you can go in and do retrofits to make their energy plant and equipment more energy efficient, these things are really good for business. They actually um enhance energy security on site. They reduce carbon emissions. They cut costs, which is great for business. And also, it represents a fantastic investment opportunity for us and for the investors we represent.
>> I know. and never heard that decision. These guys want to talk.
>> I will not forget that either.
>> Yeah. David Maxwell, managing director of sustainable development capital.
>> This is the Bloomberg Surveillance Podcast available on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. Listen live each weekday 7 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern on Bloomberg.com, the iHeart Radio app, TuneIn, and the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube and always on the Bloomberg terminal.