Hey everybody, welcome back to the channel. We are back on another episode of the daily recap, episode number two, after a fivemonth hiatus. I just want to thank everyone who showed some support on episode number one yesterday. Super super grateful and happy that a lot of people enjoy the format and we're going to try to do it every single day, Monday through Thursday, 15 20 minutes and get all the news that's important for the stock market every single day so that it's an easy way to consume it for everybody. Got a lot of stuff to talk about today. We got JPAL. We got trade representative Jameson Greer. We had the S&P 500 go down 1.5%. We got a complete reversal. We've got more news in AI. Lot to talk about. Let's get into it. Okay, so the first thing we'll talk about is trade representative Jameson Greer. I stayed extra long on my market open just to be able to hear his comments because I had a feeling and I think the entire market had a feeling that whatever he was going to say was going to matter. Now, why does this matter? Well, this morning if you looked at your portfolio, in fact, I looked at mine at 4:00 a.m. this morning and uh it was down a lot of money. Let me know in the comments who actually wakes up in the middle of the night and checks their portfolio. It's such a stupid thing to do, but like we all do it even though there's like barely any volume and the pre-markets don't always matter and nonetheless. And then I ironically had some pretty bad dreams after seeing how much money I was down. But um look, in the morning it was pretty bad. In the market open it was pretty bad. And then Jameson Greer, who is the trade representative for the United States, he had some things to say. Now what happened in the morning? China basically came out with a statement essentially, if you were to paraphrase it, they continued to escalate the problem with rare earth metals. And we thought that issue was dealt with on Sunday when Trump said, "Hey, don't worry about China. Xi had a bad moment. We're going to be okay." But then based on what they said in the morning, it felt like it was escalating. Market was down 1.5%. Then one of the head representatives that negotiates with China with Scapasent, he said these following things. Number one, the United States and China had staff level talks in Washington today, aka they are negotiating. There is an open line of communication. Number two, everybody needs rare earths. China knows this. They are really hurting themselves by acting like this. Number three, the Chinese realize they overstepped, which is why they pulled back some of their statements over the weekend. Number four, 100% tariffs are still on the table based on what China does next. And number five, we always watch the stock market and bond market. Want to make sure the market responds to appropriate info. By the way, that 10-year Treasury in the US bond market starting to come down. It's at 4.019. If that comes below 4%. That would not be the worst thing in the world. So, why do the markets do an entire U-turn? If you bought the dip from around 9:30 a.m. Eastern to about 9:45, those were the 15 minutes where you really had an opportunity where the market kind of took a hit. Why did it do a U-turn? Well, in my opinion, Jameson Greer basically told the market, "We are not trying to escalate the situation. We did not initiate the escalation of the situation. We want to work with China. It's just we were dumbfounded last week when we were getting all these notices by other countries that are now being threatened by China's new quote unquote export controls. China says they're not export controls. The United States says they're obviously export controls and that is hurting the supply chain and flow of rare earth metals and minerals. As a result, the markets basically were like, "Okay, cool." So Trump is not trying to start some crazy trade war. Trump did not out of the blue say, "Hey, let's like mess with China." which is kind of the I guess the the the perception the market had back in April which is why markets took a 30% draw down and we had a 3% draw down on Friday because I think the markets were just like dude we don't want to do with deal with this again with Trump starts random trade wars I think Jameson Greer basically came out and said it's not really our fault we want to work with the Chinese they want to work with us in fact on Friday their foreign ministry or on Saturday last week came out with a bunch of statements trying to deescalate and then JD Vance deescalated deescalated Trump literally deescalated but then this morning they escalated again and we are trying to deescalate so that doesn't mean there's a conclusion on this China saga. But I think the reason the markets literally went and did a Vshape is because there is more clarity on what's happening likely when it's going to end, which you know Trump and Xi they confirmed they're going to be talking next week in South Korea and so at the Apac meeting there likely is going to be some level of communication to be able to resolve this and if it does that could be a tailwind for the broader markets but I think we got some clarity today even if we're not out of the woods and as a result that's why the markets were able to. All right, next topic on the day JPAL. So, not only did Jameson Greer say some things today, our boy J Pal said a couple of things. And let's just say he said the same things that you would expect him to say. Um, but I almost think the market needs him to say these things over and over again for them to feel happy. So, on my market open, we didn't watch JPAL live. I predicted JPAL's going to say labor market's weak, we're going to have more rate cuts. JPAL said in a nutshell, labor market's weak, we're going to get more rate cuts. or we are the labor market weakness is signaling that we will have more rate cuts. He didn't literally say we're going to have more rate cuts, but he said uh you're likely going to have some rate cuts. And so as a result, he didn't literally say we're going to have rate cuts, but he basically signaled that we're going to have rate cuts. So as a result, that was another reason why the markets got excited. They were like, "All right, so JPAL is definitely on board with the rate cut thesis. JPAL understands the risks to the labor market from a low hiring economy uh along with AI potentially commoditizing jobs. We've been talking about that a lot on the channel, what's going to happen to a lot of these different jobs, blue collar and white collar jobs in the world of AI. And so you probably want to have rates low to at least be able to get ready to cushion the impact if there is more significant job loss. And then if we're going to get rate cuts, the market is able to price that in. Now, two other things he said that I think were really important. Number one, he said the data is showing that the economy is largely where it was in September. Now, we don't have a lot of data because the government shutdown. By the way, Kali's estimating that government shutdown has a 30% chance to last until November 16th. So, that might be a little bit longer than expected, but JPAL did say the data before the shutdown suggests that growth may be better than expected, largely where it was in September. So, this was really bullish because if you have the labor market weakening, which indicates a reason to cut rates, right? because if jobs go down, you want to be able to have that cushion for the labor market with rate cuts and growth is not de accelerating which would hurt earnings and hurt the broader economy if growth is going down. Then I mean you've got a scenario where assets are able to benefit from rate cuts but also growth doesn't have to slow down which is good for the earnings on those assets. The final thing JPAL said which was the most important thing uh that he that he made in terms of his statements is the central bank of the United States is nearing a point where it will stop reducing the size of its bond holdings but gave no longrun indication of where interest rates are ultimately headed. Essentially the TLDDR on that is that they're going to stop quantitative tightening. So when they are dumping bonds that is quantitative tightening. that is reducing the size of the balance sheet and that is entering less liquidity into the system because obviously you're tightening the overall balance sheet in general. Quantitative easing QE and you know JPAL was such a QT in my opinion for telling us that he is ready to engage in QE again is what we had in 2020 when the Fed started buying up bonds and as a result you have more liquidity, more liquidity, lower rates. That is basically the scenario for getting asset prices to go up. Does that result in a bubble? Maybe. We'll worry about that when that happens. But the point is today the market simply needed a signal on hey are we going to stop the contraction of the US balance sheet and JPA basically said that's coming to an end by the end of the year. Now we don't know if that's for sure going to happen but that was the perception of what the market took away from his comments and as a result stocks went higher. So pretty wild 1.5% swing to the downside. If you bought the dip on anything at that time you probably did well. And now at the time of recording this we're up about half a percent based on what Greer said and based on what JP said. All right, next up we've got bank earnings. Uh the banks crushed it. The banks absolutely crushed it, folks. So the main banks that we had today, and the reason the banks matter, even if you are not invested in banks, uh is because they are the financial ecosystem of the United States. If the financial structure of the US is strong, loans are being dispersed, credit law, credit loss provisions aren't that bad, delinquencies aren't that bad, capital spending is strong, M&A is strong, IPOs, underwriting of different forms of credit are not at a horrible level, then that means the rest of the economy, aka big tech, which largely relies on financials. I mean, obviously the big uh tech balance sheets don't literally need loans and and access to the the capital debt markets, but it is good to make sure that the capital debt markets are in the right shape if those are needed. And you got a lot of other tech companies that are not as big as Amazon that do need access to loans and banking. And the banks need to be in the right position. JP Morgan beat on the top and the bottom. Black Rockck beat on the top and the bottom. City beat on the top and the bottom. Goldman Sachs beat on the top and the bottom. And Wells Fargo had a ma massive beat on the top and the bottom. Wells Fargo up 7% on the day. the rest of those relatively flat to red. I mean, a lot of those stocks were up 20 to 30%. So, you know, they don't have to go up just because they have a good earnings, but nonetheless, all those stocks uh or all those companies had a phenomenal earnings and eventually their stocks will potentially reflect that. Um, I think the most important thing from the bank earnings is some of the quotes that we got from some of these CEOs. So, Larry Frink basically said there's about four and a half trillion dollars of essentially financial assets that are already tokenized in the context of stocks, stable coins. uh his ambitions to turn that into real estate etc. So you've got some pretty good um essentially prerogatives from Larry Frink on the idea that if tokenization is already happening and 4 and a.5 trillion out of the 13.5 trillion of assets they have is related to crypto tokenized assets etc. then you're likely going to get a pathway for those to increase which is bullish for Robin Hood, Coinbase, Kraken, all the companies that deal with the tokenized ecosystem. Uh and then Larry Fank specifically said uh the the the value is held in digital wallets and we expect it to expand rapidly across crypto stable coins and tokenized assets. So that's the first thing and then the second thing he said which is really important as well is about data centers. So, we know that Black Rock JP Morgan yesterday JP Morgan announced a $ 1.5 trillion initiative to increase energy, data centers, and like 10 different other sectors, but energy and data centers are two of the most important things uh that they're going to be investing over the next 10 years into the United States because they are recognizing the demand for energy. Um, you had Black Rocks Larry Frink once again say on the earnings call that data centers are a massive priority and that we are going to make sure that data centers continue to succeed. An estimated 1.5 trillion of capital is going to be needed in the next five years. In just the core and shell of data centers, and that's not including the chips. The growth of cloud computing and AI are propelling this capital demand, and Black Rockck is well positioned to expand our leadership. Teams across Black Rockck are exploring how AI can play a bigger role in making sure that markets are more accessible and efficient. Essentially, Larry Frink is telling you that data centers are a massive opportunity for financial institutions. They are heavily incentivized to make sure that the financing for those data centers are possible. And as a result, you've got the banks that pretty much crushed earnings. And it looks like tokenization and data centers are going to be the key focus of a lot of these financial institutions over the next decade. Okay, let's talk about some stats. So, I saw one stat today and uh I was pretty surprised, but also not surprised at this stat. Um, and it's quite incredible when you put it into some perspective. So, take a listen to this. on Friday when we had the 3% draw down, the worst draw down that we've had since April. Well, the market went up, the market went down. I mean, it was a pretty crazy day. And in the midst of the market going up and down, obviously, it was very volatile. So, traders traded within the volatility. The total US option volume hit a record high 108 million contracts that were traded on Friday. To put it into perspective, in 2021, the highest amount of volume, puts and calls together in the options market um was 60 million and that was at the peak of what was happening in 2021. So, this was almost double the amount of volume from four years ago and 2021 was a pretty crazy time. Again, I don't think we're in 2021. We've talked about that a lot on the channel why there's some, you know, unique fundamentally differentiated aspects towards how we can conceptualize what was happening in 2021 versus now. rate cuts, earnings, AI, there's a lot of different variables to it, but yes, there is some froth in the market and some of that froth is going to be there. And when that froth is there, you're going to get record option volumes like this. You're also going to get a lot of people that want to hedge to the downside if you're getting a 3% draw down. 61 million calls were traded on Friday, 47 million puts. The puts were the second largest on record. The calls were an all-time high, and this also beat April's Liberation Day trading activity when a 100 million options were traded in one day. uh super bullish Robin Hood, super bullish Weeble, super bullish Fidelity Schwab. All these brokerages benefit from the volatility of going up and down. But the point is we are in a massive generation of investors that from my perspective, whether it's retail or institutional, are either ready to buy the dip. Number one, uh another stat for you guys is that NVDU, the 2x leverage Nvidia fund, picked up 130 million of inflows on Friday. So Nvidia went down 5% and people piled into leverage Nvidia. uh which is quite incredible. We're going to get more stats over the coming days on how much of the dip was actually bought on Friday by retail. Uh the three stocks that were bought the most were Meta, Nvidia, and Hood as per JP Morgan. So that came out yesterday as well. But we are in this opportunity for a generation of investors that see every market draw down as a reason to get more excited. I mean, even I bought some more calls on my SMCI position. I have a 6090 call div because I was like, well, it came down. It should probably DCA down into these calls. And so I think all of us have this mentality that the future is bright. There's a lot of growth. There's a lot of optimism. There's a lot of excitement. There's a lot of opportunity that exists. And when you get an opportunity for a draw down or when you see a draw down, it is perceived as an opportunity. And that's just the generation we are in. And I don't think it's just the buy the dip generation of retail. I think it's a buy the chip generation of institutional investors that realize they're not going to get the amazing prices they were going to get four, five, 10 years ago when you had a draw down because that draw down is easily eaten up and 108 million contracts traded in one day because of a tweet from Trump about China causing a 3% draw down is quite remarkable. So I think the takeaway for investors here and let me know in the chat if you you know loaded up on call options or put options or sold called sold puts during that Friday is that people are ready to take advantage of the opportunity if there an opport if the opportunity is presented and and the final thing on this is that there are still $7.5 trillion on the sidelines getting three and a half% for money market funds when that three and a half% becomes potentially two and a half% by the way Paul Tudtor Jones came out today he says he thinks the NASDAQ will significantly be higher by the end of the year and he thinks by the end of next We're going to have two and a half to 2.75% interest rates. I mean, a lot of that money on the sidelines is probably going to take some risk and as a result, I think the demand for that is being pulled forward. People are buying every dip opportunity and as a result, you're seeing the market gain more momentum. All right, last topic of the day. Pounder gets an upgrade from Piper Sandler to 2011 from 182. I think this is the third upgrade on the street for pounder getting into that $200 level. Here's what the analysts had to say. There is no argument that pounders valuation leaves no margin for error particularly if any signs of moderating growth emerge. However, we argue that the tremendous visibility on future revenue over 7 billion of defined contract value plus an estimated four billion of Idiq contract value accelerating triple digit growth in commercial bookings year to date and an unparalleled wallet share opportunity across 1 trillion of US defense spending which could allow Paler to two to 3x its current government business and still be 10x smaller than the largest defense primes. Paler has not reached peak growth. Therefore, we do not see catalyst to halt current momentum. Essentially, the anal analyst is saying, look, the valuation is aggressive. We understand the valuation is aggressive. However, it's hard for us to be, you know, upset or scared about the expensiveness if the growth is going to be there. And based on all the analysis they've done around Pounder's government growth, it's likely going to be there. Now, last week we had some issues with a Reuters article that came out and said that Androl and Palanteer aren't effectively engaging in um in in in a way that allows the army to communicate with other branches of the army and there was some like issues with how their software and system was set up. I'm going to end out the show today with a clip from Palmer Lucky, uh, founder of Andreal, basically speaking about why that story wasn't a story, but it did create a decent opportunity and if you took advantage of that, you know, you got into the low 170s Friday got to the low 170s with the Trump announcement on China and, you know, now the stock's back at 180. Look, at the end of the day, I think the catalyst for pound share obviously haven't been that expansive because the stock has moved so much primarily based on earnings growth. So, it really doesn't need that massive billion dollar contractor partnership. They did get a billion dollars from the UK the other day for a five-year partnership with the Ministry of Defense. But I think the valuation is so strong on Palunteer from multiple perspective that they just need to keep delivering the growth. And it is really good to see the analysts come out and say, "Hey, look, things are going good. As long as they keep delivering the growth, we can see the stock continuing to do well and obviously going into the end of the year if the stock can continue doing well based on the idea of that accelerating growth, which again no other software company is growing 40 50%. Then you're likely going to get some more momentum for a pounder. Here is Palmer Lucky basically speaking about why that Reuters article was not necessarily the most accurate in the most Palmer lucky way. He also said that IPO coming up in a couple years. So hopefully 2027 we can get some handrol and thank everybody for watching another episode of the daily recap. Uh could you just respond to that reporting which came from Reuters um and explain the the sort of timeline and and the inaccuracies that you feel there are in that report. So you may or may not remember this but I was a journalism major myself. Uh I I was only a semester and a half away from graduating. I was the online editor of the Daily 49er which was the Cal State Long Beach uh studentr run newspaper. So I care a lot about this stuff both as a andal perspective but then also just from a journalist perspective. The journalist who wrote that Reuters story would have been failed out of the class by any of my professors. He refused to include our on thereord statement. He refused to include the on thereord statement from the army because they fundamentally made the whole story not a story. There was an analysis saying, "Hey, there's all of these security problems like uh the system, the prototype for NGC2, next generation command and control. It's not tracking what the users are doing. It doesn't have any passwords to log in. There's no security turned on." And they said, "Oh my god, this is a huge problem." And we said, "Guys, this was an early prototype. The army wasn't paying us to demonstrate user accounts. It was paying us to demonstrate integration of different sensors, different weapon systems all into one pipeline." Uh, and Lattis has all this functionality. We do this all the time. It's not like it's not like we don't know how to do this. And the army said the same. They said, "Yeah, we just turned on all those features with just a few weeks later. All these issues that you're talking about didn't exist." This was an internal security audit. Just noting that these things were a factor in that early prototype. Yes, there's no access control. Yes, that is a risk. Yes, we have not audited all of their security, you know, all their security code. That is a risk. But that's completely normal for early early development. But Reuters didn't include our quote, didn't include the army's quote because that would have made the entire story relevant. So instead, they include quotes exclusively from our competitors and from so-called anonymous sources saying that Anderl and Palanteer are running this fundamentally insecure thing. 99% chance that was planted by one of our competitors who had access to that memo. And there's only a few people who could have done it. And I can make people look bad by slicing and dicing memos, too. I'll show you if I want. I'll get back into the journalism