Thank you for coming. It's a treat to 
be with you and sharing all this stuff. 
Since we seem to be in a second Cold 
War, maybe it's a good time to revisit  
the last one to see why it turned out the way 
it did and why the participants in it thought  
it turned out the way it did.
I'm going to pose the question:  
why did Russia lose the Cold War?
People have loads of different  
answers to that question.
This is going to be a tour  
of the counter-arguments.
I'm going to start with  
an answer that many Americans have.
It’s a very simple one that's like, "Ronald  
Reagan single-handedly defeated the Soviet Union." 
That's one possible answer. But then I'm going to  
give you all kinds of counter-arguments to that.
Some of them are going to be other external  
explanations of what others 
did to the Soviet Union. 
Others are internal ones of 
what the Soviet Union did, the  
cards that it didn't play particularly well.
And then I've got some umbrella explanations. 
So that's my plan for this evening.
The story that Ronald Reagan did it… Well,  
here's a picture at the Reagan 
Ranch after the Cold War is over. 
You see the Gorbachevs and you see the Reagans 
and they seem to be having a grand old time,  
which suggests there's something 
maybe off with that explanation. 
But anyway, the way the "Ronald Reagan 
did it" school goes is that Ronald Reagan  
did a massive military buildup and some 
would argue it bankrupted the Soviet Union. 
He was a man of words and deeds.
He made really good speeches that were memorable. 
Here's one before Parliament where he says, 
"The regimes planted by totalitarianism have  
had more than 30 years to establish 
their legitimacy, but none—not one  
regime—has yet been able to risk free elections.
Regimes planted by bayonets do not take root." 
And then here he is before 
the Brandenburg Gate, this  
is in Berlin, long a symbol of German greatness.
But then it was a locked gate on the Berlin Wall. 
Here's Ronald Reagan: "General 
Secretary Gorbachev, if you seek peace,  
if you seek prosperity for the Soviet Union 
and Eastern Europe, if you seek liberalization,  
come to this gate. Mr. Gorbachev, open this 
gate. Tear down this wall!" And who can forget  
the "Evil Empire" speech, which he gave to the 
National Association of Evangelicals in Orlando,  
Florida, and they skipped Disneyland to hear it.
Reagan did a very significant military buildup  
that actually had started under Carter 
when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan,  
big mistake as we discovered.
He also invested in and deployed  
missiles in Europe.
He was busy funding  
anti-communist insurgencies and also others who 
didn't like the Soviet Union all over the world. 
He started doing more 
aggressive military patrolling. 
By the time he's out of office, he was like 
half a dozen ships short of this 600-ship  
navy or whatever it is he was planning to make.
He was also trying to build a missile shield,  
his Strategic Defense Initiative.
The problem is the Soviets  
tried to match him on this.
If you add up the GNPs of the  
United States, NATO allies, and Japan, well, that 
would be seven times larger than the Soviet GNP. 
You've got to be aware of asymmetric strategy.
The CIA thought during the Cold War that  
perhaps Russia was spending up 
to 20% of its GNP on defense. 
After the Cold War ended, when you 
were getting more accurate statistics,  
it turns out it was at least 40 or 50%.
Some people say it was up to a truly  
economy-busting 70%, if you take into account 
all the infrastructure investments that were  
associated with military things.
If you look during the Cold War,  
the United States was spending less than 8%, 
Germany less than 6%, Japan less than 2%,  
and Nazi Germany, which is no piker, 55%.
So you look at all this and it was difficult. 
So I am going to be quoting lots of Russians 
today because they have thought deeply about  
the fate of their country, how life as 
they knew it disappeared, the Soviet  
Union gone, the empire gone.
They thought a lot about it. 
Here is a former Soviet ambassador 
to West Germany, Valentin Falin. 
Here's his take: "Following the American strategy 
of our exhaustion in the arms race, our crisis in  
public health and all the things that have to do 
with standard of living reached a new dimension." 
Then if you add to the arms race of the United 
States the arms race that was going on with  
China on that border, the arms race plunged 
the Soviet economy into a permanent crisis. 
Here you have Georgy Arbatov, who was the 
late Soviet Union's finest expert on the  
United States, or at least the most famous one.
He's looking at the Soviet war in Afghanistan. 
He said, "It is quite clear that the Afghan war 
was most advantageous for the United States. And  
we got our Vietnam." Because the United States 
is busy funding the other side, and it's costly. 
Gorbachev is looking at this, as he's telling 
the Politburo a year after he came into power. 
He said, "Look, the Americans are betting 
precisely on the fact that the Soviet Union  
is scared of this SDI, the Strategic 
Defense Initiative, a missile defense. 
That's why they're putting pressure 
on us, to exhaust us." Correct.  
So some would argue that the US victory in the 
arms race guaranteed victory in the Cold War. Go  
Ronnie. That's one explanation. But I'm going to 
give you a tour of the counter-arguments and some  
other explanations, starting with Presidents 
Ford, Carter, and the Helsinki Declaration. 
After World War II, the Soviets had wanted 
to convene a conference of European states  
to confirm its expanded World War II borders.
And for a long time, nobody was interested. 
The Western Europeans are sick of all the drama.
The United States still doesn't want to show,  
but we go along with our allies, and our allies 
insist on including human rights provisions. 
We think this is crazy because we know the 
Soviets are never going to enforce those things. 
But you get the Helsinki Accords that 
have all sorts of human rights provisions. 
Well, lo and behold, unbeknownst to anybody, 
dissidents across the Eastern Bloc and human  
rights activists across the West start holding 
the communists to account for the agreements that  
they have signed and start contrasting 
the liberation that communism promises  
versus the dictatorship actually delivered.
This human rights movement within the Soviet  
bloc and abroad, took on a life of its own.
Here you have the former director of the CIA  
and former head of the Department of Defense, 
Robert Gates, saying, "The Soviets desperately  
wanted this big conference and it laid the 
foundations for the end of their empire. 
We resisted it for years only to discover years 
later that this conference had yielded benefits  
beyond our wildest imagination." Go figure. Here 
is Jimmy Carter with his human rights initiative. 
It was Gorbachev's English language 
translator who said that Carter's  
emphasis on precisely the human rights that 
were denied to Soviets really resonated and  
it made people think that they wanted a 
more democratic, open, liberal society. 
Here's Carter giving a 
graduation address at Notre Dame. 
He said, "We have reaffirmed America's 
commitment to human rights as a fundamental  
tenet of our foreign policy.
What draws us Americans together  
is a belief in human freedom.
We want the world to know that  
our nation stands for more than just financial 
prosperity. We're bigger than that." And here  
is Eduard Shevardnadze, Gorbachev's foreign 
minister, echoing some of these sentiments. 
He said, "Look, the belief that we are a 
great country is deeply ingrained in me,  
but great in what? Territory? Population, 
quantity of arms, people's troubles,  
the individual's lack of rights?
And what do we, who have virtually the highest  
infant mortality rate in the world, take pride in?
It's not easy answering the questions. Who are  
you? Who do you wish to be?
A country which is feared  
or a country which is respected?
A country of power or a country of kindness." 
Others agreed that communism was essential 
to the survival of the Soviet Union,  
but it's an undemocratic ideology.
Fundamentally, it's a foundation  
that can't endure forever.
That's the take of Vitaly  
Ignatenko, who's a Russian journalist.
Oleg Grinevsky, who's a Soviet career diplomat,  
is saying, "Look, communist ideology is 
associated above all with the Soviet Union. 
Its rejection created a vacuum and 
it determined its ultimate fate." 
Boris Yeltsin, who is Gorbachev's successor, 
said, "Look, no one wants a new Soviet Union." 
So some would argue, this counter-argument, that 
human rights clauses of the Helsinki Accords and  
Carter's subsequent human rights campaign 
destroyed communist belief in communism.  
Okay. Another president, another 
counter-argument. Those who are fans  
of Richard Nixon would say, "No, no, no, no, no.
It was Richard Nixon who played the China card  
so the United States and China could gang up on 
the Soviet Union and overextend it financially  
to wreck it militarily."
I think the Chinese would  
beg to differ and say, "No, no, no, no.
It was Mao who played the America card." 
Because what's going on in 1969?
There's a border war between  
China and the Soviet Union.
China's gotten its nuclear bomb in '64. 
It no longer has to defer to the Soviet 
Union and starts playing more tough  
on their border disagreements.
So the Soviets are really upset. 
They come to the United States and ask us whether 
it would be okay to nuke these people, because  
they think Americans don't like the Chinese .
Well we didn't, but we said, "No, it's not  
okay to nuke those people."
So the Chinese figure it out. 
The one that wants to nuke you 
is your primary adversary, right? 
Up until then… Think about it, 
China and Russia, for them the  
United States was the primary adversary.
Now they're primary adversaries with each other,  
freeing up the United States to decide 
which one it's going to cozy up to. 
And the United States decides it's 
going to cozy up to China. Why?  
Well, Chinese belligerency forces the Soviets.
Not only have they already got a big militarized  
border with Europe, now they're going to do the 
same thing on a very long border with China. 
These are nuclear-armed 
mechanized forces, very expensive. 
Imagine if this country had to have 
such borders with Canada and Mexico. 
It would be bankrupting, and we are far 
richer than the Soviet Union was then,  
whenever. It was bankrupting. So some 
would argue that US cooperation with China  
fatally overextended the Soviet Union.
One could take all of these arguments,  
starting with President Nixon all the way through 
Reagan, to make an overarching argument that says,  
"Look, each president opened up opportunities 
for the others who then leveraged them." 
So Nixon plays the China card, which 
others play with increasing dexterity. 
Ford comes in and begins dabbling in human rights.
Carter then comes in and really goes for human  
rights and starts doing a military buildup, 
which then Ronald Reagan really does. 
So that by the time you get to Reagan, he is 
dealing in a position of both ideological and  
military strength vis-à-vis the Soviet Union.
For those who think that US foreign policy was  
not consistent during the Cold War, you're 
not looking at it at the strategic level. 
There were certain different strategies 
going on and how best to achieve it,  
but both parties agreed the goals were free 
trade, democracy, containment of communism. 
Those were staples of US foreign policy, 
for both parties, for its duration. 
So some would argue that Presidents Nixon 
through Reagan produced the cumulative  
presidential effects to defeat the Soviet Union.
Okay, others would say to forget this great man  
theory of history business, that's really passé.
What really accounted for the outcome of the Cold  
War was this military platform, that's 
Pentagonese for large military systems. 
But anyway, it's a nuclear-powered, 
nuclear-armed submarine. 
They say that this is the item.
The way deterrence theory worked  
during the Cold War, and I believe now as well, 
is that in order to deter the other side, you have  
to have a reliable second-strike capability.
So if they thought of lobbing a nuke at you,  
they would be guaranteed that you would 
have the second strike to lob a nuke back. 
Therefore, they're never 
going to lob the first nuke. 
When Jimmy Carter became president, he was a 
graduate of Annapolis and also a submariner. 
The United States began a much more 
aggressive deployment of its fleet  
and that's continued even more so under Reagan. 
We're taking our submarines and we're targeting 
Soviet submarines in their home water bastions. 
So the Soviets are thinking that 
we're going to be able to destroy  
their second-strike capability on our first 
strike and they're having a heart attack. 
So here you have Valery Boldin, a longtime 
aide to Gorbachev, saying, "Look, the most  
powerful strength of the United States is the 
naval fleet and we aren't going to get one,  
or our geography isn't set up to use 
one the way the United States can." 
And then you have Marshal Yazov 
saying, "For the Americans, the main  
means of atomic attack is the fleet."
So then you get Marshal Akhromeyev,  
who's visiting the United States in 1987.
At the end of the Cold War he will kill himself,  
but he's still around in '87.
He's telling his American hosts,  
"You know where our submarines are, but we don't 
know where yours are. It's destabilizing. You,  
you the United States Navy, are the problem." 
Go Navy. And here's his host, Admiral Trost,  
who's going, "Yeah, the inability of the Soviet 
Union to maintain a strong defensive capability  
led to the demise of the Soviet Union and to the 
removal of the Soviets as a major threat to us." 
So you can make a perfectly good argument 
to say the Soviet Union could not counter  
technologically or financially the US submarine 
threat to its retaliatory nuclear forces,  
so war termination was the only thing it could do.
All of these preceding explanations are navel  
explanations, spelled with an 
‘e’, as in staring at one's own. 
They're all about what the 
United States did or didn't do. 
So let's get beyond the 
half-court tennis of Team America. 
You need to look at the other side of the net.
This is where the Western guru for things  
military, Carl von Clausewitz, 
emphasizes reciprocity in war  
and the interaction of both sides.
You're not going to do well unless  
you consider what the other side is doing.
So I have given you some external explanations  
and I'm going to do the internal ones.
Here is Arnold Toynbee, he's one of  
the finest historians of the 20th century.
He wrote a big multi-volume history of the West,  
in which he argues that civilizations 
die from suicide, not by murder. 
So I discussed the murder, what the United 
States tried to do to the Soviet Union. 
Now I'm going to talk about the suicide, 
what the Soviets did to themselves. 
And here is counter-argument number one.
The Soviet Union was an empire, and when that  
collapsed, that meant they lost the Cold War.
During the Cold War, the Korean War and the  
Vietnam War, there was much fear 
in the West of this domino theory. 
The idea is one country falls to communism, 
then the next and next and next and next  
would fall to communism.
Turns out the domino theory  
did not apply to capitalism.
It applied to communism because  
once the democratic contagion hit one 
Warsaw Pact country in Eastern Europe,  
it spread to the others until it was a 
seething mess and they fell like dominoes. 
So in 1988-89, there were all kinds 
of demonstrations in the Eastern Bloc,  
the Soviet Union.
In the Soviet Union,  
they're for political freedoms.
In the Eastern Bloc,  
they're for freedom from the Soviet Union.
Gorbachev may not have gotten that detail. 
They're all about not only 
wanting political freedoms,  
but also they're about crumbling economies and 
how to fix their miserable standards of living. 
Very uncharacteristically, the 
Russians didn't send tanks. 
In fact, Gorbachev welcomed and encouraged reforms 
in the Eastern Bloc, both political and economic,  
just as he was doing in the Soviet Union.
So his ideas of glasnost, openness,  
and perestroika, rebuilding, resonated at home 
and abroad. These reforms began in Poland. Poland  
had been a scene of much worker unrest many 
times, in 1956, 1970, 1976, and 1980 and 1981. 
In 1981, this is when Solidarity, the 
workers movement, gets going and it  
gets a national and an international reputation.
The next set of strikes are happening in 1988,  
because in the preceding several years, the 
Polish standard of living had shrunk by over 3%. 
The government was out of cash and wanted to raise 
basic food prices, and Poles hit the streets. 
The government was in a panic, because it was 
worried the economy would go into free fall. 
So the government cut a deal with Solidarity.
They said, "You call off the strikes and then  
we'll let you into political 
talks," and Solidarity agreed. 
There was a complicating factor on all of this.
It's called the Roman Catholic Church,  
which is an institution of enormous credibility 
and legitimacy in Poland, which had a partiality  
for Solidarity and it had a Polish pope.
So the roundtable discussions  
were these political talks.
They occurred a year later in  
February 1989, and the Soviets encouraged them.
In fact, here's one Soviet person there advising  
the Poles: "Look, you've got to find some quick 
solutions out of your economic and political mess. 
You're an itty-bitty country, so when you 
make mistakes, they'll be itty-bitty mistakes. 
But if we make them, they'll be big." They 
got that one right. The Polish Communist Party  
thought they had this one covered by the way 
they jiggered the election rules. Not quite.  
The day they held elections is exactly 
the same day that Deng Xiaoping turned  
the tanks on demonstrators in Beijing and you 
have the Tiananmen Massacre. Two solutions for  
the problem. So the way the elections worked out 
in Poland is that Solidarity won every single seat  
for which it could compete but one.
And then only three people in the  
communist-designated seats actually won.
So who won all the rest of them? 
The box on the ballot called "none of the above."
Yes, the Roman Catholic Church had helped  
instruct people that that's the box you want.
With that, the legitimacy of the Communist  
Party to rule had just been wrecked 
and we're on to democracy in Poland. 
This democratic contagion then spread 
into East Germany four months later. 
This is about the 40th anniversary 
of the founding of East Germany.  
70,000 people demonstrated in Leipzig.
Within the week around like 1.4 million Germans  
are demonstrating in over 200 demonstrations.
Typically, the East Germans would have sent tanks. 
That was what they would have done in the past.
But would-be tank man Erich  
Honecker was already out of a job.
His ruinous policies of living off debt since  
he came to power in 1971 had just about wrecked 
East Germany. So he was out. Then less than two  
weeks later, the Council of Ministers resigns.
Then on November 8th, the Politburo resigns. 
Then on the 9th, whatever is left of that 
government is issuing new travel regulations. 
You might wonder what travel has got 
to do with it. I'll get there. So  
in response to a question at a news conference, 
this guy, Günter Schabowski, who was one of the  
remaining communists helping run the show, gets 
asked a question and he doesn't know the answer.  
So he wings it. The question is, "When do these 
travel regulations go into effect?" And he goes,  
"Immediately." Well, crowds immediately started 
gathering at the six gates to the Berlin Wall. 
At one of them, the border guards decided 
that discretion was the better part of valor,  
and they opened the gate and East 
Germans poured into West Berlin. 
Within the first week alone, over half of 
East Germany's population visited the West. 
Within the month, 1% of the 
population emigrated to the West. 
Like the Polish elections, this opening 
of the gate was a pivotal decision. 
A pivotal decision, whatever it is, means 
there's no going back to the way it was. 
Here's good old Günter going, "Gosh, we 
hadn't a clue that opening the wall was  
the beginning of the end of East Germany." 
Okay, better luck next time. And the Russians  
were shocked by how unpopular they were.
They were thinking they were going to get credit,  
Gorbachev, for Eastern Europe's liberation rather 
than blame for Eastern Europe's enserfment. 
Here you have Yuri Ryzhov, a scientist 
and parliamentarian going, "All of our  
former satellites by compulsion cast off 
from us as fast and as far as possible." 
And Anatoly Kovalev, who is a deputy foreign 
minister, said, "Look, we had no confidence  
whatsoever concerning whom the East German army 
is going to shoot, the demonstrators or us. 
And the same thing for the Polish and 
Hungarian armies." Great. With allies  
like this, who needs enemies?
The allies kind of cover it. 
So this argument says unrest in the empire forced 
the Soviet Union to forfeit the Cold War. Okay,  
I got another counterargument. 
It says, "Nonsense, the real  
problem was that the satellites were unhealthy.
That's why the whole thing fell apart. So this map  
is 1960. You see all those tempting green places.
They're about to become independent, and they are  
really sick of their Western European colonizers.
Enter the Soviet Union with a program to put the  
West out of business. There were 
many takers. Fast forward to late  
1980s. The Soviet Union is on a roll.
Small hitch, in the late 1970s there  
was a big recession that continued into 
the 80s and tanked commodity prices. 
For some of the newfound pals like Angola, 
South Yemen, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, it wrecked  
their export earnings because they're exporting 
commodities and these commodity prices are down. 
In many cases, it halved them.
The Soviet Union was really  
dependent on oil exports, still is.
Oil prices tanked and oil accounted  
for up to 55% of the Soviet budget.
So here Brezhnev has got a deep bench  
of non-performing piles at a time when he 
doesn't have the money to support all of them. 
Worse yet from the Soviet point of view, 
it's dumped all this money in these Third  
World friends but meanwhile, it's got its 
own nationalities who are deeply unhappy  
and they want out of the empire.
Most problematically, they all  
revolt at exactly the same time.
One of the rules for continental  
empire is "no two-front wars".
Russia has so many fronts at  
this point, it can't even keep count.
The unrest in the internal empire of  
nationalities started as soon as Gorbachev got in.
There were student movements in Kazakhstan and  
Yakutia, opposite ends of things.
By the time you get to 1990,  
there are like 76 seething ethnic 
rebellions in different parts of this. 
There was too much going on for 
the Soviet government to handle. 
So you could argue that the Soviet Union 
bankrupted itself with the Third World while  
ignoring its own internal Third World 
of nationalities, whose simultaneous  
revolts brought down the Soviet Union.
I got a completely different argument for you. 
If you don't like all of those, I got 
another one for you. It's the economy,  
stupid, right? That line. One could argue 
that communism failed as an economic system. 
If you look at growth statistics for 
the Soviet Union, they're pretty good  
post-World War II when they're rebuilding, but 
they really stagnate from the mid-70s onward. 
For the decade preceding Gorbachev’s coming 
to power, Soviet growth stats were one to  
two percent lower than those of the United States, 
and the compounding effects of that were enormous.  
What's going on? Everyone's lying to each other. 
The data that Soviets are using is garbage. 
If you're working for a subunit of an enterprise, 
you have to lie about the inventories you have,  
saying you have less than you do, and 
then you have to lie about what you need,  
saying you need more than you do because 
you're worried about getting enough things. 
It's not a market system 
where the price dictates it. 
This is all about the plan.
You've got to enter the right numbers  
and then you get whatever inputs you get from the 
centralized plan. So everyone's lying. They're  
aggregating all the lies. The higher up the food 
chain you aggregate these things, the worse the  
data is, so that the Soviet government has no idea 
what the actual value of capital or labor are. 
It has no idea what actual productivity is, and 
no one has any idea what consumer preferences are. 
You're not using markets and prices.
The misallocation of capital and  
labor goes unnoticed until it 
metastasizes into a catastrophe. 
To give you a sense of these misallocations, the 
Soviet Union was rotting 20 to 40% of its crops. 
It's using scarce hard currency for agricultural 
imports to make up for those crops, a total mess. 
You can look at what happens to 
the economy with oil prices down. 
We're into a spiraling mess, so that from 
when Gorbachev comes in in '85 to when it  
hits a trough in Russia in 1998, you see this 
crashing share of world GDP by the Eastern bloc. 
If you look at Soviet statistics on deficits, 
trade balances, debt, they're just soaring,  
and then GNP growth goes double-digit negative. 
That's called shrinkage. It's not the normal  
thing. Marshall Yazov, here's his take: "We simply 
lack the power of all these wealthy NATO nations. 
We had to find an alternative to the arms race."
And here's a foreign service officer,  
Anatoly Adamishin.
He said, "Look, our problems began  
with the departure from isolation.
The main reasons for collapse  
were internal, not external reasons.
The Soviet economy was literally exhausted from  
this monstrous arms race, militarism, enemies with 
half the world." That's his take. Gorbachev told  
the Central Committee, "Look, we're encircled not 
by invincible armies, but by superior economies." 
He often told people, "Living this 
way any longer is impossible." 
So you can make a powerful argument that it's 
the Soviet economy that lost the Cold War. 
This gentleman, Alexis de Tocqueville, is 
very famous for writing a book about the  
last days of the French monarchy before 
the French Revolution overturned it. 
He also wrote something about Democracy 
in America, both excellent books. 
But this one's from the one about France, where 
Tocqueville observes, "The most dangerous moment  
for a bad government is when it begins to reform."
Russians of all political persuasions  
agree on at least one thing.
That is that Gorbachev's role in  
how the Cold War turned out was pivotal, 
that he played a very essential part. 
Gorbachev made his decision based 
on certain false assumptions. 
One of them was the irreversible 
direction of history. 
Gorbachev thought of history going always forward 
towards communism, never backwards to capitalism. 
Of course, Eastern Europe took a U-turn, 
went straight back to capitalism. 
Here is Leonid Shebarshin, who is a senior 
person in the KGB, their intelligence office. 
He said, "The thought never occurred 
to the government that it's possible  
to withdraw from socialism."
If you think about both communist  
theory and how imperialism works in practice, 
usually the mother country is more developed  
than whatever all the colonies are, right?
Well, the Soviet Union was an inverted empire. 
People in Eastern Europe as a group were more 
well-educated and they were richer than Russians. 
It was like a donut empire.
So when the empire went to Eastern Europe,  
Russians could no longer siphon off the wealth 
of these enserfed populations in Eastern Europe,  
which explains why they wanted to leave.
It also suggests why Putin wants them back. 
Another false assumption has to do 
with the sentiments of the neighbors. 
Gorbachev was convinced he was going to 
get credit for liberating Eastern Europe,  
rather than blame as a Russian for 
having enserfed them in the first place. 
For Gorbachev, the clock began on his watch.
For other people, no, Stalin's when it began,  
when he started shooting a lot of people.
Here you have Anatoly Chernyaev,  
foreign policy adviser to Gorbachev, saying 
that Gorbachev thought that bringing freedom  
to our Eastern European satellites would 
have them adopt socialism with a human face.  
"He made an enormous mistake because these 
countries brutally turned their back on us." 
Really, if that's brutal, then 
what pray tell was Stalin? 
And then it gets better: "The politics in 
connection with our former friends were  
totally unexpected to us." Really? 
You occupy people, you never leave,  
you shoot a lot of people in their 
government, you put in a new government,  
you siphon off a lot of their wealth, and 
you impose a non-performing economic system,  
and you wonder why they don't like you. Think 
about the United States. It intervenes all  
around the world in other people's troubles.
It dumps billions in economic aid and even  
leaves and people don't like us.
I don't know why the Russians  
think they're so special.
Another false assumption:  
Gorbachev believed that if the Warsaw Pact, 
the military alliance of the Eastern Bloc,  
disappeared, then NATO would disappear.
He also believed that if the Comecon,  
which is their trading organization, went away, 
then the European Community in those days—it  
becomes the European Union later—would disappear. 
Not quite. It turns out that organizations that  
are coercive versus those that are voluntary, 
they dissolve for different reasons. 
And then Gorbachev also assumed that the United 
States would share a continental outlook of not  
wanting strong powers and that the United 
States therefore would not want a unified  
Germany, let alone a strong unified Germany.
So when all the unrest is happening in Germany,  
Gorbachev is off taking a vacation.
Poor life choice, because at that moment,  
President George Bush Sr. and Chancellor Kohl 
of Germany are working on fast-tracking German  
unification of a fully sovereign, 
unified Germany—both halves in NATO. 
So many of Gorbachev's closest supporters 
at the end of it all blamed him. 
They said, "Look, his foreign policy mistakes were 
a function of his domestic policy mistakes and it  
destroyed the Soviet Union."
Back to this America expert,  
Vladimir Lukin: "Gorbachev was no Deng Xiaoping."
And Arbatov, who's their premier America expert:  
"The stupidity of our leaders caused 
the disintegration of the Soviet Union." 
So the big bozo was playing with plastic 
bags, stuck one on his head, committed  
suicide. It was by mistake. Lukin continued: 
"In the West, they love Gorbachev because  
everything took place so easily and cheaply, 
basically like that, but only for you. For us,  
it was expensive." But you could argue the time to 
reassess all the Stalinist stuff was long overdue. 
Here's a completely different 
way of looking at it. 
I've been giving you sins of commission, and now 
I'm going to do sins of omission. It's a good  
framework. It's useful for other things. The sins 
of commission are all the things Gorbachev did. 
Now what I'm going to do 
is what the army didn't do. 
Some would argue that the Red Army 
should have done exactly what Deng  
Xiaoping ordered his army to do.
You just send the tanks against  
civilian demonstrators and they 
truly crush them and it'll be over. 
Communist Party is still in 
power in China 30 years later. 
So there are some people who believe 
that this was a terrible mistake. 
So this argument would be that 
timely tank deployments—TTD,  
my contribution to military acronyms—would 
have changed the outcome of the Cold War. 
Others would be back to the great men 
of history and sins of commission,  
and they wouldn't be picking on Gorbachev 
but his successor Boris Yeltsin. 
There are two big pieces of evidence when we look.
He removed Article 6 from the Soviet Constitution,  
which guaranteed that the Communist 
Party would always monopolize power. 
And then in addition in the following 
year, Yeltsin's the head of Russia,  
he gets together with the heads of Ukraine and 
Belarus, and they signed the Belavezha Accords,  
which then formally dissolved the Soviet Union.
So according to this way of thinking,  
it's his fault. It's suicide on purpose. And 
what it does is it opens the door for multiple  
parties and for the nationalities within 
the Soviet Empire to become independent. 
So I've given you internal explanations. 
I've given you external explanations. Now I'm  
going to give you some umbrella explanations.
They're based on all the preceding evidence,  
and they come to opposite conclusions.
The first one was, well,  
any of the above, it's inevitable.
The opposite conclusion from the same evidence is  
that no, it took all of the above. The West barely 
won. I'm going to start with "any of the above". 
You could argue with this many serious 
problems, it was a matter of time  
before the Soviet Union collapsed.
It was an objectionable system for  
precisely the reasons the West didn't like it.
It had a brutally inefficient economic system. 
Russians who invented the thing, at the 
end of the day, didn't want it either. 
By this way of looking at it, you have people like 
Yuri Ryzhov, a genuine rocket scientist, who says,  
"Look, the main reason for the collapse of the 
Soviet Union is the rottenness of its system." 
Then here's a journalist, Teimuraz Stepanov, who 
said, "Look, I think from the beginning the genes  
of disintegration were contained in the genetics 
of this governmental political formation." 
Don't you love the products of 
the Soviet educational system? 
Don't ever use wording like that.
So you could argue that the Soviet Union  
was destined to fail with this many problems.
Others would come to the opposite conclusion. 
They would say, "No, it took every single one of 
them for the Cold War to end on Western terms." 
Back to Anatoly Kovalev, the deputy 
foreign minister, he said, "Look,  
all these factors merge—internal, ideological, 
economic, military—it's all of them. 
You remove any one of them and 
you get a different outcome. 
Maybe the Cold War ends, but it 
might end completely differently." 
So by this line of reasoning, the West barely 
won and should feel very fortunate that it did. 
One can take this last argument 
and say it was more than that. 
It also took the confluence in 
office of two very talented leaders:  
Helmut Kohl of Germany and George Bush Sr. of 
the United States, not the son who got into  
those forever wars, but the dad who didn't.
George Bush Sr. had one of the most amazing  
resumes of any person ever to become president 
of the United States. Just look at him. When he's  
really young, he's a war hero in World War II.
He's a Navy pilot, a dangerous thing to do.  
He did it. Then he comes back and he gets 
his BA at Yale and graduates with honors. 
Then he becomes a representative for this district 
in Texas after he's already made himself a  
millionaire in the oil business that he started.
Then he became ambassador to the UN,  
followed by US representative to the PRC, 
before we had formal diplomatic relations. 
So he's the guy who's setting that up.
He becomes director of the CIA, and then  
he is Ronald Reagan's understudy 
for eight years as vice president. 
He is incredibly fit for the job.
Helmut Kohl is equally fit for the job. 
He is the longest-serving chancellor 
in German history since his illustrious  
predecessor, Otto von Bismarck.
He starts out getting a PhD in  
history and political science.
He also starts out in business,  
but then he works for state government, initially 
as a representative, then as a governor. 
He becomes chairman of his political 
party, the Christian Democratic Union,  
for a quarter of a century.
Once he gets in, he decides  
he's going to buy up East Germany one 
tourist at a time. How does that work? East  
Germans, it turns out, really like to travel.
West Germans had always been able to travel to  
East Germany, or they long had been able to travel 
to East Germany, but East Germans definitely could  
not easily travel to West Germany. Why? 
Because they have a habit of staying. 
But all of a sudden, East Germany 
eases up on the travel regulations. 
You might ask why, and the answer would be money.
Just like the Poles, the East Germans were deep in  
an economic mess of their own making.
Would-be tank man Erich Honecker,  
who got the boot at the very end, well, his 
staying-in-power paradigm that he implements  
in 1971 is that he's going to live off debt.
He needs to make certain social benefits  
available and consumer benefits available for 
labor stability, to not have labor unrest. 
The way he's going to do that is he's not going 
to do many domestic investments and he's going to  
do a lot of borrowing, particularly from 
West Germany. Well, that's unsustainable  
long-term. By the time you get to the end of 
the Cold War, if he's going to fix that and  
even out the accounts, it would be a 30% 
decline in the East German standard of living. 
So he really needs the pocket 
change from the tourists. 
So what Kohl does is a brisk 
business of tourists and things. 
What he does in return for the 
easing of travel restrictions,  
he pays East Germany several hundred million  
Deutschmarks extra to allow that to happen.
And then he gets the Hungarians to go along. 
He gets the Hungarians to open up their Austrian 
border to let East Germans out that way,  
and he gives them a half a billion 
Deutschmarks for that little favor. 
When Kohl introduces his 10-point unification 
program—because now he's thinking he's going  
to get both Germanys together—this is when he 
starts doling out big bucks to the Soviet Union,  
whose economy is unraveling.
Gorbachev is going to be  
desperate for this cash as that's happening.
So West Germany provides 100 million in food,  
especially in meat, for the Soviet 
Union that doesn't have these things. 
Nevertheless, the unrest just keeps on going.
The Berlin Wall, as I've told you, is breached,  
and then you wind up with a West German 
caretaker government, and the financial  
situation in Russia itself is unraveling.
By the time you get to January 1990, Bush and Kohl  
get together and they decide they want to really 
fast-track German reunification. Why? Because  
they've got to get it done before this unraveling 
crisis causes Gorbachev to fall from power. 
So they have got a game going, the 
two of them. It's complicated. Here's  
why. Gorbachev was dead-set against 
Germany, a united Germany, in NATO. 
He's not really keen about a united 
Germany, let alone one in NATO. 
The US State Department experts, the guys 
who know everything, are saying, "No,  
you want to go slow on this unification business."
Kohl is also running a coalition government. 
There are people in that government he cannot fire 
because they're from different political parties. 
One of them is his foreign minister, 
this guy Genscher, who is very skeptical  
about Germany being part of NATO.
Then it turns out, although Britain  
had talked a good piece during the Cold War, 
it didn't actually want a unified Germany,  
nor did France. Why? Because that unified 
Germany would eclipse them economically. 
They didn't want that to happen.
So Kohl and Bush divide up the tasks. 
Kohl is going to reassure the Soviet 
Union that Germany is not going to  
be belligerent or do horrible things.
And Kohl is going to work on financial  
unification because the Soviets are 
thinking in terms of military unification. 
You know, where you deploy your troops. 
That determines things. Wrong instrument  
of national power, precisely because 
the Soviets didn't understand finance. 
That's why they're in such a mess. Whereas the 
Germans do. What they're going to do is get East  
Germany on the West German Deutschmark, 
and at that point they will control all  
the money and they will control decisions.
But the Russians aren't going to see that coming. 
Meanwhile, Bush is supposed to work the alliances 
particularly with Britain and France in the West. 
There are all sorts of 
meetings that are coming up. 
Bush's job is to delay those meetings for 
as long as possible so German unification  
can proceed as far as possible.
The two of them are doing a tag-team  
diplomacy with Gorbachev that he just can't 
keep up with, given that his own home economy  
has got these double-digit shrinkage rates. 
Here's how they go. As the trades get bigger,  
the amount of money you pay Gorbachev gets bigger.
First of all, it's just to get a unified Germany. 
Then it's to get a unified Germany 
with West Germany still in NATO. 
Then it's to get a unified Germany 
with all of Germany in NATO. 
So here's how the money goes. Gorbachev agrees 
to German unification. We are no longer paying  
hundreds of millions of Deutschmarks.
We're paying billions of Deutschmarks,  
five billion Deutschmarks for that one.
Then Gorbachev agrees that states can choose their  
own alliances, i.e. whether or not to join NATO.
The US offers nine assurances, but it's also a  
trade agreement that Gorbachev really wants.
Then the economic union goes into effect. 
So we've now done the financial 
reunification of Germany. 
This is when there's a London Declaration 
that's inviting Eastern European countries  
to coordinate more closely with NATO.
In return, Gorbachev gets a promise  
of a G7 summit meeting that's going to 
fast-track aid to him, which it will do. 
And then Gorbachev agrees 
to German NATO membership. 
At this point, even bigger things are happening.
Germany's going to agree to its border with  
Poland. I'll get there and explain. Germany 
provides 15 billion in Deutschmarks,  
including building all kinds of new apartment 
buildings for repatriated Soviet soldiers who are  
going home. Why are you doing that? Because you 
want those soldiers focused on buying furniture,  
not running a military coup. That's what they're 
doing. So the unification happens in mid-September  
1990. Here's the Polish borders. At the end of 
World War II, Stalin moved Poland 200 kilometers  
to the west, and it winds up taking a third of 
German territory by the time that's all over. 
So the Germans don't really 
want to sign all that away. 
In addition, as part of that, there were 12 
million German refugees who were thrown out  
of wherever they were living to send them 
back to Germany, of whom 2 million died. 
So this is a big deal and it's in living memory.
Germany agrees to this, that the borders are  
done. German-Polish borders are set. Complicating 
factor: a month and a half before this unification  
treaty is signed, Saddam Hussein decides he's 
going to invade Kuwait because he's broke. 
He's had a long war with Iran, huge debts, many 
owed to Kuwait, which he doesn't want to pay back. 
So if you invade them, that solves that problem.
Also, he would take over Kuwait's very rich  
oil fields, and together that would make 
Iraq probably the swing producer of oil. 
So he thinks that's a great idea.
Except the Cold War's over actually. 
The Russians are more than willing 
to cooperate with the United States. 
Gorbachev really needs more money, and he 
is willing to go along with getting Iraq out  
of Kuwait, but not with regime change in Iraq.
Because think about it, Iraq is a very important  
debtor state to the Soviet Union.
It owed them between $10–13 billion. 
That's a lot of money for a broke creditor.
But Gorbachev is being extraordinarily  
cooperative with Bush Sr.
He sends Yevgeny Primakov on  
multiple missions to Baghdad.
The first one, Primakov  
gets all Russian hostages out of Iraq.
Then on the second trip, he gets all Westerners  
out, Americans included. Third trip, not so 
lucky. He's there for the coalition force bombing. 
I don't think he liked that very much.
But imagine that bombing going on if  
there were Western human shields 
going down with every target. 
Russia took that card right off the table. Here's 
some of the reasoning. Sergei Tarasenko was an  
aide to Foreign Minister Shevardnadze, and they 
understood that the United States was going to  
do something about this invasion of Kuwait.
So the Russians thought, "It'll be better  
if we force all of this to go through 
the UN, where Russia has a veto power." 
He said, "Look, there was a division of roles."
It extends to China, the help that Russia  
provided. "When the Americans 
asked us to work with the Chinese,  
we told the Chinese, 'Think about it.
You're one of the big five with veto power. 
Doesn't it suit your interest to funnel everything 
through the UN where you can put your foot down?'  
And the Chinese came around to that idea."
However, the Russians had red lines. 
Here's Anatoly Kovalev again, 
the deputy foreign minister. 
The red line is, American troops stay out of Iraq. 
No regime change in Iraq. You do that and you will  
tank the termination of the Cold War.
And that would be the goal. 
Here's Kovalev saying, "I advanced the 
basic principle that we must support the  
territorial integrity of Iraq. This was our sacred 
position. We must not permit a division of Iraq." 
So if you wonder why the ground war 
ended after 100 hours, this is it. 
The big thing out there is war termination of the 
Cold War. That's the big thing. Saddam Hussein is  
a minor event over there. Sorry, but he was. 
If it had tanked Cold War termination or upset  
the reunification of Germany, France 
and Britain might have been very happy,  
because François Mitterrand, who is the president 
of France, and Margaret Thatcher, prime minister  
of Britain, were against German unification.
They knew it would marginalize their own country. 
Germany's going to be a 
bigger economy, which it is. 
François Mitterrand eventually found solace 
in expanding the European Community to the  
European Union when you're incorporating 
all these Eastern Bloc countries into it. 
He plays a really important role in concluding the 
Maastricht Treaty that forms the European Union. 
But Margaret Thatcher just plain lost.
She was just upset about the whole thing. 
She said, "Germany will be the Japan 
of Europe and worse than Japan." 
I guess she hadn't been to Japan lately.
She said, "The Germans will get in peace  
what Hitler couldn't get in war."
She wanted to leave Red Army troops  
in Germany for the duration.
Imagine if that had been the  
case and now dealing with Putin… If he had 
troops in Germany, we would be in trouble. 
But Bush and Kohl worked around all of them.
Bush said to Kohl at the end of it, "Look,  
I'm not going to beat my chest 
and dance on the Berlin Wall." 
Both of them were very careful never to humiliate 
Gorbachev about the Soviet loss of the Cold War.  
Why? Because they knew that if they did that, he 
might fall from power sooner rather than later. 
Also, they were afraid that if they did that, the 
hardliners would come to power much more rapidly  
than they actually did.
It was 20 years before  
Putin started consolidating his power.
The newly independent countries of Eastern  
Europe needed those 20 years to integrate 
militarily, politically, economically with the  
West so that the cement could set before you 
got the Russians trying to destabilize them. 
So they bought them 20 years to do this.
But there's a cost to all this. 
Bush never got credit for his essential role 
in ending the Cold War on Western terms. 
So he was not reelected for a second term.
Anyway, when it came time for Nobel Prizes  
and why the Cold War ended, Anatoly Adamishin, 
this Soviet Foreign Service officer, said,  
"Look, it's difficult to deny the Soviet 
Union was the one that ended the Cold War." 
And Edwin Meese, who was a counselor to Reagan 
and also his attorney general, said, "Look,  
the Cold War began because of Soviet policies 
and it ended in a sense because of Soviet  
policies." The Nobel Prize Committee agreed. 
They awarded the prize to Gorbachev, not to Bush,  
for his role in liberating Eastern Europe.
So when you're thinking about this question  
of why Russia lost the Cold War, I 
hope you will come up with a more  
complicated answer than, "Well, Ronnie did it."
There are probably other causes at work as well. 
Anyway, thank you for your attention.
That's what I have for you this evening. 
Sarah, thank you so much for doing these.
Thank you for having me. That would  
be the more important thing.
There's an interesting question  
of why the Soviet Union collapsed when it did.
I think the even more interesting question is  
why a system that was so centrally 
planned, monstrously inefficient,  
brutal, a colonial land empire, how such a country 
could survive for so long into the 20th century. 
I feel like that's the thing 
that actually needs explanation. 
How did this regime last for 74 years?
There are loads of dysfunctional places all over  
the planet that have been dysfunctional forever.
You look at well, why are they dysfunctional? 
To me, the answer to that one in a 
way is the example of North Korea. 
Of all countries that should fall, a place 
that has ongoing famines in the 21st century,  
and it used to be the richest 
part of the Korean Peninsula. 
These authoritarian regimes are really good 
at maintaining coercive powers. Think about  
it. In order to educate someone, it takes 
years as a parent to bring up a little  
person and then you get them educated 
and maybe they're an A-list politician. 
It takes seconds to assassinate them.
It's the asymmetry between construction  
and destruction. Destruction is so easy. 
Dictatorships are all over the world. 
It's a sad part of the human condition.
They clearly know what they're up to. 
In the case of the Soviet Union, there 
were multiple intelligence organizations. 
That's what Stalin was using 
to keep track of everyone. 
So you want to monopolize information so that 
you know more information than other people. 
And then they have a whole bunch of people who are 
the winners of the nomenklatura, the elites there. 
You make sure you pay all of them off. 
I mean think about it. Human societies,  
slaves, serfs… We humans have been doing 
these things to each other for a long time. 
So dictatorships can certainly 
sustain themselves for a long time. 
But the Soviet Union was special in that by 
the 60s and 70s, they had a GNP that's 60%  
of America's, this incredibly dynamic economy.
In the 40s and 50s, they had much higher growth  
rates, so much so that prominent economists like 
Paul Samuelson are saying that by the 90s, based  
on what they're seeing at the time, the Soviet 
Union will have a bigger economy than America. 
This is just quite surprising that 
they would have such high growth rates. 
If you just think about how central planning 
works, people are going to tell you how much  
steel you can make and which company gets 
to use the cotton fabric and cement, etc. 
You have hundreds of millions of 
people living under this system. 
It's actually quite shocking that 
they actually had notable growth rates  
after World War II for decades on end.
Well, first of all, it's a war economy,  
essentially.
You're putting  
all your money into having a big military.
Russians define greatness—this is part of  
it—as being a big power, and its 
a military power with territory. 
Most countries in wartime 
mobilize for the military. 
This country did it in World War II.
All kinds of rationing,  
we're not using market prices.
You're setting different prices,  
giving people ration cards and things.
The thing about the Soviets is  
they kept it forever.
They never got rid of  
it. So that's one piece. Another problem 
with the Soviet Union is all of the data. 
So I don't know what data you've 
seen, and I know the data I've seen. 
It's hard to know because the Ruble is 
a non-convertible currency and a lot of  
things they measured in weight and other things.
Like they're the greatest TV producer in the  
world, they said. Why? Because they 
made the heaviest TVs in the world. 
I'm serious, when I was there this was it.
They would spontaneously combust,  
which is not the normal thing a TV should do 
for you, burn down the apartment building. 
So they're going to measure their heavy TVs as 
a positive, and the Ruble is non-convertible. 
So there was a guy named Murray Feshbach, and I 
can't remember which part of the US government he  
was in, but he was really good at looking at their 
statistics and then adjusting them. But people  
didn't know. I gave you the CIA ones.
The CIA, they're not stupid people. 
They've got the best data they could find and 
they're coming up with 20% of the Soviet budget  
is probably devoted to the military.
After the Cold War is over,  
they're going, "Whoops, we missed."
It's at least double that and maybe triple. 
So it's really hard to know even 
with the statistics you're getting. 
Certainly what Paul Samuelson had 
wouldn't be accurate. It's just a guess. 
My favorite example of this is that 
there were top-down commands that you  
had to produce a certain amount of steel.
A steel factory would then be incentivized  
to make thicker bars of steel rather than 
thinner bars because that would count as  
greater production, except a lot of inputs 
actually do require the thinner sheets. 
So then the other factories have to thin down 
the steel, but that also counts towards GDP. 
So producing the inefficient steel and 
then cutting it down to size is both  
being double-counted towards GDP.
Oh, and just the whole waste of it. 
Like the heavy TVs, they probably have four 
times the inputs that they need to make them  
that would be good for other things.
It's this notion that you can actually  
plan an economy. Prices are a miracle. 
Good old Adam Smith, the invisible hand. 
Prices are the way to go and 
markets, it's more efficient. 
I wonder if one thing that's going on is 
that in the early and mid-20th century,  
you have economies which are much 
simpler, at least compared to today. 
So even then, obviously, command and 
control is less workable than capitalism. 
But if you just have heavy industry, 
you need a certain amount of cement,  
steel, concrete, fabrics, coal.
That's much more workable than,  
"We've got to centrally command what SaaS 
tools your enterprise is allowed to use." 
Oh, yeah. It's interesting 
on the development thing. 
The communists have insisted on heavy industry.
That's the thing that they want. Forget about  
the consumer goods. If you look at the 
countries that really have made it,  
like Japan and the Meiji Restoration, they're 
doing a lot of light industry and consumer goods. 
Then they move into heavy, but they've 
already got people on bicycles and they've  
got textiles and other things up and running.
That would also apply to Taiwan and Korea. 
They do, by all means, get heavy industry.
But that's not the starter program. 
The starter program is basic standard of living.
Again I'm not an economist, but it turns out  
if you just look at who's rich and who's 
not, that seems to me a more workable thing. 
There's also the fact that the centralized regime 
is building things according to the 30s plan. 
And even after post-war reconstruction, they're 
still calling back on these plans from the 30s  
that call for heavy industry for a bygone era.
In the 70s, 80s, we had our rust  
belt collapse of manufacturing.
People complain about this as, "Look,  
the US has this hollowed-out manufacturing base."
But it's much better to have industries which  
are left behind so that the whole economy as a 
whole can be more dynamic and move on than the  
Soviet Union where the entire thing became 
a rust belt because they couldn't move on. 
It's more exciting than that. Again, 
I'm not an economist, but apparently  
they missed the plastics revolution.
I mean think about our own lives. 
Now we're finding we have too many 
plastics, but plastics are an incredible  
material and they're just missing that.
I remember in Russia trying to figure out  
where to get sour cream and was being laughed at 
by Russians because I was so stupid in the store  
that I couldn't find it.
Well, we have little  
plastic tubs with the sour cream.
Back in the late 80s, when I was there,  
you had to bring your glass jar with you so 
you could hand it over the counter so someone  
could take a filthy ladle and fill up your jar.
I mean, this is part of not having plastics. 
And then they totally missed 
the computer revolution. 
This plays into Ronald Reagan 
winning the military race. 
We're putting these chips and things 
into our ballistic missiles and they  
can't do that. And that's a problem.
Speaking of plastics, I didn't realize  
before preparing for this lecture the overwhelming 
role that oil played in first explaining why the  
Soviet Union was able to sustain itself 
for so long and then why it collapsed. 
By the late 50s, Soviet growth rates were already 
starting to go down, especially compared to the  
postwar boom that America is experiencing.
In '59, they discovered these massive  
oil fields in Siberia.
And then from 1973 to 1985,  
I think, 80% of the Soviet Union's hard 
currency earnings were just from oil. 
They use this because central planning can't 
produce even grain, let alone advanced technology. 
They use this to import a bunch of stuff 
to sustain the Red Army, to sustain the  
population, to subsidize Eastern Europe.
And then of course, prices collapsed in 1985. 
Do you think that if the Siberian reserves weren't 
found in the late 50s, that it's possible that the  
Soviet Union would have collapsed 30 years prior?
I don't know, but they wouldn't have been able to  
do all the Africa program and things.
It just would be too expensive. 
So certainly it would have been a reduced thing.
It's also the gas reserves they got up in  
like the north central Soviet Union.
I can't remember the places,  
but this is the gas that gets pumped to 
Europe because that's the better place. 
They make those big investments and 
it takes a while for them to pay off. 
That was a big deal because they needed help from 
Western oil companies or whoever does the gas  
pipelines, compressors, whatever it is you need.
There was a big to-do about that, about whether  
we should sell the stuff or whether we 
shouldn't sell the stuff. The Europeans  
wanted to sell. We were trying not to. 
This was going on under Reagan as well. 
But anyway, they had built a lot of it and 
it was essential to their pocket change. 
But then when they got all the 
pocket change, they never saved. 
Whatever the oil wealth was, they spent up to the 
max. Doesn't it sound familiar? Governments, you  
have money, you spend it. Forget about rainy days.
So after the Soviet Union collapses,  
there was a period when Putin was 
still winning somewhat free elections. 
So if you look at why Russia's economy recovers 
and why Putin was so popular in the 2000s,  
from 2000 to 2008, oil goes from 
$10 a barrel to $140 a barrel. 
This goes to your point about how we give 
credit or blame to political leaders for  
often what are just long-run macro trends.
Well, what I didn't cover is that when the Soviet  
Union collapses, Soviet living standards, Russian 
living standards, they implode and it's a mess for  
20 years. It is just unbelievably difficult. 
Oh, and another piece of the brilliant Soviet  
management: in order to maintain control over 
the empire, instead of building things all in one  
place, you build some plane parts here, some plane 
parts there, some plane parts all over the empire. 
So when the empire goes, great, I've 
got a quarter of a plane, and then  
where do I get the other parts?
So all of that fell apart. 
When Putin suddenly has a lot of 
money he starts spending it on people,  
because initially there's plenty of money.
Russian standards of living do go up. 
So of course they like him, and they 
give him credit for all of that. 
But then that runs its course, right?
And then it's less good and then he's more  
excited about… Well, it's his mindset anyway.
When you get more money,  
you want to get the empire back.
And then Russians also like that, right? 
Speaking of the empire, Russia's 
economy just had this terrible period  
after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
A lot of the Eastern European satellites  
seem to recover in this gangbusters 
way. Obviously, East Germany. But  
even Poland today is such a big success story.
What's going wrong with the mainland itself that  
these other countries are able to 
recover from communism much better? 
Well, they had always been much 
more connected to Western Europe. 
Czechoslovakia before the war was a full-up highly 
developed country absolutely tied to the West. 
Poland, I believe, Copernicus is 
from a place like Poland, right? 
It's a center of the Enlightenment.
But when I was using the George Bush Sr. archives,  
it's fascinating.
So it's '88,  
'89 when the Soviet Union's imploding.
There's a lot of correspondence between  
Eastern European, particularly Polish, leaders 
coming to the Bush administration saying, "Hey,  
our banking system, we know it's a mess. 
Our financial system's a mess. We know we  
need expertise to help us figure out what 
our legal system is going to look like." 
And Bush is all over that.
I'm sure he farmed them out  
to the private sector who would also be all 
over that, like giving them free consulting. 
So as a result, you do have them really 
taking advantage of this 20 years. 
At the same time when Bush would have loved 
to have given some of the same advice… There  
were people like Jeffrey Sachs and 
others who went to the Soviet Union,  
but it was not remotely the same thing.
This is people throughout Polish society  
requesting this advice, not like 
one guy with an office in Moscow. 
Basically, the Russians thought they knew 
it all and they thought they understood. 
This is all the unknown unknowns, the things 
you don't understand, your blind spots. 
Truly, economics is a blind spot for the Soviets.
Because think about it, when the tsars ran the  
show, it's like a riff off the Mongol Empire.
You take cuts from people's businesses,  
from trade that comes through.
Then it's also about selling basic commodities. 
You're not thinking, under the tsars, 
of Russia doing high-end manufacturing. 
I mean, I guess Fabergé and some jewelry if you 
want to do that. But really that's not it. It  
doesn't have this commercial tradition, being tied 
into this commercial tradition of Western Europe  
and all the sea routes for trade.
Then when you get the communists,  
they aren't about that at all.
So there's really a dearth of knowledge. 
Think about this country with all the 
little kids selling lemonade, right? 
You see them on the streets. They're already 
learning. The kids who are doing newspaper routes,  
they're already learning about buying 
things, selling things at a very young age. 
We just take this knowledge for granted.
It was just absent in the Soviet Union and  
not as much absent in Eastern Europe 
that had been more connected in. 
Before we get to the period of Russian collapse, 
let's go back to the end of the Soviet period. 
Gorbachev starts instituting these economic 
reforms along with glasnost and perestroika. 
But what I find mysterious is that those economic 
reforms not only fail to prevent the stagnation  
that the Soviet Union is experiencing, 
but they in fact make things worse. 
You would think that reform, even if it's handled 
badly, would have some sort of positive impact. 
If you do it badly, then it'll 
have a smaller positive impact. 
But here it just causes this huge 
hyperinflation, causes all these big problems. 
So why did reform have this backwards impact?
There's so much that needs reforming there. 
But part of it, I think, is because he wanted to 
do political reforms. That's what he understands.  
As a human being, that would be the thing that 
he's very familiar with. Think about it. He's an  
A-list member of the Communist Party to be the guy 
when they do generational change, he's the one. 
So he's obviously very astute at that 
level, but the problem is economics. 
He's giving away political power before 
he's fixed the economic problems. 
China's conclusion is there is no way 
you're going to touch political power. 
They're going to hang onto that and then deal 
with as much of the economics as they're going  
to deal with. That’s part of it. But part of it 
is there's no tradition for all of these things. 
Then you go, "Well, how did Russia 
get this way?" It's a very difficult  
address. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, 
it's flat, neighbors all invade, and so you  
needed a big army in order to defeat them.
A big army is going to want a war economy. 
Historically, you're going to 
want to support a big land force. 
I mean this is my take.
Others who are actually  
experts on these various periods of Russian 
history can come up with something else. 
But I think you're funneling, you're 
channeling your economics into that. 
Whereas you're looking at Europe, 
particularly Britain, and it’s merchants. 
They have a big aristocracy who are not going to 
dirty themselves with buying and selling stuff,  
but there are a tremendous number of very 
rich merchants in Britain that are going  
to influence government laws and things, 
which is not going to take place in Russia. 
Then what's nice about the Navy 
for Britain is you send them away. 
They're not going to run a coup in the capital 
because they're off on the ship somewhere. 
And there aren't that many of 
them compared to a standing army. 
So I suspect, I can't prove this, that this leads 
to different outcomes or contributes to them. 
One theory I heard that is complementary to your 
theory is that Gorbachev is instituting reforms  
because he thinks there should be decentralization 
and democratization, but he doesn't  
fundamentally believe in the market system.
So he's delegating power to these quasi-firms. 
At the same time, he thinks the price system 
is immoral, private property is immoral. 
So they can't intermediate between 
themselves using real prices. 
So then how do these firms intermediate? Well,  
there's corruption. If you can't use actual 
prices and property to figure out who gets what  
allocation of scarce resources, you just 
backroom deal, which makes the problem worse. 
Well there's no legal system 
and you need a legal system. 
Legal systems take a long time to develop.
So you're telling the Soviet Union, "Okay,  
communism is down and now chop chop, we need 
a new legal system." It's not going to happen. 
You were mentioning the problem that 
Eastern European countries especially had,  
which is that they're going more and more 
into debt because they're not able to  
produce globally competitive exports.
They have this last-ditch effort that  
"We're going to solve our problems 
with some technological miracle. 
We need to get even more over-leveraged.
We'll get some Western machinery or technology,  
and then we'll be able to finally 
produce something that the world wants." 
I'm curious up to what point 
this was a plausible hope. 
Through the 80s and even till the 
end of the 80s, they still believed  
that Czechoslovakia or East Germany or 
something could catch up with West Europe? 
They're desperate. Think about 
it. If you're a communist leader,  
how many other cards are there to play?
You're looking, "Okay, this is the  
only card I got."
And they're doing  
other things because of the social unrest.
They want to import food and consumer products  
because they've been so neglected.
Then there's another piece,  
which is VCRs, the videos.
All of a sudden, those things came around. 
I remember being in the Soviet 
Union, the academic year of 1988-89. 
One of my classmates had been an English 
language tutor of this person in Moscow and  
set me up because that was the only 
way to get a good meal once a week. 
For a meal, I would talk English for an hour.
What that family wanted more than  
anything else was a VCR player.
You could have hard currency and  
buy it at the diplomatic store.
So I basically got them a VCR by  
going to the diplomatic thing with 
my very limited foreign currency. 
I bought an overpriced VCR for them and got 
all kinds of meals for the rest of the year. 
But it meant that they could all 
of a sudden get Western movies. 
There are things in movies where there'll 
be a picture of a fugitive running by  
the fruit section of the Berkeley Bowl.
The Russians would gasp like, "Oh." It's  
unbelievable. I think that Raisa Gorbachev, 
Gorbachev's wife, when she came and visited,  
she must have realized that a welfare mother on 
food stamps had better buying power than she did  
by just being able to have access to Walmart.
I think the elites, as they're traveling… I  
have no statistical data on this, 
but as you travel, it's like I'm  
comparing me getting sour cream in a jar.
That was the other thing, counting up all  
the things in a Soviet supermarket.
The total was something like 77  
items total in this supermarket.
I don't think that compares favorably  
to a candy rack as you leave a 7-Eleven.
And when you went by the meat section,  
the smell just about knocked you out, rotten 
meat. It was really disgusting. I got really  
good at making borscht.
Go to the peasant market,  
pay hard currency for bones, because I couldn't 
afford any meat, but I could afford the bones. 
Then I would buy… The Russians produce 
really good sugar beets so I got beets. 
Then you're starting to get rotten apples over 
the winter, but they at least come from Hungary. 
Russians didn't even produce apples 
in those days, but Hungarians did. 
The Romanians provided the canned tomatoes, 
and I could do a credible borscht. 
But you're talking about Moscow, 
the center of everything. 
I remember buying potatoes at the market 
and the rotten spots felt gelatinous. 
So you'd have to cut those out.
And then you're wondering how many  
nutrients are in the rest of that potato.
It was a really gross year. 
I remember going to the candy store and I 
would buy caramel from Poland or somewhere. 
It was like a food item 
because it was actually edible. 
At this point, I bet you were wondering 
why you didn't write a biography of  
Napoleon so you could just visit Paris instead.
My brother's comment is, "You're studying Russia  
and China, two countries in the breakdown lane."
By the way, the point about the grocery stores  
having 74 items is interesting in two ways.
One, central control works much better if you have  
a much smaller amount of items to optimize over.
So if things are standardized,  
it can work much better.
And second, to your point about GDP being  
hard to compare between the Soviets and the United 
States, how do you compare a rotten tomato or a  
rotten potato to the Idaho ones that you can get?
They would have compared it by pound. 
Exactly.
Yeah. 
You said you were there in '88 and '89.
So this is before the Berlin Wall has fallen. 
I was watching the Tiananmen 
demonstrations on Soviet TV. 
The only reason you got that TV coverage 
is because Gorbachev was in Beijing. 
So all the press was there.
That's why you have the coverage. 
And they stayed on because the students were 
demonstrating and the Chinese closed society  
wasn’t aware of the power of television.
Guys, they're going to film you doing all  
of this stuff and they will get the film out.
In '88, was the mood… Obviously things are going  
terribly, but did people realize that they're 
only two years away, or three years away from the  
complete dissolution of the Soviet Union?
No. Maybe the end of the Soviet Union,  
but there was such optimism of thinking we're 
finally going to be a full-up democratic country. 
It's going to be wonderful, with no sense of the 
work schedules that go into a capitalist economy. 
To create the wealth in this country, a lot of 
people are working far more than 40 hours a week,  
particularly as they're getting 
started, working enormous hours. 
That was not something that 
was in most people's minds. 
Sure, the kids who became the ballerinas in 
the Bolshoi are working long hours to do that. 
But as an economy as a whole, they didn't 
understand the source of wealth and had no  
inkling of all the things that are missing, 
not least of which is that no one's got the  
right education. Great, you got Marx 
memorized. That does you zero good. 
So around this time is when people are finally 
learning about what actually happened during the  
Stalinist period.
Oh, yeah. 
So people are optimistic that 
we can have a changing of the  
guard and maybe things will improve.
But at the same time, they're learning  
about how terrible their history actually was.
Between these two things… Also at some point  
they must realize through the 90s that 
things actually aren't improving. In fact,  
they're getting worse. So what is the 
inflection point at which the mood is just... 
I don't know, because I wasn't living there.
I was thinking that there would be impending  
problems as a Chicken Little American.
The sky is falling, the sky is falling. 
Americans always think disaster is coming.
I sort of fit in that crowd. 
But I think there was a lot of 
optimism and exuberance thinking,  
"We have the freedom to really understand 
our history and what's happening." 
This is for educated people, people with college 
degrees in Moscow and St. Petersburg. Now what's  
going on in the rest of the country is 
undoubtedly a different story because  
as bad as living in Moscow was, living in the 
countryside was going back in time far further. 
So those people weren't living well at all.
And it's going to get really bad for them. 
Okay, so people are learning about 
these things for the first time. 
Is the sense that they kind of suspected? I 
mean, people have family. They must have known,  
"My uncle was off in this little mining 
town that he was forced to go to for a  
decade right after World War II."
Were they totally shocked or was  
there some sense that things were pretty bad 
and now we're just learning the extent of it? 
I think there was an understanding it was 
terrible, but I think there's this exuberance  
of thinking it's going to get much better.
Then the disappointment is equally extreme. 
And then there was this feeling that the West 
owes us because you're all really rich and  
you now owe us to fix everything.
The counterargument to that is,  
"No you are an enormous migraine.
You set back all of these countries  
across the globe in time with this nonfunctioning 
communist model that you peddled around there. 
And now you want extra aid."
The problem was that we wanted to do some of the  
aid, but they're not going to be receptive to it.
That was another conclusion with the Bush  
administration, that if we dumped a lot of money 
in it, it would just go straight into corruption. 
You need a legal structure in order to place 
money, and they just plain didn't have it. 
That was another thing that was 
worrying the Bush administration. 
There's nowhere to put the money.
Speaking of these different countries that  
the Soviets and the United States were competing 
for during the Cold War, you had this presentation  
where you say Reagan alone didn't do this.
But I wonder if the broader lesson is that  
nothing any US president did in terms of 
foreign policy… That was all a sideshow,  
this tête-à-tête competition for different Third 
World countries: "We're going to get Brazil, we're  
going to get Vietnam, we're going to get Algeria."
That just seems much less significant than the  
fact that liberal capitalism was more 
appealing and out-produced communism. 
So even if some country, even if Brazil 
goes communist, this is not going to change  
the fundamental playing board here.
If you do not protect the liberal economies  
of Europe, you're not going to have anywhere to 
play the liberal economic game, and also Japan. 
One of the reasons you feel that liberal 
economies work is you've got economic  
miracles going on in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, 
Singapore, and Hong Kong back in the day. 
So if you abandon those places...
Also in the Cold War, there was a  
tremendous amount of economic growth across 
the world, particularly in the Third World.  
Why? Because in the past, if there's a civil 
war, whoever's losing either comes to us or  
comes to the Russians and says, "Help us."
So whoever it is helps, and then the other  
side feels obliged to help, and then you're 
just destroying wealth ever more rapidly. 
The Cold War was anything 
but cold in the Third World. 
Tens of millions of people 
died in these conflicts. 
So when you end that, all of a sudden 
they can start compounding growth. 
So there is a problem with not 
countering someone who's going  
to impose communist systems all over the place. 
Communist systems are really 
good at putting dictators into  
power in a civil war situation. It's very 
effective. That's how Mao gets into power. 
The problem is, then they win 
the civil war, they're in power,  
they annihilate the opposition, but then 
it produces compounding poverty thereafter. 
So there is this conundrum, and I 
genuinely don't know the answer to this. 
In order to beat off these communist factions 
and guerrillas, we often through the Cold War  
had to support other dictators.
Probably in many cases they were  
better than the communist alternative.
It's just very hard to beat Pol Pot  
and Mao in terms of how terrible you can be.
But obviously this was in its own way problematic. 
Even if we didn't have to support 
dictators, we had to alienate countries. 
You had this previous lecture that you gave 
on the Indo-Pakistani chapter in history where  
we had to alienate India in order to fend off 
against the Soviet Union in this little episode. 
I don't know what the solution to this is.
If you think that this theater mattered less, then  
you could say we should have just kept our hands 
clean of these different Third World countries. 
But to your point, if you want to be able to 
show that these countries are going to experience  
growth under capitalism, then you want them 
to not be under the subjugation of communists. 
But then you have to support 
sometimes objectionable regimes. 
I think you had a more optimistic 
generation, ironically, optimistic. 
The people who had survived World 
War II, there was a real generosity. 
American servicemen and women were welcomed 
all over Europe and they were adored in Europe. 
They came back and they were a very 
generous group of people. Others felt  
generous to them. That's when the GI Bill 
just passed saying, "You've saved everyone. 
Therefore we're going to give you college 
educations, extend home loans to you." 
Not to African Americans, they were 
excluded from this, which is a problem. But  
white Americans weren’t. It led to massive 
economic growth where people who'd never had  
a college education in their family, they did.
All of a sudden, instead of having really  
hard manual labor, this real optimism.
And then it extended to foreign countries. 
This is when this country was tremendously 
generous to others, and it worked very well for  
us. Think about the Marshall Plan. It looks really 
generous putting all this money into Europe. 
We made a fortune off of it, as did Europe.
If you're smart, you're looking for win-wins  
of things where you both benefit because 
that'll incentivize the other side to join  
in. This is basic strategy. This is one 
of the reasons I've got problems with the  
United States' turn to zero-sum approaches where 
"I'm going to get everything, you get nothing. 
Then I look so smart when we do the clickbait on 
this moment where I get everything and you get  
nothing." It's much smarter. The other piece is 
that a lot of things don't pay off immediately. 
George Bush is not reelected president. He 
absolutely deserved to be. Because what he did,  
the payoff was huge, ending 
the Cold War on Western terms. 
But it doesn't pay off in 
time for the next election. 
I think this is where Americans miss it.
You're looking at what someone does on  
a given day when the real implications 
are what's going to happen in a decade. 
Like on tax policy, if we keep racking up our 
debt, it may get us out of the corner today,  
but is it going to back us into a corner later on?
This is where Americans need to think a little  
harder about long-term implications of things.
I thought when you pointed out that it would  
cost 60 billion Deutschmarks for West Germany 
to pay Gorbachev to let East Germany join West  
Germany. That's a lot of money. But if you 
think about decades and decades of future  
growth, it's a huge bargain.
It's a mistake to think about  
how expensive things seem at the moment.
It's another huge country that you've turned. 
There's a statement that politicians 
think of the next election,  
statesmen think of the next generation.
George Bush and Helmut Kohl are statesmen. 
They're thinking of the next generation.
The group that fought World War II, many of  
US and allied leaders, were statespeople.
They're thinking of the next generation. 
Or if you're thinking of where I've 
got Mitterrand, who's negotiating the  
Maastricht Treaty about the European Union, 
that is statesperson's work of what's the  
next generation. It's important. We need more 
statesmen, statespeople, political leaders. 
To try out a different thesis on you, through this 
period the Soviet Union is also trying to buy off  
other countries, especially when 
it thinks its economy can grow. 
Especially when oil, after the 1973 
oil crisis, oil prices just skyrocket. 
This is why some Soviet citizens 
remember the Brezhnev era favorably. 
Oil made it possible for the Soviets to not 
only import stuff, but through the Brezhnev  
period there's actually a net export of 
resources to Eastern European satellites  
rather than the other way around.
That's probably their data. I get it,  
their oil is really subsidized, but 
everything in the Soviet Union that was  
worth having came from somewhere else.
The problem is how do you measure it? 
They're just going to measure 
by weight or something else. 
It doesn't really capture what they're getting.
The larger question being that, it's not like  
the Soviet Union didn't think of 
doing things like the Marshall Plan. 
Obviously nothing to that extent, but this idea 
that you can win people's favors by providing  
them military aid, providing them foreign aid.
They just didn't have the resources to do it to  
the extent that the US could.
That's true,  
but there's a real coercive piece too.
If you mess with them, it'll be really ugly. 
Here's what I don't understand about 
the arms buildup during the Cold War. 
The Soviet Union is spending 2% of their GDP 
just on nuclear weapons alone at its peak. 
Arms control advocates will make this quip, 
which is that we've already got enough weapons to  
destroy the world many times over. Why do we need 
more? But that is sort of an interesting question. 
What was the point of spending so much 
of GDP on the marginal nuclear weapon  
or marginal weapon system?
I don't know the answer,  
but you read the plans about these things 
and you wonder what people are thinking. 
We were trying to develop tactical nukes.
There was only a little trick with that. 
Whoever deployed it would be within 
the blast range of the tactical nuke. 
You're going, "Who develops a weapon like that?" 
Apparently we did. Luckily we didn't deploy it.  
I don't know the answer of why we 
had such massive redundancy in these  
nuclear weapons, why the arsenals were so massive.
I don't know the story on how you maintain these  
things and how long they last.
It doesn't make much more  
sense to me than it does to you.
Another question. Sino-Soviet split,  
this huge diplomatic coup.
The Soviets had to put a million  
soldiers on the Siberian front against China.
They had to spend 2% of GDP just stationing and  
garrisoning this area, which is obviously a lot.
That's often what many countries spend on defense  
as a whole, let alone just along one front.
At the same time, 2% GDP, well if they just  
had one or two more years of extra 
economic growth or faster growth,  
that could make up for this huge diplomatic coup.
Again this goes back to the point of, if some  
domestic policy just caused slightly higher 
economic growth rates, that would make up for the  
biggest diplomatic coup of the entire Cold War.
It goes back to economy first, diplomacy second. 
Firstly, I have real problems with the statistics.
I got a sample size of one, moi. I remember living  
in Moscow. It was so backwards. 
It's just breathtakingly backwards  
in just about every way imaginable.
They got a big fancy subway system that looks  
remarkably retro, and at least it works.
But the consumer goods were so awful,  
the quality was so bad.
You look at the buildings themselves. 
I get it, they make nuclear weapons. Do they 
make anything else? Their cars were a joke,  
their Ladas or whatever they were. It's just 
thing after thing. So you're looking at all  
their stats because that's what they 
are telling you, that we're so great. 
It really is an Emperor Wears No Clothes 
moment that finally the little kid goes,  
"Oh, you're actually naked."
I can give you an example. 
These acquaintances in Moscow were 
talking about hospitals outside of Moscow  
that some of them didn't have running water.
How do you have a hospital without running water? 
I don't even know how that's even conceivable.
Or when their kid had put her hand through a  
glass door or something.
They wanted to get her  
stitched up because she's bleeding.
She’s not going to die, but she's  
probably bleeding all over the place.
They bring her to one place and, oh,  
they got no thread to do the stitches.
So then they have to go to another place. 
Who runs a country like this?
Alright, you convinced me. BART  
is acceptable. I'll stick here. Subway's not 
a big deal. I don't want to move to Moscow. 
Okay, while the Eastern European satellites 
are trying to leave the Soviet Union, this has  
happened many times through the 20th century.
Hungary in 1956, Czechoslovakia in '68,  
Poland through Solidarity.
Every previous time there's a  
many-million-person-strong Red Army stationed 
in Eastern Europe left over from World War II,  
which rolls in the tanks and prevents 
these revolutions from taking place. 
So what happens in the late 80s and early 90s?
The Red Army is still there. 
There's still millions of Red Army 
soldiers. They just don't shoot. 
Generational change. The leaders 
don't have the stomach for it anymore. 
I don't know how you'd feel about 
sending tanks and going, "Oh,  
we're going to splatter all these people."
I think for many Americans, that would not  
be the choice that they would make.
So this ruthless generation is gone. 
Another piece is that Gorbachev had traveled 
and I think he had some Czech friends. 
I can't remember all of his lists of friends.
But they'd been horrified by Czechoslovakia in  
1968 as young people watching, as Russian 
young people watching it and thinking,  
"It's just wrong. We shouldn't be doing this. 
If communism is what it should be, this is not  
what should be happening." This is of their youth. 
Gorbachev and his generation. It's not just him,  
he reflects a whole generation of communists.
They're thinking, "There's got to be another  
way. This is just not right." So 
he thinks he's got his other way. 
It's this exuberance of the reforms and 
things that are happening in Russia. 
There's a tremendous feeling of energy.
He's telling the Poles, "You get at it too. 
We're all going to do this thing."
But it's all the expertise and things  
that he's missing, that he's unaware that 
he's missing, as are all these other people,  
because how could they have it?
They've been living in a command economy. 
This is what I wanted to ask you about.
You had the de Tocqueville quote about  
how revolutions happen when governments start 
to institute some kind of reform. Gorbachev  
is doing perestroika, glasnost. There's 
the conservative reactionary parts of  
the Communist Party, which by the way is 
a phrase I wouldn't expect to have said. 
But they're trying to resist this.
So Gorbachev goes about dismantling the  
party secretariat and instead devolving power 
down to the individual republics. We know what  
happens later. These republics are saying, "Look, 
we want our own country now." But this raises a  
question. If you do inherit a brutal regime, 
and now you say, "I want to do reforms." 
You know this dynamic that de Tocqueville pointed 
out, which is that as soon as you start reforms,  
actually what tends to happen is that you lose 
power, not that people consolidate it under you.  
What actually should you do? Because you're 
like, "I want to improve people's lives." 
But as soon as you try to do that, 
the whole thing's going to fall apart. 
This is so far above my 
pay grade. I'm a professor.  
I have trouble justifying a B+ on a paper.
I'm a believer in gradual reforms. Do it  
incrementally. For the Soviet Union, it 
would be gradual legal reforms, work it  
through their Duma slowly, and do it that way.
But seek out help from the European Union that  
has many, many experts that would 
be overjoyed if Putin and friends  
would cease doing their number on Ukraine.
Now the problem is you're going to get into  
reparations for the horrors they've inflicted.
So that ship has sadly sailed for this generation. 
There's no nice ending for Russians. 
It's too late. But you can look at  
Europe itself improving its institutions 
and Ukraine improving its institutions. 
If you think about what forces you to 
change, the existential threat on Ukraine,  
if they survive all this, this is forcing 
them really to clean up their institutions. 
So it's happening rapidly there, but we don't 
know the end of that story, how it ends. 
I do think these are interesting lessons here of 
whenever we look at a country from the outside,  
we have this thing of, "Well, just reform 
everything and just fix your economy." 
Whenever we understand the 
system better… For example,  
in the United States, healthcare is 20% of GDP.
This idea that Trump or Obama or Biden, whoever,  
could just come in and be like, 
"Well, I'll just fix healthcare." 
We recognize that this is a wildly 
implausible thing to happen. 
But then we have this expectation that in Russia, 
Gorbachev or Yeltsin could have just been like,  
"100% of my economy is messed up, 
and I'm just going to fix it." 
American hubris in action. Think about our 
country. We have one of the most crazy tax codes  
on the planet, and neither party can touch it.
Because you touch any part of it,  
someone negotiated that wording exactly.
Yet think of how much of our economy is  
taken up by the overhead of all the 
tax accountants, all the misdirected  
cash in order to take advantage of something 
that's simply an invention of the tax system. 
There was years ago when there was talk of doing a 
flat tax, "Wouldn't that be much more efficient?" 
You can imagine what accountants thought 
about that one. That idea has totally died.  
Talk about inefficiency. Then we realize 
we have budgetary problems in this country. 
This would seem to be something that ought to 
be on people's radar, clean up the tax code. 
But isn't it precisely that many people 
don't want the radar on the tax code? 
That's why we're wondering who can get in and out 
of girls' or boys' bathrooms, instead of looking  
at the tax code, which should be the real thing.
I think there should be big  
deductions for podcasts.
It should count for research and development. 
Well, Dwarkesh, you're almost at that stage.
You need to add a lobbyist in DC. 
We'll work on it. There's a very interesting 
book about North Korea, I forget the title,  
where the author is pointing out that 
North Korea could not even start doing  
reforms today because as soon as there was some 
sort of information from the outside world that  
North Koreans could see—which would be part of 
any reform—they would immediately realize that  
everything the government has told them is false.
South Korea is enormously wealthier and they  
have this terrible standard of living.
Obviously, this is the same experience  
that Eastern Europeans had.
Literally in many cases, you had a  
country that was bisected in half and 
the other half is living so much richer. 
In those situations, I guess this goes back to 
the question of, "Well, today in North Korea,  
how would it even kick off if Kim 
Jong-un just had a change of heart  
or if somebody else came into power?"
They're probably just trapped in this to  
the extent that they want to keep power.
Oh, he's trapped because he's a dead boy  
if he tries to take a go at retirement.
In Asia—I don't know exactly all of the  
parts of Asia where this applies to, 
it's some parts—there's a thought that  
things last for three generations and then 
it's over. So he's the third generation.  
Whether this is true or not doesn't matter.
If you believe it's true, it will become a  
self-fulfilling prophecy. So I'll be interested. 
I probably won't live to see it, you in the  
room will, what happens to the Kim family, 
whether it makes it to generation four or not. 
But by their own belief system, in 
theory, they shouldn't. So who knows? 
One more question about oil.
Based on my big expertise on oil, zero. Okay. 
During this period between '73 and '85, 
when they had these huge oil revenues,  
presumably there was some amount of exuberance.
But did the government recognize and realize that  
they're super fragile to the price of oil 
and if that collapses, they need some sort  
of contingency plan, some rainy day fund?
You must notice that, "Oh, this is half my  
budget, and all of my foreign currency 
is coming from oil, and this is a very  
volatile commodity." Nobody noticed that?
Yeah, well, it's interesting. I was reading  
this long chronology that was put 
together sort of like early Putin. 
So before they really shut 
down all the information. 
It was just a chronology of 
the Cold War, big fat book. 
Just like someone like me 
to read a book like that. 
So I'm going date after 
date after date after date. 
It's written by people who are really 
angry about how the Cold War turned out. 
One of the takeaways from the compilers 
of this thing is they kept criticizing. 
They showed how much for every year 
Russia was making in oil revenues.  
It was huge. But in their analysis it 
was, "And they saved none of it", right? 
There was no sense of investing in something. 
There's something called consumption. There's  
another thing called investment. Going around and 
buying a bunch of Western grain is consumption. 
There's none of this being put in 
anything that's going to yield anything. 
So that was a big criticism 
from the authors of this book. 
To the question you're asking, "No, they 
just milked it while they were there." 
Final question, this is not so 
much a question as an observation. 
I don't know if you have a reaction to this. 
Just look at Russia's history through 
the 20th century: tsarism, communism,  
collectivization, to more than 10% of 
your population dying from World War II,  
then back to Stalin, and then more communism, and 
then the economy collapses again, and then Putin. 
Especially if you look at the satellite states, 
they had all of this happen to them and worse  
because now they're getting invaded. Whereas you 
have other countries. Japan and Germany also had  
tragic histories, but then they recovered.
Maybe it’s just the tragedy of Russia. 
Yeah, you're lucky you're not Russian.
Yeah, exactly. 
No, it is tragic. It is tragic. It started out as 
a difficult address, pre-Industrial Revolution,  
that required certain things to survive.
They were more ruthless than their neighbors.  
They did survive. I mean, in a previous 
lecture, I discussed how they wiped out  
entire princely states and Khanates 
and things, they just wiped them out. 
Then you're using their elites 
because it's a rough neighborhood. 
The problem is if you aren't on the winning side, 
you're going to be on the losing side, right? 
But since the Industrial Revolution, where you 
can do compounded economic growth that comes  
from commerce and trade and industry and things, 
that's the real way to get powerful because power  
becomes a function of your wealth.
That involves having legal systems,  
institutions, and stability.
Russia has found it very difficult  
getting with that program.
It has to do with, I think,  
this very difficult historical legacy of who 
rises to power, and also all the missing things. 
They didn't have the Renaissance, they didn't have 
the Reformation, these fundamental movements that  
were very influential in the West.
So there's a lot of negative space  
of things that didn't happen.
There's all the awful stuff that  
you saw that did happen, but then they're 
missing things. So it's very difficult.  
Then people like Putin can set the clock way 
back because he's killed so many Ukrainians. 
What he's done will take a generation 
at minimum to get to anywhere where  
people are going to be thinking about… 
People will be talking about reparations  
from Russia for quite a while and they're 
poor, they're not going to want to do that. 
I should have thought to end on 
a more optimistic note, but... 
Well, history's ended, okay?
Well, you've outlined the ways in which  
countries can chart a better course for themselves 
and that's where the optimism can come from. 
Actually, I've told a story about the last Cold 
War that stayed cold in the industrialized world,  
which was a good thing, because 
it could have been nuclear. 
It was tragic in many other parts 
of the world, but at least it stayed  
cold in the industrialized part.
There was a strategy that a very  
thoughtful generation of people, not just 
in the United States but all over the West,  
put together to allow for a non-nuclear landing 
for the Soviet Union when it fell apart. 
From this, you can derive some of the 
strategies that worked for ending it that way. 
These are the kind of strategies 
that we're going to have to use  
in order to navigate the second Cold War.
The other piece about the Cold War is the Soviet  
Union living miserable lives of their own making.
But Americans were actually having a good time. 
They paid taxes, they had to 
pay for all the nuclear weapons. 
But as I recall, people are running 
around in Disneyland, they're doing  
their European trips, they're buying houses.
So actually Americans, people in Western Europe,  
were living fulfilling lives while they're 
waiting out for others to get with the program. 
If we're going to make it through this second 
one, we need to start cooperating with our allies,  
building institutions, and improving laws.
Don't just burn down the house. 
We will get through this one too, and we will 
live fulfilling lives while we're waiting for  
Putin to come up with something different or 
Xi Jinping to come up with something different. 
But if we blow through our good hand of cards...
You interview all kinds of people  
at the cutting edge of technology.
If we get rid of all of our university funding,  
we aren't going to have the intellectual 
capital on which those businesses are based. 
If we're going to dump all our allies for 
unknown reasons and just alienate them so  
they organize without us… If we're going to just 
throw away entire institutions without thinking  
very carefully about what we're doing… We become 
a cooperative adversary and we will be the bozo  
putting a plastic bag on our own head.
I look at the rhymes here. 
The Soviets had this ancient leadership who just 
couldn't get their act together and they're living  
off of debt instead of thinking creatively.
The rhymes are awful, but we don't  
have to do it that way.
So it is more optimistic,  
but we need to get our house in order.
That's why I'm doing these lectures. 
They're lectures in strategy to give 
you tools on how to come to your own  
decisions. That's your business, not mine.
That is an excellent note to close on. 
Sarah, I want to thank you so much 
for doing this lecture series with us. 
It has been a true education across these six 
lectures, everything from individual wars to the  
strategic and tactical decisions which explain 
them, to the broader lessons for today's world. 
I do interview lots of different 
kinds of people, but from a sort  
of view-per-minute average-adjusted 
basis, I host a Sarah Paine podcast. 
If you just sort by popular, 
Sarah Paine comes up a lot. 
But you've got it backwards. I was 
an unknown academic and then you  
cold-called me about doing an interview. I said,  
"Sure." Dwarkesh, as a result of all this, 
I'm getting emails from all over the place. 
So let's talk about who's grateful to whom.
Anyway, I'm devoted to your generation.  
Thank you for having me. Thank you for coming and 
being such a warm audience. Really appreciate it.