Hello my friends. Today is September 17th and this is my September FOMC debrief. So I just finished watching JPAL's presser and I thought it was a pretty good press conference and a pretty interesting meeting. So we have a bunch of stuff to talk about. However, as usual, let's first level set. Now between this meeting and the last meeting, we had a lot of stuff happen on the labor market front. As we've been discussing, the labor market has been pretty disappointing. A whole bunch of jobs that we thought we had were revised away and the most recent jobs report was pretty disappointing where jobs you know about 20ome,000 created lower than expectations. However, the unemployment rate remains pretty low at around 4.3%. Now looking on the inflation side, things really haven't been improving either. Uh taking a step back, it really looks like inflation is stuck at about 3%. And looking ahead, there doesn't seem to be a path for inflation to come down. Actually, there's a there's a good argument that inflation could actually tick up a little bit on account of tariffs. So, if you're the Fed looking for 2% inflation and full employment, you know, you're kind of not doing very well on either mandate. So, you're in a pretty tough position. Now, we all knew since Cher Powell telegraphed that at Jackson Hall that he would be cutting rates today. So the market had fully priced in a 25 basis point cut. Now heading into this meeting there were a few questions. Well first off on the political front we have the newly sworn in finit distinguished finit alum Steve Meyer joining as Governor Meyer as his first meeting. We also have Governor Cook who was fired by the president and reinstated by the court of appeals. So you had some interesting dynamics there. Um wasn't sure if there would be a lot of dissents. Maybe some people wanted 50 basis points. Maybe some people didn't want to cut at all. So that was a question mark. There's always of course on the margins some people hoping for a 50 basis point cut. And of course for me of course the biggest question was how uh the Fed would project its dot plots in 2026 and 2027. Now heading into this meeting like we discussed market fully priced in 25 basis point cut and also let's say 25 for each of the meetings for throughout the end of this year. However, the market also priced in a whole bunch of cuts for 2026 going as low as 2.9% in December 2026. That is actually much lower than uh the June dot plot. And so there was kind of a big disconnect where the market was thinking and where uh where the Fed had guided towards in June. And you know as I wrote about on Monday my my perception was that the the market would be uh forced to move to the bit uh hawkishly to the Fed a little bit after today. So those were the questions heading into uh the meeting today. Now at the meeting again immediately we got the 25 basis point cut as expected. No 50 basis point cut. That was always very very unlikely. And we did get a descent and that descent of course comes from Governor Myron who wanted 50 basis points. Uh no other descent. So it looks like the FOMC uh as as a whole is still pretty cohesive on on that front. Now more interesting thing is looking at the dot plot. Now, looking at the dot plot, no, the the the dot plot really didn't really change that much between uh this meeting and the last meeting. Looks like the Fed basically just penciled in an extra cut. So, again, the Dow plot is much more hawkish than was priced into the market. And on the actually the economic forecast front, looks like the Fed marked down their unemployment rate a little bit. So, a little bit better growth and marked up their inflation a little bit. So inflation a little bit worse. So that's kind of how they're looking at it. One of course very interesting thing is that when you break out the dot plot as to where the committee members stand with respect to rates at the end of 2025, you you'll notice a whole bunch of them are clustered around um you know say 4% or something like that. And there's this one dot that is very very low that is actually looking for 50 basis point cut in each of the last three meetings this year. And so I think we can all guess who that is. Um, okay. So, going to the um PA press conference again, I think there were two things that really stood out to me. Well, actually, I I'll say three things. Well, first off, what's his rationale for cutting rates today? I mean, you know, I I mean, yeah. So, what does he say? So, Powell basically says that the labor market is not as strong as he thought it was. Over the past few meetings, Powell had repeatedly asserted that the labor market is doing really well. I mean looking looking at the unemployment rate and so his focus was mostly on inflation. Now he mentioned that uh looking at the revised data the labor market really doesn't look as good as he thought and so you know the the risks are a bit more two-sided now. He can't really just all think that much on on inflation and he also suggested that you know inflation is uh not as worrisome as he used to think. So I take that to mean that inflation is probably going to be stuck at around 3%. It's probably not going to get worse to four or five 6%. Now during the pandemic it was super high. That was totally unacceptable. Uh but my sense is that 3% inflation is actually okay to him. Uh the second thing that I thought was super interesting is how he perceived uh the upcoming job numbers. So as we mentioned last month we only created 20ome,000 jobs and actually in June after revisions we actually had a negative job number. So his perspective was that a lot of the weakness the perceived weakness in the labor market really is just due to immigration supply and demand dynamics over there. So he thought that you know a break even job growth because of our red reduced immigration is between 0 to 50,000. So any number according to this perspective any number of we get from the NFP report going forward if it's between zero and 50,000 it it's probably okay because you know we should expect low job growth because we have lower population growth. Now uh one Gberger who is a smart person who focuses on employment also suggested that you know they kind of just look at the unemployment rate to kind of derive what the break even number is. So that's kind of a the headline number is not super important but really what matters is the unemployment rate and I think that makes sense as well. Uh in any case, based on where the unemployment rate is today and based on the job growth numbers we've seen over the past few months, it seems that uh it's correct that the economy because of low population growth, these low job numbers actually actually don't seem to be super concerning. Though of course, if you look at other things like wages and so forth, it does seem the labor market continues to weaken. All right, so that means that uh actually a pretty hawkish perspective really. It means that the Fed is not going to be super worried about uh the loop the lower job growth uh numbers going forward. And another thing that I thought was pretty interesting he mentioned was his perspective on tariffs. Now, we've been talking about tariffs for months and initially what I was telling you guys is that just looking at the past what happened 2017 2018 is that the distributors like the middlemen they ate the tariffs as profit through through lower profits and they really weren't passed through the consumers and that's really what happened based on studies looking at hundreds of thousands of p of prices in 2018 and 2019 and pow basically are saying right now that yeah that's kind of what's happening right now um all these distributors. They're eating the cost, eating the tariffs. They plan on passing this on to consumers, but they're having trouble, too. So, he's saying that pass through could be very slow and and very low. So, at the moment, there really just doesn't seem to have been a very big uh impact from tariffs on inflation. So uh that could come going forward but uh if the economy weakens and the FOMC is projecting below uh below trend growth and I also am quite negative on the economy. So that won't be passed through and it will continue to be eaten by the by the distributors. So it looks like everyone who is afraid of massive inflation from tariffs does not have to be afraid. Um I think that's all right now. So going forward I think we'll just um See, just looking more closely on the employment market and that's that's going to be what happens. Again, the market is fully pricing in uh another rate cut at the next meeting and another rate cut in December. And beyond that though, I think we'll just have to see who the composition of the FOMC is. uh because personnel changes uh either what happens with Governor Cook or you know who the next Fed chair is and of course whether or not Cher Powell will leave after his term as fetchure is over. Those are the questions that will shape the rates market uh for next year. All right, that's all I prepared. Talk to you guys on Saturday.