The crypto infinite money glitch appears 
to be broken – and we may never truly know  
what went wrong. The way it was supposed to 
work is that you take an irrelevant company,  
raise capital to buy Bitcoin – or some other 
token (they are all the same) – then tweet  
something quasi-religious about the future of 
money and put a lot of effort into creating AI  
memes – as good AI memes will definitely 
drive the token price up – I mean that’s  
in corporate finance textbooks at this point…
This starts the flywheel spinning: The crypto goes  
up – pushing your stock price up, you then sell 
more stock to raise money - buy more crypto, rinse  
and repeat. If there are any annoying questions 
about cash flow, P/E ratios, or the fundamental  
laws of thermodynamics – that is possibly just 
a sign that you need to crank out more AI memes.  
Why run a business – which is dull and boring and 
can go wrong in so many ways - when you can just  
buy something tweet about it and pump its price?
I’m possibly making it sound too simple - one of  
the real innovations of crypto treasury companies 
(as they became known) was to monetize the  
volatility of your stock. If your stock price 
jumps around like a caffeinated squirrel – or  
has a very high standard deviation as nerds 
would say - you could monetize that volatility  
by issuing low or zero-coupon convertible bonds. 
The more volatile your stock price is - the more  
the embedded conversion option is worth – and the 
convertible bonds will be bought by hedge funds  
who don’t necessarily believe in your company or 
the underlying crypto token – but they are able  
to make money through gamma trading – which I’ll 
explain in more detail later in the video – but it  
involves buying a convertible bond - short-selling 
the stock against it on a ratio – so that you are  
market neutral, and then constantly adjusting your 
position size as the stock price moves around.  
The hedge fund can make money from this while 
keeping its combined position stock-price  
neutral. These guys don’t care about the company 
or the shiba inu based token that you are claiming  
drives its value – they just care about the stock 
price moving around a lot – which your AI memes  
and unhinged tweets are supposed to cause. This 
is a virtuous circle – well it’s some sort of  
circle anyhow – as it allows the CEO of a once 
failing company to raise cheap capital to buy  
stupid tokens, while providing hedge funds with 
profitable, market-neutral trading opportunities.
 
Look – you can be as negative about this 
as you want to be – I know you guys can be  
judgmental - but it worked like a cheat code in 
a video game where companies could raise funds to  
buy crypto - that buying drove up the token 
prices; the firms stock price often went up  
even more than the crypto did – as idiots would 
buy the stock. Your quasi-religious tweets and  
memes to stir up your followers on the everything 
app were good for social media platforms and  
provided a real use case for Sora too – This 
was hype capitalism at its best. Whether you  
like it or not – it’s just how things work - it’s 
maybe even how things should work – as why have a  
company that does something - when you could just 
have a company that buys something and pumps its  
price up. It’s better… It’s more efficient…
Over the last year, crypto treasury companies  
revolutionized the way business worked. 
And while it started with Microstrategy  
and Bitcoin – managers of other irrelevant 
companies worked out that you could stuff  
pretty much anything into this structure. As if 
you think about it – everything can be scarce  
if you raise enough money to buy all of it…
The way I see it is that business has just  
been too complicated for too long – the guy with 
the high-pitched voice and the bitcoins - worked  
out that businesses - if you separate them from 
business activity can be much more efficient.  
Elon Musk – who spent billions of dollars on AI so 
that he could have a cartoon girlfriend says that  
most jobs will eventually become “optional,” 
comparable to hobbies like playing sports or  
gardening. He explained at a U.S. - Saudi 
Investment Forum that this can all happen  
as long as we create an AI that cares deeply 
about truth and beauty – and – you’re just not  
going to find a group that cares more about truth 
and beauty than the people attending an Elon Musk  
speech at a US Saudi investment forum.  
In this brave new world – where everyone is  
living large and no one is working – we going to 
need our infinite money glitches to keep it all  
afloat. But… The problem now - is that the cheat 
code seems to have stopped working. Strategy - is  
no longer trading on animal spirits; it’s 
been dragged down by financial gravity.  
Since the company went all-in on bitcoin, it has 
hardly any other sources of revenue, and it now  
owes $800 million dollars a year in dividends 
and debt-interest payments. The massive premium  
to Net Asset Value - which was the magic dust 
that made the share issuance accretive - has  
evaporated to a pedestrian 1.15 times – worse 
than that - some of the copycat firms are now  
even trading at a discount to their crypto NAVs. 
Before we dig into what’s gone wrong – let me tell  
you about this week’s video sponsor Saily an 
eSIM provider who makes it incredibly easy to  
travel and stay connected without having to pay 
ridiculous foreign roaming charges, find a local  
SIM card, or search around constantly for public 
Wi-Fi. I hadn't heard of this technology before  
trying out Saily this summer, but it's an app that 
you install on your phone which allows you to stay  
connected in over 200 places around the world. 
There's no need to buy and swap physical SIM  
cards when you travel. You just download the app 
once and use it whenever you're abroad. You choose  
how much data you want and for how long. It's way 
cheaper than roaming and takes seconds to set up.  
You just select the country and plan and activate 
an eSIM before you leave home. And when you land,  
your phone automatically connects to a local 
network with no hidden charges. There's no  
fussing around at the airport. You can book 
an Uber, access GPS, or make a call. So,  
if you've got travel plans, click the link or scan 
this QR code to download the app. Choose a plan in  
the country you're going to and use my code BOYLE 
at checkout to get an exclusive 15% discount.
 
Look, no one loved the crypto boom more than me 
– I loved the people – SBF and Caroline the wood  
nymph provided endless entertainment - there was 
the art – the games and of course the music – who  
can forget the music. A lot has changed over 
the last few years however – the people are now  
politicians – one is even a FIFA Laureate - and 
SBF went from being the most generous billionaire  
to a guy who can’t even afford to buy himself 
a pardon. Presidential pardons – in 2025 became  
the new NFT’s – if you are big in crypto, you’ll 
have a collection of them framed on your wall.
 
To understand the Strategy collapse - you 
have to understand the bizarre arithmetic  
that drove the boom. The entire "Strategy" 
trade relied on a single, fragile variable:  
the premium. For most of 2024 and 2025, investors 
were willing to pay around two dollars for every  
one dollar of Bitcoin on Strategy’s balance 
sheet. Why? Because Strategy offered something  
you couldn’t get elsewhere: leverage without the 
margin call. If you took a leveraged position  
in Bitcoin on an exchange and the price crashed, 
you got liquidated. If you bought Strategy stock,  
you got loads of bitcoin exposure but if it tanked 
- you still had a huge loss – but you could hold  
on to your position and hope for a bounce.
I made a video about crypto treasury companies  
last summer and in the comments section, 
Strategy cheerleaders were arguing that  
the business was valuable and should trade at 
a premium because without it investors couldn’t  
easily get leveraged exposure to bitcoin – but 
even then there were more than 100 other companies  
already doing the exact same thing – many at 
lower premiums – It just didn’t make sense to  
pay two dollars for a dollars’ worth of bitcoin.
This premium above NAV was a good thing according  
to Strategy investors however - as it created 
a recursive loop. If the stock trades at  
$200 but represents only $100 of Bitcoin, the 
company could issue a new share at $200, buy  
$200 worth of Bitcoin, and suddenly the "Bitcoin 
per share" of the existing holders (or HODLERS)  
went up. The way investors saw it - dilution was 
actually accretive. It was a magic trick – where  
the more stock Strategy sold to buy Bitcoin, 
the richer the existing shareholders became.
 
As of the time of this recording, Bitcoin is 
trading at around ninety thousand dollars – which  
is down about five percent year to date - that 
includes dividends and all other cashflows…  
Strategy, on the other hand is down around 
40 percent year to date – which is worse.  
 
Strategy is and was a very volatile stock – 
while it wasn’t an S&P500 member – it was more  
volatile than any other stock in that index – 
even meme stocks like Tesla and Palantir. Its  
high volatility enabled the convertible bond 
issuance that I described earlier – but for a  
certain type of investor – the most volatile 
stock wasn’t volatile enough. Retail traders  
piled into leveraged single stock ETF’s tied to 
Strategy like MSTX and MSTU which are down around  
85% year to date. According to Bloomberg, that 
puts them among the 10 worst-performing funds  
in the entire US ETF market, out of more than 
4,700 products currently trading. One of these  
leveraged Strategy ETF’s – MSTP was only launched 
in June and is down almost 85%. If you invested  
in these – you should probably keep quiet about it 
so that a court doesn’t order Britney Spears’ dad  
to look after your money for you. Bloomberg 
reported earlier this week that investors  
in these three leveraged ETF’s have lost about 
$1.5 billion in assets since early October.  
 
At the peak of the crypto treasury company 
craze – and the leveraged ETF’s that love  
them – Robin Wigglesworth wrote in the FT 
about the launch of the Bonk Income Blast  
ETF – with the subheading – Every day we stray 
further from Gods light… The article quoted an  
SEC filing for an ETF that would invest 
in Bonk, the “social layer and community  
meme coin of Solana with deep integrations as a 
utility token across a wide base of application  
and protocols within the web3 ecosystem.  
Fortunately - no one has lost money on this  
one yet – as it is still waiting for approval 
but – its goal is to buy Bonk call options and  
sell Bonk put options to generate the full Bonk 
“upside” that you would get by simply buying Bonk,  
but “with potentially greater capital efficiency” 
by generating Bonk-derived income. The prospectus  
does warn of the potential for significant 
losses if the price of Bonk declines.
 
Anyhow… copycat crypto treasury companies 
who are underwater on their crypto purchases  
have started dumping tokens to fund 
stock buybacks or to service debt. 
 
The FT reported that NYSE-listed chipmaker Sequans 
sold $100 million dollars worth of Bitcoin to pay  
creditors just four months after pivoting to a 
digital asset treasury strategy. It’s CEO told  
the press “Our Bitcoin treasury strategy and our 
deep conviction in Bitcoin remain unchanged.”
 
Metaplanet - Japan’s biggest Bitcoin holder, 
raised a $130 million loan against its bitcoin  
stash after its stock fell 80%. Smarter 
Web Company, the UK’s poster child for  
crypto treasuries, is down 44% and trading 
at a discount to the crypto it holds.
 
But amidst this graveyard of copycats, 
there was one hilarious exception:  
GameStop. When the original meme-stock king 
announced it was pivoting to a Bitcoin treasury,  
the stock actually fell 10%.
Why did this happen?? Well,  
because unlike Strategy, GameStop has an actual 
business. It sells video games and Funko Pops  
to people in shopping malls – not all of 
whom are also GameStop shareholders. The  
market realized that if you have real revenue 
and real customers, you are judged on them.
 
It turns out that the 'infinite money glitch' 
only works if you are a hollow vessel. If  
you are empty inside, you can be filled with 
dreams. If you sell used copies of FIFA 2019 for  
four dollars, you are just a retailer 
with a strangely volatile balance sheet.
 
Strategy – however - has a strategy..., sort 
of. Last weekend, Michael Saylor posted a  
stock price chart covered with orange dots — 
which highlight when the company bought its  
bitcoins — with a teasing question: “What if 
we start adding green dots?” The implication  
was that he might buy dollars. For a company 
whose chairman, famously compared the dollar  
to a melting ice cube, hoarding fiat 
currency is a stunning capitulation.
 
This Monday, the company announced that it 
had issued $1.4 billion dollars of equity,  
not to buy bitcoin but to build a dollar reserve 
to cover the dividends on its five classes of  
preferred stock for the next two years. Now, 
Michael Saylor does have a point, issuing stock  
to raise cash is a lot like issuing stock to buy 
Bitcoin - but cash has a special use case - where  
it can be used to make payments - and even buy 
stuff – even stuff that is not on the dark web...
 
At a high point in the crypto treasury company 
mania in October 2024 MicroStrategy’s Chief  
Executive Officer Phong Le explained on 
an earnings call why they were selling  
a record 21 billion dollars in new 
shares to fund crypto purchases.  
 
He explained that the dollar amount - related 
to the children’s book - The Hitchhiker’s Guide  
to the Galaxy where a supercomputer explained 
that the meaning of life is the number 42.
 
He went on to say “We believe it’s a unique 
number with some special characteristics.  
It’s the sum of 21 plus 21 We all know that 21 
is a magic — a magical number in the world of  
Bitcoin. There can only ever be a maximum 
of 21 million Bitcoin in circulation.”  
 
An actual CEO said this on an earnings call 
- in all seriousness - and people – actual  
adults - had to listen to it without pointing and 
laughing - because that would be rude. I needed  
to be sure – so I googled him – because maybe 
they actually put a little boy in charge of the  
company – but here he is on the Strategy website – 
and the AI picture seems to be of a grown man.  
 
There was probably an analyst on that call 
straight out of Harvard Business School - maybe  
on his first day of work - turning to his boss 
saying - I think I'm on the wrong call... I  
think this is some sort of dial in horoscope 
lucky numbers line. You dialed 1-800 right, not  
1-900... We might be being charged for this????
He possibly wondered if he was being hazed on his  
first day at work with a fake earnings call – like 
the way construction workers will prank the new  
guy by sending him around the site looking for 
a left handed hammer – or getting him to return  
the 2x4’s that aren’t two inches by four inches.
The stock didn't even crash that day - in a normal  
world it would have – but over the last few years 
– a different type of person started investing.
 
So, why the sudden love for the dollar? And 
why 1.4 billion dollars? Is that a children’s  
book reference I’m not aware of? Maybe it was the 
number of wands Harry Potter owned in Harry Potter  
and the Chain of Blocks… I haven’t read that one…
Well, the thing is that the company has issued  
preferred stock with aggressive names 
like "Strife" (10% coupon), "Strike" (8%),  
and "Stretch" (a variable rate currently near 
10.75%). These dividends are high and they mean  
that the company needs to come up with hundreds 
of millions of dollars every quarter. For a while  
they were issuing stock – not at a huge premium – 
but bitcoin was still going up. If you issue stock  
at 10% to buy bitcoin which goes up at more than 
10% a year, then that’s an accretive trade. But if  
bitcoin goes up less than ten percent – or falls 
– then you are still paying that ten percent a  
year to those investors and destroying value. 
Now, technically, these are “dividends,” meaning  
that the company isn't legally obliged to pay 
them - they can choose to accrue them. But  
doing this would likely torpedo the company's 
ability to raise any more capital for quite  
some time - ending the game immediately. So, 
Strategy is stuck. It is now selling common  
stock to raise cash so that it can make dividend 
payments to preferred stock holders. Now when you  
start raising capital from new investors to 
pay out old investors – your strategy starts  
to seem like more of a scheme…
As Bloomberg’s Matt Levine noted,  
“'We are selling billions of dollars of stock at a 
premium to NAV to buy Bitcoin' is a great story...  
'We are selling a billion dollars of stock at 
NAV to pay interest on the loans we previously  
took out' is considerably less fun.”.
For Strategy – if there is no recovery  
in the price of bitcoin, the real pain will 
begin in 2027, when the firm’s convertible  
debt starts to mature. Its borrowing – right 
now - is modest relative to its assets; but,  
its lack of alternative sources of income 
may force it to start selling its bitcoin.
 
So why has crypto been tanking recently – I don’t 
really know. It doesn’t really do anything – it’s  
just a number to bet on. It is not even that 
useful for illegal payments as things like  
stablecoins are better at that – so the price 
of things like bitcoin just rise and fall based  
on whether people think it will rise or fall 
in the future. It seems to have become highly  
correlated with tech stocks – but there is no 
real reason to believe that will continue. 
 
In 2013, Joe Weisenthal wrote a column called 
Gold Is A Bet On Human Failure where he argued  
that buying gold is a "negative" economic act 
because it represents a bet that a "shiny rock"  
will hold value better than the "collective 
ingenuity of the human race" represented by  
stocks and productive companies. He argued that 
when investors buy gold, they are essentially  
hedging against "total political breakdown" and 
the failure of "peaceful human interaction". 
 
He has since extended this logic to include 
Bitcoin which he describes as an even more  
profound form of "shorting" the system, arguing 
that Bitcoin’s appeal is based in a complete loss  
of trust in state capacity and institutions. 
The Economist wrote a good piece last month called  
Crypto got everything it wanted. Now it’s sinking. 
In the piece they argued that the crypto industry  
has gone from being an object of mockery to being 
broadly accepted by politicians and regulators.  
But this victory has created a paradoxical 
problem: the thrill of the chase is over.  
Every major rally in recent years was fueled by 
the anticipation of specific milestones—like the  
approval of ETFs or the backing of a friendly 
US administration. Now that those battles have  
been won and investors have "no trouble getting 
their hands on bitcoin," the market has exhausted  
its most potent bullish narratives. Without 
a new catalyst or a "forbidden fruit" story  
to sell to the next wave of buyers, crypto 
is left as a purely speculative asset with  
no fresh reason for the number to go up.
One of the reasons for thinking bitcoin  
could go up forever was a belief that 
Strategy’s infinite money glitch would work.
 
My friend Zeke Faux appeared on Dan Toomey’s 
YouTube channel a few weeks ago – and if you  
haven’t watched that video you should. 
I’ll put a link in the description. In  
it he explained his "Juggalo Theory of 
bitcoin resilience." Zeke argued that  
Bitcoin has developed a fan base as committed and 
impervious to outside criticism as the Juggalos,  
the die-hard Insane Clown Posse fans – who dress 
up as clowns and attend an annual gathering. I  
should mention that Dan Toomey is a huge ICP fan – 
so don’t say anything bad about them around him…
 
Zeke argued in the video that much like the way 
- you wouldn't bet against the Juggalos attending  
their big meetup every year - you shouldn't 
bet against Bitcoiners showing up to support  
the bitcoin price – or showing up in my YouTube 
comments section to say that Bitcoin is somehow  
not the same as crypto.... They are a cult – 
according to Zeke - that puts a floor on the  
asset price, simply by refusing to leave.
But Zeke then adds a critical twist to the  
analogy. Unlike the Juggalos, who congregate 
for the love of “the culture”, Bitcoiners have a  
powerful financial incentive to evangelize. "What 
if by recruiting more Juggalos, you would get  
rich?" he asks. If bringing in new fans directly 
increased your net worth, you would work a lot  
harder to recruit them—and suddenly, the music 
might start to sound a whole lot better to you.
 
It will be interesting to see how things work out 
for Strategy. There is no "underdog" narrative  
left to drive the price. There is no institutional 
wall left to breach. Strategy issued so many  
convertible bonds that the gamma hedging – where 
the traders buy the stock when it falls and sell  
it when it rises killed the volatility. 
The SEC is no longer the villain anymore;  
it’s just a regulator – and a regulator 
run by a crypto guy. The US secretary of  
commerce is a crypto guy too. BlackRock cant be 
viewed as an enemy either; it’s the custodian,  
and the US president isn’t just onside – he has 
attained almost all of his wealth from crypto.
 
If there are no walls left to breech – we are 
just left with Michael Saylor tweeting that  
Bitcoin is "a swarm of cyber hornets serving the 
goddess of wisdom, feeding on the fire of truth".
 
I’m not sure if something can be classified 
as a sentence if it makes no sense…  
 
For now, the cyber hornets are quiet. The 
premium is almost gone, and the infinite  
money glitch may have been patched. And Strategy 
investors have been learning the oldest lesson  
in finance: leverage works both ways. The 
Ouroboros has finished eating its tail,  
and it turns out - it wasn't very nutritious.
If you found this video interesting, you should  
watch my video on AI’s circular financing bubble 
next. Don’t forget to check out our sponsor Saily  
using the link in the description – have a great 
day and talk to you in the next video – bye.