[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. Well, Big Aon uh is a big market story as well today. Once again driving the trade, pushing semi as a group, semiconductors that is hired today, led by Broadcom, whose stock jumped after OpenAI agreed to buy the company's custom chips and networking equipment in a multi-year deal, part of an ambitious plan by the startup to add AI infrastructure. So, we wanted to just dig a little bit deeper into it. Amy talked about it. We certainly are seeing it playing out in the market. Got a great voice though, Belly to walk us through it.
>> One of my favorite people. I will say
>> Billy must have said Mandep's name about five times on the call this morning.
>> Immediately was like we need to get him in studio. So perfect timing. And that's why we're joined now by Bloomberg Intelligence global head of technology research Mandep Singh here in the studio. Mandep, walk us through this deal because it feels like every other day OpenAI has a new agreement with some chip manufacturer and the terms are slightly different whether it's an ownership stake or front buying chips. What's up with uh this broad compact?
>> I mean they are really going after uh you know data center capacity right now and the way they are doing it is by diversifying their supplier base. So it's not just relying on Nvidia which everyone does right now uh for compute but really uh leveraging Broadcom which is a custom silicon maker. So think about you know Nvidia giving you a generic chip where you can run your AI workloads whether it's training or inferencing. Custom silicon is used just for uh you know the specific workflow that open AI has to run for its proprietary model. So no one else has any benefit of using a custom silicon because OpenAI is not looking to sell its own chips to compete with Nvidia. It's looking to use its chips for its own cha chip app or any other custom app that it has developed in-house. And Google is a prime example of what a custom silicon looks like because they have their own TPUs, which when you compare it to Nvidia GPUs is more customized in nature, but it does a terrific job of running YouTube or any other AI workloads that Google wants to run on its chip. So that's what Open AI is doing. And it has a tremendous cost advantage because it costs a lot lower than the Nvidia price tag of $30,000 on an average for a GPU. TPU, tensor processing unit. I just want to make sure I understand. Um, what's interesting though is I do feel like there's this move trend to get chips that maybe don't cost as much, maybe don't use as much power, but do exactly what we need. Is that fair?
>> Yeah. I mean, look, one one gawatt requires up to 500 to 600,000 accelerator chips. So, we're talking.5 to6 million chips for 1 gawatt data center. Imagine if you can save up to $5,000 how it multiplies, you know, in terms of cost savings. The real constraint right now is power. It's not as if you get a cheaper chip and you are all good. You still need the performance per watt, which is why Nvidia is so good because it gives you 5 to 10x more performance per watt than the nearest competitor.
>> Right.
>> Exactly. I want to show there's a graphic um and uh one of our producers made it Elizabeth Cedron and I think it you know we've all been looking at this. It's about OpenAI and all of the companies that they're doing deals with and it's not even been a month but they have done deals with Nvidia, Oracle, Corewave, AMD now Broadcom and again it's just late September to mid October. So is that what this is? Is just giving them a smarter supply chain and having access to what they need? Is it as simple as that?
>> Well, it's not as simple because they're going across the stack. So, think of, you know, how AI applications are deployed. You need the chip, you need the infrastructure, you need the cloud because that's where you're doing your inferencing. So, they've cut deals with different parts of the stack here, not just the chip makers, not just the power guys, uh also the cloud guys. So, from that perspective,
>> coreweave, right?
>> Corewave. Exactly. And and look uh I mean to my mind they are going uh aggressive in terms of adding more capacity than they probably need because they think if they get market share they get the companies or users to use their product then they will be able to monetize and probably drive some companies out of you know competing with them because of the scale involved here.
>> Well are are XAI and Anthropic striking similar deals or is this the open AI show? I I think right now XAI must be thinking and they are doing a $20 billion deal uh with some private financing. But look, when OpenAI announces a 10 gawatt deal, we're talking 500 billion, not 20 billion anymore. So it's the numbers are getting bigger and bigger.
>> Well, is OpenAI in this moment in time on October 13th the most important company in the world?
>> Well, when I look at Mag 7, your Broadcom is not in MAG7. It's a $1.6 6 trillion company, you know, Open AI probably, you know, it's what
>> and they're up 10% because of this. I mean, also they the whole space sold off on Friday, so I don't want to downplay that too much, but like
>> they're not even public. They're not even profitable as much as we know, right?
>> No, I mean look, so right now their gross margins would be negative if you factor in their training costs. Inferencing wise, yes, they they they are making some money, but clearly if you include everything and just to compare it with Google, Google has an annual cost of revenue of around 100 billion that powers all of their apps, you know, Google, YouTube, everything that they run. Open AAI's compute costs are probably north of 20 billion right now. And if they're adding 26 gawatt more capacity, we're talking you know uh compute cost to multiply at least 25fold. So from that perspective, you have to ask yourself how much incremental revenue do you want to see from open AI to justify this, you know, 1 trillion potentially $1 trillion in compute infrastructure spend. And that's where Google's infrastructure is so efficient because just you know less than 5 gawatt of compute gets you to over 400 billion in revenue.
>> That's pretty cool, you know,
>> to say the least in a nonfinancial analysis uh terminology. Um, Mandy, thank you. Always a gem. Bloomberg intelligence global head of technology research Mandep Singh. Uh, AI spend and the buildout is one read on the US economy and certainly the tech economy. Now to another great read uh, Bailey on US economic activity and we're talking about the industrial supplier Fascinol which reported earnings earlier this morning and shares I think they were the worst performing the S&P 500 at one point. Yeah, right now down about 6% and keep in mind this is a $50 billion company. So this is no small uh small fish in the again in the industrial space. One of the first reads we get every quarterly earning season missing Wall Street views broadly speaking. So interesting what's driving that?
>> Well, let's ask uh the CEO Daniel Flores is with us. He is uh chief executive officer of Fasinel. He joins us from Winona, Minnesota. Um Dan, it is great to have you back with us. um talk to us about uh the quarter because it does seem like analysts were noting that the pricing during the quarter was weaker than expected uh and marks the second straight quarter of softer pricing and maybe that's why we're seeing the stock down. What do you want to say to investors?
>> Well, u part of the reason our stock's down is it's priced to perfection if you look at what it's done, you know, year to date and where the multiple has gone. But, uh you know, we had we had a really good quarter. We had uh we had a double- digit quarter. We hadn't seen that for a couple years. U double digit growth, sorry. And uh pleased with the outcome. One of the one of the uh challenges we had this year was there's a lot of fluidity around tariffs and what it means for pricing. And we will raise price to address costs in our customer supply chain. Um we we really don't want to raise more than that because we believe it impairs our ability to grow as fast as we'd like. And uh you know coming into the quarter we estimated you know X for uh for impact of pricing came in a little bit less. We lowered our number for the fourth fourth quarter but the most important aspect is on a price cost basis we are neutral and that's what we aspire to be. We'd rather just grow. M
>> and Dan to your point uh fast and all even with the pullback today returning 22% year-to- date so outperforming the S&P 500 and uh comparable uh stocks in the industrial space but just one more question on pricing in terms of expectations would you want to raise pricing like do you get the sense that consumers and customers would push back just given how you've been shifting into bigger customers spending much more money?
>> Yeah, customers always push back on pricing. It doesn't matter the size customer. Uh we will uh we we we are having conversations with our customer. We will be doing some price increases in Q4. I suspect we'll be doing some price increases as we move into 2026. But again, our first discussion with the customer. Um they understand it. They're willing to move on price. Our first discussion is always what are alternatives to this product that maybe doesn't mean we have to raise your prices 5%. Maybe it means it only has to be two and we we'd rather go to two because that's what a that's what a supply chain partner does.
>> Well, Dan, how do tariffs fit into this? Just given that according to analysts across the street when we look at certain industries, now is when we're going to see tariffs showing up in the third quarter in guidance as it go as it relates to 2026. What are you seeing and how are you kind of attacking or addressing any pressures from tariffs? Yeah. So for us, tariffs have been um in the in the equation uh since the you know early part of the second quarter, a little bit of first quarter. I think in the the individual that handles pricing um historically he will provide us an update once a month. He'd gotten to the point where he was not only providing us updates, he he was up to video number 14 as of July that he was serving out to the field,
>> giving them guidance into what we were seeing in our supply chain. And u and so we've been adding price as we've gone through the year and these have been discussions with customers and I hope that answers your question.
>> No, I think it does. But I think the big thing is are you mitigating the impact of tariffs? Are you shifting your supply chain? Is the expectation that you can have some kind of knock-on effect as it relates to pricing if we do continue to see threats from the president and going after countries like China or others? We are going to talk to uh one of the members of Levvis's management team and they called out that they had to dial up their expectations for the impact of tariffs from other countries. So how is that impacting when you look at your supply chain and when you look at the potential for pricing impacts in 2026?
>> We've been moving supply chain around the planet in earnest since 2017 2018 time frame. Um, as our name would imply, we sell a lot of fasteners and most of the fasteners in North America come from either mainland China or or Taiwan and the automotive industry took the production there back in the 50s and 60s. Actually took it to Japan and South Korea and it migrated from there. If I look at our resources, we now have a sourcing team in Shanghai, but we have a sourcing team in Bangkok. We have a sourcing team in northern India and we have worked to diversify our supplier base around the planet and a little bit more in North America but really around the planet so to have diversity in supply so you're not caught off guard by some price change or or a tariff change. In addition to that we've taken supply chains coming into North America which traditionally came in through the west coast United States and then we would redistribute from there. We have moved supply chains. So they're bringing product directly into the west coast of Canada or the west coast of Mexico because those two countries represent about 14% of our revenue. Now you bypass the tariff. However, it's more expensive to break shipments down over in Asia and bring them in, but it's a lot less than a tariff.
>> One of the things I want to ask you, you know, you you talk about supply chains. Is the endgame. Um Dan, we're talking with Dan Flores. He's chief executive officer of Fasinel. Is it about though largely reducing your exposure to China which has been a pretty big one?
>> It's it's reducing our customers exposure to any market in this case uh China and or Taiwan but to any market that are on the receiving end of some of the political winds
>> and create an unstable supply base for our customer. Here it happens to be China. Another month it might be a different country. Another year it might be a different country. It's diversifying your supply chain so your eggs are not all in one basket.
>> Gota be ready. So whichever for a customer.
>> Yeah. Whichever way the winds blow. Hey, one of the things I want to ask you just big broadly uh the earnings update today. You talked about the industrial environment still sluggish. We've heard similar commentary on this persistent sluggishness uh elsewhere from manufacturers as well as caution around project delays. At what point does this become something more worrying than just sluggishness?
>> For us, it's been sluggish since November of 2022.
>> Okay.
>> When the So, we really key on what the um industrial um Institute for Supply Management puts out the PMI index.
>> Mh.
>> And that's been sub 50, which really plays into our customer base. Other than January and February of this year, that's been sub 50 since November of 2022. So we've been in a sluggish economy for a long time from our perspective and you other than living through the first part of it where you had customers that were downshifting what reason our growth is shining through in a different way. A I think we're executing at a higher level but b once you get through that downshifting now you're just even if your customers are at a subdued level you can grow in that kind of environment and that's what's shining through in our numbers right now.
>> All right. One thing I want to ask you because as you would imagine I don't know how much of this is pervasive in your world but AI is like the non-stop conversation that we are having um certainly when it comes to activity and market impact to what extent is AI maybe sucking up the oxygen in the economy. Are you seeing any signs of that or your world they're going to still need what you guys supply no matter what's going on with the AI spend and enthusiasm? Well, first off, we have a lot of we have a meaningful improvement in our revenue as it relates to things like data centers because we sell into a wide range of of customer needs and endmarket needs, whether that is the actual construction. I I visited many data centers being built where we have people on site there. After it's built, we're supplying into that facility with things like air handling and maintenance equipment. In the case of a customers that sell into that sector, that's actually a strong business for us right now. And then as a organization, we're we're increasingly making use of AI in our own business and how we go to market and how we help our employees be more efficient in what they do.
>> And Dan, about 45 seconds here with in with keeping in mind uh data center construction, where are those products sourced from? Are those also heavily sourced from China and exposed to tariffs or are they different supply chain altogether?
>> They're you know they're it it mostly a different supply ch source. Um but uh it it depends on the component if it's facility maintenance types products. They're coming from anywhere on the globe and so they're they're subject to the same type of issues any product would have. But a lot of the components, I know a lot of the manufacturers that we sell into, I visited one about a year ago in Michigan where they were purposely avoiding China and they're selling directly into the data centers.
>> You've been at FastNel for a long time. Um, you've seen different cycles. How do you describe this one? And again, just got about 20 seconds. If you could be very quickly, very quick. Oh. Um, odd in the fact that, uh, you know, similar what we saw in 18, but odd with the fact of it's just so damn fluid
>> and and and there's so many things that occur from week to week, month to month that are outside the norm, but the fundamentals still work.
>> All right.
>> So, serve your customer at a high level, you grow your business.
>> Love talking with you, Dan Flores. the CEO of Fasinel.