Hello my friends. Today is December 20th and this is Markets Weekly. Now this week markets were very choppy. Didn't really seem like much was going on and that Santa rally that many including myself have been expecting just isn't there. At least not yet. Now we only have a couple weeks left in the year. The S&P 500 is about a couple percent away from 7,000. Let's see if it can get there. Now, I was thinking that this week would be about markets outlook, but actually this past week was a full trading week and so we'll do that next week when it's going to be a shortened holiday trading week. So, today let's talk about two things. First off, we have to talk about the massive data dump we got the past week. We got sales, we got employment, we got inflation. It really was a lot of data. And secondly, let's talk about what's happening over the in Japan or the Bank of Japan. hiked rates again uh to uh 0.75%. And at the moment it doesn't seem like that's impacting markets too much. So first starting with the data. So again everyone has been waiting for for the data. We had a government shutdown that lasted a long time and so uh a lot of market participants have been basically flying blind. Now the Fed would tell you that they have not been flying blind because they have all sorts of data collection capacities which is true but still these government official data releases are very influential. Now this past week we got two of the most important ones of course the jobs data and the CPI. Now starting with the jobs data. Well, honestly, we got jobs data for November and October and it was, you know, it was kind of a mixed bag. Uh, on surface, you can say that in October, there was a huge loss in jobs, uh, over 100,000 and maybe that's why that was not released initially. And in November, you had kind of a bounce back where we had, you know, a decent job growth, but you you average two months. Of course, it doesn't look that great. Now, looking at other measures in the jobs market report, you can see that the unemployment rate actually ticked up to 4.6%. That's higher than the Fed's median forecast of 4.5%. To be fair, it was a pretty weak 4.6%. It was like 4.55 something and it rounded to 4.6. Um, the reason for that increase in the unemployment rate seems to be in part in that the labor force participation rate is increasing. That means more people are re-entering uh the job market and looking for a job. That increase in supply obviously is going to make the unemployment rate look a little bit worse. Although wage data of course has been decelerating for the past few months. So again when you have these supply and demand dynamics between changes in immigration and so forth. It's hard to look at quantities. We can always look at price and the price which is wages is very clearly decelerating. So on the surface though you know it it is a weaker report especially because of the 4.6%.
>> Um at IBM both in the US and globally we have the lowest voluntary attrition in 30 years. To me that's a pretty clear statement about people are not looking to change jobs and the numbers in the US are stock. We often run about 7% voluntary putting retirements and force to the side. It's under two. Now, Bloomberg has a very useful analysis, and when they look at it, they're noting that when you focus on private sector job growth, it it's actually on a three-month moving average basis is actually trending higher. A lot of the decline in headline jobs has to do with a loss in government jobs. Remember earlier in the year, Elon with his Doge initiative offered a basically a buyout to government employees that if they would, you know, they would uh resign, they they could get a lot of benefits. And so it looks like about a 100,000 people took that. And so as those people fell off the payrolls and the uh the doge agreement was that they could they didn't have to show up in the office uh and they could continue to be employed and collect salary but they would eventually fall off the payroll in October. And so that big negative jobs number in October uh is in large part because those doge uh the people who took the Doge offer finally fell off the payrolls. When you exclude that, focusing more on private sector job growth, which I think many people think is a better indicator of the health of the economy, it seemed to have bottomed a few months ago and has been trending higher. Now, President Trump has a very memorable tweet where he says that he could actually get the unemployment rate all the way down to 2% just by hiring a whole bunch of people uh through the federal government. But again, people perceive government hiring to be uh not as indicative of the health of the economy and probably not as productive either. So there are reasons to think that you know maybe uh the labor market could be turning a corner seeing that private job growth is gradually picking up again. Now moving on to inflation data. Well, the CPI kind of shocked everyone. the market was expecting about a 3% CPI. It ended up something like a 2.7 and the core was low as well. That was very very surprising to many people. Uh looking in the details, it becomes a bit clearer why it was surprising. If you look at the BLS's CPI data, you can see in this table here that there were a lot of blanks. Now the government shutdown impacted data collection for CPI just like it impacted data collection for the um non-farmms payrolls and so there was a lot of blanks here and when they started collecting again in November uh the thinking was that some of the prices in November were a bit lower than they would being that that is a holiday season where we usually see big discounts and there's also commentary about some of the assumptions made by BLS staff uh such as regarding rent that seem to be a bit lower than what many people would expect and so this CPI data seems to be basically um not not very reliable and so I think the market seems to dismiss it. Now there's also a line of thinking that you know are they really is this real? Are they cooking the books? Now recall not too long ago there was bad data and the BLS commissioner was fired by the president. an appointment has not yet been made to replace that person. And also uh the night before the CPI announcement, I think it's worth noting that the president actually had uh an official address to the public. And in that address, aside from giving $1776 to military personnel as a bonus, there were also a few slides highlighting concern about affordability and inflation, showing that the White House understands that this is becoming a very very big political issue and is shifting gears to try to address it. So is one of the ways to address this uh having assumptions such that will get you a lower CPI? I have no idea. I guess we'll find out uh in the next CPI print, which of course would not be tainted by the government shutdown. And let's see if it is more in line with what private forecast forecasters anticipate. Now, in addition to these two big data releases, we also got retail sales. Again, a good measure of the health of the economy. Now retail sales if you look at it uh excluding auto so looking at the control group it was actually pretty strong and it looks like it has been accelerating again retail sales is nominal so some of that could be inflation as well. Now when you take a step back and look at all these data prints now on the face you would think that this would be suggestive of easier monetary policy right you have uh the unemployment rate ticking up and you have CPI coming down um but you know there was some volatility but overall it doesn't seem the market changed too much its expectations of Fed policy and we had a Fed official John Williams come out on Friday and basically dismissed the data prints noting that you know there's all these weird things happening because of the government shutdown and he's totally correct about that. He seemed to suggest that according to his calculations the unemployment did tick up a bit but it's probably at 4.5% not 4.6 and CPI is probably a tenth too low. So you know still improving but not um but the by the massive amount suggested uh by the the print. though on the headline though there were some special factors some technical factors that really are related to the fact that they weren't able to collect data in October and not in the first half of November and because of that uh I think the data were distorted in some of the categories and that pushed down the CPI reading uh probably by a tenth or so it's hard to know again it looks like nothing's happening too much on that front on a related front it looks like there's more political drama about the next potential Fed Looking at Koshi, you can see the odds of Kevin Hasset who seemed like a lock not too long ago has fallen. Still the favorite, but you see other people like Kevin Walsh and um Governor Waller ticking higher in the odds. Now, from what I hear, it seems like there is a group that is opposing Kevin Hasset and they're trying to make their case the president. Uh my impression is that group includes Secretary Bessant. So that's sizable opposition. Of course the president likes Hasset has worked with him for many times and uh he's still the favorite but you do have these other people coming up and being interviewed. So it's no longer a lock as it used to be and I continue to think Kevin Wash would be a very strange pick since he is basically a lifelong hawk. Um okay so we'll see how that plays out. announcement for Fed share should come uh they say in early January but again they have been known to change their minds. Now the second thing I want to talk about is what's happening in Japan since that is going to eventually have a pretty big impact on markets. Now if you look at the 10-year Japanese JGB you'll notice that you know it's was sliding for many decades and now it's basically surging higher to as high as 2% highest as it's been for many decades. And the reason for this is obvious. The Bank of Japan is hiking rates. Now, last week the hike to uh 0.75% still sounds uh really low, but it's the highest it's been for a really long time. The rationale for hikes, of course, is obvious. Inflation in Japan is is pretty high. If you look at the inflation numbers, inflation in Japan is actually higher than it it is in the United States. It's around 3%. So they have 3% inflation, 10 year is at 2%. And policy rate is at 0.75%. Obviously much lower than inflation. So policy continues to be very easy there. In contrast, in the US policy rate is about 3.5% and inflation is a bit below 3%. Now the Bank of Japan, I really like how they communicate. uh they understand that they have uh many people watching the bank of Japan who don't speak Japanese very well. So they always have these very helpful presentations in English and in this one-page slide they tell you very clearly that they are hiking rates because well a lot of the geopolitical uncertainty has been dampened. Liberation Day is a distant memory and it seems like they worked out their trade problems with the US and um you know wages are accelerating and inflation is high but notably they highlight that real interest rates remain very very low and they are still in easing mode. So even though they're hiking, they're not becoming restrictive. They're just becoming a little bit less easy, which is obvious, right? You have 3% inflation and yet your policy rate is still below 1%. And I think that is why you see this reaction where you actually see the yen weakening significantly against the dollar rather than strengthening. Right? Japan, Bank of Japan is hiking but still not hiking enough. And so monetary policy continues to be very easy. you have the currency depreciating. Now, there's a lot of uh I guess speculation about how this would eventually impact global markets. On the one hand, you could say that as Japanese yields rise, maybe that drags up global yields. Definitely has an impact and that could negatively impact uh let's say US equities. On the other hand, you can also say that as as the yen is up, as interest rates go higher, maybe the yen appreciates and we have this big shock where say um uh you can have what they I the carry trade that uh could blow up as it did uh I guess last year where you had a sudden appreciation of the yen and the people who borrowed in yen to finance investments let's say in the US suddenly have to repay and that was a very volatile moment but so far you just don't see that right so yen is depreciating so that uh means there's no fear yet of a carrier trade blow up another potential is that you have Japanese investors eventually repatriate some of their overseas investments and um invest in Japan since yields are higher now if you think of things from a Japanese investor's perspective over the past decades they've accumulated tremendous amounts of foreign assets. Now, even without looking at the interest rate differential, they are sitting on enormous FX gains, right? Their investments were in dollars. The yen has depreciated significantly. Dollar appreciated significantly. So, if they were to sell that and repatriate back to Japanese yen, uh they were sitting at a huge huge windfall on currency alone. The really interesting thing about Japan is that although they have a current account surplus, a very large one, that's actually largely from their overseas investments on a trade basis, the trade uh it's sometimes in a little bit of a surplus, but often times in a deficit. So over the past few decades when Japan was growing and becoming an export superpower, uh they accumulated a lot of dollars, a lot of foreign exchange from selling overseas. took that foreign exchange and invested abroad and now they are uh really benefiting from from higher interest rates and um and yen depreciation on those investments and that's really what keeps their current account in in a big surplus and in the future China will be in that position as they also they have a large trade surplus today and eventually you know they're going to have a large current account surplus due to that interest income. from investments abroad. So, but moving back to Japan, so far you just don't see a big repatriation effort from Japanese investors uh to move back and u harvest those multi-deade high yields in JGBs. So, that suggests that you know rates in Japan still have to go higher before we get that potential squeeze on the carry trade. And um so that is still sometime in the future and of course dependent upon whether the bank of Japan will continue to hike. They suggest that they will but remember we are in a new political regime where the new prime minister Tekki u has been making remarks that she you know kind of doesn't kind of wants to have more say on monetary policy as uh as President Trump would say and so uh we'll see how that plays out. All right so that's all I prepared for today. Next week looks like it will be very very sleepy. Let's see if we finally get that Christmas rally. You know, the data did come in uh kind of in line with what would be positive for a Christmas rally, but surprisingly we haven't seen it. It's been a bit disappointing. So, let's see if that happens next week. All right, talk to you all then.