[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. It is a Monday, November 17th, 3:45 p.m. Ugly day once again, and it seems like every time I start off these shows, uh, that is the first word I have to say, which is that the day was ugly, but nonetheless, the day was ugly. Uh, Ethereum completely falling apart today. ETH right here as of the beginning of this show, 2979. We got to 2955. It is officially below $3,000 Dellores and as a result of it being below $3,000. I mean, you're seeing a lot of pain, not just in the crypto trade, but obviously as well also in an asset like BMR, $303, down 11% on the day. BMR now down well over 50% from its highs. Robin Hood got a little bit of relief above 112 but basically still uh down below 114 down 7% of the day. Palenter down 2% on the day. Google holding up obviously because of the Birkshire investment. So that's been helping Google and that's 285 that's up 3% on the day. Nvidia that's up or down 2.4%. Nvidia did get at 1 point to 184. So you got a little bit of a bounce right there. So down 3%. Meta down 2% below 600. Nebia somehow holding green up 2%. And then the S&P I mean we were holding 670 when I left on the open and now we are at 664. I mean we were just at 662 if I'm not wrong which is uh yeah it's lower than where we were on Friday. 662 is lower than where we were on Friday. Friday we bottomed at 663. Obviously, there is some tension going on in the market in regards to a variety of narratives that I'm going to talk about and I'll share some perspectives from some other people that have different ideas in terms of what's going on right now. But that is causing the level of fear and panic that you're seeing across the equity markets. Tesla was pushing 420. Tesla potentially going red on the day. It's at 407. You got about 14 minutes until until the market closes. Tesla, you're holding on. It was at 404. It's holding on to the single 400s, but um it was or it is down from that 420 level that we were at in the uh in the morning. So, what's going on? What's happening? And why are the markets freaking out as much as they're freaking out? First of all, I just want to say I don't see the structural change in the AI trade. And I talked about this on Friday, and I think a lot of people would tend to agree. don't see the change from last week, last month or three months ago to now in regards to what's going on with AI and like the capex spending cycle, AI productivity, margin enhancements. If anything, we've gotten even more data over the past couple of weeks that shows that that is making a lot of sense or that broader thesis is making sense. The the big difference has been obviously the debt that has been incurred from some of these hyperscalers. Amazon got 80 billion of demand for the debt that they offered this morning. They did a six-part bond sale. uh that ended up resulting in uh 15 they only needed 15 billion but they had 80 billion in demand so they obviously had way more demand than they needed for their debt. Meta had 125 billion in demand. They raised 30 billion. Google also had 100 billion in demand. So you have some of the hyperscalers taking out a couple billion in in in uh debt which I guess is spooking out the markets a little bit and making them question are we in an AI bubble if all of this is being financed via debt which is I guess a fair concern to have. I don't know if it fundamentally destroys the entire thesis that we've been talking about over the past couple years at this point with AI. So, having said that, I don't think that's the fundamental reason for all the pain that we've been seeing over the past couple weeks. I think it's about private credit, which has started to become more of a concern, and we'll talk more about that today. and then the labor market. You have those two things going in tandem with each other that's causing these like what I would say is quite random sell-offs intraday every other day and then recoveries because the market's like well you know like yeah we're afraid of this stuff but look at Nvidia's earnings and then we gap back up and then some another headline comes out the market's like ah well we don't care anymore but now we do care and it's like it's obviously very been very up and down and emotional for a lot of people to navigate but I think those are the narratives that are going back and forth which is causing some of these issues and a little bit of stability would help out. We got a lot of narratives and a lot of things to talk about. First of all, Tom Lee, he was on CNBC for a little bit. Let me just play what he was saying about Ethereum and then we will keep going from there and get into the rest of some of these headlines.
>> Stay bullish.
>> Well, there's um the story of building on Ethereum and we know that there is a lot taking place. There are stable coin creations. Larry Frink and Black Rockck and Wall Street want to tokenize assets, you know, bring stocks, bonds, real estate onto the blockchain, and they have to find a neutral 100% uptime blockchain. That's Ethereum. Um, and that's the fundamental story. The price of course for Ethereum will fluctuate because crypto is hypervolatile. In fact, it's kind of the it's it's sort of a feature of the blockchain itself. And and I think we've been in a downtrend. Unfortunately, a lot of folks are kind of questioning if we're in a 4-year cycle um for Bitcoin. So, we talk about that in the chairman's message we published this morning that, you know, the the most correlated factor to Bitcoin prices when you see it at a at Bitcoin at a peak actually is the ISM. So, I I think we're still in the a correction phase of crypto. you know, crypto suffering from that liquidation event on October 10th, but because the fundamental story is intact and and we we you know, crypto discounts the future, that's why it's volatile, but uh it still looks pretty attractive here.
>> And personally, I think this time for Ethereum because you've got this general market uh riskoff mentality. So what are some of the idiosyncratic uh elements that we should be thinking about as it pertains to Ethereum in the meantime?
>> Well, Ethereum kind of has several ways that establishes a floor.
>> One is that the value of all the assets locked onto the blockchain. Um and that number is growing, but historically Ethereum uh bottoms when that ratio is about 50%. So we're I'd say we're pretty close to that level. That's why I think Ethereum probably is bottoming this week. But the other way to look at Ethereum is really its price ratio or even its network value ratio to Bitcoin. It currently sits at this number is 0.032. The long-term average like the 8-year average if if we were just to trade to that 8-year average would put Ethereum at around 12,000. So, I think Ethereum is undervalued because number one, uh, the story is gaining relative to Bitcoin this year, but two, we're getting this sort of intrinsic floor because of the value that the assets locked onto the Ethereum blockchain.
>> All right. Uh, Tom Lee saying that Ethereum is bottoming this week.
>> Again, kind of the same argument Tom Lee's been making for a while. Uh and the question is just you know well the equity markets kind of believe what he's saying right there. You're getting a little bit of a bounce as we get into the close and then that bounce is getting rejected. I mean again this price action is just incredible. 66561 now potentially going back below 6065. Nvidia as well moving with the S&P up from 184 then getting rejected at 18650. You know what it also feels like and this is some other stuff I was reading today. It feels like someone in the world of crypto is getting margin called heavily. And we're not talking about a retail investor that's getting margin called for like 50,000 bucks. We're talking about some institutional investors that were heavily overlevered and you know are getting margin called for billions and as a result it's creating a lot of this systemic decline. That could be another thing that's happening. But overall we're going to have to see when it does stabilize if it does stabilize in the coming days for what that price action looks like. Ethereum reclaiming 3,000 for the first time in about an hour. So getting a little bit of a rebound back above 3,000. Now, this thing even staying above 3,000 is going to be a challenge as well. Baron Trump. Maybe it is. Maybe it is Baron Trump. Um, okay. So, that's what we have on on ETH. We'll talk more about crypto in a bit. Uh, we got some headlines from Trump right when I was about to go live. Uh, I don't have the clip of him saying this yet, but apparently he did indeed say this. $2,000 tariff stimulus checks will be distributed by the middle of 2026. That is the quote from Mr. Trump about 10 minutes ago. I'll probably get the clip of him saying that in a second. Um, first of all, I don't know how he's going to be able to send out checks without congressional approval. I don't know if Congress is going to approve printing what would amount to be at least $200 billion. Uh, and number three, I mean, is this really what we want to be doing versus pay down the debt? You know, I can understand a tax rebate. I can understand a tax credit and like that's the way to give back to the American consumers via tariffs, but straight up printing $2,000. I mean, the last time we did that, we had a global pandemic where everyone lost their job and people needed money. So, like, I don't know if things are that bad. I'm not saying things are perfect, but obviously, you know, you got these stimulus ideas combating the affordability narrative and the question is just going to be is that going to work? And conveniently, you have the midterms coming up as well. Ethereum right there 3,000. Robin Hood 11552 and then pounder 170.95. Obviously, do I think Robin Hood deserves to get, you know, all the way lows into the 112s? not really given their earnings growth. I think a lot of this is being pulled forward by the market in terms of their expectation of us potentially being in a crypto bare market and that's why you're seeing Robin get sold sold off. I mean even SoFi did so deserve to go to 2650 today. No, not really. The bounce on 2711. What has changed from 2650 to 27? Nothing realistically. So I do think a lot of this stuff is just being controlled with the direction of where the market goes. Oracle right there down another 1.3% 21981 and all these are kind of casualties as the broader market takes a hit. I mean, Google probably should be $300 today and on a normal bullish day, Google would be pushing 300, but because of the drought on on the S&P, you know, the Birkshar news is helping Google, but it's not helping the broader market. I mean, quite frankly, the NASDAQ would be down a lot more if Google was going down with it. NASDAQ's still down 1% on the day 603. At the same time, NASDAQ's kind of being resilient. I mean, I know it's down, but every time on Friday, it bounced off 597. Today, it bounced off 599.87. S&P has not really visited the low or the high 650s because it bounces off 662 today. On Friday it bounced off 663. So in the face of all of the concerns that people might be having, you're still not having a market that says, "Yep, we're done. 10% down, fullon crash, erase all the gains of 2025." Like, you're not seeing that yet. Maybe that happens this year. I kind of doubt it, but if if it were to happen, you would think it would happen when fear is high. Obviously, we've got Nvidia earnings coming up and I think that is also getting a lot of people to wait before they make any massive decisions. The good thing about Nvidia earnings is that we know Nvidia is going to crush and we got a couple updates that we'll talk about on the equity research side. JP Morgan came out with a report uh that said we can't think Nvidia is going to do bad. DA Davidson said 250 by Nvidia. Quote, "We simply don't see demand slowing down." Like every report I've read has said Nvidia is going to just smash. Now, that doesn't mean Nvidia can't be a sell the news. That could obviously happen. Um, but it seems more likely than not that they're going to have a decent earnings. Fear and greed right there, 14 on the day. I mean, 14 is the lowest level since the uh tariffs in April. In fact, we hit 14 two weeks ago and that's when we bounced. So, the fear and greed continues to get to those extreme levels of fear as we, you know, hit the 660 levels on the on the S&P 500. Yeah, And on tanked hard today and they had a really good earnings and I think they had a good headline this morning of another deal they had. But again, this is a high beta name. And there you go, 12% down after being up 20% on Friday. So, in a world in which Nvidia goes down 2%, you're just going to see a lot of these names also get hit. Nebia somehow holding on to the green. I mean, you can tell Nebius wants to go higher, but market's not letting a lot of the data center plays go higher, but still the buyers are pretty resilient on Nebius. Horweavee on the other hand um down another 2% on the day. Again, the ones with the debt profile just aren't necessarily doing the best. So, someone says this dip is worse than April and my port anyway. You know, that's very fair. I think for a lot of people, especially if you came in a little bit later, you know, you got some of these prices at a bit higher levels. Obviously, the dip is a bit more aggressive than what we're seeing in April. And the question comes down to, and you know, we got two minutes until the bell closes and then we'll talk more about some of these different perspectives. The question comes down to how is the market going to interpret the jobs data that I think we're getting on Thursday. By the way, that jobs data will be September jobs data, not October data. So, even if it's a good report, I mean, it's not really going to matter because the Fed wants to get the most updated report. So, that's going to be one thing we have to look at. And also, if it's a bad report, that would justify the rate cut. So, that's one thing we have to watch out for. And then are these fears of private credit? you had some high-profile investors um do some TV today and basically they're saying this is I mean they're saying this is reminiscent of 2006 in terms of the loans that are being given out. So we'll listen to some of those perspectives um and kind of see what argument they're trying to make. The Fed probability now is at 45%. It was at 41 this morning. So you have a little bit of a bounce right there. But I if the loans are as bad in certain areas of the market as 2006, and again it's a pretty bold claim to make that argument, and you know, there's a lot of research that has to go into kind of insinuating that, then obviously that's going to create fears. Whether that's true or not, that's going to create fears in the market when people say stuff like that. And so, you know, naturally you're going to have markets take a little bit of a of a of a loss. Um maybe a lot of taxing for losses. Yeah, that's fair. That tends to happen closer to December though or towards the middle of December versus in the end of November. But that could be happening as well. I mean, some people might be just saying, you know what, some of these assets are not coming back. I'm selling. I'm taking my losses for the year. And obviously, if we have not bought them, then that might be a smart decision, but that's also creating a lot of pain as you have more sellers come in and continue the compounding effect of these losses that are going on in the markets. Monday, November 17th, 4 PM. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now closed. All right, Monday is done for the day. Palunteer down 2% on the day. Bit mine down 10% on the day. S&P 500 down 1% on the day. Again, a sharp reversal from the futures last night when it looked like the S&P was opening up closer to 675. Google up 3%. Robin Hood down 5.4%. Nvidia down 2%. Apply Digital down 3%. SoFi down 2.8%. Nface took a pretty big beating today. Down 4%. Weeble I mean this thing fell below $8 at one point down 5% on the day. IN 2% closed just above 47. Zeta was down 6% on the day. Oaklo down 2.25. Spotify up about half a percent. Duolingo was down 4%. Micron actually ended red although it was holding green for the majority of the day. A lot of this was due to an upgrade around the uh upgrade around the the memory space which caused Dell to get downgraded for a variety of reasons. Dell right here was down 8.4% on the day but Micron still holding on to a very strong performance year today. Lenar right here down about 5%. Where is Bitcoin? Are we at least at 92? We are at 91.8. on Bitcoin. Again, for Bitcoin and Ethereum, it really feels like there's some structural selling, which is obviously leading to retail investors selling, but you might be having some pretty aggressive margin calls across the entire industry, and that's why these things are selling off. Ethereum right there 3,000. Bit mine again down 10%. Micro Strategy, I believe, closed at 190 195 on Micro Strategy down 2.1% on the day. Now, we talked about the issues with the Japanese market and the bond market as well early on in the day, and we can revisit some of those topics, but you know, that could be scaring markets from a Japanese yen carry trade perspective just in terms of the extent of the stimulus that would come out for Japan. So, we'll kind of go through those ideas again. But, yeah, you've got a a confluence of different narratives going back and forth, and a lot of it is starting to pop up in this private credit issue, which is, I think, creating a little bit more pain. So, let me pull up some analysis right here on private credit. Let's take a listen to this and I think it'll kind of get us into the broader discussion of what's going on and why certain investors are feeling certain pain or at least are thinking that there's more pain to come. This is with Blue Owl Capital. Let's take a listen to this and then we'll get deeper into some of the other headlines we have.
>> Reads, Wall Street blows past bubble worries to supercharge AI spending frenzy. This is a firm that has high hopes around data center. Um, its growth story is leverage to that story in in some ways. Blue Owl, by the way, was one of the underwriters for Meta's uh data center financing. So, that's why Blue Owl is at the center of kind of this data center finance buildup.
>> And the market is uneasy about this because of what? Well, the market is uneasy that the the marks uh the marktomarket that these private credit firms are sharing uh may not be fully reflective at each point in time of what's actually happening under the surface. Uh, and one thing I would add too, Scott, in addition to the Wall Street Journal article, which is kind of feeding into this theme that people are already kind of nervous about with regard to just the overall debt loads and data centers, another headline for Blue Owl today is one that's in the FT, which involves the merging of two funds. This is a little bit technical, but bear with me. So, Blue Owl is essentially merging one of its earliest private credit funds, uh, Blue Owl Capital Corporation 2, which has about a billion dollars in assets. targeting wealthy individuals with a larger fund called OBDC which has 17 billion. Now as a result of this they're saying that uh essentially the the smaller fund is going to be uh essentially the facing losses of about 20% because that is what is uh happening for OBDC which is trading at a discount of 20% to NAV. So essentially if the deal is approved by shareholders, the merging of the two would see some of those wealthy investors face uh about 20% losses there. Now OBDC does have a higher dividend rate so they would benefit from that. And there's also this 98% portfolio overlap so could save costs in the long run. This is also something that was highlighted in the earliest documents showcasing uh the fund which said basically that it would seek a liquidity event within about three or four years of completion of this offering. But those at its core to kind of deduce what she's saying in layman's term, you got a lot of people in the private credit market that are not believing the debt that is being issued for these data centers and a variety of other things. Blue Owl's like one of the largest lenders in the country. So there's a lot of different things, but the data center part is what they're focusing on. And we're seeing that through the credit default swaps on Oracle. We're seeing that on uh Corewave continuing to get hit even with their, you know, 52 or 55% increase in backlog or 55 billion backlog increasing 100% year-over-year. Like you've just got a variety of things that should be bullish for the overall space around capex, but then you've got people saying, well, what if this doesn't play out the way it's going to play out? You've got the concerns about the AI bubble obviously that we've talked about and that's leading to more pain potentially or at least the the um the uh the perception of more pain potentially in the data center market AI bubble concerns around lending. Uh are those real concerns? I don't know. I mean I think I' I myself have to do a lot more research on this stuff as well, but they are enough concerns to get people to start wondering what the heck is going on. Here was uh another pretty large investor and um his take on what's going on. This is a minute. He did a 55minute podcast, but here is a minute of him saying private credit is the next thing to kind of take a dip.
>> Ridiculous argument of all for private credit has been private credit belongs in every portfolio because it lets you sleep at night because it helps you ride out the volatility of your public credit. Again, that's just a repackaging of the volatility. If you don't market to market, there's no volatility. But if the price goes from 100 to zero in a matter of a few weeks, uh there's there's something something uh unoured is going on. And so I'm very very negative on those types of uh you know, non-transparent markets. It reminds me, I've been saying this for probably two years now, that the next big crisis in the financial markets is going to be private credit. Uh it's it's it has the same trappings as subprime mortgage pack repackaging had back in 20 uh 2006. Now it took a couple of years for it to totally unravel. So this stuff doesn't happen in a week or a year even. But I'm very negative on that.
>> It's quite incredible, right? I mean, he's saying what's going on in private credit has the same packages of the the sort of bonds that were packaged with other bonds and then sold on top of other different bonds with the CDOS's back in 2008. Uh, and says that all these are faulty. He went on to say that the US financial markets are the most overvalued financial markets I've seen in my entire lifetime. So, you got someone who's relatively respected in the financial media space basically making the claim that this is 2008 again. And but you know, even if it's not, someone's saying something like that for everyone wondering like, why are markets down? Well, because that's going to make headlines and people are going to take action immediately when they hear someone say stuff like that. Not to mention Michael Bur over the past couple weeks obviously continuing to make these claims about everything being fake and AI. Uh that definitely affects people's psyche. Bitcoin right here just above 92,000. The S&P 500 getting a little bit of a move after hours, but that one is uh is down. Too bright. Thank you for the super chat. After 601 days on the Robin Hood gold card wait list today. Got the invite. Today's a gold day. Congrats. That's almost a year and a half on the gold card wait list. Yeah, but see this is one of the reasons you so congrats on getting the gold card. But one of the reasons why the gold card was not given out uh immediately is because of underwriting, right? if Robin gave the gold card to three million people and then they ended up getting uh a lot of people defaulting on their credit card debt, which we're seeing credit card delinquencies hit a uh a 16-year high. Obviously, that's creating pain, and that's something where Robin probably didn't want to engage in that. Chad says, "I don't still have the invite." Well, Chad, I guess you're going to have to use your uh Chase Sapphire or whatever. You know, that's the one that most people use if they don't use Hood. They use Chase, but it doesn't give you 3% on everything. So, if you can't get 3% on everything, that's why people prefer Robin Hood. Core Reeve right here is the majority of Nvidia's uh Q3 2025 portfolio. 3.3 billion, Applied Digital at 200 million, ARM at 200 million, and then Nebius at 100 million. So, for those that were wondering what was Nvidia's 13F like, this is what Nvidia's 13F is. uh majority cororeweave and this stuff also doesn't make the market too happy because you know they already are starting to doubt a lot of core's debt and what's going on. Here was a uh video by Garcia today which I thought was very helpful advice. As you can see if you're crying when you try to open up your Robin Hood the Face ID doesn't work. So, you know, for those that just don't want to see the pain, it's really easy to just not see the pain. you just have to cry and then the uh you know the Face ID doesn't work. So I do I do think that is a reasonable idea. Uh Trump, a lot of quotes from Trump. Here's the first one on uh on Epstein. Here's what he had to say about the Epstein files.
>> I won. We have nothing to do with Epste. The Democrats do. All of his friends were Democrats. You look at this Reed Hoffman. You look at Larry Summers, Bill Clinton. They went to his island all the time and many others all Democrats. All I want is I want for people to recognize a great job that I've done on pricing, on affordability because we brought prices way down, but they go up way lower. Uh on energy, on ending eight wars and another one coming pretty soon, I believe. Uh we've done a great job and I hate to see that uh deflect from the great job we've done. So, I'm all for it. You know, we've already given 50,000 pages. You do know that. Uh, unfortunately, like with the Kennedy situation, with the Martin Luther King situation, uh, not to put Jeffrey Epstein in the same category, but no matter what we give, it's never enough. You know, with Kennedy, we gave everything and it wasn't enough. With Martin Luther King, we gave everything and it's never enough. Um, we've already given I I believe the number is 50,000 pages. 50,000 pages and it's just a Russia Russia Russia hoax as it pertains to the Republicans. Now, uh I believe that many of the people that we some of the people that we mentioned are uh being looked at very seriously for their relationship to Jeffrey Epstein, but they were with him all the time. I wasn't I wasn't at all. Uh and we'll see what happens. What I just don't want uh Epstein to do is uh detract from the great success of the Republican party, including the fact that the Democrats are totally blamed for the shutdown. You know, they cost our country hundreds of billions of dollars with that and a lot of inconvenience. So
>> he he did say he uh he lost his voice earlier in the day because he was yelling. So that is why his voice is like that. Here is the clip where he mentions the tariff dividend. I believe
>> president on the on the tariff exemptions, you had some recently on a variety of different goods. I'm wondering, are you ruling out going forward no more exemptions on on products? You were mentioning a a disagreement earlier taking in hundreds of billions of dollars in tariff money. We're going to be issuing dividends later on some somewhere prior to, you know, probably in the middle of next year, a little bit later than that, of thousands of dollars for individuals of moderate income, middle income. Uh we're going to pay down debt. You know, we have a lot of money from tariffs. If we didn't have tariffs, the nation would be in serious trouble. And uh we've taken in tremendous amounts of money. And you know what's more important than that? We've protected our businesses from being raided like we did with the chip business. Now we're bringing them all back. But our, you know, we had 100% of the chip industry and then they left. They went mostly to Taiwan and South Korea, but mostly Taiwan. And they have almost 100%. And we're going to have within a short period of time a big percentage of the chip business are coming back because of terrorists. So, that's Trump confirming by the middle of 2026, they will be issuing some type of a dividend. In this case, most likely the $2,000 dividend if they can somehow get Congress to approve it. I mean, that really didn't help markets, by the way, when he said that. You didn't get that big of a move. I think markets, you know, the thing about this is like in 2020, the stimulus helped markets because um everything was shut down, right? So, we needed money entering the system. We needed the Fed buying up um mortgage back securities. But but now we have so much more debt and we have this inflation problem that if you were to print that much money and then distribute it. I mean inflation's probably going higher, right? Unless the labor market is absolutely disgusting, then inflation's going up. And then two, we're adding on to the debt. So I think the bond market's going to be like, you know, Trump's one of Trump's goal was the goals this year was to get the tenure to come down below 4%. We're sitting at 4.13. It's down from where it was at the beginning of the year. It was at 5% in April. You know, that's when things were really ugly. Uh so it is down from that level but there's no way in hell this thing is going below 4% if we start printing money and redistributing it again would add to debt would add to inflation. Investors would sell off bonds pretty quickly. And so I mean I don't know there's a lot of different moving parts for this administration to try to figure out how they're navigating affordability. The one good thing that we can all hang our hats on is that earnings are strong. And yes, there are certain companies that don't have the best earnings like some of these consumer names, but that is not indicative of a lot of I mean 80% of companies uh that have reported the S&P 500 have beat on the top and the bottom and the ones that are leveraging AI or AI is pivotal to the business, you're seeing really really strong beats. For us to get a 2022 type of scenario next year, you would need some type of shock to the system. You need something to collapse, something to really get hit. I mean, it can't just be like some person who has a big name in finance like Michael Bur say that he thinks it's a bubble. Like, you need something to break for it to really get as ugly as people think it can get. And the question is, is there something to pop the bubble if there is a bubble as aggressively uh next year? And you know, I think the market is thinking that there's something out there. I think that's the fear right now. I mean that that that that to me is the best kind of analysis of this price action. We go up, we go down, you have some people thinking there's no bubble, some people think there's a bubble, and then it results in just this choppy price action that we've seen for the better part of four weeks now without really establishing a trend. Maybe that's in the crypto markets. Maybe that's in private credit. Maybe that doesn't even exist and this is just a bunch of chop for no reason. And Nvidia is going to have monster earnings and these companies are going to continue to execute and Palanteer is going to keep growing and OpenAI is eventually going to continue to grow and pay back all their spending commitments. Like there is a very optimistic case to look at here if you just believe in the future of AI and where it's going. Or there is that negative case around layoffs, consumer etc. and then private credit having some issues. Could capex go down significantly? I mean, maybe that's some concern that people have from all the I mean, we can only look at the guidance we've gotten from companies and the guidance we've gotten from companies is an increase of 21% year-over-year in aggregate on capex. So, if that's not slowing down, then I'm not sure that would be kind of the the core argument that people are are going to be afraid about next year.
>> Pretty sharply this quarter across the board, even the the you know, KKR Blackstone, etc. because people know there's a big M&A cycle. CEOs and CFOs are trying to hit that window. I think that ultimately this will be pretty good entry points uh for the bigger alts. Uh but whenever there's going to be a concern um these guys are going to sell off. So look, are you saying is this is this a good entry point in a 12-month view? I think it is, but am I going to buy it for this week? Probably not. I mean, so it's you know, I'm sure there's credence to what you you're saying about the weakness in the market. Um maybe there's some uh uneasiness about those who have hitched their wagon to the data center plays in in a really big way.
>> Uh maybe all coming together at once.
>> I I think there are two things going on. First of all, it's been a little bit fashionable to worry about, you know, kind of excessive growth and to worry about bubbles. And if you look at private credit, for example, this was an asset class 1015 years ago that had about $600 billion in assets under management. today encompassing all the different strategies about $1.7 trillion in AUM and not only that but you do have some middle market loans that also now package into CLLO's collateralized loan obligations and so that's why you have these conversations about ratings so it makes sense that it attracts the scrutiny but I will say Scott that for in order for this to be a systemic risk you need to have a systemic shock event like for example the Federal Reserve for example increasing interest rates we had that happen in 2022 and yes we have seen default rates rise, but you've not seen meaning meaningful losses for private credit. And now we're on the other side of that where the Federal Reserve is actually keeping rates steady or I think there's another rate cut. So I actually think that's supportive. C can I just say one other quick thing which is the data center trade for example, most of that should be actually financed through investment grade corporations from the likes of Amazon. So I think those concerns are a little bit overblown too. I'm just a little worried about the private I actually think the issues we're starting to see are a result of the fact that we had zero interest rates for so long and I just think it was like taking candy from a baby and there's no way that all of those loans were like as strong as they could have been and I'm actually really worried about it. I'm also worried about the data center thing because I think there's an article in the FT last week about how all of the bids that are going around are kind of influencing the real demand and the and so I've actually been a little nervous about the markets in the short term and we started increasing cash last week result in our Robin Hood strategies portfolio.
>> That's Stephanie Gild who manages the Robin Hood strategies. I mean again a lot of these arguments are coming down from do you believe in what's going on in regards to the fears around data centers from a financing perspective and then from an overall data perspective around the labor market and you've got a lot of mixed views got a lot of mixed views but nonetheless those mixed views are obviously influencing a variety of how the market is interpreting this stuff. Um thank you for the super chat. Theoretically, stimulus checks would be from tariffs, not printed, right? Theoretically, yes. I mean, if we hand out $200 billion and we've collected, I think something like 350 billion in tariff revenue that if we haven't spent that money yet, that would be from the the stimulus or that would be from the tariff revenue. The problem is, you know, and again piling on different narratives that are coming into place. What if the Supreme Court reverses all the tariffs, which we're going to find out in a couple of weeks. I think I think by the end of November, we'll know what's going on with the Supreme Court tariff decision. I mean, if the Supreme Court forces Trump and the Trump administration to repay all the tariffs, like where is this $200 billion coming from? And even if you were to print 200 billion, again, you need congressional approval. I don't know if Trump's going to get Congress to approve sending out $2,000 checks. and and and and given the the the level of um divergence between what Trump has said versus what Hasset has said versus what Bent has said, they don't have a unified view. I mean, Bent basically said it wouldn't even be a check. It would be like a tax rebate. And then you got Trump saying it's a check. So, like obviously I don't think they're unified on this idea and they don't really know if they're going to do this or not, but they're saying it probably to combat the affordability narrative and we don't know if it's going to be real. And that's why the market's not taking it seriously either. I mean, it doesn't seem like the market's tanking or going up based on that statement. You had uh Fed President Waller say a couple things. So, number one, he said we should be paying more attention to the labor market than the current inflation overshoot. He says, "I'm hearing that firms are paying for AI investment by not hiring." And then number three, he says, "A 25 basis point rate cut won't get a job growth back to where it was." Okay, so finally, you have someone actually saying that, "Yeah, we should probably focus on the labor market over inflation. And I wish his opinion was the opinion of the uh entire Federal Reserve. But he says the three things that I think are the most obvious. Number one, we should be focusing on labor versus inflation. Number two, 25 bips might not even be enough to increase the job market back to levels to where it was. And then number three, he said something that a lot of people have been saying, which is that I'm hearing that firms are paying for AI investment by not hiring. I mean, I think we've heard this from a variety of different people, that one of the ways that companies are paying for all this AI expenditures, even if they're not like the biggest companies in the world, and even if they are, like an Amazon, which just fired 30,000 people, is by reducing costs. Yes. So, Wall Yes. So, Waller is doubbish. He's always been doubbish. The problem is you have a decent chunk of people that are not doubbish um on the Fed and I think that's also creating a lot more pain in uh in the idea for if we're going to get a rate cut in December. So that's another issue that we've got. So again, for those that are questioning about the stimulus, we have zero confirmation on if this stimulus is going to happen. Dubbish just means bullish. Um, Trump just said it. There's no confirmation on what he's doing. There would need to be congressional approval for him to actually print out a check. So, I wouldn't count on a STEMI check if you think that Trump says we're going to get a stem check, but he's saying it. So, you know, we got to take it at least seriously that there might be a shot that it does end up happening. My gut tells me it's going to be a little tough for him to get it approved, but you know, if they do end up getting it approved, I don't know the implications of that. I feel like the implications would not be positive because we'd just be printing more money and I don't know if the credit markets would like that. So up a little bit after hours, hood up a little bit after hours. So is Palanteer, Tesla 408, Bitmine getting a little bit of reprieve, 3110 after hours, and the S&P 500 up a little bit as well. Yeah, RA probabilities right now 44%. Uh New York Times report that Mumani has reached out to the White House for a Trump meeting. I would imagine that that is going to happen. Uh you know, New York City is a very important part of the country. So we'll see if that meeting actually ends up taking place. This is what JP Morgan said about Nvidia. Uh including networking revenue per GPU at 26,100 is slightly above what Jensen shared during GTC Washington. and they believe Nvidia supply chain partners have demonstrated a strong execution in ramping Blackwell and blank blackwell ultra rack shipments over the past three to four months alongside still relatively robust demand for Nvidia's more traditional systems and a sustained tailwind for a demand for hopper GPUs. We see upside to fourth quarter uh or third quarter street consensus of 55 billion and we expect them to guide to 64 billion. The street's expecting them to guide at 61.5 billion. So, I mean, this is a pretty hefty increase on the whisper numbers that JP Morgan's coming out with for Nvidia. I mean, there really is very little concern, I think, for Nvidia earnings. I think they're going to just crush it. It's just, is that enough? Even if they crush it, to get the markets to kind of be on their side with what's going on. But that is one of the arguments from JP Morgan. Here's that update on Fed President Waller and what he had to say about the labor market. contenders to replace Fed Chair Jay Powell, saying he supports a rate cut at the December meeting, quote, as a matter of risk management. And he's unlikely to change his mind. He says he's concerned that the restrictive monetary policy the Fed has now is weighing on the economy, especially for lower and middle inome consumers. He says the December cut will provide additional support against weakening in the labor market. the September jobs report which we're supposed to get on Thursday. He says unlikely to change his view that another cut is in order. The labor market still weak and near stall speed and data show that labor demand has fallen more than the labor supply according to his read of it. He said if there if that was not the case, you would have acceleration in wage growth and you would have an increase in job openings. That's not been the case. He says inflation through September showed small effects from tariffs. And when he takes that out, he says you account for those tariff effects, inflation is relatively close to the 2% target. Uh he sees slower economic growth and modest wage increases. That tells him inflation is not going to be a problem. We're not going to be accelerated from here. Also likes the idea that inflation expectations are well anchored. Talking about GDP, says it's likely slowed in the second half. and he was talking uh previously about this um uh uh difference between the weak labor market and strong GDP growth. He thinks GDP growth is going to come down. Points out the booming stock market does not reflect financial conditions for most Americans. The market is driven substantially says by AI related businesses. And one more thing, the cost of housing and autos continues to be an ongoing challenge for consumers. We've kind of known, Scott, that Waller is on the um uh dovish side of things. he wants to cut rates, has wanted to cut rates. Um the trouble that we're having is that he's not so far convincing many of his other colleagues other than Steven Myin as well as um uh uh uh Mickey Bowman. So we're looking at Scott, I just want to double check is still accurate. It looked like a 39% probability of that rate cut. It's come way down and uh Waller is not convincing the market nor his many of his colleagues at this point. Again, I would be shocked. I mean, I think all of us would be surprised if we really don't get this rate cut by December. Waller's not saying something crazy. I mean, you can you can you can retort Waller's argument, but he's not saying something that's like so profound that should make him an outsider on the Fed, but it sounds like he is, which is the crazy part given how the bond market is reacting to it. So, I hope we get the cut. I think I I really think if we don't get a cut I mean Steve said this on Friday as well. I tend to agree if we don't get the cut I don't know where this market goes but it doesn't feel like it goes up. I mean we are the financial conditions are not first of all there's already so many headlines that are starting to pile up around the state of the consumer. You don't get the cut like forget the stock market. The consumer itself is going to have another month or two months until the next meeting until January of like just continued higher rates which are going to be an issue. eventually affects earnings. And then the stock market is priced for another cut. Like we got to 689 on the S&P 3 weeks ago with an assumption that there was 100% chance of a rate cut in December. We're down 5% from there because that probability is now below 50. But it's not easy to I think keep up the momentum if that that cut doesn't come in. Ethereum right there back below 3,000. And I think that's also why crypto has been tanking by the I mean, my theory on crypto going down outside of the systemic leverage is just liquidity is drying up and if there's no more rate cuts or at least now more rate cuts anytime soon. I mean, why would people pile on to risk on assets that need liquidity to go higher? You know what it's reminding people of and I I heard a couple people say this and and I think it's kind of similar to I I mean I wasn't investing heavily back in Q4 of 2018, but it really feels like that, right? It really feels like just a bunch of different things piling on each other. We got the shutdown resolved before in Q4 2018. The shutdown was happening during the market sell-off but and the Fed was hiking which is one different thing but now the Fed not cutting is almost as bad as hiking. Kind of feels like Q4 2018. And I'm saying this with the S&P 500 still up 14% on the year. So that that's where the fear I think is really getting to people. It's like look we still have like if we end the year right here at four at 14%. I mean, you know, maybe, yeah, you're you're not up as much as you were up in October, but like that's a great year. I mean, that's an incredible year for the stock market to be up 14%. But that also means there's 14% lower to go to erase everything this year has done if the market ends up getting so uneasy that they're like, you know what, this is not a year that's worth being up 14%. Okay, I was not 12 in 2018. I was 21. I was just in college and I didn't I had a couple friends who invested in the stock market though and they lost a lot of money. I told the story so many times but one of my friends bought like Snapchat call options because he was stupid and he was in college and I didn't even know what a call option was but all I knew is like he needed it to be above a certain price obviously because a call option has a strike. I remember facetiming him during Christmas break. I was like yo what's up? It was so depressed. It was so depressed. I was like dude like why are you depressed? like we just rushed a fraternity together. Like everything was, you know, we were we were we were really having the time of our lives. And I just facetimed him to see how he was doing. And he's like, "Bro, I'm down $18,000." And at the time I was like, that $18,000 felt like a million dollars. I was like, "How the hell are you down $18,000?" And he's like, "I thought Snapchat would go to this price and it didn't go to this price and then Trump did this and that." And I just remember being like, "Damn, that sucks, bro." Anyway, so are you coming to the party next week? was like that was how I handled it. But yeah, he was legit depressed. Yeah, I still keep in touch with him. He's a good friend to this day. Um 91,000 right here on Bitcoin. But it it kind of does feel like vibes of Q4 2018. And Nvidia is going to be fine, but I wouldn't bet on Nvidia. Like I wouldn't take a call option this week for Nvidia. Like no way in hell. If anything, I would sell calls because it could be an easy sell the news if the numbers are good but not good enough. Also, we got to remember the gross margins. If Nvidia's gross margins come in anywhere lower, remember by the end of they they said by Q2 or or second half of 25 H2 of 2025, um we would have gross margins back around that 75% range. If that comes in again at like 68% 72%, that in and of itself could create a little bit of a sell-off because the market could be afraid that they're losing some of their pricing power. So, I really would not be levered long to Nvidia into earnings. I mean, maybe it goes up and that's great, but if anything, I would be a little bit more cautious. I'm not selling any my Nvidia, but I I just don't think it's worth selling. I mean, again, I got it at 120. Like, I don't think we're going back down all the way to the 110s, 120s. I think the earnings growth is too strong, but I wouldn't be buying like a $200 call call option for next month. That would help. Chat says just no pandemic two years from now, please. Yes, please. See, that's the other thing about this. Like, in the midst of everything happening, what's actually going on? Is there a global pandemic? No. Did like, did Leman Brothers collapse? No. Like, so what's happened over the past couple weeks? I mean, crypto went down. Okay, crypto went down. And then you've got a lot of talking heads that think this whole thing is a bubble in regards to AI. And in the midst of those talking heads saying it's a bubble, you're looking at Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Palenteer. these companies put up some of the most amazing earnings that we've ever seen. So, it's like in terms of something systemic that's ruining or that that that like globally everyone has to react to. It's like well I haven't seen anything like that happen that would affect the broader global economy. You can make an argument about layoffs. You can make an argument about inflation but all these things are rather like relatively idiosyncratic in the context of like the broader macro trends. They are not like line in the sand. Boom. Bulls here, bears here. And now the bears are winning because like there's this big thing that no one can deny. Hedge funds are down and need to bring the market down so their clients don't freak out. I mean, look, this could also be something that's happening. We looked at a lot of data over the past couple weeks that hedge funds are selling at a very aggressive rate. Now, money managers, institutional money managers that are net long are buying, retail is selling, and hedge funds are selling. And you could have a lot of bit of those market dynamics that are creating more pain as equity prices, you know, just aren't going to be able to be propped up by certain funds that are controlling them. So, that's definitely something that could be taking place. But in terms of a full-on narrative violation for everything that we remember, we had six months of green going into November. October even was up two and a half%. During those six months, what happened? Well, a lot of the Liberation Day tariffs were revoked, right? That's what initially caused the rally. Um, and then you had a lot more capex spend expenditures continue to enter into the ecosystem. And then you have the earnings to back up the reason for all that capex. Again, you can say there's been debt introduced into the system. You can say labor market's not the best. All those things are valid, but are those things like pandemic level arguments for the market? I would think not. But that's almost like how the market is reacting to some extent. Navitas some dilution. There you go. 15 million shares. Again, these companies that are up a lot for the year, they will dilute. Navas actually up a little bit after hours. 14.8 million shares of class A common stock. That one potentially could see some more dilution as they continue to raise capital. How much is up Na'vi here today? This thing was at 14 a couple weeks ago. Na'vias. Yeah, dude. I mean, this is the other thing that we just have to be honest about. Like, we literally just have to be honest about this. Na'vi was at 14 a month ago on an Nvidia partnership. Sorry, got to 17. Now, it's at seven. The stock is still up 120% this year. This is also why I think the market is not having that much uh sympathy for a lot of these high beta momentum names because even though they're down, they're still up a lot. And it's hard for the market to be like that upset about a Na'vi going down from 17 to seven when it's up from less than $4 early in the year. By the way, Robin, they announced this today. More than a million customers have now traded prediction markets on Robin Hood. So, they've officially crossed 1 million people uh trading the prediction markets. By the way, the uh the Tech Bros podcast, we are officially moving the time and date for that podcast. So, it will not be tonight. The one I do with Tanner and Roy, it will now be on Fridays at 12:00 p.m. It will be at Fridays at 12:00 p.m. So, for all three of us, Monday nights were just getting a bit tough. So, that will officially happen Friday 12:00 p.m. kind of lunchtime on Fridays. Um, but yeah, it won't be happening at night, so it will not be tonight on the channel, but Fridays we'll uh we'll get there. Yeah, I kind we kind of got tired of Monday nights as well. It's just a little bit too late on Monday, so switching it on to Friday. Um, okay. So, that's what you have there. Let's see what other headlines we've got going on. Couple other things from Trump. This is him talking about Mexico. Let's see what he had to say and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Would I launch strikes in Mexico to stop drugs? It's okay with me. Whatever we have to do to stop drugs, Mexico is Look, I looked at Mexico City over the weekend. There's some big problems over there. Uh if we had to what we do there, what we've done to the waterways, you know, there's almost no drugs coming in through our waterways anymore. Isn't it down like 85%.
>> It is, sir.
>> I don't know who the 15% would be.
>> No,
>> it wouldn't be you.
>> No, that's for sure. No, I I think it's been uh
>> tons and tons of
>> You would say that's a big signal.
>> Absolutely.
>> We have almost no drugs coming into our country by the sea by you know the waterways and you know why. Okay. I mean it's pretty obvious. Uh would I do that on the land corers? I would abs look every boat we knock out we save 25,000 American lives. Not to mention the destruction of families. These families are decimated forever. The mother, the father, the children.
>> A lot of this is Trump trying to justify some of the stuff that's been going on in Venezuela as well, you know, and he's been trying to make the argument that we deserve to continue doing what they're doing right there to make sure that we don't have any massive drug issues. Here's Dan Ies on Invidia Earnings and then we will have a special guest join the show today. is is that there's only one godfather of AI and that's Jensen and Nvidia. Look, it's the foundation in terms of what demand looks like in terms of what we're seeing. And you know, G and I talk about it often. I I think it's going to be actually a huge positive growth catalyst that we see, not just for Nvidia, but for tech stocks. But it all comes down to on Wednesday night, you're going to be able to hear a pin drop on trading floors around the world.
>> I just don't know, Gene, how you even plan for this. Normally, you know, you've got the analyst estimates, you've got a little bit of a whisper number. If they kind of come in a little bit above it, it's good news. Everybody knows Nvidia's numbers are going to be gigantic. We all Is that a fair statement? Yeah, it's not only a fair statement. Uh back on the 28th, Jensen went out at the GTC, he basically gave us the playbook through the end of next year, he said this 500 billion in Blackwell and Reuben revenue, if you take that for word, for his word that they're going to be able to do that. Now, if they can get supply, that implies a 54% revenue growth rate for next year. The streets at 41%. It's come up from 34 to 41, but that's the gap. As I think about this, Brian, that's the gap between where uh they've set the bar in the 28.
>> He gave us 54% revenue growth. I don't know a lot about Wall Street except I do know this. 54% ain't going to do it when it comes to the stock, is it? It's going to have to be better than 54%. Isn't it? I don't think it needs to be better than 54 this week. I think it needs to be better than the 41 where the street's at.
>> Y I I And to Jean's point, look, we getting back from Asia being there 3 weeks. Demand to supply for Nvidia chips is 12 to1.
>> So it comes down to there's one chip,
>> 12 people want to order for every one potential chip that exists to order.
>> So there's there's one chip in the world fueling the AI revolution. And that's why it speaks to our view that anyone that talk and Gene and I talk about all the time. Anyone talks about an AI bubble here. We are in the third inning of where this is all pointed out. I think that's why this is an inflection point. You're going to see ultimately what the demand looks like from Jensen himself. And I view is a bullish catalyst for tech stocks. All right, Dan and Jean are pretty bullish on Nvidia. Let's bring on someone else that I think a lot of people would like to hear from today. Ladies and gentlemen, the milkman. Steve, what's up?
>> Never fear, Matt. The milkman is here.
>> Never fear, the milkman is here. Um, Steve, how you doing?
>> You know, just drove through a protest. Fun times.
>> What? Why are they always protesting in New York, bro? because I'm right near the UN and I had to go up first and there's a protest over there, but I did not honk. There was a lot of my
>> Oh, wow. I'm proud of you for not honking. That's a That's
>> No, I love the boys in blue.
>> Yeah, but usually you honk, so I'm happy you actually stayed away from it. Um, all right. Well, we got a lot of people that would love to hear your perspective on what's going on in the markets. I mean, I'll give you the floor. S&P down 1% on the day. More broadly speaking, what what do you think is kind of causing the choppiness we've seen over the past couple of weeks?
>> I think people need to take a step back and look at where we are were in the beginning of the year. Look at where we were last year. A 1% down day, who gives a [__]
>> I know people don't that's not what they want to hear, but I think everybody needs a little bit of tough love. That's getting annoyed. And stop looking at your portfolios every second of every day. I mean, this is what happens. then you're going to get choppiness going into the next Fed meeting because we haven't had data and nobody knows if the Fed is going to use this as a copout not to cut or not. So, expect choppiness.
>> I think that's fair. And I think that choppiness is becoming more and more intense. I mean, like again, 1% down tomorrow could be 1% up and it's literally done that playbook for the past three weeks. So, it's almost like you're becoming desensitized to the the up and downs of it. Um,
>> go ahead. No, I just want to say like one thing on top of that. Unless you're planning on retiring and taking all of your money out of the market, don't worry about dayto day or week to week because you know what? We could have a couple of weeks that are bad and then we saw this last Monday if you had sold on Friday into week. Oh, we lost them. protesters, man. They got to him.
>> Go back in. I gotta take this.
>> Okay. All right. He'll be back in a second. I do think the the broader argument Steve is making makes a lot of sense, which is like at the end of the day, you know, having a long-term view on this stuff is important. And I mean, look, I don't know how the next two months end out. If the next two months are going to be ugly, then it is what it is. Um, but you know, I think five years from now, a lot of these assets that we own probably are going to be doing better than what they are today. Again, it goes back to this question of like, do you think something is so broken in the broader economy and the AI trade that everything breaks? And by the way, you know, all the analysts that I've been listening to as well, very few of them have said, I mean, once again, they all reiterated today like bull market. So, a lot of this stuff comes down to like do you think all of them in in in in concert are wrong? you know, is JP Morgan, Bernstein, Black Rockck, Goldman Sachs, Oppenheimer, Rosenbladder, all of these people. Michael Wilson, are all these guys just I mean, Morgan Stanley freaking said 7,800 for 2026 as they continue to believe it's a bull market. Like, are they all wrong? And maybe they are. It's very possible they all are. The question is just, you know, do you think all of them have given up on the same thesis? And uh I don't think we're seeing a break of that entire thesis at its core. I just feel like there would need to be something deeper to to break through. But we'll get more data. We're going to see if that is the case. Here's another update on some of this private credit stuff we've been looking at. And uh then we'll keep going from there. So, but I mean the Fed factors into the fundamental story here.
>> The market agrees with Waller here. When you look at the weakness we've seen on a relative basis in the consumer discretion area, we've seen cyclicals weak in relative to defensive. So, if we're going to use the market as our gauge to how the economy is perceived here, I think there's certainly been a change in character over the last two or three months. You know, we've talked about it really well with healthcare turning up, with utilities really assuming their leadership. So there's certainly more defensive streak. We're sitting here with the 2-year yield roughly 355 360. I mean, that's still two cuts below where the policy rate is. So our view is the Fed better get on board here because you're getting the messages of a weakened economy through the lens of discretionary through the subtle turn of improvement in staples and utilities.
>> Why is the long end though been backing up?
>> Yeah, I I think that's the tricky part of the call here. When you look at 30-year yields, they backed up modestly since the last Fed meeting.
>> Well, we were under 4% on the 10-year. Don't don't forget.
>> Yeah. And t rallied 4, let's call it 420. I would be very surprised if we saw tens much above 430, 435 uh in this environment. To me, that's the top end of the range. I'm a buyer of bonds there. I think ultimately the Fed will have to cut. It's a question of whether the bond market forces it sooner and more aggressive uh than they would like.
>> And he is right about that. It is not a question of when or if the Fed's going to cut. It's going to be a question of when. And the bond market might force the Fed to cut sooner than later. I just I think it's a risky game the Fed is playing with how they're acting around being so nonchalant around rate cuts given they know that the consumer is not in the the best spot and if they don't know the consumer is in the best spot then obviously they are fundamentally missing a lot of data that is coming through Ethereum right they're still below 300 and look if the consumer is in a tough situation and you have auto delinquencies ramping up and all that stuff I mean you're not going to have a ton of people really excited to buy crypto which is again another reason why a risk on asset like a Bitcoin or Ethereum are getting sold off because just like where is the bid coming from on those names if you really have some consumer pain in the economy and I think that could be leading to some of the selloff you're seeing right there. Gold, by the way, I mean it was down 1% but gold's still holding above 4,000. Yeah, April 14th was the last time fear was at 15. We are basically at um we're we're below that, right? We're at 14. No, we're at 15. We were at 14 earlier in the day. Gold still 4,000 and extreme fear still at 14. Uh Nvidia doesn't have a big beat. We're going to have a really bad earning. Yeah, I mean look, Nvidia still is the lynch pin of this economy, 8% of the S&P. I think that's also why the markets are a little bit jittery until Wednesday. I mean, if they don't give us a good earnings, that's when things can get really ugly. But for all intended purposes, seems like Nvidia is going to come out with a good earnings. So, for a lot of people asking kind of how do you navigate the situation or what are you thinking about? I think there's three obvious things you can do, right? Very simple things. Number one is you sell some aggressive covered calls. So, example, let's say you own a thousand shares of Nebius and your average is $95. You can be selling aggressive covered calls every week to generate some premium to soften the blow from Nebius getting hit. Or you can even go out um you know a year to January 2027 and say, "Look, I am comfortable selling my Nebus position at $120. I bought it at 90. I'm going to collect all the premium today and if we do end up having a bull run, I was wrong. Nebus goes to 170. I miss out on some money, but at least I have secured some of my downside risk. Um, but if I'm right and Neb is choppy to flat in 2026, at least I have some more of that premium to kind of create a bit of a cushion. So, I think that's one strategy that people can do. Sell far OTM calls that are still relatively within your strike, you know, 10 to 20%, nothing like super uh conservative because that kind of defeats the purpose of it. And you collect that premium as some cushion. That's one argument. And look, if you're sitting on thousands and thousands of shares of like SoFi at $7, you know, if you don't think SoFi has a shot to hit 40 next year, it's not crazy to sell some of those leaps and protect some of the downside. Number two is you can buy puts. Number two is you can buy puts. It's not crazy to buy some puts. You can do the same strategy. Buy far out the money puts. If you think you want to protect your Robin Hood position and you have 2,000 shares of Robin Hood at 70 bucks, Robin's at 115 today. you can buy a proportional amount of puts in relationship to the overall position for, I don't know, $85, $95, whatever strike that you think is relatively reasonable if you were to think Robin Hood were to get hit pretty bad if things were to get bad. Uh, and then, you know, that could be a way to protect your position as well. So, I'm a fan more of the the OTM puts and leaps or calls versus the weeklies because like you could sell a $90 or um buy a $90 put tomorrow for Hood, but that expires in a month, but you know what if Hood doesn't go to $9 in a month, you need some time for the hedge to play out if it is a hedge. And again, the reason it's a hedge, you want that money to go to zero. The philosophy of a hedge, from my understanding, is you're okay with the money going to zero. If you spend 20,000 on puts to protect a $125,000 position, you are okay with that 20,000 going to zero because if that 125,000 turns into 175,000, then you gave up that 20,000 as premium, but you did protect if that 120,000 turned it into, you know, 85,000. So, uh, a lot of the philosophy on hedging and same thing with selling calls, right? If you have like 5,000 shares of Nebius and you want to sell, you know, you really want to keep 1,000 shares for long-term and so you sell those 40 calls at like a aggressive strike, then you got to be okay with selling those 4,000 shares or you sell the other thousand shares at a very conservative strike, but at least you collect some premium to offset the downside. So those are two options. And the third option, which is the one that is the most obvious, right? You can sell stock. A lot of these names are up a lot year to date. Nebas, you know, still up almost 2x year today. Robin Hood's up 2x, poundry is up 1.5x, Nvidia's up 50%. I mean, at the end of the day, the other simple option is you can take some profits, which you know, I I think a lot of retail has been pretty smart about taking profits this year, and we've seen that through the data that retail has actually been actively managing portfolios, but some profits are better than no profits. So if you really think that [__] is hitting the fan and you're just getting really afraid, you know, that's when you secure some parts of the portfolio. The part that sucks for a lot of investors that let's say you sell, you know, some of your Nebius that you bought at 30 at 85, which is a great return, and then 85 ended up being the bottom. And that's just you got to control your mental health there, right? Because you never fully know what's the bottom or not. And it becomes very toxic if goes to like 120 in the next five months and then you felt like you sold the bottom even if you made a good return. But you got to watch out for ultimately your own personal portfolio. Or you can keep buying. That's also true. Or you can continue to buy the dip. Or you can hold on for the long term. I mean, again, these are all a variety of different options. I think that the number one thing is do you and this is what Steve was talking about, right? Do you need the money next year? That's the most important. Do you need the money? like do you like have a kid who's getting ready to go go to college and you like actually need to make sure that you don't take any chances because you need to pay tuition, right? These are subjective questions that people have to ask, but it's obviously worth asking those questions. And again, you know, even if you know, we were at 7,000 on the S&P 500 right now, I think these are still relatively important questions to ask because this would be year four of a bull market. If we end out 2025 in a bull market, right? Right. So, three years of a bull. I mean, we've been talking about for a couple weeks now, 2026 preparation is going to require a lot more strategy. It's not going to be, I think, as easy as just buy the dip because you just have a lot more dynamics going into place. Not to mention, it's a midterm year. Midterm years historically have had a 15% draw down at least once during the year, every single time. And now, it happens towards the latter half of the year. So, it might not happen as quickly to just like rip the band-aid off and get it over with, but it does indeed happen literally every single time that we've had a midterm. And so, you know, from that perspective, it's definitely something to think about regardless of where the markets were at. Now, again, the the the the pain is rewarded in the midst of a midterm because if you look at this chart right here, midterm years see the largest intraear pullback that has happened historically on every midterm year since 1950. But that pain is rewarded as up more than 30% a year later. So, as you can see right here, the S&P 500 average in entry-year pullback during a midterm year that's from 1950 to 1924 or sorry, from 2024, it's 31 or sorry, 17.5%. The average return a year after those lows is 31%. So, I mean, like there's a lot of sort of obvious things outside of the markets being at all time high for why people would want to hedge, but you know, the fact that things are getting a little choppy towards the end of the year, I think that accelerates why people would be thinking to hedge some of their positions. Yeah, clean up your losers as well. You know, if you've got some shitty investments, take the tax loss on it, move on from them. Kind of don't look back. Those are also things that you can do towards the end of the year. Also, people with unstable jobs, otherwise you might end up force selling. Yeah. I mean, so that brings up two conversations, right? If you are on margin or if you uh have a job that you are really worried about, I mean, obviously having some cash on the side in case things get bad, that's also important. So, if you're on margin, I mean, you know, realistically, if you get a margin call, yeah, it's not easy to get out of a margin call when things are tanking because if you wake up one morning and the NASDAQ's down like 20%. Realistically, like 5%, right? Like any move that's reasonable to imagine that happens on a day, a 5% down day is not crazy to imagine. We haven't had that in a year, but obviously that could happen. We did have 3% a couple weeks ago. Um, you're already getting margin called, right? Right? And so you have to sell into the weakness versus sell into the strength, which means you end up taking a loss just to cover your margin. And that could obviously create some pain. And then you might not even get any cash back because you might just be paying back the margin. So you don't even really have the money come back to you. Um, and then two, obviously, if you are a bit worried about your job, you know, that's another thing to prepare for as well. I would want to see what happens on Nvidia earnings though. I mean, a lot of these decisions I think closer to the middle of December people can start making. These are just things to think about. But Nvidia earnings and the data transparency around what's going on uh with the labor market I think are two of things because the the way to paint a very optimistic bullcase for Q4 is uh Nvidia crushes it, labor market's bad, Fed's going to cut and that culminates into earnings growth plus you know rate cutting cycle which creates more monetary easing, quantitative easing. We know QT is ending in December anyway and then boom, you potentially have a run towards the end of the year. It's just obviously sentiment is starting to shift and that's why it's, you know, getting harder for a lot of people to think that that could actually play out. So that's what I would be thinking about. Where's Steve, bro? How important was this freaking phone call? Let me text him again. Okay, I just texted him. Um, imagine if Nvidia misses. Dude, if Nvidia misses, oh my gosh. You know, you would think the broadening of this market was happening at a more aggressive rate and we wouldn't be that concerned about Nvidia, but nope. Nvidia is the story. Nvidia continues to be the story. Crazy how sentiment changed the last week or so. Yeah. You know, and this is one. So, I mean, like for those that are here with me every single day, I'm like in these markets doing research every single day. I'm tracking as I'm I'm just listening to a lot of different perspectives. And a lot of the times I'm trying to synthesize those perspectives and then, you know, have my own perspective as well. And my own perspective stays unchanged from what I said on Friday. I think the paradigmatic shift that happened in 2021 to 2022 was led by earnings growth that was not real because of the COVID inflation which needed to get gutted out of the system. That was kind of the year of efficiency stuff and then Fed rate hikes. That is why 2022 was so bad. 2026 doesn't have those same dynamics because we're not raising rates and the AI trade is real in my opinion. Maybe I'm wrong, but those two things are why I really don't think this is a repeat of 2022. But then based on everything I'm listening to today, trying to synthesize all those perspectives, all I'm hearing is people really, again, not a full-on like, hey, run for the hill, sell everything, be afraid of the market, but rather people starting to question the validity of this bull market, which I think is healthy. Like, you should have people question, but like you also have people just that are starting to wonder if if the bears are right and if anything of this is real. And you know, that's that's kind of how things go. Things can change very very quickly when this stuff ends up playing out. But it is indeed ugly. Can Hood reach 138 after Nvidia earnings? I have no clue. I mean, again, for Hood to reach 138 from 115, you need a really big move. These are questions you also have to ask yourself on a lot of these names if you have these specific targets. like how much does the market have to move to get hood to move back to 140 150? You're talking about basically S&P making a three to four percent move which again is possible but is the sentiment super rooted for the bulls right here. And again, I think the reason why sentiment really began to shift is because of the lack of the clarity on the December rate cut, which again, I think that sentiment could come back if you have Fed officials look at this. Why I keep saying when labor market data comes out, the Fed realizes that the labor market is iffy, maybe they start switching to become more dovish, and that could switch sentiment pretty quickly. But if that doesn't happen, that's where, you know, things obviously feel a bit more ugly. the bull market ends when and if inflation becomes a problem again. Imagine the Fed having to raise rates in 2027, 2028. Yeah. And I think the Fed is really trying to not be in that position, but you know, obviously that could happen. You know, the other thing that I I heard another perspective over the weekend is um someone said the Fed thinks that AI is a bubble and they think that all of this stuff is over inflated and that is why they had this like 180 pivot on interest rates. It's almost like the Fed knows the labor market is shitty and they know that they probably should be cutting. Again, this is his theory. You could be wrong, but the but the Fed also thinks valuations are super aggressive. And they are trying to like subliminally tell the market, you guys need to chill out. Like valuations cannot be this high and we don't want and we know there's a bubble. We don't want to blow more air into the bubble by giving you guys easy money. The reason I think that theory doesn't make a ton of sense is because the Fed is stopping QT. So, I mean like maybe there's some validity to that argument, but if the Fed if the Fed knew there was or the Fed, you know, told themselves there was this bubble, I don't think they would stop QT that easily. And I think it's more ignorance or lack of like logic that the Fed is deploying right here when it comes to rate cuts versus like them trying to tell the markets that valuations have to come down. But we're going to find out over the coming weeks how the Fed really really ends up thinking of this um Bitcoin. Let's get a little update on that and then we'll keep going from there. We'll see what's going on with Steve as well in a second. Steep declines in crypto prices over the weekend, adding to doubledigit losses for the month so far when it comes to Bitcoin. and Mackenzie Sagalas has a look at what has been driving those declines. Mac,
>> hey, David. It was a brutal weekend for crypto. Bitcoin sank below $93,000 on Sunday, its lowest level since April, extending a slide that has wiped out nearly all of this year's gains. Now, traders are pointing to weak Asia demand, a leveraged unwind, and a rotation into crypto proxy stocks. But now, Bitcoin has triggered a death cross. This is a bearish chart signal where the 50-day moving average dips below the 200 day and that crossover tends to align with market bottoms. But if Bitcoin doesn't bounce back quickly, history shows that it often heads even lower before recovering. That's what traders are watching now with that fear and greed index still flashing extreme fear and ETF outflows and whale selling compounding the draw down. Now, Bernstein does note a shift toward crypto treasury names and AI linked miners like Core Scientific pulling liquidity out of spot markets. And then Michael Sailor's strategy just disclosed that it's made its biggest Bitcoin purchase since this summer. The company now holds more than $ 48 billion worth of the coin. But shares have slumped now trading near the value of its holdings, which is a sign that Conviction is no longer commanding a premium here. It caps a brutal stretch for digital asset treasury stocks including Tom Lee's Bitmine Immersion that is an Ether proxy trade down nearly 20% in the last five trading days. Retail cash it piled into those names at the highs only to get blown out when trade tensions escalated in early October. Guys,
>> meantime, Mac, there's news of uh Bezos launching this AI startup where I guess he's also going to serve as co-CEO. What do we know? So, it's called Project Prometheus, and this is Jeff Bezos stepping back into the operator seat for the first time since leaving Amazon. So, he's quietly launched this new AI company. That's according to reporting from the New York Times. And this stealth startup is focused on physical intelligence. So, basically applying AI to engineer and manufacture complex realworld systems like computers, spacecraft, and cars. We know from that New York Times reporting that they have raised $6.2 $2 billion in initial funding that includes money from Bezos himself, making it among Silicon Valley's best funded AI ventures. I will say though, guys, Prometheus is entering a saturated market, but it may be able to carve out a unique niche here at the intersection of robotics, infrastructure, and hardware. Those are industries that Bezos knows well from Amazon and Blue Origin.
>> Yeah. Is there a sense that it will sync up with Blue Origin's business in some fashion? I mean, you'd have to imagine that they would be early customers of this product. And it it really speaks to this larger flywheel effect where Bezos is uh capitalizing on existing parts of his empire in the same way that Elon Musk has. You've got SpaceX and I mean, David, your reporting on this has been excellent, but uh investing into XAI and a lot of synergies there between the AI parts of their empires with these space ambitions.
>> Elon did say Bezos was being a copycat today for launching his own AI company. He was saying it in a fun way, but um yeah, Bezos continues to go down the AI rabbit hole by launching his own stuff. I mean, like again, Bezos sees the value of the opportunity right here and he's recognizing that this is something worth working on. The fact that he's the co-CEO is kind of crazy on a name like this. But going back to what she said on crypto, it goes back to that same argument about a lack of data creating tension with the Fed and risk on assets just getting smoked because of it. And see, this happens in crypto. I mean, this has been in crypto so many times. Like you could have a long-term thesis on an asset like Tom Le had when Bitcoin was $5,000 back in 2017, but until you have a moment where things change, you know, it it deals with the choppiness of that pain. And I feel like that's exactly what's happening to Ether right now. And obviously that's, you know, continuing to hold for a variety of people. Would you still hold Misti? I think Misti is going to be a tax loss for me. I mean, Misti, until Bitcoin comes back, Misti is not going to do anything. Uh, Micro Strategy can't do anything unless Bitcoin makes a big move higher. I think the biggest thing for Sailor right now is not getting liquidated. Like, and I know there's different perspectives on when he gets liquidated. Uh, but I think now that he has all these different freaking like STRC, STRD, all this stuff, like there's so many things that he has to hold on to or that he has to pay for the preferred equities that I mean, he says, you know, he'll never get liquidated, but I I do wonder realistically if Bitcoin were to go below his average, would that create some level of selling? And I don't know. Adam says, "Fun fact, Misti is never coming back. Sailor fed all of us." Yeah, that could be the case. I wouldn't look BMR, if you're thinking of selling BMR right here, I have not sold it, but it becomes a personal question for you, right? Like, do you think ETH completely collapses next year? The reason I believe in ETH even more than Bitcoin is because I think there are use cases that are starting to emerge on ETH. you have most financial institutions on Wall Street converging their application of use cases at the intersection of Ethereum and that should be valuable eventually. Uh the question is you know the force selling the liquidation the crypto bear market is that enough to overpower that longer term thesis on Ethereum and it might be it very well might be and as a result maybe it's not abided but if it's not then you know you could see a very very easy bounce on a lot of crypto assets but now it's it's it's not even about Tom Le's thesis or it's it's now about global liquidity it's now about rate cuts like it's back to sort of the basics on these crypto assets that need the fundamentals of the economy to be pointing towards a specific direction. Aka the reason why these assets got destroyed in 2022 along with growth stocks is you can't have monetary tightening at the level that we had and expect risk assets to do well. And I wish I understood that in 2022. I was a lot younger than I was then four years ago and I didn't fully understand the concept of even quantitative timing. It was my first ever rate hiking cycle. So if I were to think we were going to hike rates in 2026, I think you would sell all these risk assets immediately. That doesn't seem like it's happen. I do not think the economy can handle rate hikes next year. Now, is a pause as bad as a hike? I would say no, but a pause is still re really bad. So, we definitely need to get some cuts here. But I just I just don't I don't think it's like four years ago where we started hiking. You know, maybe we start hiking in four or five years after Trump prints a trillion dollars and that creates an asset bubble. And I think a lot of us will be smarter by then and understand, oh, we see what's happening. Like this is very obvious here. And you'll have other newer investors that don't see that hiking rates could be an issue for the growth stocks. But I don't think we're I don't think we're at that stage yet. We can get to that stage if we keep printing money and we keep debasing currency, all that stuff, and then we have to raise rates to solve that. But it doesn't feel like that's the situation right now. So, we're going to have to see. Cuts do nothing as the labor market tanks. Yeah, that's the other sort of nuance here, right? It's like the labor market has to go down for the Fed to be afraid so that they cut rates. But the labor market cannot be decimated because quite frankly, if the labor market's decimated, none of this even matters. Like, if we we're at 4.5% unemployment. we get anywhere near, you know, seven, eight%. I mean, market's gone, crypto's gone, there's nothing to hold on to. Like, if you have that level of unemployment in a world in which you have this level of inequality, you have mass unemployment, AI replacing everything, and so you got a lot of people getting rich and a lot of people getting poor, and then you have uh rate hikes, like or even rate cuts. At that point, it's not going to work. that level of unemployment along with that level of earnings detachment from the reality of the stock market because if people are unemployed they're not going to be spending on goods and services and then you have the AI narrative you put all three of those together things can get really ugly. So I I think the question then just becomes, you know, will it turn out like plenty of ways to say it won't turn out like that, but if it does a cut is not going to matter as much if the labor markets get hit that sent Navaro out to Fox News. I guess things are getting that bad. Navaro had to say some stuff. Let's see what he has to say as well. and a Federal Reserve Bank model. GDP now third quarter GDP on target for 4% growth then picking up again in the first and second quarters. Do you see that too?
>> Well, let's talk about the growth issue. Uh I I'm worried about the this fourth quarter what the numbers are going to be. The Schumer shutdown likely shaved a full point, a point and a half uh off our GDP growth rate and that's that's output that we're not getting back. Yes, we're having a rebound, but I don't want the Federal Reserve uh to think that we don't need rate cuts now in December because we do. They should be lower than they are. Uh and and we we've got to focus on that. So, let's see what happens now. But the inflation and affordability fight is key. We we don't want to be in the business of telling people that everything's getting better when they're still feeling the pain. We don't do that. But we can explain sector by sector how help is on the way. I think part of what President Trump's going to do tonight is part of that messaging effort to explain what we're doing. I mean, if you look at health care, Liz, I mean, that that you can throw as much more money as the Democrats want to throw on it. And the problem is the only people who get that money are the middlemen, the prescription people, the insurers, and so on. So, um,
>> yeah,
>> thanks for having me. It's good to talk about this and let's let's do this some more.
>> Great conversation, Peter Navara. Thank you so very much. It's good to see you again. Now, we're moving on to
>> All right, that was Peter Navaro. This affordability thing, dude, this thing hit the administration like a brick. I don't think they expected this affordability [__] to come through. And boy did it come through, man. Like absolutely nuked a lot of the progress they were making because now once something becomes a narrative. I mean, it becomes a narrative and it's I mean there was another headline I forgot to tell you guys. Uh Trump is planning campaign rally speeches at the White House to talk about the economy towards the end of the year. So we we last week was the headline that he's going to travel the country for these speeches. Apparently he's doing it now at the White House or at least that's what they're planning and um that is their attempt to kind of make the argument that the economy is doing okay. Yeah. Trump to host large indoor rallies domestically before year end to discuss the economy. And then another White House official said, "Trump has proven economic formula, but it's going to take more time." Um, so again, this affordability thing is kind of the core argument that keeps coming up. Prices being too high is worse than the shutdown in my opinion. Yeah, the shutdown didn't help because obviously you had a lot of people that didn't get paid during that time. So, you know, things got more affordable for them as well. And again, you know, the the the other thing about affordability is I I think it's it comes down to how much income you make. It comes down to where your personal finances are. But I I don't think you get the rise of Mumani if things are great from an affordability perspective. Now, you can say there's a lot of other reasons why he won. But he was not the only Democrat that won on November 4th. You had a pretty much Democratic sweep across the country. And every narrative, if you could listen to what the Democrats were saying, was around this concept of affordability. The president saying, "Make America affordable again." I mean, like, that's not me being like, "Oh, I think there's this affordability." I was like, "No, that's the president of the United States replacing the word great with affordable." Obviously, he is placating to this narrative. And anyone who doesn't see that is just not listening to what he's saying. So he recognizes it's an issue. Lowering the tariffs on beef and and oil and um and bananas and coffee. I mean, that's him admitting, "Yeah, the prices are too high. The only thing I can do as a president is reduce my tariffs, which is also admitting that the tariffs probably weren't the best idea on those different goods and services." And then you got the market that's just like, "Okay, so the Supreme Court doesn't even know if your tariffs are real. We don't know what's going on with the labor market because you had a shutdown. You're reducing your tariffs, admitting that some of the tariffs were not the right tariffs to deploy. And then you're telling us that we need to make America affordable again by 50-year mortgages. So, is there a real problem with the consumer that is more aggressive that we need to be paying attention to if the president of the United States is pitching a 50-year mortgage? I think those are all the reasons for why we're seeing some of the broader fear in the equity markets. A lot of this comes down to does that Fed give us a cut? Does this Fed give us cut? Yeah. Then you have the whole Venezuela thing going on, which quite frankly, I'm going to be honest, I have not studied deeply into the Venezuela stuff. Like I've been way more focused on like domestically what's going on in the economy. So, I don't even really know what's happening there. That's just another thing that's on top of the compounding headlines. Having said that, does that mean Nvidia needs to go to 120? You know, like maybe Nvidia doesn't need to go to 220, but does does that mean the S&P needs to go back to 6,000? It's like, no. Like, at the end of the day, it's a stock market that's valued on earnings, and earnings so far are good. Now, maybe you think that earnings are going to dissipate and and that's how you build out your model, but it doesn't feel like all of that needs to get erased simply because of the questions that exist with this uh progress towards the end of the year. By the way, what the hell happened to Steve? Dude, I'm going to call him right now. I hope he's okay. I know he had to take a call, but it's been like almost 35 minutes or something. Hey, I was just about to get back on Streamyard.
>> Was it Was it that long of a call?
>> I It was five calls back to back to back to back to back.
>> Damn, you're a busy man. Okay,
>> get back on now.
>> Okay, this is why when you say, "Oh, get Steve on the show. Get Steve on the show." And I tell you guys he's busy, you guys don't believe me. Like, he has an actual job, which is the fact that he's streaming and doing his job at the same time. I mean, shout out to Steve, you know, just like work ethic is incredible. But there's a reason I can't call him every day. He's freaking working like and he has meetings. Although he would love to be on every day because he loves doing this, but he also has different things. Why is Trump speaking at 6 PM? Trump delivers live remarks where where the hell is he speaking? There's a live stream set up for 6 pm. I don't know where he's speaking. Steve, you're back, but you are muted. The White House put a McDonald's logo in. Oh, he's tweet He I forgot. Trump's going to be speaking at this like McDonald's conference thing. I forgot. It's um Oh, man. I forgot. It was It was It's like a It's like a Let me see if I can pull it up. Steve, you're still muted, by the way. Either he can't hear me or he doesn't know that he's muted. Yeah. The tale of the American dream from the golden arches to the golden age. Tonight, 600 p. p.m. Eastern. Stay tuned. What the heck is this, dude?
>> Serving fries. Trump didn't just see Greece, he saw greatness. He didn't just see a frier, he saw a fresh start for America. This is the tale of the American dream where nothing is impossible.
>> Look at the crowd over there. Look how happy everybody is. They're happy because they want hope. They need hope.
>> Two sides of the same man. two chapters of the same story. From the Golden Arches to the Golden Age.
>> It is my honor to introduce to you the 45th and the 47th president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
>> His list of accomplishments is breathtaking. He's blown up the deep state. He's proven the so-called experts completely wrong. His list of achievements almost endless. Meanwhile, promises made, promises kept.
>> This administration's moving at political light speed. Today, the flurry continues, and his sharpies working harder than Biden ever did.
>> I'm asking you just dream big. We're bringing it back. This will be America's new golden age. I don't really know what to say. I don't I really I have no idea what to say. I also don't know what the point of this event is, but it's obviously something to do with McDonald's. And uh well, that was definitely quite the trailer for whatever this is going to be. Is this one of his is this one of his like economy um like rallies? Is it going to be focused on like the the worker, right? The like everyday American by using the McDonald's brand to kind of like what is the point? Like is there some McDonald's conference going on? Like how are they Trump to talk up econ Oh wow. Trump to talk up economy and meeting with McDonald's owners. Under mounting pressure from Americans worried about inflation, US President Donald Trump will meet on Monday with owners, operatives, and suppliers of fast food chain McDonald's to tout his administration's efforts to drive down living costs. See, tell me that this affordability thing is not something the administration cares about. Like, dude, are you kid? You're you're you're freaking using movie trailers to promote a speech to McDonald's franchisee owners around affordability, and we think affordability is still some random like tactic. It's like, no, obviously the administration is leaning into if if Trump didn't give a [__] about affordability and he was he would think it's like some Democratic hoax or stupid narrative. He would not be saying make America affordable again. He would not be doing a speech at McDonald's. He's trying to change the narrative because I'm sure his political consultants are saying, "Mr. President, we're going to lose the midterms if we don't win this argument." Like, I feel like that's the reason for the pivot. Trump has argued repeatedly that his administration's tax cuts and steps to reshore domestic manufacturing will help boost Americ's real income and spur growth. But economic worries played a big role in Democratic victories and key state and local elections earlier this month. And Trump's approval ratings have continued to drop. All right, so this is the first of the uh the economy rallies that Trump is he didn't see Greece. He saw greatness. That's actually kind of a fire line. I'm not gonna lie. That was a fire line. Uh, I don't know where Steve is. He should be coming back soon. And maybe he got another call. Maybe he got another phone call. Ugly, ugly, ugly day. But regardless, we got to see how this year plays out. Again, at its core, I hate saying this over and over again, but I think end of year can still be very strong if you get the rate cut and you have the AI earnings picture stay intact. It's just obviously more and more things are compounding to create some hiccups in this overall overall market narrative, I would say. And look, that happens that I mean that like that's that's that's why markets are so dynamic, right? I mean, a couple weeks ago, we thought there was a regional banking crisis, then we forgot about it. Three months ago, we thought there was a bond rating crisis with Moody's, then we forgot about it. Like, the market thinks about stuff. They care about stuff. Who knows? Maybe in another couple days, no one cares about Oracle's credit default swaps, even though they're caring today. That's what gives opportunities to either buy or sell in the market. You need these conflicting narratives happening back and forth. And for every narrative, there's a buyer and a seller. Our job is to try to identify the trend that's taking place. And the trend this year has been higher regardless of equity prices getting hit over the past month because still Nebis is not at 140, but it's also not at 20 bucks. Hood's not at 150, but it's also not at 30 bucks, you know? So, like the trend is still pretty intact for the year. It's just for the past month, these charts look ugly. Yeah, Meta. I mean, like this is a phenomenal company. I know the street is scared about capex, but Meta's narrative is hit right now. And unfortunately or fortunately for those that are buying the dip, it it becomes a question of like where does this thesis play out over the next coming years, not just next year. Um, he wants McDonald's to sell Trump tacos. Oh my gosh, that is hilarious. Steve says, "I need 10 minutes." Dude, this guy definitely is getting bombarded with phone calls. Um, I got to go soon, too, guys. He's on the phone with lawyers. I'm gonna tell him nowhere. Steve's gonna be on later tonight anyway, so you guys will be able to hear with him tonight. I'll get you on tomorrow. Yeah, guys, he's got lawyers calling him back and forth. So, unfortunately, we're not going to be able to get him on, but he'll be on later tonight and so he'll be live to talk about everything. I have not bought the dip on anything. I mean, look, I bought the dip throughout the entire year. So, I'm not super like I think there's a really weird narrative that people think you need to be compelled to buy the dip every time you get a draw down. It's like I bought SoFi at 2650. SoFi is at 27 today. Like I I I bought the dip at significantly lower prices on a lot of these names than where they are today. You know, I bought the dip on Robin Hood when it was at 97 the day before I got into the S&P 500. I don't feel that compelled to buy the dip on Robin Hood at 115. Like I just don't like because I've been building position in that company for years. So, it's like buying the dip, I think, really happens when you think you either don't have a full position on something or you think it is so obvious that there's going to be a Vshape. And I think it's very obvious that the sort of Vshape that we've been used to has not happened for the past month. And you know, that's why it's not as simple as just like let me buy the dip and like get in a Vshape. Now, for the long term, do you buy the dip if you're holding for the next five years? Like, of course, right? Like because I think in the next five years, hood is probably greater than what it is right now. That doesn't mean the allocation of capital at 115 on Hood for my position size makes any sense. Like it just same thing for pounder, right? Like again been buying pounder for a long time. It just doesn't make sense to buy a dip from 200 to 170 when I was buying it at $20. Now Nebius for I mean last week bought the dip on Nebus, bought at 108 and then bought at 93. So am I compelled to buy Nebius at 88? like not really given it's not that far off from where I bought it at last week. But if Nebius gets, you know, into the 75s, it gets a lot more compelling. So I I don't think every day that there's a down day, you just have to buy that dip, especially if you're not being rewarded for it like you were earlier in the year. But if you get certain levels that are very attractive, then yeah, of course, I mean, you want to allocate to those opinions you want to those positions you want to have for a long time. Same thing with Nvidia. I mean, I bought the dip at 178 on The Funny thing about Nvidia is like people like, "Oh, buy the dip." It's like Nvidia was at 177 three weeks ago. That's when I bought the dip. I'm not that compelled to buy the dip at 187 down from 195. Like, that that's not I bought it at 177 3 weeks ago. Like, it's got to really give me a juicy price to be excited to buy it again. Not just going to buy it because I see red on the day. Also, you know, when I I built out a full Nvidia position when Nvidia was freaking 105, 107, 113, 114. I was looking at my buys the other day just scrolling through it. I was like being a madman in May and June. April to an extent, although April was deeper with Hood, but May and June when I was scrolling through it, there was a day where I was live with Jason. We were doing technical Tuesday and that's when the first China export ban came out. If you guys remember, you were with me. We couldn't do technicals for like 30 minutes because we were just so focused on this in video story. Nvidia fall from 111 to 103 bought the debt that just like aggressive aggressive buy and then you finally got the Middle East appearance and that's when it finally broke out. So I mean a lot of these names if you built heavy positions and you bought the dip when [__] was ugly, you know, you don't need to buy just because they go red on the day. But if you're trying to allocate or develop like Nebas, I don't have a position for it. So I'm not waiting till Nebius goes to 50. I don't know if that's ever going to happen. So, I I bought the bullet or I I decided, you know what? I'm going to I'm going to have to take the hit. And last week, I bought. Now, obviously, if I waited a week, that would have been better. But, you know, that's just the nature of markets. You can never really easily time the bottom if this even is the bottom. But now that I'm already in Nebas, it's got to it's got to go down more for me to get really compelled to buy if it stays like within 5% of my average. Like, what am I doing DCAing? like, "Oh, DCA is like, dude, this thing's got to really give me some good prices for me to get excited." Not just like, "I see red, therefore I buy." Is Bitcoin down? Are we still bleeding? 92,000 on Bitcoin. I'm not buying the dip on Grab because I've been buying that dip all year. So, Grab is a full position at this point. It's just it doesn't make sense for me to allocate to it even more. The the one thing I will say though is if 2026 looks like the US is getting expensive for whatever reasons, multiples, labor market, etc. I think grabs a decent hedge. They got seven billion in cash. They're not really affected by the United States and they're crushing it on every metric. Now, the reason their stock is getting hit is because they trade in the NASDAQ and so obviously markets get hit in the US crab's going to fall with it. But I do think they're a relatively reasonable hedge and I know they're cheap going into next year. That's another reason I am a bit more excited about that. BMR. I have not bought the dip. I have a full position on that as well. I mean, again, for me to buy the dip, you've got to get some really, really juicy price. My adjusted cost base is around 35. I know it's at like 3132, but that's not enough for me to be like, "Yep, I got to double down." Considering I already doubled down at 4142, which obviously, not that the price is 30, doesn't look the smartest. When the price was 60, it looked pretty smart. But now I think we got to see some stabilization on BMR and that comes down to ET stabilizing as well. ARM Nvidia headline ARM's Neoverse platform will integrate Nvidia NVLink Fusion. Okay. Is ARM getting a boost from that? ARM is up a little bit. Nvidia not really moving on that, but ARM getting a little bit of move. Melly I've not looked at, but dude, a lot of the um what's his name? Duck continues to buy the dip on freaking Micardo Libre. I don't I haven't done a deep dive on this name. I've got to spend more time on it, but I feel like five years from now, this dip is going to be rewarded. I mean, it is one of the most dominant players in Latin America. But drugs continues to buy for Ricardo Liieber. Cactus says, "I dated a girl named Melly." Did you say, "May I meet you, Cactus, when you uh dated her? because maybe that was the line that uh that got you some attention. Dude, Bill Aman is leaning into this man. For those that haven't heard, he tweeted he tweeted uh some dating advice and said, "If you're if you're if you're nervous about meeting a girl in person, just go up to her and say, "May I meet you?" And my goodness has that turned into like the greatest meme in history. By the way, White House just tweeted this. President Trump speaks at McDonald's summit on the economy and more. The Biden administration started the affordability crisis, but President Trump will end it so all Americans can achieve economic prosperity. Okay, so that's what you've got there. And then Bill Aman just constantly retweeting all these posts about May I meet you. He's loving it. He's absolutely loving this thing. Oh, look. This This is a girl in New York. Look what she did. She's standing out with a may I meet you sign. I mean, it's legit becoming a viral viral viral meme. All right, I think that's it for us, folks. Uh, we got this Trump thing happening later tonight. We'll cover it tomorrow and we'll see what Trump has to say. I did not add anything today. Last dip by was last week, Nebius and SoFi. Those were kind of the main things I nibbled on. And then Meta last week. So, those were the three main positions that I bought a bit more. Now that Meta's been breaking down, I'm like, "Okay, let's like like let's like really see Meta get hit hard for an attractive entry." Now, granted, will it? I don't know. It touched 595 today, touched 597 last week. It looks like it wants to dip to the 580 range. So I think Meta is definitely one to keep an eye on if you are interested in, you know, getting position in Meta, but I think that's pretty much it. Um, we'll see what happens tomorrow. The crypto liquidations obviously are ugly. Hopefully there's some stabilization to that. If there is, then maybe no pain for the foreseeable future. I mean, you got a lot of crypto ugliness that has happened over the past couple of weeks. So, if that does stop, then that would be nice to see. And then you got Nvidia. You got Nvidia on uh on Wednesday. So, we're going to see we're going to need to see a lot more from Nvidia. And Jose will be live with me uh on Wednesday and I think Tanner will as well. Tanner will as well. So yes, technical Tuesday tomorrow. Yep. Technical Tuesday with tomorrow. We'll get Jason's thoughts on everything going on from a technical perspective. Obviously, these charts look ugly, dude. A lot of these stocks losing their 200 day, a lot of them losing their 50-day to be honest. So, uh he'll have some updated thoughts and we'll keep going in from there. All right, thank you everybody for being here again. I know it's an ugly day. It's just one of those days we got to deal with. I think there's a lot of optimistic things that can happen towards the end of the year. We got to get a good Nvidia earnings. We got to get some of this job data out. And quite frankly, you kind of got a lot of the sentiment to stop being as ugly as it is. But right now, we're in the thick of it. And usually when you're in this spot, there's not much you can do other than just wait. And if you're on leverage, if you're kind of on margin, you got to be able to navigate those positions. But if if your portfolio is just down, you probably feel not as rich as you were before. But if you are in the companies that you know you want to be in for a long time, it hopefully is easier to manage some of that pain and potentially even get them at better prices. Here's the stock draft update. Uh Matt's at 15, Tanner's at 11, Steve's atg -6. What the hell happened to Steve's? Hims got hit. Oh, Netflix, dude. I was like, what's Okay, we got to fix the Netflix thing. I gotta tell him to look at that. It says 91% on. Like, how did Steve go negative, bro? I know Steve had some some pain, but there's no way he's freaking negative. So, that's uh that's the Netflix thing. Chris is at three. Somehow, folks, I'm pulling away with first place, even with Dualingo absolutely destroying me. my uh my my my my bull stocks ended up being bullish. Pounder Hood, Tesla, AMD, JP Morgan, Nebus, grab an Apple. So, we're still holding first place right here. We got another year to see how this plays out. But that's what we have on the stock draft and we're going to keep monitoring that throughout the entire year. Yeah, AMD definitely carrying me on that one as well. Netflix is not down 90% today. They did a split, but you had a lot of people thinking they were down 90%. All right, cool. That is it. Um, I'll be back. And you have a lot of gray hairs now. Yeah, dude. My beard, dude. It's getting like it's last four years has been a grind, bro. Let's just say like when you are just like fully locked in and you have no time for anything other than the grind. Not the grinder, the grind. I guess you you start aging more as well. So, gray hairs are in. That's what I told you guys. I told you guys at 28 I'm becoming an unk. You guys think I'm a kid. I'm like, "No, dude. I'm not a kid anymore. Two years from 30, bro. It's happening." But, you know, this is what we go through, right? the stress of dealing with the swings up and down and the emotions of all this stuff. It is it is part of the game and it is part of navigating being an investor and ultimately taking advantage of your own capital. So, we're going to see how this plays out towards the end of the year, but so far Nvidia earnings and then that labor market report going to be the most important and then we'll keep it going from there. All right, thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I will see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Bye everybody. Have a good one.