[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts radio news. All right, folks. Levi Strauss shares they are trading slightly lower today after dropping as much as 14% on Friday. This is after the company's upgraded earnings guidance still fell short of higher investor expectations following the stock's more than 40% rally heading into that earnings print. Now, one key disappointment, at least according to analysts out on the street, is earnings growth failing to match the pace of sales expansion due to tariff and distribution costs. Meanwhile, got to say Bailey, you did have TD Koin raising its price target on the stock to 26 from 22 a share and they've got their buy rating.
>> Yeah, staying bullish and you look at the street, 13 analysts, 10 of them buys. So, is it a sell the news event, price to perfection?
>> We see.
>> It's a really good point. So, let's see what uh one of the companies members of the seauite have to say. Harmit Singh is with us, chief financial and growth officer at Levi Strauss. He joins us from our San Francisco bureau. Harit, it's so good to have you here with us. How are you and how is the consumer doing?
>> Well, thanks for having me, Carolyn Bailey. Um, it's great to be here again. Um, you know, we had a real strong quarter, four consecutive quarters of high singledigit growth and record gross margins as well as the fact that we were able to raise our fullear guidance as well as gross margin and EPS expectations. U overall as a company we're a stronger and a higher performing company defined by accelerated growth, expanding margins and higher return on invested capital. to your question about the consumer, the consumer is largely being resilient. Um, you know, our products are really well segmented. Uh, you know, we have blue tab which we which is our premium high pinnacle product and that's doing well. We've introduced that in the US. Uh, so far so good. We have a red tab product that is basically marketed to consumers who earn between 100,000 and over. And that's you know based on our results really done well. And then we have uh you know a signature product sold through Walmart that again had a banner cord and that's for you know lower income consumers. So consumer strength really strong that's where we were able to raise the full year guidance and our product pipeline hasn't been stronger. Now if you go outside the uh the US and international business was up in the high single digit and so Asia had a strong quarter consumer strong. Europe had a decent quarter consumer in a better place and so is Latin America.
>> Well I'm just going to lay it out for you. I think I bought my first pair of Levis's uh in a long time just a couple of months ago and my daughter who's 22 so much younger than me has been buying Levis's for a while. So Bailey I mean they're back. I go into the store in downtown in uh uh in the village and yeah it's packed.
>> Well, you get a partnership with Beyonce. All the marketing you guys are spending in terms of targeting both young and older generations. But Har, I want to ask about tariffs. So, Levi expects tariffs from China about 30% but increased expectations to 20% from the rest of the world. Where are you sourcing your genes materials? Is it more are you more exposed to that doubling in terms of are you getting materials from Vietnam in place of China?
>> Yeah. So overall we're taking a holistic approach as we are able to offset the tariff impact. Um you know as you think about this year we raise guidance in the top line and the bottom line and gross margin. So you know we've been able to withstand that. To your specific question, Bailey, um we source about 1% uh we import into the US from China, a little over a percent from India. Most of and Vietnam is in the mid to high single digits. So most of our imports are from the Southeast Asian countries. Think Bangladesh, think Pakistan and and uh and the rest of Asia. The way we think about our supply chain, it's fairly well diversified. We import from about 20 countries into the US. 60% of our business is outside the US. And so we're well positioned to mitigate and offset tariffs. And the way we're thinking about the holistic approach given that volume is driving a big piece of our um you know revenue momentum and we have tenured um vendor relationships. We're working with our vendors. We're looking at different cost uh efficiencies across our organization as well as you know being very thoughtful about pricing.
>> So let me just ask you though you guys did you know you mentioned you raised your fullear um outlook. You did warn that tariffs are starting to bite profit profitability to measure by gross margins improved. So these are like good stuff but again that tariffs are starting to bite. Um Hermit can you tell us what that means? what the bite of tariffs um when when how much you know any color around that.
>> Sure. So you know overall you know we were able to raise topline and bottom line uh guidance despite absorbing tariffs and so we are able to mitigate it. Uh to the question about tariffs um u you know tariffs were introduced on liberation day. We normally buy our products you know six months in advance and so um you know we are working through um you know our efforts and we've got different levers uh to kind of position it. So you take quarter three, the the quarter we just reported, gross margins are record. So we're able to offset tariffs because we got other things working for us, you know, as we grow our women's business, our direct to consumer business and international all of which are accretive to gross margins and allow us to uh you know mitigate and and offset some of the tariff exposure. uh quarter four we did guide gross margins to be slightly down versus a year ago and had it not been for tariffs you know we'd have grown gross margins but overall as we think about the year we'll we'll report again another year of record gross margins so we're working on levers for 2026 the good news is we'll end the year stronger and we believe we're well positioned to have another strong year in 2026
>> and Carol we've talked with a good friend Peter Atwater for quite some time K-shaped recovery where people who are well off in the bottom quintile when you look at your goods when you look at the ability to raise prices from the impact of tariffs which products are you able to more easily raise prices where you aren't going to see consumers push away and how are you thinking about that strategy as it relates to say the jeans that you do sell through a Walmart where you don't have that gross margin going direct to consumer and you do have likely uh at least when we look at the data a consumer who's feeling a pinch of inflation broadly speaking.
>> Yeah. And so the first thing Bailey to your question is our products are well segmented depending on the um income profile of different consumers. I talk blue tab, red tab and signature. Uh signature is what's uh sold into the lower income consumer. We've been very thoughtful about pricing. We're leading with product innovation rather than price. And so we're doing what we can to maintain a price point. It was evident in quarter 3. Signature, for example, I think is up in the low double digits for the year. As we think about, you know, our other products, the good news for us is our product pipeline has never been stronger. You know, we leading with loose and baggy while at the same time selling a lot of slim and skinny. Uh both for him and her. you know, we've got wonderful uh you know, waist up uh products to think trucker jackets, think linen shirts, etc., etc. And so, as a company, we're making this uh pivot to be more of a denim lifestyle uh retailer going forward. Our past was all about denim. Our future is going to be about denim lifestyle.
>> I just want to know, do you really have a pair of baggy barrel jeans? I I can't get my head around them. I'm trying. I'm trying. I'm just I haven't done it. I haven't done it. Um Army, what I do want to ask you too is you guys have had kind of a mission a goal to get to 10 billion in sales by 2027. I think you may have adjusted a little bit. I think also a 15% EBIT margin. Could you reach 15% in the next few years even if sales have not hit that 10 billion? You know, talk to us a little bit about that mission.
>> Yeah. No, you know, we gave out the expectation of 10 billion and 15% um on our investor day in the middle of June 2022. Since then, you know, there's been a lot of change um and a lot of uncertainty. As a company, we've kind of, you know, navigated our way through uncertainty. We haven't given our new date on the 10 billion and the 20 and the and the 15%. Mhm.
>> are are thinking is we probably do that sometime next year. But to your question, the company that we are building and the company that is got the foundation given where we ending this year. So you take 20 2025, we'll end at about 6% organic growth. Last year it was 3%. The year before that it was flat. Um if you think in EBIT margins, this year we'll end about mid 11s. Last year it was in the mid 10s. The previous year it was about 9. So we've seen a steady progress and our view is we probably get to the 15% faster than we get to the 10 billion but uh but really a company that is steadily um delivering mid-s singledigit growth uh in a category that probably grows a little you know south of that. So our view is that we will we are market leaders now in the US number one in men's number one in women's and really resonating with the youth. And so the question is if you're able to uh stay at uh you know uh and implement our strategies our view is we can continue to be market leader and probably pick up a little bit of share especially because the denim category is accelerating. We've seen the acceleration in the US. We've seen the acceleration outside and that's largely driven by the world becoming more casual.
>> Yeah, I have more jeans in my wardrobe than I've ever had in like since high school. Like it's really kind of wild. Anyway, Bailey, I know you've got another question.
>> Well, I was just going to ask in terms of geographic expansion when you think about China, what's going on with China? And also, what products do the Chinese consumers want? Is it that high-end good or is it more of a bargain purchase?
>> Yeah. So, China for us is still underpenetrated. Um, China represents about 2 or 3% of our business. Um, you know, our business in China has been slow and soft. The Chinese consumer right now is going through a, you know, a bit of a macro uncertain climate. Um, uh, but the the good news for us is they love the brand. Um, our brand equity scores are really solid. We think China can be, you know, a business that grows double digit over the long term. But to your specific question, the Chinese consumer is fairly discerning on the brands he or she gravitate to. There is a high-end consumer as well as a consumer that li the mid-market consumer what we call the core product. So if you think about our Asia strategy, we really, you know, our products are relevant for the mid-market consumer while we also offer products for the um higher premium end consumer. 30% of the Asian denim category is premium and you know premium for example our highest pinnacle product is largely Japanese uh you know fabric Japanese denim and um inspired uh by salvage and so that's what we are selling and I think over time we'll be able to start growing our China business back into in the low double digit range. Yeah, interesting. Seth, I will say, Carol, I know you mentioned you have more jeans than ever. I have been buying the sherpa jackets, the denim jackets like crazy. I don't know why I have three of them in different colors.
>> I bought a bunch of denim jackets.
>> That's what I'm in. I'm like I don't wear jeans. I wear chinos, but I wear the the denim jackets like crazy.
>> I know. I just I don't know. I love it. I love it. Ask like everybody I work I walk jeans every morning.
>> Yeah. And Bailey and and Carol, now we've got the blue tab. It's um it's it's a fuller jacket. Um you can definitely wear it to office depending on the on the on the uh you know uh dress uh environment uh at Bloomberg. I walked in here fairly casual. So you know it's something that we are now beginning to offer which should make your wardrobe at some stage.
>> Um hey one last question. Does it feel like God the it's been a crazy year uh and a lot of stuff coming at everybody investors the world at large. Does it feel like things are starting to calm down on a day when we've talked about what seems like progress in a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas?
>> Yeah, you know, um, as I mentioned earlier, you know, we have lived through uncertainty. Um, you know, the good news for us is the category strong. We have real business momentum. The brand's never been stronger and we have a product pipeline that is never been fuller especially as we head towards holiday. You know, our focus right now is making sure our product is on the on the floor when the because what we have seen Carol is consumers gravitate to newness and gravitate to what's relevant and um you know and you know um our view is if we can offer the right product and build a brand experience and that's why we've got real focus on our direct to consumer business while complementing growth with our wholesale business. So this quarter um you know both DDC and wholesale was up. We had in the US five consecutive quarters of high growth and it's fueled by both the channels.
>> All right. Well hermit when you talk with your design team I like high waist buttons kind of slim through the legs and then a little flare. I'm just going to put it out there. A little stretch in there too is kind of my favorite. My favorite my favorite. Um and
>> you were a Je. Thank you.
>> Yeah. What I and I'll take that feedback Karen. You know, I I sincerely believe feedback is a is a gift and getting feedback from consumers like yourself is something that I'll take upon myself to feedback to our designers.
>> All right, I'm going to hold you to it. All right, good stuff. Harmit, thank you so much. Tit Singh, chief financial and growth officer over at Levi Strauss, joining us from our bureau in San