With my company, my sales team was consistently telling me that they just didn't know how to find anything. They didn't know how to find what customers were interested in.
>> You had a bunch of salespeople. They said, "I need more information to serve our customers better." You realized you had 25,000 hours or something of recorded customer calls, which are the perfect source of truth for how customers want to be interacted with. You're going to show us a zap now that takes a single recording and does a bunch of stuff. So basically I needed to figure out well can I create a feed for Zapier. So it knew the call ID of each new call has occurred. So the first step is essentially a trigger where a new call comes in. It'll basically scrape the information from Gong and one of the things Gong will give you is that call ID. So that append it to the URL essentially is all I needed to give browse to be able to go to that URL and able to essentially scrape the entire transcript. It wasn't connected. I had to kind of hack it together.
>> I love a CEO that knows how to build it. I love a CEO who knows that no problem is not solvable. [Music] Welcome back to How I AI. I'm Claravel, product leader and AI obsessive here on a mission to help you build better with these new tools. Today we have Matt Britain, CEO of Suzie. Now, normally we show two or three workflows, but today Matt's going to show off the one mega workflow that rules it all at his company. He's going to show you how to take a single asset and turn it into tons of go to market goodness. From emails to customers, enrich data sources, and even marketing assets that can be used to source more prospects that are going to be successful with your product. Let's get to it. This episode is brought to you by Brex. If you're listening to this show, you already know AI is changing how we work in real practical ways. Brex is bringing that same power to finance. Brex is the intelligent finance platform built for founders. With autonomous agents running in the background, your finance stack basically runs itself. Cards are issued, expenses are filed, and fraud is stopped in real time without you having to think about it. Add Brex's banking solution with a high yield treasury account, and you've got a system that helps you spend smarter, move faster, and scale with confidence. One in three startups in the US already runs on Brex. You can too at bre.com/howi ai. Matt, thanks for coming on how I AI. I'm excited because as I was saying before we started the show, we get vibe coders left and right and I know we're going to talk about some custom software that you built, but we just do not get enough on the go to market and marketing side of AI automation. So, I'm really excited to show what you have to share. So, really appreciate you joining today.
>> I'm excited to be here. So, you and I both really love Zapier, and I have to ask, even before the age of AI, was this a tool that you relied on? Why has that this specific software become kind of the backbone of so many of your AI based automations?
>> So, I've always been fairly technical, but I've never been a coder. Um, I sold the first ads ever on Facebook directly to Mark Zuckerberg and Edward Sver in 2005. Um, I bought some of the first Google keywords ever to exist, right, when I started my business, um, in 2002, my first ad agency. Um, so I've always loved sort of ad tech and getting like understand how these tools work, but at the same time, I've never been an engineer. And as I've wanted to get more sophisticated in the in the tools and solutions I've built for various companies that I've run, I've need to not just use one tool like Adwords, but multiple tools to stitch things together to be more efficient. And I was turned on to Zapiero like most other people just through a Google search. And I think I wanted to connect um you know leads that were coming in through my website to some type of flow where it automatically emailed the person who signed up. And then I just kind of start to dive into it. But to your point, Claire, it wasn't until Zapier integrated AI when kind of my mind just became blown in terms of what's possible.
>> Okay. So, you're going to show us how you take a single asset, and I won't spoil what it is, and turn it into basically a full suite of activities across your marketing, sales, internal, company work. So, why don't you pull that up and show us what you built?
>> Before I pull it up, I guess you should say that I think it's all about figuring out what problem that you want to solve. And I think with AI in general, people get so overwhelmed with just the amount of tools and the rate of change that they just find themselves kind of playing around with all these tools trying to get to the point where they feel like they're comfortable in understanding them, but at the same time they're not really moving their business forward. And I think the reason that's the case is people don't ever take a step back and think like what is the core problem I need to solve for my business? Like what's holding me back from growing faster than I want to? what what's getting in my way or what's an opportunity I know is there but you know I'm not I'm not able to take advantage of it. And with my company, what I was hearing over and over again was my sales team was consistently telling me that they just didn't know how to find anything. They didn't know how to find what customers were interested in. they didn't know how to find um how to speak to people of a certain industry or a certain title in terms of identifying use cases. So there just so many unknowns and so once I understood and put my finger on that on that problem, I just became very sort of tunnel visioned and I was determined to figure out how I can build solutions that can aid my sales and customer success team to be more in the no. So once you've actually identified the problem, the next step is figuring out what data can help you seize that opportunity. And in the case of you know understanding our customers and and and getting that information, it just so happens that since the pandemic when our company went remote, we've been using this tool called Gong that's essentially attached to Zoom calls that records every single call that we have. So it says this call is being recorded for quality assurance purposes. And I always knew we had obviously Zoom and I knew that we had Gong, but what I didn't know is that their transcripts were amazing and that we actually had 25,000 hours of call transcripts that had been a mess over the last 5 years. And if you think about understanding information about your customers and your business, there's no better source of truth. So we have since built an entire operating system around this information. Not just the historical information, but a variety of different workflows that happen with each new call that occurs because it's not just about understanding what's happened in the past, but it's also being able to be highly responsive to what's going on in the present. So the first thing I'm going to show today is an automation that we have created based upon calls our our teams have either our sales team or our customer success team. Um, so and essentially what happens is as soon as that call is over, a series of events happen with that individual transcript. We also do things sort of at large with the aggregate transcripts, if that makes sense. But right now, I'm going to show you what happens kind of like real time once a call is completed.
>> Great. So, while you pull that up, just to recap for our listeners, you had a bunch of salespeople. They said, "I don't know how to find the information that I need. I don't know how to generate the information I need. I need more information to serve our customers better.
>> You realized you had, and I'm correct me if I'm wrong, 25,000 hours or something of corrected
>> customer calls, which are the perfect source of truth for
>> how customers want to be interacted with.
>> And you decided that was going to be the core context for a lot of these actions inside your company. And then you're going to show us a zap now that takes a single recording and does a bunch of stuff. I got a preview of this and it does a lot of things.
>> I've I tried to give AI to my engineering team to figure stuff like this out and it just became overwhelming to them even integrating the product and what's been helpful for me was first building things on my own and I'm not technical enough to be able to build on top of our software product. So the tools like the one I'm going to show you today was a great way for me to be able to dive into the power of AI because it was on the edges of the it wasn't the product was sort of on the edges of how we operate it and through that though I became far more adept at AI and now I'm very much involved in our product itself. So often people struggle to find a way in and there's lots of different ways in. One way is actually building something for yourself personally or building something for the marketing organization or somewhere else and then through that process you really start to get it and then you can start to be more um you know proficient in AI in much more substantive ways within the business.
>> Yeah. And I want all the other CEOs and executives watching this podcast to listen to exactly what you said because it is not sufficient to instruct your engineers to build AI.
>> You'll go nowhere. Yep.
>> No, you'll go nowhere. And I've said this a lot. This is a moment for actual hard skill building um in leaders, which is you actually have accessible skills to build in using AI, building AI tools, using these sort of like no code versions of tools to really upskill yourself on the capability. And that's going to make you a much more relevant leader, much more.
>> Yeah. You're opening up the hood. It's like you think about if you bring your car in and you don't know anything about fixing a car and they tell you $4,000 to fix a transmission, you're gonna say, "Okay, because you need your transmission fixed, right?" But if you actually just open up the hood and you understand how transm transmission works, even if you're not a mechanic,
>> maybe you can say, "Well, it really shouldn't cost $4,000 to fix this. Should really cost close to 2,000." And I think that's sort of the same analogy when it comes to AI. So um so I so the the the first step is building what I call a trigger automation and this trigger automation essentially comes from a tool uh that we've created called um that we use called browse AI. So this is browse AI and essentially a browse AI does is it runs like a a script where essentially scrapes information from gone calls. So what you see here is a URL string. You need a URL string in order to identify a a call transcript as it comes in. And Gong didn't have an easy way to do this. So I basically start to bring up a bunch of uh call transcripts. And what I start to see is they all kind of start the same way and they just end it with this call ID. So the only thing different from call to call was this call ID. So basically I needed to figure out how can I create a feed for Zapier. So it knew the call ID of each new call as as it kind of occurred. So the first step is essentially a trigger where a new call comes in right and then what happens is when the new call comes in what it will do is it'll basically scrape the information from Gong. And one of the things Gung will give you is that call ID. So I'm able to actually see the call ID. So if I click here um and I scroll over, you'll actually see that there's a call ID that I can identify here um which is right here. And so that appended to the URL essentially is all I needed to give browse to be able to go to that URL and essentially scrape the call transcript. So it it wasn't connected. I had to kind of hack it together. So if you'll see here, it basically knows what to run just based upon what's brought in and then it will go to this page which which I will show you here which actually is where the transcript is and it's able to essentially scrape the entire transcript. So this is the raw transcript that's coming from the gong calls by browse AI going to that gong page and just getting this information. But I had that initiated. So that first step essentially initiates the scrape and then when the scrape is completed, it starts my next automation.
>> Yeah. And so just to call this out for folks that are trying to build their own thing, it's okay if your tool itself does not expose the data you want. In this age now, you can usually use another tool or an alternative.
>> There's always a way
>> or an LLM to really pull the data you need out of out of any system.
>> Yeah. And I could have given up Claire like at that point at that probably one step took me the longest. And if I never would have gotten past that step I and I think a lot of people would probably have given up at that step. But after I got over that hurdle then everything else became so much easier. And it's really like an analogy for life like building something like this. And there are other stumbles I've had along the way in building things. But you just have to know that there's a way and and using and because just because a tool doesn't do it doesn't mean it can't be done. And this like in in the rearview mirror seems obvious. And now if I had a similar challenge, I'd be able to do it right away because what will happen is every time you solve a problem such as that, the next time you need to build something, you'll have all these sort of ideas and like hacks um in your tool chest, so to speak. And then now I'm at a point where there's like nothing you can tell me to build that I wouldn't know how to build because I just know how all these little things can be solved for. And you learn coding along the way. Like along the way, you learn what JSON means and all these things by having your hands on it and and and creating the automations.
>> 100%. What I was going to say is this is a CEO that I love. I love a CEO that knows how to build it. I love a CEO who knows that like no problem is not solvable. Um, and I think just even getting hands- on with some of these no code tools and these AI tools just gives you a little bit more context to be bolder about what you build. Okay, so you have
>> That's right. So the task is done, right? The the call is done. And so this next trigger is trigger when browse AI successfully scrapes a call transcript. And the first thing it'll do is obviously it'll trigger it. And you'll see here it'll give me the entire transcript of the call. Um, and that's basically now now it's like, okay, now I'm in business. Right now I have everything I need. And there's a bunch of other stuff in that gun call transcript that I use to do database lookups throughout that we'll kind of get into. I I'll have a delay of about 2 minutes before pulling in data like this just because I want to make sure that all the data is brought in, the scrape is done, and I'm just you you're prone to errors, especially if you're running a lot of um tasks quickly if you don't put in a delay. So, I always like a one or two minute delay as a buffer just to let the system catch up so it doesn't break. So, so that that's kind of self-explanatory. The next thing I do is I run a format where I'm basically removing all the HTML from the transcript. So, when you scrape sometimes it'll pull in the HTML and I don't want that. I just actually want the actual text. So, I run a formatter step where I'm removing all that. Um, I'm pulling out anything I need to that might confuse uh the analysis. So, I'm just essentially getting the raw text. Then what I do is I start to enrich the data with other information besides just the gong transcript because I had the gong transcript, but one of the things I knew I wanted to build was after the call is done, I wanted to be able to tell the salesperson that was on that call what transpired. I wanted to make it easy for them to write a follow-up email. I want to be able to identify who their supervisor was, right? But that wasn't directly pulled in through through Gong. However, we have other data sources that essentially can connect that information. So, we have a Google sheet here. For example, if you look up this ID, it connects the ID to the brand and the brand to the user, which is a whole separate workflow that we created. So, it can kind of connect the dots because when you're running an automation, you're not always going to get the data from the trigger. Sometimes you have to round it out. And the way you round it out is using things like lookups on Google Sheets. So, you're pulling everything in. It's almost like you're going down a path, you're on a hiking trail, and you want to be able to pull the supplies you need along the way before you get to the destination. And when I started, I had a backpack, but the backpack didn't have water in it. And now I have water, right? Cuz I grabbed it from here. And you're kind of going along a journey. And I personally one reason why I love Zapier versus other tools is the way my mind thinks is in a very sequential framework where there's other platforms like NA and you know or bot press where it's basically like looks like you almost like an octopus how it's branching out. I just have a hard time thinking that way. Now over time I've had to because I'm basically describing the difference between automation and agents cuz agents are not deterministic. Agents have different ways and my brain has struggled with understanding agents and I'm finally getting there. But basically the progression I see people having to take in AI is you start with using AI as a tool. You know chat GBT give me a recipe for lasagna. Then it's okay automations which we're talking about now and then you get into the world of agents where it's not just always going from step one to two to three. It might go from step one to three to eight based upon what you're trying to accomplish. Well, one tip for you or one tip for the listeners here I found is we'll go through this whole thing and a good exercise I found is taking a sequential stepbased automation and trying to use for example Zapier agents and just describe that automation in natural language in steps
>> and see how close you can get even that replication across modalities can be a good way to to test your exercise.
>> Yeah. Just test it out 100%. Yeah. and it's looking up the information. So, it's able to basically grab the information. And then after I feel like I've had all the information, the next thing I'm going to do is this where I'm starting to pull in the LLM. And an important part here is first and foremost knowing what LLM to use. And one thing I've had a hard time with is actually just we have so many automations now. And I think we can do a better job at the organizational design behind it because what happens I built so many things and I don't always do proper handoffs. So, for example, here I it should always say use latest stable version, but it didn't, right? So, so I'm going to change it now here live on the spot because I want to be using the latest version. You also want to make sure you're using the best model. I still think GBT4 Turbo is probably a good model for this, but you could see in the platform like Zapier, there are multiple different versions that you can choose from based upon and obviously they all eat up different amounts of coins and um but it's pretty incredible in terms of all the models. Now with GPT5, it's supposed to be able to choose for you, but it's unclear to me how that works in the context of an API. And for some reason, still in Zapier, you're still able to choose. And you know, I I spend a lot of time testing. I'll go in the chat GPT and test a sample input in a variety of different models to make sure. It's like whatever's the best output the quickest is what I'll tend to use.
>> So, you're still losing classic GPT4 Turbo, a good old classic classic favorite,
>> right?
>> AI is supposed to make work easier, but I've been there. Weeks of setup, endless back and forth with engineering, and yet another tool the team never really adopts. That's why I use Zapier's AI orchestration platform. It connects with nearly 8,000 apps, so I can finally put AI to work without the drama, without the delays, and without pulling engineering in every time I want to automate something. With Zapier, you can roll out AI powered workflows that do real work across your whole company in days, not weeks. I use Zapier every single day. It automatically responds to leads with enriched personalized data. It checks my calendar weekly and offers smarter ways to manage my time. And it even drafts emails for every new request that lands in my inbox. All of that running quietly in the background so I can focus on the work that matters. And Zapier's built for scale with enterprisegrade security, compliance, and governance. It's trusted by teams at Dropbox, Airbnb, Open Door, and thousands more. Go to try.zapier.com/howi to learn more about how Zapier can bring the power of AI orchestration to your entire org. Let's talk a little bit about this this prompt. So tell me what first kind of summarization exercises you want to do here.
>> Yeah. So basically here and the reason I can use a model like GB like like a GPT4 is and and you know part of it again is just keeping up with continuing to update the models but I don't fix things if they're not broken. So this particular Zap works perfectly for us and it gives us everything we need and we don't need more rigor in analysis here because it's just some core things that we want to identify. So, I'd rather not spend the extra money and even go through it. But at certain point, if it didn't work, I would look at models if it wasn't going fast enough. What's interesting is the older models tend to work faster and faster and faster over time and they actually error out less and and sometimes the older models get updated as a newer models update as well. So, it's not like you're you're driving in an 84 Chevy, so to speak. So, here this is a key step. This is called core summary generator. And what this is asked to do is analyze the customer success call transcript between Susie and our client to gauge the health of customer relationships and identify improvement areas start summaries with the customer's company name key participants and then kind of going through it ask for the key stakeholders and then it gives a call overview we describe the call's purpose the main topics and the outcome exclude small talk and then I have a variety of different instructions assess the overall customer sentiment noting any frustrations or concern provide a sentiment score from 1 to 10 where 10 reflects high satisfaction and one indicates potential discontinuation of our services. This is the key thing because it allows us to quantify customer sentiment over time and we actually benchmarked this against actual churn. So and and it's been highly predictive um in terms of the if you take the average sentiment score of customer calls over the past year, it's a huge predictor of if the customer is not just going to turn, but are they going to upsell if they're really happy? also one great thing the customer successfully did on the call kind of identify that and what are some things that they actually could have done better and then list key next steps. So this is basically just an overarching prompt where it'll take a uh a transcript and it'll identify all this information for me and then that content I can do a variety of different things with but it's a huge part of the overall output. So one of the things I want to call out here as I was reading your prompt is in an ideal world all your best CSMS are doing this after every call in a perfect way with great you know objective self evaluation all this kind of stuff and the reality is we're all so busy that you know your customer success folks or your sales folks are probably going meeting to meeting to meeting and at the end of the day trying to figure out their notes and put little things in and I just think what's nice about this is you can make the customer success or account manager's job a lot easier and let them be exceptional at their job by automating some of the work that they they would do. And so I think it's a really good hygiene step for anybody to think, you know, after I'm coming out a meeting, if I were to do my best job possible, what are the five things I would do coming out of each meeting? And then just automate that for yourself. And then you know that every time you're going to be doing that.
>> Yep. So the bunch of other steps I have and I'm not going to go through all of them because there's a ton of them. But basically it it looks up the user on Slack. So I understand the user main our employee on Slack. It identifies the people who aren't from our company. So you can kind of exclude them. Um it's able to find the user here. So I use Slack as a as a lookup sometimes because our companies from Power Directories on Slack. So if I'm trying to get someone's email address in automated fashion and I have their name, I can actually use Slack as a lookup tool in Zap without even actually posting anything to Slack. So sometimes these tools actually can be used for other purposes that's not their core purpose. And then basically the fir one of the main things I do from this is I send a channel message. So basically after the call is done you can see new customer success caller has the account the opportunity the leader of the call from our company the date of the call and it basically has that summary um that gets sent out. So we have a we have a channel that that's a constant feed that I obviously the CEO I'm very attuned to and I'll I'll share it right now where basically every time a customer call is done it just pops up on Slack and I'm able to really you know we have 300 employees at our company and I'm really able to get a sense of the kind of pulse of the company what customers care about just based upon looking at at something like this and it's you know that alone if that was the only invention that came out of a high. It would be pretty incredible if you think about it. And this is just like one of many things that we do. So I'm going to pull up and slap right now. As you can see here, this is a sample call and it shows who the CA key stakeholders will were uh what the call attempted to establish, what was the sentiment score, got an eight, right? Opportunities for upselling feedback and next steps. And it has basically a transcript here. And it's great for us to do if a customer is not happy, right? If they um you know, for some reason uh score below a seven, we have a churn uh notification channel um where basically it's called churn early warning system where it'll tell us if a customer is not happy for whatever reason. and and and we've had to modulate it cuz sometimes a client will say they're not h it'll say the client's not happy but maybe they're just not happy with how their business is going. So it it's it's not always like a science. Um, and then in the channel sometimes the rep will say, "Oh, no, they're fine. It's just this." But we have in many instances, and to your point earlier, like sometimes the the rep might not want to tell anybody, right? Maybe it's a Friday afternoon, they just don't want to deal with it. And then what happens is we end up forgetting about it and then the customer turns three months later and we're like, "Why didn't you just tell us?" We don't have to do that anymore. We don't have to ask somebody how that call went with Proctor and Gamble. It's just here.
>> Yep. Okay, great. So, we keep the transcript. You post all of them. So everybody in the company has access to customer calls and summaries which is just great for general sentiment analysis, knowledge sharing, transparency. You take any ones where the sentiment analysis is low and you put them in sort of like a warning area churn alert channel um where I'm sure you're paying a little extra attention so you can get ahead of potential churn risks which as a B2B girl I really really love. And then so that's that's a little bit more like the account ops side of things, but then I know you take off a bunch of marketing.
>> Yeah, there's a bunch of other things. Yeah. So this next one, again, this is all part of the same automation is another LLM call where we're basically describing what Suzie does and we're saying analyze the key areas of interest data in the transcript and output a bunch of keywords that we should be buying in Google. So if customers are using words that we that are describing what they're interested in or what we sell and we're not running Google keywords for them, we want to. So basically these keywords will be mentioned, we extract them and then we run an automation to add those keywords to our Google campaigns automatically.
>> So not only are you taking sort of this is I love this one, so I want people to pay attention. So, not only are you taking the account level specific uh context, but you're saying our customers will tell us in their words what they're looking for, what problems they're trying to solve. These customer calls are a rich source of market insight. And so you're going to use these customer calls to actually extract out market surface areas, keywords, places where you can put marketing dollars against and then reach customers similar to the customers that you're successful with, which is a really nice closed loop solution. Um, and again,
>> that's right.
>> You know, we were talking about how this note summary is the the way in an ideal world a customer success manager would provide notes. In an ideal organization, your, you know, paid search manager would be monitoring all these calls and doing all this for you. But we don't live in ideal worlds and people are busy. And so again, this is is not only designing from the point of view of like what would a person do, but also what would a team do.
>> That's right. The other thing we do is we've done a coach into this. So the next step essentially is called individual call feedback. And what this does is it actually creates a feedback note to the person on the call. So this just goes to the sales rep on the on the sales or customer sales rep saying here's what you did, here's what you did right, here's what you did wrong and actually sends it to them right afterwards so they understand how to get better, which is something that we would had to hire somebody to be on their back and tell them which they know on their own. What's interesting is like the people that really want to get better, this is AI is an incredible tool because they're going to want this feedback. And the people who never really wanted to hear from anyone to begin with, they're not going to want to hear this, but they wouldn't have been good in either way. So that kind of goes to the point that like it's going to make the good people that much better, right? And we add this to a data set. So we have a a feedback called data set. So we can actually see are there trends like is AI detecting that this person always cuts calls short or they always interrupt the customer or they don't talk about and then when it comes time to reviewing them it's all data driven it's not just myopic if if managers change over we have all this information and the good ones want this information. Yeah, what I was actually going to reflect on is you're talking about this from the point of view of the individual contributor, the CSM, the AE, but what I was thinking is so much of AE and CSM performance is really gated on do they have a good sales manager coach? Do they have a good SVP sales that can actually provide them targeted coaching on all of their right when it's relevant?
>> And this sort of like evens the playing field. Your manager could be great, your manager could be terrible. in every call you're going to get kind of objective feedback on your performance and so again it helps uplevel the performance across the organization
>> and it's democratized you're right 100%. The other thing we realized going back to problem solving is we heard from our sales team and our customer team you know it takes so much time for us to write a good follow-up email after the call. So now we added follow-up email writer where essentially you write an email that they we that they would want to send as a follow-up to the call and actually just and and it's designed very well and it's sent to them for them to basically copy and paste it and send it and it's just a way for them so right after the call they'll get the feedback in their inbox and they'll get this email and they can copy and paste and send or edit it and you know we could have made this automated but you know that's where the human in the loop matters right we don't what if there's the context is wrong what if they don't want to send the feedback right away? What if they want to copy somebody new? So that's why we have to have a human in the loop here. So the churn early warning detector basically sends through two different paths and these paths essentially um kind of dictate who we should notify and who we shouldn't. So we've also now started to do much more marketing driven things from this data. One of which is we start to create a database. This is called customer profile database. And what customer profile database does is essentially structures data after each call with things like what's the role of the customer, what product areas of Suzie are they most interested in, what business trends are they most interested in, and we have a structured database across all the calls which gets fed into a GPT. So if a salesperson is going into a call with a brand manager of an automotive company, they could say, "What are the things that brand managers of automotive companies are most interested in in terms of trends of interest or our product?" And it'll tell them right away because the data in aggregate is stored with a different tool that we deploy. So again, not only do we have the automated things that are happening, but we have this aggregate database that we unlock the value of on an ongoing basis.
>> Okay. I have to ask you a question again. as a B2B enterprise girl, are you using a CRM? Like, is this data going into Salesforce? Are you like,
>> "Yes,
>> it can can all go in Google Sheets. We don't care." I'm just curious.
>> Well, I mean, you know,
>> today goes in the Salesforce, but the you know, I think the reason Mark Beni off is leaning into agent forces for that reason, right? It's like what's the point, right? So, like theoretically everything I'm building right now is a better what I just showed you I believe is a better version of Salesforce. And guess what? The salesperson doesn't have to enter a record. It's entered and the manager is getting information and they can chat with the data and they can pull reports and aggregate. That's basically what Salesforce was built for. And you know, from a meta standpoint, our company is facing the same thing with market research where like we built the smart. So we're all trying to figure out how to disrupt ourselves based upon what's happening. But you're right. I mean, and that's sort of the fundamental issue that exists today.
>> What I was reflecting on though is one of the challenges with Salesforce. Well, you know, one of the reasons Salesforce did so well is because of the flexibility of implementing your own data schema and kind of
>> Yeah, of course.
>> And one of the limitations is like gosh, you have to go through your Salesforce admin to like set up anything and get, you know, and then the charts and graphs weren't great and no one really knew how to I mean, you just sometimes want to know like what's the status of the PNG account. It's what you want to know and it's just good luck getting that dumb where right now you could just literally just speak it or type it and you get it. And that's kind of where we're all heading to.
>> Yeah. And then what you're showing is you could create these oneoff loosely structured Google Sheets for example for different various lookups. They don't have to be perfect. They don't have to be hardened in your CRM, but they're useful to your team. And I think
>> it's structured. It's a structured database which you know I think you know for rag structured databases work much better. And this is a structured database and that's really all you need. I think a key point here it goes back to what I mentioned earlier is you just have to find it. It's not about the tool, it's about the data. People are so focused on the application layer. It means nothing without the data. And to me, it's like this is the ultimate source of data. And this is the treasure trove and this is people in the wild saying what they want. So I want to build everything on top of this data. So that's why when when we were prepping for today's interview, you're like, we'll show a bunch of different things and and the way I look at it differently. I'm gonna show you one thing that has many different tentacles based on the most important thing which is what our customers are saying and that's a different way of looking at it.
>> Yeah. And I want you to show one more sort of marketing use case off this master workflow. But while you're that up,
>> what I might encourage people to think about is
>> think of yourself as a single workflow. Think of your team as a single workflow. Maybe even think of your company as a single workflow and figure out how that whole thing should work. and then work your way into some of these automations is really interesting as opposed to these little micro task kind of style things. You can really ladder it up to what's the step-by-step process this this team should follow um given a certain task. And so I think it's really interesting that you have this this mega automation as opposed to these little oneoff one-off things. So this the last one I'll show you which is this one was controversial at first and it required massive testing to push it live which is so we speak to somebody say a financial service brand and they talk Susie is a market research company right so we compete with companies like call tricks and survey monkey etc so we're going to have a we had a call in with a financial services company and they want to name a new product say it's a new credit card or something that's a use case that other financial services companies might want to use us for. Now, obviously, we can't share that X Bank is thinking about renaming something. So, we but we want to share that Suzie can do this new use case. So, what we did is we've done an automation where it basically extracts any identifying information from the call. So, basically that includes the brand, the brand name, any specific strategy that the company had, anything that's identifying to them at all. we redact and we have to test it over and over and over again to make sure that nothing could get through that could be because we'll lose customers and and we breach car. So we can't do any of that but at the same time if a salesperson just talked to a beverage company about you know testing packaging they're very welcome the next call say yeah just spoke to another company about this and that's kind of what we want to have a programmatic approach to. So, what this does is it'll take those transcripts and it'll write a blog post that fully redacts all that specified information, but focuses just on the idea of what we talked about. It'll create a graphic, a headline. It'll even create a custom um CTA at the bottom and it will and it'll optimize it for SEO and it publishes it on our blog and it publishes it 21 days later which is just something that we want to do to even make sure to the nth degree that any privacy or anything. So we we but now we have 10,000 blog posts that are created on the calls that we're making without any human intervention. It just goes it goes and goes and goes. um every single use case that you can think of and now we're running ads against these through Google dynamic search ads. So, you know, and we're starting to get now it takes a while to gain SEO traction with stuff like this. But even before that, now if someone searches for anything that Susie has possibly talked to somebody about, we have a blog post up there and we run ads against it.
>> This is this is amazing. I love this. This gives me so many ideas. And what I like about this is it's taking again your richest source of insight about not just what a customer wants, but what the marketer want, what the market wants,
>> and creating assets that then you can use to go reach similar customers with similar problems. So again, your most successful customers are going to look like your most successful customers. And so you want to go find more more of those folks. So again, to recap for everybody, a single don call generates a summary, a Slack post, a turn risk alert, a follow-up email, a coaching email to the CSM. Um, it enriches a bunch of data. It sends out auto automations. It identify keywords for you to bid on and it generates content for you to both bid on and send paid traffic to but also generate to get organic traffic going off one call. So the other thing I want to call out for people is in this age of AI and automation, you can take a very simple asset and extract the like nth degree of value out of that asset which I think is such a useful and helpful workflow for people. So Matt, we had this is a how I AI first. You have created such a big workflow that we have only shown one
>> and I think that's enough and we'll have people reach out to I know you have a couple other really interesting workflows, but we're going to get back you back to building Zaps and running this amazing team. Before I let you go, let me ask um two lightning round questions and then we'll we'll get you out of here. One is, you know, as I've been reflecting, this is a good reflection of how great individual contributors work or how great teams work. How has this changed how you think about building the shape of your team in your startup right now? Yeah, I think it's far more individual contributors, far more people who want to put their hands on keyboard, people who are willing to learn, um people who are motivated and ambitious that are that are proactive at finding solutions. I think those are the people who are going to drive the next great businesses, not order takers, not people who walk in the work every day and wait to be told what to do because you could just you could you could just solve what I'm able to do if I tell AI what to do. So I don't need more people to tell what to do. I need people who are going to come up with new ideas and solutions and be proactive.
>> Yeah. What I say is this is the age of the super icy. Like if you can be a super icy, you are going to go so so far,
>> you know. Second question, who do you think should own this inside your team? I know you're building a lot of it, but is this a role? Is this everybody's job? Who do you think needs to be thinking about building these kinds of automations? Well, I I think that you need like a couple of G go to market orchestrators that are are almost like general contractors that are looking at the blueprint of all different automations, but then I think you need people who are owning the output of those automations. And so the marketing team should know the output of the blogs and if that's not working, they should go to the, you know, the automation team and say, well, this is breaking, how do we make it better, etc. I think that's the best design, but it does require definitely new roles in the organization.
>> Yeah, for sure. And then of course the last question which is prompting techniques when AI is not giving you what you want. What do you do? Maybe in chat GPT like do you bribe? Are you an all caps person? What do you do?
>> I I have a framework where I first set what I'm trying to accomplish and then I kind of set the framework for the prompt like almost like guardrails like here's what not to do. Uh, and then and then I think for me telling it what not to do is a great way of kind of eliminating the issues I see until I get close and when I get it close to it outputting something I actually want then I refine what I wanted to actually do and I think that's generally how I go about it.
>> Okay. So you're doing guardrail prompting do not do in addition to this is I want you to accomplish. Well Matt, this has been amazing. I love this. I'm actually going to go steal a bunch of your ideas for my own.
>> Please do.
>> Enterprise pipeline. Where can we find you and how can we be helpful?
>> Uh you can find learn more about me at mattbritton.com. Um I just uh rolled out a new book in May called Generation AI. So definitely check that out. It's about generation alpha and the AI generation. And then you can learn more about my company Suzie at suzie.com suzy.com.
>> Well Matt, I really appreciate it. Thanks for the time.
>> Thanks so much Claire.
>> Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this show, please like and subscribe here on YouTube, or even better, leave us a comment with your thoughts. You can also find this podcast on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Please consider leaving us a rating and review, which will help others find the show. You can see all our episodes and learn more about the show at howiaipod.com. See you next time.