Hello, my friends. Today is January 10th and this is Markets Weekly. So, this past week was a good week in markets. We had the S&P 500 make new all-time highs. When you look at the index a bit more closely, it's very clear that the market is undergoing a rotation out of big tech and into the other stuff like miners and materials, for example. So, you can see that the NASDAQ basically hasn't yet made a new all-time high. Now, we continue to be in a seasonally positive part of the year, although I have to admit that it does look like the market is losing a bit of momentum. Now, this past week was a big week when it came to data. We have a whole bunch of labor market data. So, today, first, let's talk about uh all the labor market data we got and how the Fed could be thinking about this. And secondly, we also got a flurry of policy announcements from the president uh with regards to housing. We got a ban on institutional u investors buying homes. We got u very very interesting use of Fanny and Freddy ordering them to buy 200 billion in mortgage back securities. And most recently we have the president announcing that he's going to put a limit on credit card interest rates. So let's talk about all those u announcements and how that affect the economy and the markets. All right, first starting with the labor market. So this past week we got Jolts which shows the number of job openings. We got the weekly unemployment claims and of course the allimportant non-farm payroll print. Now Joltz is basically telling the same story that it's been telling for uh several months now. If you look at the number of job openings according to Joltz totally totally surged during the pandemic huge amounts of demand. Everyone had stimuli money. Everyone was spending money and then over the I guess the few years after gradually normalizing and jolts continues to show that the number of job openings is on a downward trend and actually below where it was during the pandemic. So very clearly a low hiring economy. Now there is also some data though that suggests that labor productivity is increasing. What that means is that employers are able to use the same employees more effectively and so that is one reason why there could be less demand for labor. Now some people could also say that maybe AI is playing a role. I'm sure it is in certain industries but again this is still very early in the AI adoption cycle. Um moving on to unemployment claims. um you know really not much continuing claims continue to stay elevated but there's not a very clear deterioration in uh in the labor market from this perspective. If there was a sudden deterioration you would expect a jump in unemployment claims as many people who are fired go and claim unemployment insurance. That's not happening at the moment. And lastly of course the most important is the monthly non-farm payroll print. Now, interestingly, the print was, I guess, unintentionally disclosed by the president himself the night before. Uh, so the way this works is that the White House actually gets the data be uh the night before uh the print. And it seems like the president based on this data made a truth social post uh telling everyone how great the data is. But when you back out the numbers from the Truth Social Post, that could only have happened uh the numbers only made sense if if it incorporates the latest numbers, which at that point in time, Thursday evening, had not yet been published. Uh the thing is, no one actually pays attention to Truth Social. It's actually terrible to navigate, full of terrible ads. And so, even though uh it seems like the White House team accidentally disclosed this data ahead of time, no one actually picked it up. And honestly, even if you knew what the print was, it's not really obvious how the market would take it. Now, the non-farm payroll sprint itself was, as it tends to be, disappointing. The headline job growth was a bit lower and the market anticipated about 50,000 and of course we had some downward revisions. But what was really notable though, of course, is the unemployment rate dropping uh back down. So um when we're looking at this data again the going thinking is that we have all these changes in labor demand and supply. We have changes in immigration policy less illegal immigrants. So that's a contraction in supply and maybe there's changes in how the economy works as well. Maybe AI and stuff like that is changing the amount of demand we have. So even though the number of headline jobs created is clearly clearly trending lower uh the Fed has been paying a lot more attention to the unemployment rate. with the unemployment rate coming down, it's a very clear um I guess month- over-month improvement in the labor market from their perspective. So, the market took one look at this and immediately priced out any possibility of a January rate cut. Now, that being said, again, labor market labor growth continues to be very very sluggish even though uh this month shows the an improvement in the unemployment rate. So, uh, it's going to be an ongoing debate we continue to have. If we want further rate cuts from a power Fed, we'll need that number to deteriorate. And beyond that, again, we're going to have a new Fed and so things could change. We'll see what happens. The president is expected to announce his new Fed chair sometime this month. Uh, it's not I don't think Kevin Hasset is a front runner, although he continues to be very, very close to the front runner. Uh it seems like um the other Kevin is is gaining some speed. All right. Secondly, let's talk about all the kind of exciting policy announcements that came out of the White House uh this week. So, as we've been talking for some time, uh the White House, the federal government has a ton of levers to pull when it comes to stimulating the economy. So, we have to be mindful that this is a very much, I guess, a bit more open-minded White House when it comes to using executive power. And we've seen that over and over again. Again, last week we had the um extraction of Vizwood and President Maduro. And then uh also on Friday, we had this huge televised real reality show style um round table with all the major oil executives talking about how they could go in and and help extract some of that oil. The conclusion seems to be that in order to get Venezuela back to 3 million barrels per day that it used to have many years ago, it's going to take a while and a lot of investment. But for it to improve from the current 750 KBD to something higher, that could actually happen pretty rapidly, at least according to Chevron, which is still there and has been there for I don't know many, many decades actually. I think since the beginning of their oil industry. So we are going to see a notable increase in oil from Venezuela, but it it's to get that huge u 3 million barrel target per day target. It's going to take a lot of time. In any case, um all right, so back to the big announcement. So of course the president first off told everyone that he's going to ban institutional investors from buying single family homes. He understands now and the White House has been clearly messaging that Americans are very concerned about affordability. um president's poll numbers have not been doing well. They have elections coming up in um at towards the end of the year. So they they are doing everything they can to try to improve affordability. Now to be perfectly clear this is not going to have any impact not okay so maybe that's too strong marginal marginal impact on house prices because in the US the institutional investors just don't own very many um homes. When I say institutional investors, we're talking about like these huge huge massive funds um either publicly traded or not. Now, a lot of the homes are actually just owned by mom and pop investors like individuals who own let's say two or three um rental units. So, it's not really something that is there is no dark dark uh evil investors with billions of capital buying up homes that keep everyone um unaffordable. Their their share of the market is just very small. And more importantly, a lot of institutional landlords actually have a build to rent model. And so they're taking their money and they're actually building homes. So they're increasing home supply and not just going out there and just buying homes. So uh a lot of this has been basically a lot of the fear that uh pools of capital, huge huge uh private equity firms just buying up homes, keeping homes unaffordable. Uh that's just honestly it's bunch of nonsense. It's very crude propaganda. But these political messages are things that the president does, every politician does to try to um you know make it look like they're doing something. We see this happen in other countries as well. Another common thing which we could actually see is foreign investor bans. You see that in other countries as well. All these foreigners are coming in buying up our homes. Homes are for Americans. So we got to keep them out. That has not been announced. But I think that's easily something in line with this kind of imagery. So that's not going to make any difference and hopefully they'll continue to let the institutional investors build to rent because that actually increases um how home supply. Now the second much more interesting thing that the president did is announced that Fanny and Freddy are going to buy $200 billion worth of mortgage bonds. Now this is actually something that had immediate impact. The market saw this and immediately uh mortgage uh mortgage bonds went up in price so went down in yield and that seems to have flown through into mortgage rates as well where uh some people are citing that mortgage rates now have a five handle 5.99 of course a very high five handle and that is something that can actually make a difference. So the way the mortgage market works and I go about this I talk about this in my uh market complete course as well is that you have a primary mortgage market and a secondary mortgage market. A primary mortgage market is the market where mortgage loans are originated. So if you want to buy a home you can go to a mortgage company um or a bank usually a mortgage company and they will originate create a loan for you. Uh but what happens is that they don't actually keep the loan. They they're not trying to invest in that. What they do is they collect a whole bunch of these homes. They sell it to a dealer. The dealer then takes those loans and gives them to Fanny May and exchange receives a bunch of mortgage back securities. So these mortgage back securities are basically um a pool of mortgage loans that have a Fanny and or Freddy guarantee and that can be freely traded on the market. So these are then sold to institutional investors who then ultimately are the beneficiary owners of the mortgage bond. So when you pay your mortgage, that money, that mortgage payment goes into a trust managed by Fanny or Freddy and then that payment then goes into the bond holder of the mortgage back security. So the mortgage back security is the secondary market, right? That's not where the loans are originated, but where where they're traded afterwards on the secondary market. Now the the two markets, the primary mortgage market and the secondary mortgage market are connected. So when Fanny and Freddy go out and buy a whole bunch of mortgage bonds, they're buying a whole bunch of mortgages on the secondary market. So that means that mortgage bonds appreciate in price. It makes it more attractive for people to originate mortgage loans and then sell it to the secondary market because the price of mortgage bonds has gone up. So that uh compels competition in the primary mortgage market. people try to create more mortgage uh loans, basically more mortgage collateral, then they can sell it to the secondary market. And so that is actually something that had a tremendous impact during the pandemic. You had the Fed buying literally several hundred billion dollars worth of mortgage back securities, pushing mortgage back securities to very high prices. Again, mortgage mortgage back security that's to yield. It's hard to say yield because a lot of the yield is model based because you can prepay. But in any case, it made it more attractive for people to originate mortgage loans to sell it to the secondary market and you had this tremendous boom or mortgage rates and the primary market went to as low as say 2.5%. Uh honestly, the huge huge jump in house prices is is largely because of that policy. And if you have 2 and 12% mortgage rates, obviously everyone is going to buy a house. Now you know the Fed does many things. Uh I think they try to do their best and obviously policy has you know the impact of policy is not always clearly anticipated and it helps some sectors hurts others but in terms of policy errors this buying hundreds of billions of mortgages when house prices were up 25% year-over-year is as clear as a policy error as I've ever seen in in any central bank. actually is was totally ridiculous and largely why we have this huge huge inflation house prices that people are complaining about today. And so when uh founding and fairly are going out to do something similar not to the same scale we definitely will see an improvement in mortgage rates already happening and you know maybe it will help housing affordability a little bit. Although I think though if you want to buy a new home, they already buy down your mortgage rates like 5% or maybe four and a half percent. So it's not really a rate problem. It's really I think a problem about um insecurity in employment and also that the prices are too high. So will help but really it's it's not the silver bullet. Also, I think this is actually has really implications on, you know, Fed policy and maybe what the administration can do with other GSC's as well. And what I will write about this week, it again, this is a super creative administration, super determined. They want to get u mortgage rates low. They want to get homes affordable. They have tools in their toolkit. Uh this is going to be a very uh very interesting year. All right. The last thing that he just announced yesterday, Friday, is that uh president would like to cap interest rates on credit card loans to 10%. Now, if you look at a chart of in credit card interest rates over the past few years, you'll notice that they are really high. So, they were around say 15% before the pandemic and after the pandemic, they jumped to as high as 20% where they've remained. So for a lot of uh the people who actually rely on credit cards, it's been a struggle. 20% interest rates is obviously very concerning. So again, the president is signaling that he wants to help the public by capping these credit card interest rates to about 10%. And this is a policy that is uh really for politics for optics rather than actually helping people. So because what happens in practice is that well what a credit card company is willing to charge is going to be in proportion to uh their perception of the borrower's risk. Right? So if you are someone with very good credit, you're you're you're probably not going to be offered a 20% rate. You probably get something better or maybe you get some, you know, very generous introductory offer or something like that. So when you limit the interest rates that credit card companies can charge, obviously they're just going to uh just not offer as much credit to people, especially to those who are have very low credit scores. A credit card company offering high interest rate loans is not necessarily a bad thing uh because some people really are high risk, right? What if it's someone with a history of defaults, 500 FICO score, very low FICO score? uh the option for that person is either to pay high interest rates or get no credit at all. And the credit card company off obviously makes a judgment. You know, I'm going to get high interest income and I'm also have a high default rate. Is my expected value worth it? That's up to them to decide. The credit card landscape is very obviously a pretty competitive landscape. You have all sorts of companies offering products and so it's also very profitable for the banks. So, this is just going to be u honestly it's not a good policy. Maybe good politics, but it's not a good policy because one, you limit the amount of credit that low-inccome people or people with bad credit scores can get, and that's just not good for the economy. And also, you're limiting the amount of business these credit card companies are willing to do by limiting what they can charge. And so, it's going to be crimp uh the financials as well, at least those companies that have large credit card businesses. go. And I think this type of basically price control stuff is maybe good. Politics comes back over and over again in populist uh regimes. Uh but it's it's it's not going to be good for the economy or for the markets. Um all right. So that's just uh the second week of the year. We got so much things happening. I'm sure we'll have more interesting policies coming out. All right. So that's all prepared. Thanks so much for tuning in and I'll talk to you guys next week.