All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of Tech Bros. We are live uh on this Monday evening. I'm here with Tanner and Roy. Uh how are you guys doing?
>> Great. How are you guys?
>> I'm immediately being blamed in chat. I uh was perfectly on time.
>> Bro, they're calling me a Mitt Powell. This is ridiculous. At least it's not emit S&P 500.
>> Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Um, all right. We got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. Bunch of stuff that went on in the world of Robin Hood over the weekend. So, we'll talk about that. Uh, we will get into some of this OpenAI Broadcom stuff, which kind of I mean, I think it took a lot of us for a surprise. 10 gigawatt deal. So, we'll get into that and, uh, then any other headlines that we've got going on. But, we do have a special guest. We do have a special guest. This person is a hood OG was buying it at eight bucks a share. Uh they've since probably quintupled their position since they initially got in and uh they've been using one part of Hood's product immensely and I think that's going to be a big topic today that we'll discuss. So ladies and gentlemen, introducing Jason.
>> Testing. Testing. Does it work?
>> Yep, you're good. Works.
>> I have no echo. I was worried about that. I've not used this place for a stream yet. So,
>> looks good.
>> We are here.
>> We have
>> Dude, I like the background. Very holiday.
>> I have a the game on. I don't know if you guys are watching or if you have if you have any live bets.
>> No, but but you made a good call there. Uh I saw that. You know, I only dabble in that side. I might have taken you know
>> these guys Asian Steve too funny. Listen you guys they the chat doesn't know but like I've been like badgering a mit since since tech bros before tech bros was tech bros and I was like dude do I how do I how do you get on the show? This is like this is like a 2025 like mission all year just to say hello. I made it.
>> I think you just had to ask. He asked like last week while we were live. Bro, just come on next week. Like,
>> all right. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. I mean, everyone on my channel knows Jason. He does Technical Tuesday with me. If you're on Tanner and Royy's channel, you probably heard of Jason on X. I'll put his X and YouTube in the in the chat in a second. But, um,
>> I need to push this to our servers, too.
>> Yeah, push push it to your servers. There are a couple of topics we'll touch on when it comes to Robin and then we'll get into all the tech stuff. And you know, because Jason follows the Robin Hood story, I think he'll be able to provide some good input on it. Before we get into prediction markets, which is a big thing, let's talk about what happened on Friday. 3% draw down on the S&P 500, $19.5 billion of crypto liquidations. How it relates to Robin Hood is outside of the stock going from 150 to 30. 130. It's back up to 140. I don't think that's big of a deal. Is a lot of people were not able to buy or sell crypto during that time. So, I'll give it to you Tanner. What was your perception or at least perspective on the perception that Robin Hood is manipulating the little guy and not allowing them to get their orders into the market?
>> No, specifically on that, I I didn't have any take. I mean, I that's not what they're doing. They want retail to win. They want retail to win more than institutions. I mean, that's what allows them to become the biggest financial brokerage. So um any tools that they can give and be faster than their competitors is a higher likelihood that they are going to be you know a large trusted brand. So whatever had happened um which I haven't looked into since to be honest uh was not a good look and they that wasn't on purpose not that I would believe at least. So yeah. Do you want any are we going to go back around and actually talk about what actually happened on Friday aside from Robin Hood? Like the actual events that un unfolded?
>> Yeah, I mean we'll talk about it from a sort of market macro perspective.
>> Okay. Then I'll I'll pass on to Roy and we'll we'll we'll get back to that then.
>> Yeah, it's twice in a week, different issues each time. One just specific to crypto, the other was on Monday. Um, of course, other brokerages both on the uh trading side, the equity side, and also on the crypto side were impacted. it wasn't just a Robin Hood issue. So Monday it could have been an API uh or a data feed issue uh and likewise could be that uh with one of these parties. Uh but the other issue of course is the uh the gas fee spiked immensely during those type of events too. So probably there's some work to be done on Robin Hood's side just to of course make sure that there's redundancy and resiliency so they don't keep going down. It's not a good thing no matter how you slice it. Uh but also that if it was up, those gas fees would have been ridiculous. Uh to the point where it would have just eaten up like entire trades and uh so they need a a vehicle mechanism. They probably rolled that out very quickly just giving a warning of like, hey, these are very elevated gas fees. Double check that you're good with this before we uh before you send it on or something like that. So uh but yeah, overall not not great. Robin Hood is getting most of the attention just because it's market shared, it's space share on X as well. And we're in a little bit of an Xecho chamber, but also because of the the some of the GameStop debacle from, you know, a long time ago, which, you know, is still a little bit of an overhang, but it doesn't break the thesis at all.
>> Jason, do you have a take on uh some of the hate that Hood got over the weekend or did you see any of it on X?
>> On the weekend? No, I missed it thankfully. So,
>> okay. So, I I'll just give
>> prediction markets were working fine.
>> Yeah, prediction markets were working fine. I'll give my take on this. I mean, look, I agree with Josh's
>> Josh's argument here I thought was really good. He said, "Look, for crypto, people may have somewhat of a gripe, but you must realize it's about liquidity. Hood and other platforms who offer crypto are having to deal with this in real time. And crazy events like this, aka 20 billion dollars of a liquidation event. There isn't just enough to fill orders." and he compared it to blaming Apple for your iPhone delivery being late because the UPS truck broke down. That is not to excuse Hood from obviously not being the the the the most reliable exchange at that time, but but I do agree it wasn't just Hood. I mean, there was a lot of other platforms that people said were having issues. And we have not had a 20 billion crypto liquidation event ever. I mean, COVID was about three billion. So, this was much higher than COVID and FTX combined. And I think at that moment, you know, and it was only about a 30-minute span, yeah, Robna was having liquidity issues. Now, obviously, as Robno shareholders, we want them to never have those problems. But for the people saying, "Short the stock, sell the stock. This is the worst thing ever. There's a conspiracy to screw the little guy." It's like, to Tanner's point, they don't get anything from screwing the little guy. Like, they make all their money from helping the little guy. So like and there is no way in hell just based on I think our analysis of Vlad as a founder does he want to actively cause issues for people to fulfill their orders because he wants the stock to go up. What helps the stock go up? People trust your platform and they keep using it. So I think those those conspiracies are just a sign of people that don't have a lot of intelligence quite frankly. But is it a good look for Hood? No. Is that a reason to sell the stock? No. So, at the end of the day, it's not the best look, but it's also not a reason why it's a thesis breaker by any sense of the imagination.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Cool. All right. So, let's talk about the big topic here, prediction markets. Jason, I'm just going to give you the floor. Why do you love this product so much? Why are you obsessed with using this thing so much? I mean, well, when it when it first came out, it was like, okay, so so I run a community, an active trading community with an active sports betting component inside the community and and we know and and and I'm an active trader, but I know like how big just this NFL season, like seasonally, how big the NFL contracts can be in terms of a revenue driver. And um when I was looking at I was texting you a minute. I was like, "Wait a second. Has Vlad really not put out like a single penny of revenue yet?" Like do people At the time I think Hood was like $100 or maybe like 115, something like that. Not even that long ago. Um maybe around 120. Anyways, I was like, "How is this not the biggest layup in the market at the moment?" Because there was nothing really baked into the price. And and when I ran the numbers, it was like, okay, first of all, being in a unique position as someone that does run the sports betting a sports betting community, it's like where it I can see and I and I think Royy's seen this too, like even today, Robin Hood is such a small fraction of what's what they could possibly get. And then watching how fast Hood was ramping in the product acceptance. So because I because of where I sit, I also know that the overlap between active traders, which Vlad has said for many years that I want to own the active trading space, the overlap between active traders and sports bers, active sports bers is like 60 70%. Believe it or not, and so it made sense from a strategic business perspective. And I was like, "Holy crap, these businesses, the overlap between these customer segments is massive." I'd say about if you run the number I think I think it's between 60 and 70% of active sports betterers are actually actively involved in trading markets and crypto. So just by bringing this one piece in the overlap to all the other businesses just on that alone was just hello it makes perfect sense. Not to mention if they did happen to get just a little piece of that giant pie which is giant um like that could actually become a really big business. And sure enough, you know, with the help of the community and and Juan and whoever who's tracking, right, he tags us all and like we see these contracts going up, it's become a massive business that was, I think, just kind of discounted um by by major analysts at the time, like not really knowing how big the business can really be. And at the same time, I'm looking at like this is not even I don't look at it as Robin Hood going out to try and disrupt a sports betting industry, quite frankly. I I mean, we know that Robin Hood's going out to disrupt the financial system as a whole. And they kind of just ran into a contract vehicle, a vehicle to possibly do this that has this massive overlap, an easy play from a business perspective to to bring in net new consumers, a brand new line of business that is not in anybody's bingo card in terms of what's going to get them to, you know, a trillion dollars or whatever. And it's just a bolt-on boom. Can this be a real annual re revenue driver that is just it's kind of like a what's the opposite of a black swan? It's like it
>> white swan
>> a white swan. It's like a white swan like oh okay bright sh and and now now here we are and we're seeing we're seeing the the massive amount of adoption to this day. I still don't think that they're they're they're never going to be like a DraftKings. And I can look across the market and say, "Okay, well, the DraftKings sell off is probably a little overdone because it's it's not like Robin's going after them, per se, but with the amount of reach and and other things that they can do." And you you look at Vlad's tweets and things like that, he still wants to broaden the horizon of what event contracts can be. Um, but just this alone when you when you run the numbers out and you just look at just the NFL season alone, just this one football sport in America, not even just America, it's a it's a multi- trillion dollar season. And and that season is September to February, which by the way, Hood as a fintech is a very seasonal can be a very seasonal company that pulls that seasonality kind of out of the box for them.
>> Yeah. And and when DraftKings came public, you can look at this initially, the ramp is so heavy in September to January, that that takes away a lot of that seasonality within the stock itself because just that one component of the business. I mean, that's it's a it's a massive it's it could be a massive, you know, brand new line of business that was not on anybody's radar that's just going to go straight to the bottom line because we are literally talking about, I don't know, 90% margins. um not nothing but definitely mar 90% margins. Sorry, I'm going on a tangent, but when you look at the the NFL ramp from now to the quarterfinals to the semi to to the championships to the Super Bowl, we have barely started. And what if you're actually counting the contracts, we're week six, 16 weeks of regular, it just gets bigger from here. It just gets bigger from here. And it gets massively bigger from here cuz by the time we get to the quarterfinals, it's it's giant. Um, and by the end of this year, yeah, I would I would put the numbers at like a quarter billion dollars. Um, just on the Super Bowl ramp. And then you include the other like college football, MLB, NHL, and everything else that they're trying to do. I'm like, "Okay, this was not in this was not in any metric. It's a big deal." Um, yeah. And it's just to the bottom line.
>> What What did you mean by it helps with seasonality? Wouldn't Wouldn't that make Robin Hood more of a a seasonal business?
>> No, because it's not their core business, and I don't think it's ever going to be their core business. So, it would kind of offset their core business. So, in terms of trading, like the market itself is typically seasonal. So the market itself, I think Robin Hood needs net inflows generally speaking and usually seasonally September is like a bloody month usually annually. I think we could all kind of agree to that. And that's the seasonality that I'm talking about possibly offsetting because in the month of September, Robin Hood from here on in perpetuity will have a brand new line of business that none of these other financial companies have that's just going to boom offset to the bottom line that you'll always have to think about if as a as that's going to be an extra buffer, an extra cushion forever as long as they're in this business that'll kind of start, you know, hopefully hold them afloat. Yeah, I think more than cyclical I can see some of that too. But u I I I think or rather than seasonality I think it's cyclicality that it really helps them with because if markets are going down and it's you know if it's a recessionary period I I don't love this but people still tend to bet although they still may bet less as well and so I think it eases some of that cyclicality. There is some seasonal aspect too but yeah it's and the other piece too Jason I love the way that you captured this too. Uh, and I'm I'm not as far as you are as far as seeing this. It's a big revenue driver. Massive. I'm probably not quite as bullish as you're on that. Uh, and then we need to get Tanner and Amit closer to where I'm at uh, today hopefully. But, um, it's it's exciting that this didn't exist a year ago. And it's just showcasing what Robin is able to put out at scale. Uh, that they're able to take something that didn't exist at all, expand their TAM, and then capture that TAM in a very short amount of time. and this is like one of their most successful ventures in that.
>> So that that gets into the analysis that Roy you posted about today. Uh Robin Hood's head of futures said, "We as a firm are going to be looking to see if there is an acquisition that's available, specifically an acquisition for prediction markets." So this is an official quote. They told Reuters, "Hey, we are in the market to buy more of these platforms." Roy, you did some analysis right here on this post on what could be the best platform. Any thoughts on who Robin Hood should go after? Uh yeah, I mean like it's if price if price wasn't a factor at all, it'd be Kelsey almost certainly except for possibly regulation. Kelsey just launched internationally. Koshi backends most of what they do on the predictions market side as well and they seem like a good cultural fit. They're growing incredibly rapidly to the point where they're actually I kind of wish they flipped those two colors because Koshi's more like needs the Robin Hood color there. But regardless, they've overtaken Poly Market in volume. Of course, most of it is on the sports side. Poly market is more international. It's not in the United States at all, but they have a massive leadership edge where it comes to non-sports related markets. And so if you look at that next chart, it kind of shows what Poly Market does X out of sports. So probably one of these two. The problem is Poly Market actually has even larger valuations. So I think Calcium makes more sense. Uh plus there's a little bit more regulator scrutiny towards Poly Market. Although they are more established internationally. Um they don't already back in and have this partnership to you. Uh but regardless, like they don't have that much cash on the balance sheet, they can dip into the the debt market or they can issue shares to pull this off. It would be a little atypical because most of the acquisitions that Robin Hood does are significantly smaller than they are. Now, this still would be significantly smaller in terms of market cap. So, you know, there's not really an issue there. It's just it's a larger um and maybe it's a time to do that, but it's a a larger u focus. There's a ton of startups out there, too. talking about two of them in particular and then there's kind of a one that's in between that's focused on more shorterd dated prediction marketplace there will be more and more entrance as well but yeah I would say Kelshi or probably a very small startup would make the most sense for them to acquire
>> yeah Kelchi's pretty uh comparatively to the acquisitions that they have done it's expensive but compared to the size that you know um Robin Hood is now they can acquire them like it would it would fit nicely in. But yeah, curious name
>> acquired though.
>> Maybe not. Maybe not. But also like a star team like Vlad, maybe you do want that that customer base to be with, you know, get your stock in in hood stock.
>> It is weird though, right? Because Robin, Piper Sano said Robin Hood might be 25 to 35% of Koshi's volumes every day.
>> Yeah, I think that was the stat. I don't know if if even if they bought Kali though, I don't know that that's such a good thing. I mean, the way that they have it right now is just a I mean, it's a it's a beautiful setup. There's not really any cost to them and they're not taking
>> they would get double the revenues is because they wouldn't have to split the scent.
>> They would get double the revenue, but they would also assume a lot of risk, which, you know, that's true.
>> Do we need do we is Robin Hood really trying to take over spread betting and and things like that? I don't know. like being a being a sports book themselves. If it's easy, it makes sense. But
>> well, clearly they do want to I mean, if they're looking at acquisitions, they they do want that risk.
>> I here's the question, Tanner. Why do you think they gave this quote so explicitly that we're looking to acquire? I mean, I feel like there's some logic behind them saying this. It's almost like they want to go after DraftKings entirely.
>> Yeah. I'm I'm not sure about why. I think that um they just haven't, you know, Hood's not been a closed book too often or or Vlad. I mean, um they're okay with saying what their plans are and then going after it and still beating their competition there. So, um I think that's just their confidence, but prediction markets, and you can see it in Vlad's tweets, this is going to be a big part of the company. They are constantly talking about prediction markets. um you know, whether it's gambling or or what have you. But I I I find the sports betting stuff really quickly. Uh I wanted to point you guys over to Poly Markets uh platform here. If Vlad ever puts out something like this, I'm telling you guys, I would use this constantly. Poly Market earnings calendar and they have, you know, projected EPS. So JP Morgan's going to get $4.72 of GAP EPS. There's a 92% chance that they beat on earnings.
>> That's awesome.
>> The problem was can can Robin Hood give people the ability to bet on companies given how regulated they are?
>> I don't see why not.
>> I don't know that you can bet on Fed results and economic results. Yeah, I saw this Tanner too and I was like, okay, so if Robin Hood goes here, this is a big deal. And maybe it's a maybe they put that post out because that's not where Khi necessarily wants to go or I would assume that that's not necessarily what Khi wants to go, but it probably is where where Vlad would want to go longer term. Um
>> yeah, I don't I don't know what the odds would be to put like what's the chances that Hood beats earnings or SoFi beats earnings, but I would love to bet on that because to me it's not a 5050 roll of the dice, you know? like I feel like I would have an information advantage.
>> Yeah. The the hard thing right now is if you're going to predict that just using, you know, stocks or uh options, you have to be right twice. You have to be right on them actually beating and also on the stock going the direction or or missing and and right on the stock direction as well. That's a harder setup than just okay, EPS, I know this company well. Yeah, they're going to blow that out of the water. uh which happens a lot a lot more than you guys think
>> which is actually really interesting to look at that uh because you know the the whole um wisdom of the crowd phenomenon. Of course when you have larger volume uh it's it's a little bit different setup because other people can see what other people are predicting and see what the spread is there. But uh you know that can actually be very valuable as somebody that's looking at to a stock you're like okay I've got a lot of shares and why is 92% prediction uh saying that they're going to miss on EPS? Okay, there's something I might be missing. I need to look into this.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. And and uh the EPS seems to get locked in when whatever the average was whenever they created the um the prediction. So that can change a lot. For example, JP Morgans's whenever they opened up the prediction was $4.72. I think if you check now, Wall Street's at like 492. So even the prediction from Wall Street's like 20 cents higher than what the prediction market is at. So if you had conviction early, I'm sure the pred the the prediction has already increased a lot just going into earnings. But for a company like Sovi that's beaten earnings every single time.
>> Yeah.
>> If you put a 90% chance and I can make 10% on that day cash out, I mean, I'm probably not going to see that type of rate on SoFi stock in general.
>> That was honestly the ticker that I was thinking of. I'm like, it's he's thinking SoFi right now. I can tell the the wheels are spinning in your brain because I mean they do always beat. So yeah, there are some companies like that too that consistently do that are underappreciated by the market over long stretches of time which I mean that to case in point like even outside of this specific product in the predictions market there are different markets out there than what I'm in there where people can have like Jason a real edge. Jason, you made a great call on one of the two Monday night football games. I don't know how that's played out since I looked there recently, but you know, like
>> we're winning.
>> All right. Well, there's people that know that area like at the on the back of their hands and they're like, "Oh, yeah. Historically, they go into this and they don't play well in snowlight." You know, all these different things and they're like, "Hey, the markets got this wrong. Let me predict on that." Uh, and and same with stock. So, it's interesting. What was funny is like imagine what happened whenever that upstart report came out and all those lenders ended up falling. Like what happens during those times to the prediction market side? Massive crashes in people's expectations of beating earnings and then it all turned out to be fake.
>> Yeah.
>> Like that's why I like the live live prediction markets. It would be a lot of fun.
>> So we all agree prediction markets is like a really big catalyst for growth.
>> Biased panel. Yeah.
>> Mhm. Yeah, that was not that. And I think that's part of what made the stock go up recently too, right? Because
>> yeah,
>> how do you value how do you how do you value this and what kind of multiple does that add to the stock and then where does that put them moving forward? And I think that's part of what maybe drove the market recently ahead of earnings is there a lot of people just kind of fumbling over the situation trying to figure out well what does what does that mean for Robin Hood the equity and where should that where where should that land the stock price today?
>> Okay. So I guess we're going to see how the uh prediction markets ultimately ramp up. By the way, we have earnings on November 5th, folks. So, uh, we'll be live on November 5th after hours and think Street's expecting now almost 1.2 billion. So, it's going to be one of their best quarters ever. And if they can beat that, that would definitely help.
>> You're winning.
>> We are winning.
>> We're winning on all the spreads.
>> So, Hood was 153 on Friday, fell all the way to 130. Now, it's back to 140. Um, I guess some general thoughts about um the sell-off, Tanner. How did you navigate a 3% down day for the first time in 6 months?
>> Uh held um I bought some stock, not not hood or anything. I ended up buying a lot of BMR on Friday and then Friday in the after hours. Um Ethereum and and crypto just saw such an overexaggerated pullback that I think um taking advantage of that was, you know, the best thing to do if possible. And uh I had a really good hunch that that was going to be a taco event. Um you know, we've seen him do this 10 times, 15 times, these unbelievably exaggerated um you know, like threats of of large tariffs to China or other countries. And usually the market is okay a week from now, you know. Um, so it happened quicker than I thought that things ended up repairing. We didn't even need a meeting. But yeah, it everything went back to normal and Donald Trump once again he he can in one hand say, you know, extremely disrespectful. How could X do this? Like, you know, the guy's a little worm. And then the next day Ges, oh yeah, sorry, my opinion. He goes, "I've got the most respect for Xi. Love Xi, you know, great great leader." So, I had a feeling this was going to go uh turn around and everything was going to be fine and hopefully people didn't freak out and dump their positions unless of course Binance or something else dumped your position for you and which I'm sorry, but yeah.
>> Uh Jason, your take and did you buy anything in this?
>> Um I was actually I thought it was going to come. We were talking about it maybe like a week before that. And so I was I was prepared for it to happen when we got that first 3,700 dip on Ethereum. This last one I didn't have my orders resting. And I and I'm very old school crypto. Like very old school crypto. So like really the only times I really I think about buying is during these kind of flash crashes. Literally this is it. But to me, it's like I need to have my orders out there already beforehand resting because these things happen so fast. It's not like regular markets. There's no circuit breakers that are going to save you. And and they're so fast that they're basically just liquidity of liquidity events of people getting liquidated on their futures. now um that if you're not if you don't have something there waiting at the ready to pick up at a very steep discount in the middle of the night, you're probably not going to get filled because you will try to chase it. And I think if that's is if that was the comment about Robin Hood, that is that is if that's what it was, that's just normal. So that's dumb for that to be a comment. That's how crypto works. That's how it's always worked since the very beginning. This is it's the raw crypto is the rawest form of supply and demand that you can find. And so, um, from from that perspective, yeah, you have to play it differently. Um, did you guys get it? Like, did you have any resting orders? Cuz I saw some of my I was I was a little butt hurt, man. I'm not going to lie. I threw them out there. I was like, I missed it. I'm bummed. Um, but no, the only thing I bought was BMR uh and an SMCI and I just did my my daily DCA of Hood. But, um, but that's that's basically it. Like BMR hit our our levels that we've been watching like that 43ish. I think BMR I should have waited after hours because that was a really good pickup if you waited till after the market was closed. And that's interestingly how crypto works too. So maybe moving forward I'll just wait till after the market closes and get it after hours
>> cuz that was a really good pickup. I mean couple extra bucks but I think it was like 30 like like not 30 it was it was
>> I know I think the lowest I got to was 47 I think.
>> 47. Yeah it was deep. I almost said 37. So 47. It was it was it was down pretty heavy but that was that was the discount to me. Um, I bought a little China exposure, not gonna lie, actually. So, I did that, too. Um, hopped in for the JD run into singles day for 111.
>> How did that work out? I I didn't even keep an eye on Chinese stocks throughout this last period.
>> So, so for you, it sounds like it was a pretty easy dip by for active traders. It's it wasn't that easy. It was a very scary kind of dip by. And if if a lot of people intraday Friday, freaky Friday, it like they might have tried to jump in early around the lunch hour or something, which is normally you would think you would think that normally by the end of the day, things start to turn around. But on a Friday, especially in a in a bull market, what's weird about Fridays in bull markets is that they tend to have a lot of profit taking and there's a lot of people that might not be there. So low liquidity environment, Friday in a bull market, you have profit taking going on, it could things can get out of control. And we were so used to seeing that the dip buyer show up late day. There was no dip buyers in sights like not until like like not even to the bell. There were no dip buyers in sight. So they must have shown up after hours. So intraday it might have been a little scary. I did anyways, but I I absolutely waited till the till the till the bell hit. Um because I needed to like it was either wait till the bell or I see some signs of life, but the dip buyers were nowhere to be found intraday on Friday. Um oddly enough, and then of course we get the don't worry about China. She just had a bad moment uh tweet and and here we are, which oddly sets us up better for earnings anyways. So, I'm I'm actually kind of happy about that.
>> Roy, what did you do on this 3% down day?
>> Ah, you're muted.
>> Always muted this guy.
>> Yeah, I ended up rebying my covered calls uh which was uh on Robin Hood, which had ran. I had some that were fine that were not going to get hit. I had some I think at 142 and some at 140. And I saw this as an opportunity. I didn't do what I did before on names, waiting like for it to go all the way under. I'm like, "Hey, I'll take the lump for for that uh lot and be happy to get out of that exposure." Uh I bought more BMR. Uh I bought more Ethereum, although there were problems with that. Uh but I waited over the weekend, so I didn't get the best uh fill on that versus like the massive dip. And uh because it's Columbus Day, some things didn't settle, which is not unexpected. Um, so that'll show up tomorrow. So, I'll probably add a little bit of p uh PayPal here, too. [Music]
>> So, it seems like all of us bought the dip.
>> I I I think Roy just put a little Do we drink on the show, by the way? Is that a Matt told me to bring beers, but I don't know.
>> Yeah, we drink. We all drink. I had mine before the show. Your turn.
>> We don't drink on the show, but you are welcome to drink. Um, but uh I I think you brought up a a good point, Roy, that maybe people aren't um thinking about, but today was a bank holiday technically, and there was a lot of funds that didn't clear. So, anybody that sold Friday didn't have their funds freed necessarily today to buy the dip. So, tomorrow can get even more interesting, believe it or not. So, I'm I'm very interested to see that.
>> Dude, is Steve in the chat? Because he'll he probably has some milk.
>> He's probably drinking some milk. Steve, if you're drinking some milk.
>> I saw him I saw him lurking earlier.
>> Put a milk emoji in the chat. This man is starting every video with an ice cold glass of milk.
>> It's beyond funny.
>> He'll start a live stream. Go, ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting out with strawberry uh yogurt today.
>> There he is. Milk for life. He talks about his flavor of the day.
>> Stream. We're gonna buy a bunch of cookies and review them live. Dude, we're gonna have to do it.
>> Do you guys like Does he like write White Russians? That was like the milky kind of
>> dude. You like so many types of cookies. He's a cookie guy. I'm a cookie guy, too, but I don't eat it as often.
>> No. Do you know what a white Russian is?
>> Yeah. Cookie, right? Did it really?
>> I knew I knew thought it was a white macadamia chip cookie or something. Right.
>> Oh, it's a cocktail.
>> Oh, not a mocktail, but a cocktail.
>> What we need in time of that stream is really prediction market on what is going to be the best cookie cookie as you guys review it. So,
>> bro, everyone in the chat's gonna tell me they knew what a White Russian is. What?
>> Everyone in the chat will. Everyone,
>> man. I don't even
>> the miners, dude. Like
>> thought it was a freaking cookie, dude.
>> It's a tasty little beverage.
>> Thought it was a cookie, bro. We were talking about cookies. Why are you bringing up alcohol?
>> Oh, man. That might be worse.
>> He was bringing up a milky alcohol drink.
>> It has milk.
>> Whatever, dude. I thought it was a cookie. Everyone Okay. Everyone knew it was a freaking drug.
>> Steve, you need to go over to Amit's place and bring some white Russians. And then if he doesn't know, he needs to experience
>> the only Bro, I know what a I I know what a Moscow Moscow mule is.
>> That's good. That's like how I sound.
>> I I think he will like the White Russian. I'm pretty sure Atlanta's going to win this straight up. We got two minute two-minute warning coming up here. 214.
>> Emit. Emit. Well, your hands are above and I can see them. Keep your hands where I can see them. What's in a Moscow meal? Don't tell. Hey, put your hands above. Show me your hands.
>> Name one ingredient of a Moscow mule.
>> Alcohol.
>> Yeah, there you go. All right. No, you passed. You're good.
>> I think there's some lemon. It's like lemon juice, right? That's what they
>> right. It's like What the [ __ ] is it? A Moscow mule, bro.
>> Know there's ginger beer in it or else you Oh, I should have known that. I should have known that. I should have. All right. Anyway,
>> um I knew this he started going like this. He was going to Gemini.
>> Yeah,
>> Google AI overviews are like the best AI product that's out there right now. Like genuinely, we use it on the on the market open like 50 times a day. Okay, so OpenAI Broadcom, Jason, I'm gonna give you the first word on this 10 gigawatt deal. It looks like OpenAI is central to every single AI company, AMD, Nvidia, Oracle. What was your reaction when you saw that deal this morning? Um, I actually thought the stock would be up a lot more, believe it or not. I mean, I know it's up 10% and it's like 150 125 billion market cap increase, but you do the math. Um, that is a lot of dollars. I know it's a long-term thing. Oh, did you put that? Did you post how many dollars if you do the math?
>> Uh, it's it's about 300 billion.
>> I had like four or five. Yeah. Um but I mean over over many many years right I think it was like five years or something but just the same I mean the chart I'm technical first for me so the chart was setting up anyways it was a tough day but I sold my short cuz I didn't take it longterm I just took it shortterm and I got shaken out so I was a little bummed but happy to see the trade like working out. Um but this makes sense to me. I think that this is going to try to go for that 400 anyways. um if you get a little bit of a pullback, I think it bases out. I I I think this is this carries on. Um we'll see once it gets up to that more recent high that it just hit on earnings, but I think that it makes sense out of the gate and I I think that it makes sense that it held through the whole day. It it kind of gapped up and just went sideways. So maybe it breathes a little bit, but I don't expect to see a giant pullback. It's a I think it's a bigger deal than I think it's a bigger deal than the market initially understood. Actually, I I I still think it might be a bigger deal than the market really thinks about thinks it is. So, um we'll hear what they have to say on earnings, but um but yeah, that deal was massive. when you really look under the covers of what it could potentially be, there's a lot of theoretical like, oh, well, that's so massive that do we even have power? All those kind of conversations probably can get brought into the mix. But, um, just on the on on the on the surface, I would just look at it and say I I think it could move the stock higher still to be fair.
>> Uh, Tanner, we'll go to you next. I mean, I think I think the the real interesting about this thing is Oracle's entire stock price has been lifted because of OpenAI. AMD, obviously, that 35% move was because of OpenAI. Nvidia didn't need OpenAI, but they were stuck at 170 and then they got up to 195 because of OpenAI, or at least at least in part of OpenAI. And now Broadcom, it wasn't a massive move, but 10% is nothing to scoff at. A, what's your thoughts on the deal? And then B, is Open AI even allowed to fail anymore? It'll be bad if they uh if they do, but um I I think they'll do well. I've been pretty adamant and consistent that I think OpenAI will be one of the biggest names like just in in all, you know, US stock history whenever they go public at least, uh they'll be a trillion dollar name and and they need a lot of service from many many different businesses. So uh for years now we've been listening to Jensen say you know the demand for compute is just going to be absolutely exponential explosive and now you're watching a customer unveil a plan that is not happening like these deals are not even most of them don't even have time limits on them. We don't know how long they're actually going to be for but they're setting up a very long-term plan cuz they know that they're going to need that compute. Um, I think it's legitimate. I think it's real. Um, do I buy more Nvidia? I don't know. Honestly, I've been looking at TSM a lot right now just as like a general winning play. And if something happens to Taiwan, it's not like my Nvidia gets out unscathed. I mean, we're we're all doomed. So, um, yeah, TSM looks looks really cheap and going to be a general winner across the board. Um, I don't even remember your question. Is open AI allowed to fail is sort of
>> Yeah, I mean they're of course they're allowed to fail. I don't think that they will though. Um I'm a big believer obviously I have to be that AI is legit and that they'll create tools that will you know multiply GDP. Roy, same question to you.
>> Uh, yeah, not too much to add on the first question. Uh, beyond just I agree with these guys, you know, just further validates that AI is real and growing and ramping. Is open AI allowed to fill it should be. Um, I'm a big free market guy. I think it's stake when the federal government steps in, especially with open AI. They're they're a massive player lynch pin. I still think that Nvidia is more important to the AI ecosystem space, but all AI is not open AI and vice versa, and frankly, it shouldn't be. I don't I agree with Tanner. I don't think that they will fail. Um I think they'll continue to grow. Now there it it's going there's going to be es and flow moments and their valuation may not you know it may be expensive here. Who knows? But uh they if they do fail it's going to be a bad day for everybody. Even if you're not in uh you know private equity open AI if you're not in Nvidia or anything in AI it's going to hit the markets in a massive uh significant way. So even if you're in like investing in Coca-Cola and dividend planes, it will still be a bad day for you. So we better hope that that doesn't happen.
>> Even whenever OpenAI came out with its original product, you know, everyone thought that there was going to be no competitors because there was no other, you know, legitimate LLM that was anything like it. And then uh what was the original? Bard ended up becoming Gemini. That got really great. Grock came out of nowhere, skyrocketed, became really great. So even in these next phases of artificial intelligence, there's going to be lots of competitors. And I think that the um amount of focus that a company like OpenAI is getting is so interesting because I feel like you can make similar bets on names like Google or names like Amazon that are going to significantly benefit from this AI craze and yet there's a very minimal uh premium being given to these names. So honestly, those are the names that I'm acquiring right now. that benefit by the way as as cloud providers as well as as essentially custodians to open AAI as well. Okay, that that's kind of my similar thoughts. I mean I don't think OpenAI is allowed to fail. I it's not possible anymore. They are they are the reason for why the hundreds of billions of dollars in market cap have increased across the board. I mean, without AM without this opening idea with AMD, AMD is probably stuck at 150, 160. Without this Oracle RPO growth on a cloud computing side, you know, they're probably stuck in the in the 210s, 220s. And so, I do think the likelihood of them succeeding though, I agree with you, Tanner, is greater than, you know, greater than not. I mean, uh, that chart that's been going viral of it took the internet 13 years to get 800 million users and CHABT, it took it two and a half years, as our as our milkman says right here in the chat, they're not allowed to fail. Too many companies are tied to them, which is actually kind of bullish. That means there's an incentive for all these companies to make sure it works. And so, I guess the follow-up question then is, and Jason will give it to you, is do you think Grock and Gemini really have a shot at dethroning them, or has the industry decided Chad is the winner?
>> Grock and Gemini. Um, I think that well, first of all, OpenAI, by the way, has the best CFO in the freaking valley. So, like that is a big win. Having Sarah on the Sarah Frier on the team is like she's an unsung hero. But if you don't know who she is, she's like the genius behind Square, like initial Square team, but probably the well, so from the valley, being from the valley, best CFO in the valley. Um, but so she can make magic happen and she is doing exactly what she does best right now and that's what we're seeing like the financial like magician like that's this is all Sarah. This is all her magic making ability. Um I just putting that out there. This is Sarah's magic sauce right now. Um, but in terms of Grock and and Gemini, I I feel like it's going to each one will probably end up having like their own niche niche niche niche if you will. Um, even today as things are progressing, like you know, I don't know how many LLMs you guys have, but I have a couple. I know that there are certain things I need to go to Grock for, and there are certain things that I need to go to Jet GPT for. Grock is not good at creating images, things like that. But if I have a financial question or I need to get social sentiment, I need to go to Grock and there's not like that's that's the place. Um stock stuff, it's all it's all it's all Grock. It is it it's not even comparable trying to do something like that on chat GBT. Uh so those are just some unique pieces that as things move on it'll become more glaringly obvious maybe which you use use case which which LLM has a better piece and depending on what you do and what your your use cases you might have a different tailored approach or one might be better suited for you. So, I don't I don't know that it's a a zero sum game, per se. Um, but there definitely would be a handful that don't survive. I I'm not sure. I don't like I don't use anthropic at all. Um, personally, so like there might be some that that don't actually make it or what I don't even know what Microsoft is right now. But I think
>> yeah, I think that there's um I wouldn't say a chance to your question, but I don't know that it's a I don't think it's a winner or take all scenario either.
>> Yeah, I think it's I I think it's a commodity now. It's one that has a long way to scale, but we we see we've seen how this plays out across other commodities like one of those uh which payment service providers illustrate. There's three massive ones uh Brainree, Aden, and Stripe. And then there's a bunch of smaller very specialized ones. And usually the commodities will consolidate into like two or three big massive plays and then also a degree of specialization as well. So Jason, you mentioned you don't use clot. I don't either, but that's because I'm not a programmer. If you're a programmer, uh you're using clot like they product is very
>> well integrated. Uh the model protocol, it's great and everything. And there's a bunch of models like that that are like either uh specialized in a a broad category or they're very much focused like on a niche like Harmonic, the Blad Tenants, Robin Hood startup. Uh well, not Robin Hood, but Blad Tennant startup, CEO of Robin Hood. Um so I I think that's the way the d this direction goes at opening clearly is a leader in a winner there. Gemini I actually think is better which it just it's gotten demonstrabably better for me anyway since midepptember and I also use Grock but I think yeah I think probably a triopoly between those three and then the the specialized ones below that I uh I think Gemini is going to be one of like maybe not as big as open AI and but I think honestly we'll see I think that's the real competition. Gemini has everything.
>> I agree.
>> What do you use Gemini for?
>> Sorry,
>> just anything. Um I I I think it's more the the the components that that is going to make Gemini more useful. For example, OpenAI doesn't have hardware. Gemini does. They have the phones, the computers, Chrome, all these things. Then if you look to um how do they lower their cost to serve and and actually create the tokens that you know generate those responses they have Google cloud you know Gro is requiring other services openai is requiring other services and maybe OpenAI is trying to strike a deal with Broadcom to get them to create a new chip you know uh what generation is the TPU on now I mean they are uh way ahead with Ironwood So, um, they have a very competitive chip. In fact, I think it's one of the only, uh, custom silicon products that Jensen has actually given any credit to. Like he said, you know, TPU is going to continue to do well. Like, like, um,
>> right.
>> So, they have such an unbelievable cost to serve. They have an enterprise moat amongst, you know, the absolute great like who who who has more enterprise customers than Google? Microsoft. Like, that's it. Um and so their distribution, their cost to serve their data across like like Google has more data than any other company in the world. So um even Elon Musk has said you know flat out in in a flat arms race like Google takes this every day. So um I not personally do I use it that often. I dabble, but um you know there's a lot of people that use Google.
>> Let me use or say one more piece there. Um Danielle Dallas at 1021 said, "Gee, I will be the one your grandpa accidentally uses." Distribution like it's it's such an advantage. You can't overstate that that there are some that will not download OpenAI and go into that, but they'll just happen to accidentally use Gym Knight. It's an easy layup there. And
>> do more work than OpenAI is.
>> Oh yes. And then last um it's it's kind of like with payment service providers when your business becomes a massive scale you don't want just one primary service payment service provider you want multiple for redundancy in an orchestration model and so most large enterprises use two sometimes more of these and it's the same way with KM solution that Palanteer has and what they're doing with what perplexity is it depends on what the model is good at that's what it actually uses uh when it pulls those up and we're going to see that across you know at least two or three big ones and a bunch of specialized ones.
>> Folks, we have a guest. We have a guest. For the first time ever in history, the two Steves are live together.
>> First time ever.
>> First time ever.
>> I need to change my I can't change my name. Live. Dang.
>> Asian. Asian with the milk. I don't have a milk.
>> Of course, why not?
>> Not white Steve and White Steve both in the same room. We made it.
>> We did.
>> Amit just basking. I mean, he's just basking in the What a time to be alive. Steve, have you ever seen like technical No, you've seen technical Tuesday. You
>> Yes, I have.
>> Yeah. So, you know Jason. He's a
>> He's a TA expert. And uh it's really cool to have both of you on together. We got like 15 minutes left, but Steve, your response to this argument about OpenAI, are they allowed to fail?
>> Well, I just put a probably a 800word post out about it. No, they're not. I mean, they just did three major deal. Think about what they just did in three weeks. Well, two weeks at this point. 10 gigawatt deal with Nvidia, six gigawatt deal with AMD, and 10 gigawatt deal with Broadcom. I mean this deal created a trifactor and it basically allows them or open AAI when I say them to design the chips and systems and allow Broadcom to develop and deploy them and everything that OpenAI is learning from developing the models they can embed directly into the hardware. It's exactly what Apple did with the A series chips for the iPhones. And they just did a strategic move because not only did they take a ton of chips off the market with Nvidia, which is the biggest player in the game. They diversified the stream with AMD and took those chips off the market. And now they are creating and designing their own and having Broadcom create their own chips. So, no, at this point it doesn't look like they're going to fail.
>> What do you mean by taking them off the market exactly?
>> Well, previously Open AAI was going third party for their compute. Now, they're going to be building and operating their own data centers. So, all those chips that would have went to other players are going to Open AI. You don't think that the uh cloud names are going to continue to accelerate even if they're not servicing open? And by the way, I think they'll do both. But
>> I think that Oh, they are going to do both. They're going to keep contract they already said they're going to contract to third parties and they're now going the big difference is now it's the first time they'll be buying directly from Nvidia and operating their own data centers. This is going to cause Q3 earnings calls to potentially be the most important earnings calls we've heard in years.
>> Agreed.
>> Because Jasse, Synindar, Nadella, and Zuckerberg have to come over the top. They don't have
>> If they don't, what happens? I mean, if they don't come over the top, you will see the bears have a field day about OpenAI spending like a drunken sailor and everybody else caught religion and realize they don't need this much compute. That's why this is the most important series of earnings calls, which I think it's going to go the opposite direction because Zuck already said he want he's okay losing several hundred billion dollars instead of not spending enough. And we already heard Nadella from Microsoft say that they're going to spend over 100 billion this year. And if my memory serves me correctly, I think they spent 68 billion on capex in their fiscal year 25. So they're going to increase that roughly, I don't know, 45%. 42%. So this is going to be really interesting. And I think that sky is the limit at the moment. I'm not even concerned about 2026. I'm interested in 2027 earnings at this point because I think 2026 is now a full-scale buildout.
>> Yeah.
>> Long Nvidia, baby.
>> Long Nvidia.
>> Yes.
>> I'm thinking about diversifying a little bit. Well, not selling Nvidia, but just going heavier and buying TSM. What do you think, Steve?
>> Love it. Absolutely love it.
>> I'm planning to do a deep dive on TSM. I've been looking at them a lot more as well. I don't have a position, but dude, it's hard to imagine they don't win. And it's hard to imagine Broadcom doesn't win. Hard to imagine Micron doesn't play. Like it's like one of the reasons I got into SMCI as well is because Jason was just making a simple argument which is like there's going to need to be more liquid cooling technologies.
>> Yeah. More RA more liquid cooling more.
>> I just look at but see so Steve you gota you got to get with me on this one. If we look at the charts we look at where all these stocks are today. Help me understand why SMCI is not the stupidest value here now today at near liberation day levels. How is that not the easiest AI layup in the market? Or is it?
>> No. Look, it's a huge layup. It's barely done anything over the past
>> barely moved. And I mean just I'm looking at it right now
>> 15% over the past year.
>> I mean There's a non some some of my crew is here for sure, but there's no way that SMCI does not report their absolute best earnings report this next month. There's zero chance. Like, sorry. So, on record, no freaking possibility that it's not their absolute best earnings report. Period. End of story.
>> Well, how about this?
>> I like that you put that on record.
>> Yeah,
>> forward estimates on revenue may be light. Oh, for sure. And the stock is the stock is held back by its own doing guar like given, right? Granted, there's a lot of scar tissue, but the second either they pre-announced because they can't keep their mouth shut for too long because they're going to be in trouble again. Look at look at Dell just doubled their forecast. Doubled their forecast. Sorry, I'm a little hyped up
>> on the top and bottom line.
>> Yeah, this is this is this is egregious. This price of S. I'm sorry. It's just dumb. Like it's like it's not it doesn't make sense when I look at it. And I get that. Okay. I get why it's down there because it's burnt a lot of people. It's done a lot of damage to a lot of like psyches out there. And
>> but that is also where the opportunity is, right?
>> That's exactly right. But um you know, I'm not saying that you have to go back on the whole SMCI gravy train or drink the Kool-Aid, but um but sure, I'm serving the Kool-Aid today. But I I think that it makes sense like the numbers are going to come out and there's even if you don't believe their numbers and and the margins are going to be crap because the margins are crap and no, there's no moat for the company because it's it's it's a it's a commodity, but so is Micron. So is Micron. Look at Micron. It's a a straightup commodity. But
>> yeah, commodity isn't a bad word either. So
>> yeah, but if we look across the board, okay, Dell, SMCI has just as much to gain as Dell, and I'm looking at the stock price and I'm like, what is wrong right now? Like like I know what's wrong, but like this is Anyways, sorry, let me get off my soap box. I'll
>> for for me, I think TSM, like if you're going to bet between the two, uh TSM makes more sense. I'm not an either, but I'm I've been thinking of TSM ever since we did our paper stock draft. Uh because I'm like, hey, this is I I know it's international. There is some China risk. I think there's a lot less as long as, you know, things get worked out between the US and China. If they get cut off for whatever reason and it starts impacting them both on the the processor side and also energy side, then we might have, you know, the potential for a Pearl Harbor situation as it relates to to Taiwan, which is bad for everybody, including TSM, especially TSM. But P is basically the same between uh SMCI and TSM. And you don't have the leadership questions. You don't have the accounting issues. Um there's a risk on either and uh I would much rather do TSM. It's hard to see them not do well. Same with FCI. It should be, but the the weird accounting stuff, not for the first time. Um some leadership questions. Uh it just it's hard.
>> Stop saying their name completely. Well, that's not even
>> You guys are right.
>> You guys are right. Like that right there is exactly why the stock is where it is.
>> The whole time that it was going up, I was not on the SMCI bandwagon to that extent. Like, and it was just like I don't I don't, you know, they're not that great of friends, but but I can look at this and and uh and maybe you guys can run the numbers and land where this figure out where this lands, but to me, I look at it, I'm like, "Okay, this is this is like 80 bucks, maybe more." Um but maybe
>> sorry go ahead Jason.
>> Yeah. Oh, no. I'm just But but where we are even even after today's 5% or whatever 55 liberation day was 50 it's 55 and I'm like okay you know but anyways
>> yeah the broader point is it just feels like if Nvidia is not going to stop and AI is not stopping with capex then there's a lot of these players that could run. And I think let's end off on this question right here because I think this is a this is a topic I think a lot of people are thinking about. How are you guys managing FOMO in this market? So, you got Olo that's up 18% today. You've got
>> Okay, bro.
>> Go ahead. Go ahead.
>> Don't.
>> So, you have zero FOMO over quantum or nuclear?
>> I'm not in quantum. What do I care about quantum? Like, the whole sector could burn. Doesn't matter. It doesn't impact S&P. None of those companies are in the S&P.
>> Yeah. Steve only feels FOMO if someone told him like Robin Hood for example, we've been telling him to buy by by then he doesn't. That's when he feels FOMO.
>> See, I I I actually don't think he
>> But Steve doesn't have any like like what what's the He What are you in right now, Steve?
>> He doesn't like Robin Hood, bro. He never got in. No, but like he but for for this year he does not but what he's saying is that he's not what I hear him saying I don't I'm not going to put words in his mouth but I what I hear him saying is that he's not putting his self in the position to to be at risk for that. And even when I look at SMCI I think that that to me to answer your question SMCI is my answer to your question. It is not gone nuclear like the nuclear stocks.
>> This guy's buying BMR. He won't buy Robin Hood back when it was you know 20 bucks. right? It was at 12 something the other day. So, like, you know, give him a break.
>> Thieves, you guys are both pretty. You could talk at the same time.
>> You You may not realize it, Jason. But not only did he not buy Robin Hood, I literally bought him Robin Hood, which at at 13 bucks a share. It's just 100 bucks worth. You know, it's one of our end of the year gift type of things. And he sold it. He He could have just
>> Wait, what did you sell it at? I don't know.
>> Goodness.
>> Low.
>> But no, in all seriousness, Steve, why why aren't you feeling any FOMO for some of these stocks that are exploding every day?
>> Because one, Quantum doesn't deserve to explode. Most of those companies are filis. You can't convince me that Alphabet is not going to figure out quantum before those companies. You can't convince me that these companies are going to have some major breakthrough that Alphabet that's taking a blank check approach to anything they want to do and has been working on quantum for god knows how long. Don't no I would love for somebody to come on explain to me why these companies are going to do something that Alphabet can't that Alphabet absolutely wants to do because of their own chips that they want to have. So, can't convince me on that. Nuclear, we don't even know when SMR is going to come out or if this is even feasible technology that's going to be stable.
>> But, but to push back real quick, let's say there's so much demand for energy that we have no choice but for nuclear to succeed. Isn't that a reason to kind of
>> nuclear should succeed? But companies like Southern Company and Next should be catching a bid. Southern company's operating seven nuclear reactors. Same with Duke Energy. Like nuclear is already a thing.
>> So why is Oaklo getting a$2 billion valuation
>> because of the small nuclear reactors that they're going to be able to place near data centers and everybody's going ugu gaga over that. But it's a zero revenue company and they're not going to generate revenue for years if it's even possible. Yet companies that are actually doing nuclear that have a track record aren't catching a bid. There's something wrong there.
>> So no I I really don't care. Like I am in companies that are making me money and I sleep very well at night and I don't have to watch them all the time.
>> Tanner, your thoughts on handling FOMO if you have any?
>> Um I mean
>> I I I don't have FOMO. Um I I only have FOMO if it's a name that I've researched and I was thinking about going into and then it pops before I buy or I don't buy enough. Um then I'm like, "Oh, you know what? I should have trusted myself." But if it's a name that I'm not researching that just goes up 80%, I don't care at all. That might as like I might as well have gone to a casino and put my money on black or something. Um, so I don't care. That being said, um, in this, you know, people are talking about bubbles and everything. I do think that there's a lot of companies that are more ideas than actual businesses. And people are so excited about the future that they're pulling so much forward and they're ignoring the companies like Nvidia. And I'm saying that with it being a, you know, 4.6 4.7 trillion business, they're ignoring it. But those are the companies literally making money today off of still in a very excitable future. And if there is any cracks in the market, there is any doubts or worries, the companies that are ideas are going to go to nothing. And the companies that are making real money will have small corrections. Okay. So I think the riskreward is still heavily favored for me playing the real companies but my or or sorry the reward is there but my risk is so heavily compressed and and and I you know just feel very safe in these massive names that are still the largest beneficiaries of artificial intelligence, robotics, cloud computing like I mean they've just
>> What about the What about the data center names? into the entire AI ecosystem. Iran, Cipher, Wolf, all of those exploding every day. Do you feel FOMO around those or you'd rather feel fine in Nvidia instead?
>> Yeah, I feel fine in Nvidia, Amazon, Google, all massive cloud names that have, you know, lots of compute and the need for the compute themselves, right? So, um, yeah, I don't care. I I benefit from Nvidia and that's also why I want TSM. I I I I care less about picking the winners and more just the the customers that are going to win across the board.
>> Roy, same question. How are you navigating FOMO?
>> Yeah, so um kind of combination of what these guys said. Uh one is I invest in what I know. Uh quantum is an area I don't know. And I think there's very few people that know that. Uh you know, as far as uh on a deep level what quantum actually does, problem actually solves the probability it actually works and what disruption looks like in that environment. How do we know this? Well, just look, you know, a quarter or two ago when massive hyperscalers such as Mark Zuckerberg were being asked about this. Also, what Jensen Wong has said as well. Um, Zuck said something like, uh, he doesn't really understand it. Uh, it just he's he's a genius. He is. I don't particularly like him, but I call it as I see it. And if he's saying like, hey, I know very little about this space. Um, that should give everybody just a little bit of a pause. There's a lot of so-called experts out there. There are some experts, but I like I I tend towards probably agreeing with Martin Shakrelli that there's more more smoke than actual fire here by a lot. Um it might not be real as far as the actual use case. We'll have to see, you know, as it develops out, but I would rather to uh just concentrate uh my portfolio heavily in areas that I actually know and understand. I wouldn't be comfortable holding other than just a swing trade, something that's in that space. Now, if it is a space that I'm interested in, what I've done is I've adopted since we're in a bull market, uh, drunken miller strategy of invest and investigate. So, I'll do, you know, a little bit of research, but I'm not going to wait and like make sure that I do 100 plus hours of research in this one play before I actually buy. I'll do my initial buy and as conviction rises uh, while I investigate, then I'll add. or if it's the opposite and I've done this actually several times this year where I'm start starting to build out a position and I'm like no I I don't want to be in this or I don't actually see the thesis and then I'll actually get out and thankfully in a bull market usually you make money still but uh yeah so I avoid FOMO just by concentrating do investing on what I know sticking to my strategy instead of chasing and I do have a small swing position that allows me to chase some of these plays if I see that there's an opportunity uh over the very short term
>> can I ask you guys a Out of all the Bitcoin miner turned data center plays, do you think they're all going to survive?
>> Jason,
>> dude,
>> I I I don't know how real that is. Um to be fair, like I know that there's a lot of demand in the data center stuff, but I mean if if it really really is just literally leasing out the power infrastructure and we're talking about all these companies depreciating the AS6 because those are not useful here. those are going into the garbage like and and they're not they're not I mean so that's depreciating that off the books and then they're going to maybe lease this space to somebody who wants it. I I think it's very dependent on one if someone likes them enough to to trust them to sign a contract with them to to basically co like what do you call that to when you rent out some place that you're already renting like a sublet sublet their their data center like okay just because you have power and because you have the power infrastructure that's there
>> and I don't know enough on that piece to say that they do Ian I think was the first and I totally missed boat on this because I didn't really understand it because when I thought about it, my initial thought was like, how does that make sense? It doesn't make sense because my initial thought was like this is an ASIC. An ASIC is not useful for AI. Like any way that I slice this does not compute. So, it didn't I thought it was just like I don't know. It just it didn't make sense to me. But what if there is so much demand that all these players are going to win because there's literally just not enough uh comput facilities
>> and like whatever they have is going to be useful.
>> I mean I guess that's the question is like is it is that really what we're is that really that that in itself is the question. Is it really the fact that the physical real estate footprint for the power and the and the power footprint like is just so such a scarce commodity
>> that all I mean that's how their stocks are trading that all
>> that's how their stocks are trading but I I guess that's the question I don't I I I I don't know enough to give a straight answer on that like but but it's a lifeline that's for sure it's definitely a lifeline because they weren't doing it well doing whatever it was that they were doing so that was not working out so
>> mining was not working
>> no So,
>> and then they're still gonna they're still going to dilute. They're still the same people at the end of the day. So, I don't know.
>> Private jets.
>> That's just my two cents. I don't know what I I don't know. I'm not really looking the chat. Maybe I should because I don't know where you guys are on this, but that's that's my that's my
>> No, a lot of a lot of people have made a lot of money off those names. And I think a lot of people are trying to figure out
>> do I hold or do I jump in? And I mean, holding is one thing, but jumping in it it's a little tough at these levels unless you think it there's just an explosive room for upside because demand is that high. And even the Galaxy CEO, he was on my my show last week and he was just like, it might be a bubble. He was literally telling everyone, hey, like, yeah, we're getting a lot of money, but it might not be, you know, it's like you really have to see the management execution over the next five years on this stuff.
>> Yeah, that's mad respect right there when you can call your own business and say, well, we might be benefiting from a bubble right now. Yeah, agreed.
>> I think Regetti just said something along the lines, "No,
>> dude. Regetti exploded today. This is like 25% up on I mean,
>> and you say expectations were getting a little too excitable or something?"
>> Yeah. I mean, it's up 6,000% in a year, dude. This is like VCs chase thousands of companies to find the one thing that will go up 6,000%. Over 10 years. Regetti is up 6,000 more than 6,000% and you could have bought it for under a dollar last year.
>> Congrats to shareholders.
>> I'm so glad I'm not short on that.
>> Yeah, I agree.
>> Yeah, I'm just You know what? We're all betting on the quantum internet stack and um What are you laughing at? And it's going to be great.
>> All I know is I'm about to get two for here on on the games tonight. Steve, why why don't you bet on sports as much as Jason?
>> Who are you talking about?
>> You talking to me?
>> No. Why doesn't white Steve as much as Asian Steve? I don't get it. Like
>> I thought white Steve was in the sports arena.
>> He bets on like the Yankees or something, but he doesn't bet on
>> baseball is the hardest sport to bet on. I might as well I do better on tennis, dude.
>> I might do better with table tennis. Dude, run lines are freaking awesome.
>> All right, so I think the best one's Asian Steve.
>> Well, it's not the white Steve. I'm Well, that's So, there's the white Steve and the not white Steve, which is the Asian Steve. So, I I'll claim it right here.
>> The one that's called Jason.
>> Oh, last thing. We always got to talk about this thing. All of us are
>> Oh, heavens. Yes. Yep. Buy it a lot. Little too heavy in this name,
>> but I'm a believer in Ethereum.
>> Yeah, I mean like if you're bullish on Ethereum, you're bullish on on a bit of mine. Uh with one exception. So
>> I sort that.
>> That was me.
>> Did it.
>> Yeah, it was sloppy, quick, but I was like, it had to be.
>> It's a good one. This is a good one.
>> It's a good show. It's It's a classic show. It's a great show.
>> All right. I just BMR I have a I have enough crypto, but it was one for me that I looked at and like if I was going to put I think BMR has a has a as a plus like an extra check cuz for someone who even who might have owned even a lot of crypto coming into this already from maybe the ultra lows around 100. It it has never made sense for me to even think about adding until an X Factor like a Tom Lee. Literally never even thought about thinking about really adding to be completely honest. Um but that's the only that that that was the only reason like I even considered it. And because of that, I'm like, you know what? It's an extra it's an extra leverage, so it'll possibly possibly make sense.
>> All right, I think that is it for us. Uh, Steve, both of you, Steves, thank you for joining.
>> Thank you, Steve.
>> Awesome. Maybe.
>> Yes. Uh, we'll do technical Tuesday tomorrow with Jason. We do have bank earnings tomorrow. So, I think all of us will be watching out for what we've got with the banks to start off.
>> Who is tomorrow? Is it Oh, ASML's Wednesday morning. This is the first the first semi to go ASML. Who's Who's actually not done good lately? The last couple quarters has not been They had a huge rebound. What do you guys think about ASML?
>> I mean, I think the stock is telling us it's ready to do well, but I guess we're going to have to see what numbers they put up. Yeah,
>> but we have JP Morgan and Black Rockck tomorrow. Those are the big ones.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that's what we're gonna see. Uh Steve's Twitter, I put that in the chat. Jason's Twitter, I put that in the chat as well. We'll be live tomorrow. We'll get through Technical Tuesday. We'll be back next week.
>> Tuesday.
>> Yeah. I mean, in the next week, we'll have a lot of earnings. And so, that'll help us kind of figure out what we have for tech earnings. Steve just put out this big post on the AI bubble not existing. So, you guys can read that on his Twitter as well. and we'll keep covering it over the next week.
>> This was fun. Appreciate the invite.
>> I love it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. We will see you guys next Monday.
>> Thanks guys.
>> Milk and cookies. Adios.
>> Milk and cookies.
>> Bye everybody.
>> Like a white Russian.