I'm Christine Sir Cleette and you're listening to the Wire Cutter Show. [music] [music] [music] Breakfast may be the most quote unquote important meal of the day, but personally my biggest challenge is lunch. I pack lunches almost every weekday for my two kids and often for myself. And it gets kind of, I don't know, uninspiring after a while. What do you pack? What will the kids actually like? What will I actually be excited to eat? It can feel sad to sit down to a soggy sandwich or a wilted salad. And I know when I disappoint my kids, which I hate to do, because their lunch comes back and it's full. Whether you pack lunch for yourself or someone else and whether you do it because you want to eat healthier or you want to save money or you simply [music] must do it for the people that you love, it can sometimes feel like a chore. Today I am talking with a Wire Cutter expert who has some solutions [music] not only about the food to pack, but what to pack the lunch in. I'm talking with Gabby Gersonensen, a kitchen editor here at Wire Cutter about lunch boxes that will actually make packing a lunch more exciting and enjoyable and less sad. Gabby is an accomplished food writer and cookbook author. She's the co-author of the James Beard award-winning cookbook, Love Japan, and the author of the fourthcoming [music] book, Caviar and Champagne, which comes out next fall. I totally trust her recommendations. [music] Gabby, welcome back to the show.
>> Thank you, Christine. Great to be here.
>> I got to ask, who are you packing lunches for these days? And do you pack your own?
>> I'm a scanger at work, so I sometimes
>> It's not a bad place to scrge in our in our uh test kitchens, you know?
>> No, our test kitchen has some really quality viddles lying around, but I do have a three-year-old daughter who is in prek, and she requires a very wellthought bento.
>> Oh, nice. I like I like a picky eater. No, I'm just joking. [laughter] What do you think is the biggest problem people tend to have with packing lunch? Is it coming up with new ideas for what to pack, or is it actually the physical vessel that you're packing lunch inside? I think if you asked me this before I edited the guide to lunchboxes, I would have said it's all about the food. But then when I took home a bunch of our lunchbox pickics, I was kind of astounded by how the right container could transform sort of random bits and bobs from the fridge into like a really delightful kind of treasurefilled lunch.
>> If you had like a bento, you might pack it one way and if you had something different, you might pack a different lunch. Is it kind of like the vessel determines the destiny of the lunch?
>> The the vessel absolutely dictates the lunch and I think that I, you know, you mentioned the cookbook. I worked on Love Japan. We had a whole section on packing bento boxes because this is a, you know, Japanese tradition. That's the good old lunchbox in Japan. And there are many small compartments. And it might look intimidating or fussy, but then when you're actually filling those small compartments, you're like, "Oh, there's, you know, two chicken nuggets in the fridge or like one and a half meatballs." And maybe you would not normally think, oh, what's my kid having for lunch tomorrow? That half meatball in the takeout container, [laughter] but then when you put it in a little compartment and then maybe even put like a little vegetable next to it, like a slice of cucumber, suddenly it's like this really tasty viddle that you maybe almost threw away yesterday. It can really be transformative.
>> I love that. I have also had that experience packing bentos for my kids. And we're going to talk a little bit more about bentos in a few minutes. Let's just put a pin in that because it's one of my favorite boxes. I'll just say that. [laughter] All right. So, we have tested a lot of lunch boxes for both adults and kids. I know we've tested dozens and dozens of different options. How do we test them? Who do we test them with? So, we have the kids guide to lunch boxes and we have the adult guide to lunch boxes, but the testing is basically the same for both of them. You're looking just to see how much food can each one hold. That's a really important piece of criteria. And that will differ whether you are testing for kids or for grown-ups. And so when you look at both those guides, you'll see the kids guides are they're going to hold less food than the adult guides. But also durability is really important because the box is not only a vessel, but it's a carrier and you're taking it with you somewhere. And we live in a very diverse country where we might be walking, we might be biking, we might be subwaying, we might be driving. And we want a bento box or a lunch box that is going to keep your food intact. You don't want any leaks. And if something drops and falls from the floor, you don't want it to break into a crisis and then boom, your whole day is ruined,
>> right? Are you testing with kids sending these lunch boxes to school? Are you testing with adults who are taking these lunch boxes to work? How in sort of like real life testing are you doing with with people for these for these boxes?
>> Yes. Well, uh Laura Mley has been our
>> She's the writer, right? is the writer and you know she she has a husband who you know has worked on a work site so she'll send him to work with the carhe heart. he'll see like how cool did this bag with a one or two cooler packs keep my food and she has children in different ages and you know we're real life testing with actual kids and actual family members and also we're long-term testing so you know editors who work on these guides other people who work at Wire Cutter they bring these picss home and sometimes our picks change based on the feedback of the long-term testers because they're being put through the paces every single day and we might get more information based on the results that they find.
>> I have at least three to four different lunch boxes or vessels that we've recommended and I have different thoughts on different ones, but I'm excited to try a couple more that we're going to talk about today because I have specific complaints about some things that I want to I want to hash out.
>> Let's hear the beef. [laughter]
>> Before we get into the different types of vessels that we recommend, I am curious for someone listening who's kind of like, uh, do I need a new lunchbox? What is there anything wrong with my lunchbox? What is the argument for upgrading something? Like if you already have a passable lunchbox that's been working, but maybe things are annoying you about it. What's the biggest argument for getting something better? Well, you might just ask yourself, do I wish that I could put this in the microwave? Do I wish this had more compartments because I want more variety and I don't like it when all the food ends up blended together by the time I eat my lunch? And these are questions that can lead you to a new lunchbox. We have insulated examples. We have food thermoses. Uh we have examples that have really nice compartments. Maybe you notice I'm a salad person. I've been bringing a salad and dressing to work with me for the last 6 months and I'm always paranoid that my dressing is just going to burst in in my bag. And we have a pick for that, too. [music] So, let's talk about the different options that we recommend. You already touched on the bento. This is my absolute favorite. The aesthetic of it, the ability to kind of separate things. My kids also really like that. What makes a good bento and who should consider getting one of these? Okay, so we mentioned leftovers. I think that if you are a household where you're doing a lot of home cooking and there's a lot of turnover, this is a great way to upcycle your leftovers because the bentos are made up of small compartments. They are lunch boxes that are divided up into some models have large compartments where you can have two areas to put your food. There are lunch boxes that have five compartments and they're much smaller and you can have like a much more snacky variety. But if yeah, if you're home cookers, this is a great way to turn your leftovers that maybe no one would have reached for into a really appealing lunch. I also love them for picky kids because they don't like any of their foods touching each other. You know, it's like all needs to be divided. My biggest beef with the bentos that I have tried, it's when it leaks. Can you actually get a bento that doesn't leak?
>> I mean, according to our testing, we do have some leakp proof options. So, there is a new pick, the Eco Zoy stainless steel bento lunch, and it almost looks like the old school TV dinner trays.
>> Uhhuh. Yeah.
>> You know, it's all compartmentalized and it closes shut. It has a gasketed lid and it is leakproof. Now, this might not pass the picky test
>> because it will not leak out of the container into your bag according to our testing,
>> but there is some leakage that can happen between compartments and that might be a problem.
>> Right. Right.
>> So, that's not like a perfect answer, but I think it's an improvement to leaking in the bag.
>> What I really like about this bento also is that it is metal. A lot of these are plastic and I don't love using plastic to send my kids off to school with, so I would go for this. What are some of your other favorite bentos that we recommend?
>> Well, I've been using at home the Takanaka Bento bite duel.
>> Yeah, this is the most aesthetic of our choices, I think. [laughter] I mean, it's kind of like when you think of bento, this is what you're thinking of. It's a it's a stacked container. It comes with a little plastic fork that fits tidily into the plastic lid. And then a larger section stacks on top of that. And that one has a divider and it has the gasketed lid. And you'll hear gaskets referred to a lot in these guides. And they're just sort of like the they create that little bit of a vacuum that makes the lid just stay put on top of the bento box.
>> I'll say it again. I love the way this one looks. It comes in all these pastel colors. Okay. So, we've got those two that we just talked about. We also have a number of other bentos that we recommend. I think we recommend some specifically for kids in our guide. Anything you would like to call out there because we we have a variety that people can reference the guide for.
>> Yes. Um I mean, Bent Go, the brand Bent Go has many picks in both of our guides and they did really well in the children's bento category. the Bento Fresh 3. And thank you so much that all of these picss are going to be online somewhere because
>> yeah, we'll have them in the show notes.
>> I mean, these it's very hard to keep track of these things, but there is a model that has a stacked bento that has compartments in each stack and the lids close with little latches and it's just very secure and it passed, you know, our test for being easy to clean and for uh leakability. They don't cost a lot of money, but they also might not last as long. [music]
>> Let's talk about insulated bags. What makes a good one, and when would you want to get this type of bag?
>> I have to say that the aspirational me is like bento all the way, but the real me is insulated bag. [laughter] [gasps]
>> Why is that?
>> Because you just throw things into it.
>> Yeah.
>> You don't need to put that much forethought into it. My true lunch style. I was doing some soulsearching before knowing we were going to talk today. I throw like whole vegetables in
>> like just like a carrot, like a head of cabbage every second.
>> Yeah, that's exactly. Come on. A pumpkin. Um, no, like peppers, cucumbers. But I choose things that don't require much thought in the morning and I throw them in an insulated bag.
>> Yeah, that's great.
>> And that is helpful. Let's talk about the first word in this type, insulated. Do they do a better job of keeping things cold than other options that we recommend? I mean, we have insulated bags that look like tote bags you put over your shoulder. We have insulated bags that look like little puffy boxes that have handles. And we also have ones that actually are lunch boxes as well, but you can also fit a bento into. And the big difference is that all of these insulated options, you can put cooler packs in them. and we've tested them and know that four hours out of the fridge with a cooler pack, they're going to stay cold according to USDA safety standards. Let's just pause on that because I have found as a parent packing lunches for my kids or bringing lunches to work. I often forego putting the freezer pack in the bag because it just it feels like I've lost them or it's just too much trouble.
>> Yeah. And I'll go all day with my lunch in my bag before I eat it like four or five hours later. Am I going to make myself sick? Just very European of you, [laughter] Christine. That's all. Is it technically like not food safe to not be putting under ice or an ice pack? There is a specific temperature above which dangerous bacteria can start to grow in food. The FDA, which is really our standard bearer for food safety, has the following on their website that a perishable lunch can sit out without an ice pack for a maximum of 2 hours at normal room temperature, but if you're in really hot temperature, like summer day, 90°, that goes down to 1 hour.
>> Okay. So, I'm I'm breaking all the rules all the time. We need people like you. [laughter] I think in this category you see the widest range of sizes of insulated bags. You can have a smaller one for a kid or like you mentioned earlier, you could have the car heart one that we recommend which is more of sort of like the working work working bag. You're taking it to the construction site and you've got two meals in it. You know, obviously you can just decide how much food you need to take for the day and decide on what size you want. But is there any more guidance you would give on that around how to choose between the vast array of options here?
>> Yes. And also you're making me realize how passionate I am about this category. [laughter] It's it because it it what it does is it sort of makes you think about your life and your lifestyle and what your needs are and that's how you you pick your sizes. So there are some models like for instance the Bagu puffy lunch bag which is the cutest thing in the world. It's like a little cube. It comes in amazing prints, but it only has handles. So, when you're walking with this little poofy lunchbox, you can't sling it over your shoulder.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if that is a requirement for you, if it's totally impractical for you to have a handle only lunch bag, then maybe that's not your bag. It might seem like an indirect answer to the size question, but the handles do have a lot to do with are you driving? Are you walking? And size also figures into that. The Carheart insulated 12 can.
>> Oh, you could also use it to take beer to the beach.
>> You can. Yes. Well, it's in our guide to coolers, there's one pick that we have where we say that it could easily double as a lunchbox. And the car heart can easily double as a cooler.
>> Oh, that's great.
>> So, if you if you're taking lunch for two, you would want the car heart. Laura's husband, he has a job that has required him to work on sites like job sites where there's no refrigerator. So, maybe he's packing snacks and he's packing lunch and maybe even dinner. So, a bag of this size, it could hold multiple meals,
>> right? One thing I've noticed about these bags, because I used the LLBAN options, which we recommend in both for adults and kids, and I found those to be great for many years, but eventually they became too hard to fit into my kids backpacks as their books and things grew in in the bag. It became harder to stuff these insulated bags, and that's I think when we moved to bentos. But I think they can be a great option.
>> [music]
>> We're going to take a quick break and when we're back, we're going to talk about two other categories of lunchbox. Salad boxes, which I think are so fun, [music] and thermoses. We'll be right back. [music] [music] Welcome back, Gabby. Before the break, we talked about a few lunchbox options to consider. Now, we're going to cover some of the more out of the box or unusual options. One that I love that I did not even realize was a thing until I read the guide is salad bowls. Tell us about what these are and why you might want to get one.
>> Well, we all know about sweet green and and all that. I've never been like a chopped salad lunch girly, but there are people for whom salad is is it.
>> Yeah.
>> And we all know that there are a lot of limitations when it comes to salad in terms of keeping it just vibrant and fresh by the time you're ready to eat it. If you're packing it in the morning.
>> Yeah. Like if everything is mixed together, it's all going to be limp by the time you eat it usually.
>> Exactly. And that's really sad. So, I mean, one solution to that is just only having ingredients that are hearty. Grain salad, fennel, olives, like all those things that you can dress ahead of time and then you put it in the bowl. It's great if it just sits for a while because it enhances its flavor, whatever. But some people just like a regular salad with leaves and lots of different vegetables that are not going to do so great if you dress them in advance. So, compartmentalized salad container. I think it's great for the type A salad chef basically is what I'm really trying to say. I think these look great for similar reasons to the bento option because you've got these little compartments and you can keep everything separate. And I could see sending one of these with my kids because they would like to choose their own adventure salad at school. We recommend several salad bowl options. How would you recommend people decide between these?
>> One really obvious decider would be, do you want compartments or not? We have a really attractive pick from the brand W and P. It's just a It's a bowl. It's a very chic little bowl and it has, you know, like a little latched lid and when you open it, it turns into a serving dish basically. So, I think that this is the bowl for your grain salad or your your hearty salad or even your your cooked vegetables. To be perfectly honest, there's nothing about it that dictates it as salad. And it's also microwavable. So, you can put
>> put pasta in there or something.
>> Exactly. But it's a bowl. Yeah,
>> it is just a bowl [laughter]
>> with a lid. Right.
>> With a lid. Um, and it's very appealing, but it does not have your separate compartment for the little crunchy bits and your separate compartment for the lettucees and your non-leaky container for the salad dressing. And that's what the Bent Go all-in-one salad container has. I think that it's really exciting though because we do have one new pick and it is from Swell. And you know, we might as well swell for their water bottles, but they have a stainless steel salad bowl.
>> Oh, you are speaking my language again. Does this one have compartmentalized parts?
>> It does. It doesn't have as many compartments as the BGO salad container, but it does have compartments. And also, a really important feature of these compartmentalized salad containers is that they need to have compartments, but they also need to have the bowl that you're going to eat the food in. So, the basic design that you're going to be finding in these is a bottom container that is the bowl that has your lettuce undressed in it and then on top some kind of a fitted compartmentalized section that has all of your other bits and bobs that you're going to mix together. So, the Bent Go and the Swell both have these, but the Swell has fewer compartments and it's stainless steel. And the beno is not as durable and that's why it's been demoted somewhat.
>> I see. And how how do you keep your salad dressing from leaking all over the place? Is there like a compartment for the salad dressing that doesn't leak or how does that work?
>> The Bent Go has a special container for salad dressing that is leak proof.
>> Okay.
>> The Swell Salad Bowl also has a leak proof container for dressing. [music]
>> [music]
>> All right, let's talk about hot lunches. What should people know about food thermoses? Because I think this is the option here for for hot lunch.
>> Yes. Well, food thermoses are fascinating because they can keep things hot and they can keep things cold.
>> But a food thermos is really just a vessel that very similarly to our insulated bags. It's another insulated vessel for keeping your food in. It kind of limits your options in some ways because it's just one single container. So, you kind of have to commit, you know, to what you're going to eat. But, you can eat directly out of it and it's just ready to go. No microwave.
>> And in fact, you wouldn't want to microwave most of them. They're made out of metal usually, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point.
>> Which ones do we recommend? We love the Zoji Rushi stainless steel food jar for the adult option and it comes in 12 to 25 oz. And Zoji Rushi is so good at keeping hot things hot. I mean, they make one of our longtime most favorite recommendations, which is their travel coffee mug or tea mug, which that thing keeps things so hot, like scalding hot for hours.
>> Yes. I actually I remembered that one bit from reading that guide I don't know how many years ago because the only real critique was that it was too hot.
>> Too hot. Yeah.
>> Yeah. [laughter] So it's like okay well you have one job Zoji Rushi and I think you're doing it very well. Um and then we have the thermoplast food jar which is like please listeners just Google it. It's the cutest thing in the world. It's just an inexpensive food jar for kids. It comes in great colors. It's 12 ounces and it has a really wide mouth. your kiddos can just put their fork or their spoon right in there. And these are all easy to clean, which is a really important criteria as well. We have covered so many of the lunchbox options at this point. But now I want to talk about maybe the last tricky element of the lunch conversation is what are we putting in these boxes and these bowls and all of these insulated bags. You are an accomplished food writer. You have written and edited a couple of cookbooks. What are some fresh, cool, interesting ideas that people can be thinking about or resources they can be turning to for fresh ideas for what to pack?
>> Well, no, honestly, like your your question struck terror in my heart and my mind went completely blank. No, it's like it's so high pressure. We talked already about just kind of repackaging leftovers in a clever way. Also, there's a couple of online food experts. Molly Yay. Everyone needs to look up Molly in her bento boxes. She has two small kids and she just she does things very well, but it comes from a place of like real fun and joy. And there's one image that I think every wire cutter person would just melt over on her Instagram, which is her bento drawer.
>> She just has a drawer and it's all different bentos. Many wire cutter pics, may I add. She just has a lot of videos where she's lovingly preparing snacks for kids. And I love that
>> she uses one box that I know I haven't gone to the food yet, but she uses one box that we also feature in our kids guide, which has an insulated thermos and then bento compartments around it. Which box is that? The box is called the Omi box. And Molly put mac and cheese, like more mac and cheese in that little jar for her kid. And she also does a lot of sprinkle centric things. And a great snack that I saw her do was just splitting open a date, putting some nut butter in it, and then dipping it into sprinkles.
>> Oh my gosh. Like ice cream sprinkles.
>> Yeah. Another favorite of mine that I've seen Molly do and also Ally Slaggel. She's a New York Times.
>> She's got great recipes.
>> She's great recipes. Ally Slaggel is basically my go-to New York Times recipe developer because she does very unfussy, nourishing, delicious recipes. And like ever since I became a mother, I search for her recipes. She did a really great not sad desk lunch feature for the times. And something that she and Molly both do is they exploit how delightful it can be to make little hand rolls. Oh, I love that. And you can shape the rice and you can just put a few sheets of seaweed separately. And and I know I will be accused of being coastal elite by some for saying like, "Oh, just pack a, you know, pack seaweed and rice for your kids and some tinned fish and you're good to go." But um my daughters loved tin sardines since she was a little kid. Um Ali Slegel has a fabulous recipe for tinned fish hand rolls, which I think is so smart. And Molly demonstrates how with a bento, you can have rice in a warm container separate from your seaweed and then like you put in, you know, vegetables, this and that. And there's one non-food item that Molly puts in her kids lunch boxes, which I honestly almost cried when I read it, but she does notes in the macaroni box. She wrote, "You are the cheese to my macaroni."
>> Oh, that's that is so sweet. I wish I was that type of person. Can I tell you the truth? My kids have asked me to include notes before and I always forget. And one year I remember my oldest daughter started writing her own notes to herself in her lunchbox. [laughter]
>> Oh my god, I am I am so glad we got that story out of you.
>> Oh, that's a real mom fail. But child loving themselves win, so I I'll take that.
>> What are you packing for yourself these days? I'm going to be really honest. It's peak CSA season. CSA is community supported agriculture. My husband and I paid for like a six-month um membership. So, once a week we pick up fresh vegetables that were grown on the farm. So, right now we're in like, you know, peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers, and because I'm lazy and I love fresh vegetables, I am just throwing like
>> You're just throwing all the fixings into that insulated bag and you're just cutting them up at work, right?
>> Yeah. And like if there is a Tupperware container with some leftover dinner, I take it and it's like a hallelujah moment. I'm like, "Oh my god, thank God."
>> Cottage cheese. My grandmother used to eat cottage cheese on toast for lunch.
>> I love that cottage cheese is having such a moment right now. It's back, baby. It's back. And we have a great review to cottage cheese.
>> Yes. Leah Kanig, uh, who's also a great cookbook author, has written our guide to cottage cheese. And suddenly cottage cheese is is in the zeitgeist. Yeah, I love that. Gabby, thank you so much for joining us. We will have you back again soon. Thank you for having me. [music] We will link to the many, many lunchbox options Wire Cutter recommends in our show notes, and of course, you can find them on our website. That's it for today. [music] Thanks for listening. The Wire Cutter Show is executive produced by Rosie Garin and produced by Abigail Keel. Engineering [music] support from Mattie Maziello and Nick Pitman. Today's episode was mixed by [music] Katherine Anderson. Original music by Dan Powell, Marian Lozano, [music] Rowan Nemoto, Katherine Anderson, and Diane Wong. Cliff Levy is Wire Cutter's deputy publisher [music] and general manager. Ben Freeman is Wire Cutters editor-inchief. [music] I'm Christine Sirette. Thanks for listening.