Today, I'm going to talk about the irresponsibility of the media in the age of AI. For once on this channel, though, I'm not going to be complaining about the media promoting AI hype, although they're still doing that too, of course. No, today, I need to talk about a much, much bigger and more pervasive problem. What I'm talking about today is way more basic than the AI hype. It's that the media, exemplified in this video today by Ezra Klein and The New York Times, is too lazy and arrogant to care about taking really obvious and simple steps to be transparent, which in turn is making it much, much harder for those of us trying to keep them honest by giving you the other side of the story. I really don't like lending credibility to the "Fake News" narrative, because quite often that phrase is used by the powerful government and business interests to try to obscure facts and avoid accountability for their actions. But, in the AI world we find ourselves in - which will almost certainly continue for however long we manage to hold on to civilization - as the new AI tech makes creating fake news incredibly easy to do, and incredibly difficult to detect, it's time we started holding the media to at least a bare minimum standard. And this is long overdue. Decades overdue. The public deserves better. You deserve better. I'm so sick and tired of busting my ass, trying to make it clear to you where the information I use in my videos is coming from when most of the American media just doesn't give a F--- This is Internet of Bugs. My name is Carl. I've been a software professional since the late 1980s, and I'm trying to do my part to keep AI from making the internet need to be even more bug ridden and untrustworthy nightmare than it already is. You can find more information about me at InternetofBugs.com, and if you want to help support my work trying to push back against the AI hype and media laziness, there's a link to my Patreon below. I truly appreciate all my patrons and all the people who have helped me out in any of various ways. This has been a really uphill battle. I started making the video you are now watching when I encountered a recent piece by Ezra Klein from the New York Times carrying water for the AI industry and parroting their propaganda and Doomerism again. And it just kind of broke me, which is why instead of calling out the New York Times for shilling for the AI billionaires again, I find myself making a video calling out the New York Times for just being lazy, lousy journalists. And it's not just them, just to be clear. So much more of the media industry is just as bad as the New York Times. But on their YouTube page, the New York Times called themselves the most powerful engine for independent boots on the ground and deeply reported journalism, and they claim we set the standard. And in some sense, it's probably true that they set the standard. But given how pathetic their standard is, I don't think they ought to be bragging about it. Based on the examples we're going to talk about today, their most powerful engine is, well, at least on the subjects of AI and tech or I work, pretty much just clickbait and what Karl Bode calls "CEO set a thing" journalism. Some of us in our own way, in our own niches, try to do our best to counteract their misinformation, not that we can ever fix all the damage they cause. But to correct the record, what we have to do is to take the media sensationalist clickbait headlines and thumbnails and articles, and then we have to drill down to get to the underlying verifiable facts that the media narrative is based on, and then point out to you, the public, what those facts actually are. And the media through their laziness and arrogance makes that so much more difficult and time consuming than it ought to be. So here's a link to the Ezra Klein video essay that I'm using in my primary example today. As always, you'll find all my links to all my references below. Any time today that I'm showing you clips or stills from this video, you'll see the timestamp in seconds up here on the top right corner, and the YouTube plus captions hard coded down here in the bottom left. The video is just short of 30 minutes long, and this graph is a breakdown of what's in that video. Each of these lines corresponds to a section of the video and the length of each line corresponds to the length of time that particular section takes. So these lines indicated here in yellow with dots on their edges represent content original to the New York Times video, either clients speaking directly to camera or some visualization that appears to have been created inside the New York Times. The rest of the lines in this graph represent segments of the video, making up roughly a third of the runtime that come from other sources. What other sources did they pull this from? Damn to find out, that's the problem. I've already given you more links to sources on the screen in the video you are watching now than Ezra Klein and his entire team bothered to give the public and their entire almost 30 minute piece. Roughly nine minutes of included video clips and screenshots are in that video, and zero links are given. No links to sources in the description, none in the transcript. I even searched the New York Times site until I found their page for this video, and I looked at the transcript on their page for it. No links or URLs given there either. Not just that, but the reason that I had to search the New York Times site for its transcript is because, as you can watch here, at the time that I'm recording this video, the link to the Times web page for the transcript, as given in the video's YouTube description, goes to a broken 404 page. The single solitary URL in the YouTube description that does work is a marketing link that goes to the book recommendation page for Ezra's podcast where he interviews people. Instead of links, here is what passes for attribution at the New York F-ing times. These three screens. Here's one. Here's the second. Here's the third. Now, I'm going to stack them all up so you can see them all at once. Somewhere in this 29 and a half minute video, according to the New York Times, there's something that they got from Anthropic, something that they got from Google, and something that they got from OpenAI. Where in the video were those things? Where exactly on those sites did they come from? F-You, that's where. Three AI companies, four TikTok channels, eight news organizations, four YouTube channel, a bunch of stock video photo providers, one sub stack, one Patreon, six Twitter slash X users, and a few other organizations. And they don't even seem to be in any particular order. The video starts with what appears to be an Anthropic ad followed by a gym and I add. And then instead of going to OpenAI, as you might think from looking at this, it shows three, not four, but only three TikTok clips, then back to Ezra, then to a CNN clip followed by BBC one CBS doesn't even appear until later. So if someone who, unlike Ezra, actually cares about the integrity of where their information comes from, wants to break down for people, the numerous fallacies and conflicts of interest in what Ezra is saying here, the amount of work that has to be done is enormous. Quick aside, some of you might think that I'm being unreasonable because this is an opinion column and not a news story. First off, no, I'm not. When media personalities with huge platforms advocate for policy positions, which is exactly what Ezra is doing here, they absolutely owe us references to what they're basing their opinions on. And even if I was being harsh, which I'm not, here's a link to an actual times news story on the recent increase in use of AI by the national weather service. And it's no different. No links, no URLs, just a list of companies and channels that might have been the source for some piece of footage or some image somewhere in the video. Make no mistake, adding links to the sources you use is easy to do. Hell, I do it. I've done it for two and a half years and I'm just one person. Ezra Klein's video has three fact checkers credited on it. It would be absolutely trivial of them to include the links if they cared at all. And it's never, ever been more important. And it will be getting more and more important over time. Why? Because AI makes creating disinformation so easy and so hard to spot. I'm not talking about some pipe dream sensationalist, Doomer, fantasy, super AI either. The current state of AI can absolutely do this. In fact, it's been doing it for years and it doesn't require any tech advances at all. So here's a link. See, it's not that hard. Here's a link to a report from Reporters without Borders. About 100 instances where journalists were impersonated with AI deepfakes. And that report only goes up to 2025. And here are two more links to stories about two separate deepfake political ads targeting two different candidates for next month midterm elections, just in Texas where I live, just in state or addresses. For months now, it has been trivial to make deepfakes of news personality, saying whatever you want them to see this time's report on deepfaking Sam Altman. And even in the event that AI never gets any closer to hypothetical super intelligence than what we have now, making deepfakes will almost certainly continue to get much easier. This is why it's critical that we demand that the media accurately reports where they got their references and sources. At a bare minimum, we need to be able to trace the origin and authenticity of every clip or quote that purports to be a statement from anyone in a position of power or authority, be they CEO, politician, journalist, subject matter expert or anyone else whose position or expertise is relevant to the public discourse. There's this thing on the internet called Brandolini's law, which dates more or less. The amount of energy needed to refute disinformation is an order of magnitude bigger than that needed to produce it, except they use a more profane word than disinformation. The lax standards of the media is one of the big reasons why debunking B.S. is so much harder than generating it. Because those of us that actually care about the truth and hold ourselves to a basic standard of transparency have to go to so much more effort to track down and document the actual sources we use than they do, and the large companies like the Times spend their vastly superior resources overwhelming the public with clickbait and not bothering at all to show their work. Ezra Klein and the New York Times should be ashamed of themselves. And if you agree, I'd urge you to comment on their YouTube videos and let them know. And furthermore, especially if you're in New York Times subscriber, here's one final link for you. It's a form where you can tell the New York Times that they have no business calling themselves "the most powerful engine for independent boots-on-the ground and deeply reported journalism" when their paid staff isn't even held at the same standards as unpaid volunteers on frickin' Wikipedia. They want to claim to be setting the standard. Well, it's past time that we had a standard that was no longer embarrassing to the whole of American journalism. Thanks for watching. Let's be careful out there.