(Chinese New Year) At this time last year, I posted a popular video called "Lost hope of Chinese youth" It talked about the cruel situation of many Chinese college graduates and graduates' unemployment It attracted more than 70,000 views at that time In a blink of an eye, a year has passed Is the situation of Chinese youth unemployment getting better? 去年的大學畢業生數字是1179萬那麼今年呢根據中國人力資源和社會保障部部長王小平在今年兩會上所匯報的數字是1222萬人打破了去年的紀錄再次成為中國歷史上最多應屆畢業生的一年今年啊應屆畢業生高校畢業生是1222萬人還有大量的農村轉移勞動力需要實現穩定就業 就業總量壓力不減根據北大副教授張丹丹的測算還有我本人去年在視頻裡的詳細論證中國目前實際的青年10月率不會低於50%也就是說在去年的1179萬畢業生裡估計還有大約600萬人還沒有找到工作然後今年的1222萬人又即將要在一個月後被放出來了 What is the concept of 18 million people? The total population of the Netherlands is all working at the same time. In fact, in more than 230 countries and regions, the population of 161 countries is no more than 18 million. 去年我改編了一個電影場景用來比喻中共領導們面對即將洶湧而來的應屆畢業生時的心情廣受好評今年就再播放一次 Thanks for watching!  中國目前正在經歷一個非常奇特的時代一邊人口迅速老齡化另一邊大學畢業生人數每年不斷的在激增這兩件我們直覺上認為應該是相反的事卻又真的正在中國同時發生 The biggest problem is that the economic situation in China is going to be worse and the number of graduates will be higher than the historical level This will cause a serious problem Last year's graduation is not over yet This year's graduation is coming This year's graduation is not over yet This year's graduation is coming 除非中國經濟能夠突然得到一個非常大的突破和提升否則這個雪球必定會越滾越大社會上精力充沛的閒散人員越來越多社會不穩定因素就會越來越大要看清楚這個問題我們也不能瞎猜測跟往常一樣我們用數據來分析問題 To understand the pressure of the Chinese employment market, we can't just look at last year and this year. We can fully understand the number of college graduates coming in the coming years. It can help many young people and parents make reasonable life plans. So what do I want to do today? That is to predict the number of new college graduates in China every year in the next 10 years Then analyze how big the snowball will roll Can China's economy turn around And what ordinary people should do 關於未來幾年畢業生數字的估算我原本以為網上會有一些可靠的數據但搜了一圈並沒有估計是官方不太願意去做這樣的預估幾個月前國內流傳一張名為2000年到2045年中國大學生畢業人數的圖表很多人可能都看到過這張圖當時引起了不少恐慌但其實上面的數字是假的 The so-called estimated number actually adds up to the national statistics bureau's annual birth data plus 22 years For example, the birth of a population of 16.17 million in 2005 2027 years after 22 years The number of graduates is also 16.17 million Not bad at all All the expected numbers behind it are like this 这样的预估就真的很拙劣了某一年出生的人口22年后大学毕业这个假设没问题但怎么可能100%的人口都大学毕业呢其实真相已经足够吓人了你想告诉大家中国的就业市场有多严峻只需要实事求是即可造谣只会失去公信力反而落人口实那么有些人就可以继续粉饰太平误导群众 So let me make a reasonable estimate of the number of Chinese graduates in the next 10 years But today I not only want to show these data I also want to teach everyone at the same time How do you usually analyze and think about some media data Actually it's not as difficult as you think Sometimes you don't need any professional knowledge First, let's list the birth population of 1956 to 2023 然後再列出22年後對應的大學生畢業生人數也就是從1978年到2025年這些都是經過考證的歷史數據當然 即便是官方的統計數字跟實際也許也會有一些偏差尤其是那些年代久遠的數據但從大致區間上來講應該是可以接受的 這時我們用每一年的畢業生人數來除以22年前的出生人口那麼就可以得到大學畢業生對應人口的占比換句話說就是某一年出生的人口22年後他們當中有多少比例能夠從大學畢業然後我們再拉一列看看這個比例每年的同比增速這樣就可以更加直觀的看到今年的大學畢業生對應出生人口的占比比去年的增加了多少 After these two numbers are out Let's analyze these numbers to see if they are reasonable First, we can see that From the 80s to the late 90s The proportion of college graduates is very low From 2000 years later, the number of graduates has been rising rapidly To the recent 10 years, it has doubled to more than 70% These numbers seem to be in line with our intuition and expectations Right? But there are also some odd numbers that we need to dig deeper For example, why did there suddenly increase in 2005? The average increase of 1.5% every year in the first three years Why did it drop to 5.1%? 當我們回顧歷史就會發現中共政府在1999年宣布大學擴招教育部要求所有的高等教育機構包括專科、本科和研究生大大增加錄取名額降低錄取門檻自此中國高等教育人數進入了高速增長模式 Although the policy was announced in 1999, there is a process for the landings of each region. Most of the regions started to expand in 2000 and 2001. For example, Beijing, Shanghai, Anhui and Jiangsu. In 2001, the Ministry of Education issued a new policy allowing citizens over 25 years of age to take the college entrance examination and completely release the age restrictions of college recruitment. So, the first batch of college students who entered the university in 2001 Four years later, a big explosion of college graduates in 2005 It's totally reasonable The growth in the next two years is also very fast, but gradually entered the stable period In 2010, another big explosion happened with a 4.3% increase That's because in 2006, the government released the number of universities that could be self-reliant From less than 22 to 53 So this number is still reasonable There is another very early number That is 1982 Suddenly from the previous increase of more than a thousandth of a year Increased to 2.5% 這個非常好解釋啊1977年恢復高考1978年正式改革開放四年後1982年大學畢業生激增了一批非常合理那麼最後一個不正常的數字是2022年突然暴增13.4% 這個也非常好解釋疫情三年發生了兩件事第一個是有很多學生因為疫情封校延遲畢業第二是為了緩解就業壓力國務院宣布大規模擴招研究生和專生本的名額所以很多原本應該在2020年和2021年畢業的本科和專科生延遲了兩年到22年和23年才集中爆發出來了 So we can summarize the calculation table First, the overall trend of data is in line with our intuition and expectations That is, the economic growth that has been accompanied by China since the reform The demand for high-level education has risen Parents and students will generally consider the college entrance exam as a historical fact that changes the path of destiny Second, the odd numbers in the calculator can be explained in a reasonable way through a special historical event. Therefore, we can now say with confidence that the data in this calculator is reliable. Okay, now we can use this reliable historical data to predict the future. If we look at the data from 2020 to 2025, except for the 2nd, 2nd and 3rd, the number of college graduates is 3.3% or more every year. Of course, this growth will not continue, and eventually reach a saturation point. Generally speaking, we will be conservative when we make a prediction If we set the number of graduates in 2026 as 77% of the population born 22 years ago It's only 6% more than this year It should be very conservative After all, in the past 33 years, only two years have seen the number of graduates decrease And it's all a few thousandths In fact, you can ignore it 接下來每年的增速我們設定為1%然後到80%封定應該沒有人有意見吧夠保守了那麼我們就得到了一個非常可靠且偏保守的未來20年中國大學畢業生人數的預估表 好了 那我們現在可以看到今年大學畢業生人數為1222萬未來13年幾乎每年都要創歷史新高未來8年每年畢業生人數都在1200萬以上2034年開始超過1300萬到2038年達到頂峰1500萬畢業生要一直到17年後也就是2042年每年新湧入就業市場的畢業生人數才會開始低於1000萬 This kind of numbers, even if it is put into countries where the economy is growing rapidly, are very scary. Not to mention that China's economy is starting to enter the downward path. This is already an unparalleled fact. Even the CCP officials have not denied it like a few years ago. Last September, the CCP launched the most popular economic stimulus policy which is called the 9-2-4 policy from stimulus stocks to the full-scale real estate purchase to tens of billions of home appliances and mobile phone national subsidies to drive consumption But are these policies working? Let's compare the situation last September and now First is consumer In September last year, the number of Chinese consumers' confidence index was one of the lowest in history, 85.7 In the past 20 years, the number of Chinese consumers' confidence index has never been below 100 But since April 2022, it has not been recovered since 86 As one of the three cars in China's economy, the stimulus consumption is an important part of the 924 policy. But after seven months, after the national stock price of more than 300 billion was down, the latest data is that until this April, the consumer confidence index is still only 87.8. It can be said that even the water flowers have not grown up a drop. It is still at the lowest point in history. You should know that in 2021, the consumer confidence index was 127. Currently, it has fallen by 30%. 那重中之重的樓市呢?那就更慘了我今年三月底已經有一期視頻詳細分析過了樓市沒有復甦二三線城市持續全面下跌有些地方自2023年以來已經跌掉了超過一半 Now, how serious is the real estate problem? Because the mortgage is too high, the real estate is too high to be paid. According to the data provided by the Chinese Real Estate Information Corporation (CRIC) In April, the new real estate is 3.04 million units, which is 53% more than the previous one. At the same time, the real estate yield is 61% lower than the previous one, which is 1244 units. One side is to increase 30,000 sets, the other side is to sell only 1200 sets. So you can ask your friends working in China's bank. Now the bank is looking for a contract to pay the mortgage. All you need to do is pay the interest, and everything will be fine. The bank has completely lost its coolness. 為什麼呢?因為以前你不還款銀行把房子查封拍賣輕輕鬆鬆的就能連本帶利拿回來但現在他們知道查封沒用了堆積如山的法派房逢了他們也賣不掉啊 然後是股市那還用說嗎一說A股很多人就要來氣A股去年9月底是3300點現在還是3300點大家還記得去年9.24政策剛宣布的時候嗎哇 政府要8000億救市散戶們一窩蜂擁入股市裡快遞員、外賣小哥甚至是和尚都衝了進去 坊间都在说这次国家是动真格了A股要冲到八千点当时我还紧急发了两个视频劝大家千万不要冲动我说疯狂牛市是中产反贫的最快途径到今天都还有很多人在感激我的这两个视频救了他们的身家性命 所以我們可以看到這史上最強的經濟刺激政策當初來勢洶洶經過了八個月狂風暴雨般的執行幾萬億砸了下去但股市、小費、房地產全都幽露一灘死水紋絲不動 而偏偏就在這個時候又迎來了川普的關稅戰正是烏漏偏封連夜雨破船又遇大頭風啊但就算沒有川普美西方跟中國的逐漸脫鉤也是遲早的事只是快慢不同和手段不同的區別民主黨是跟盟友抱團逐漸暗中疏離川普是正面硬剛結果都是一樣的 而正是在这样的经济困境之下中国需要迎头面对未来15年每年不低于1200万大学毕业生融入社会寻找工作的状况结果必定就是失业人群的不断积累并形成滚雪球效应问题就是这个雪球究竟会滚到多大呢我们可以做一个简单的测算 First, we need to set a reliable unemployment rate. Here we cannot use the official 17% of the youth unemployment rate. Almost no one thinks that this number reflects the real Chinese youth unemployment rate. The main reasons for the official data and facts are First, the definition of unemployment is extremely strict. For example, you only need to work for an hour a week, even if you are an old-time worker. 再比如,三個月內你自願啃老,沒有再積極找工作的,你就不能算是失業人口。第二,國家統計局的失業率不計算農村戶籍人口,只有城鎮戶籍的才能被列入統計範圍。第三, All universities are trying to deal with the unemployment rate that the leaders have. The unemployment rate is false for the hard-working graduates. Many universities have a soft-hard-sensitive system that forces the students who are about to graduate to sign a "flexible employment registration form". Otherwise, they won 't be granted with a degree. I've talked about these details in the previous video. If you are interested, please watch it later. I won't talk about it here. Actually, my last year's evidence has been confirmed. Last month, Yunnan University boldly announced the real 2025 graduate employment rate. Out of 5600 graduates, only 1188 people found a job. The employment rate is only 21.2%. That is to say, almost 80% of graduate students graduate from the job. This is the data that is still being pulled up by the few popular universities Some more popular professions such as software, business management and information college Can achieve 40% or more employment rate But most college employment rate is only 10% to 20% More than one-third of college employment rate can't even reach 10% 云南大学可是211院校并不是什么野鸡大学他们又公布了另一个有意思的数字2024年毕业生当中有4093名本科但居然有4955名硕士再次说明了这几年来由于就业环境实在太差很多人为了延迟进入就业市场都会去考研希望过两年情况就会有所好转但这种想法恐怕是一厢情愿了 云南大学作为211院校,毕业研究生都已经达到了80%的失业率我想全国50%的青年失业率并不算夸张那么回到我们关于血球效应的测算来我就不说50%了直接打个6折,就说未来几年青年失业率维持在30%这个水平应该够保守了吧 假設每年的大學畢業生當中都會有30%找不到工作從2020年開始計算累計到2035年全國將會有5000萬年輕人失業假設是按照50%的失業率來計算僅僅5年後失業青年人數就會達到5500萬2037年突破1個億 Of course, this calculation does not calculate those who find a job after graduation more than a year later So the actual number may be less But the overall impact is not big Still a surprising number In fact, I said so much It's not comparable to what you see with your own eyes 各位在中國的朋友你們家小區附近有沒有擺地攤夜宵潭的你們下次去的時候仔細留意一下是不是現在擺攤的大多數都是年輕人然後你再回想七八年前都不用那麼久就說兩三年前擺地攤的有那麼多年輕人嗎這還不算上各大城市都能見到的網紅一條街哇操太瘋狂了兄弟們你們看吧這個社會到底怎麼了我看不明白了兄弟們你們看吧   就算大學生願意放下身段去做鐵人三項或吉祥三寶鐵人三項就是外賣快遞網約車吉祥三寶就是保安保潔保母就算大學生願意去做這些在這幾年經濟持續下滑的情況下其實這些行業也已經趨近飽和 So I said at the beginning of the video If China can't find a breakthrough that suddenly increases the economy Then in the next ten years, the young people of China will be very sad What breakthrough can there be? I said in the video summary a year ago To solve China's economic problem We need three things 1. Effective rule 2. Limited power 3. A normal society Then I gave many examples Said I didn't see hope Today after a year Let's take a look again Is the situation better? First, the rule of law and power In recent years, China has a new term called "Foreign-bred capture" Many local governments, because of the lack of money, have allowed law enforcement agencies to send police across the province to capture, block, freeze and confiscate private property and personal property of foreign companies. There are even some police in the northern provinces who went to Beijing and kidnapped the owner of Biquan and asked them to call their family or colleagues and paid tens of millions of cash to let you go In addition to the old age, there is a new word "Exchange debt" In February, a news article in China's "Jingying" newspaper broke everyone's three levels. A female entrepreneur named Ma Yi Jiayi was building a poverty alleviation project for the six-story building in Guizhou. After 10 government projects such as kindergartens and primary schools, she was owed 2.3 billion yuan by the local government for eight years. In the end, the district government proposed to use 12 million yuan to resolve all debts. 1200万只有工程款的5%连利息都不够马一加一当然拒绝了于是贵州政府把施工方女老板还有十几名律师和助理以寻衅滋事罪一举拿下送进大牢以刑化债一词就此名扬四方各地方政府纷纷效法谁敢向政府讨债就统统抓起来 The absurd events that even the filmmakers can't write about can be so grand and developed all over the world which shows that the power of the country is not under any restrictions Then what about the effective rule of law and limited power? As for a normal society, I said so last year. The economic operation needs a normal society. This is actually the least hopeful. In recent years, the government has been constantly instigating the influence of public opinion and hatred education. Chinese society has been twisted into a "skeleton" society. Now China has become a place where even a bottle of water can be controlled to humiliate the Chinese. A place where an internet celebrity can be sealed off as a egg fried rice. A place where Nobel Prize winners are accused of insulting and raping. A place where the local hooligans who go to other people's buildings to pee can become democratic heroes. the whole country has fallen into a very sensitive, self-abased, self-assertive, and self-involving atmosphere that always wants to fight with others. Some may say that this is just the voice of the individual extremists, which does not represent most Chinese people. But Professor Chun Li Ping described it very well. He said that this kind of thing is like the little stones on the road. It doesn't look big, and there is no big obstacle. But as long as there are more, the car can't run. So these absurd things in China are happening again and again. The atmosphere of the whole society has become twisted and radical. China's economy is so much that the car can't run anymore. Do you think this situation is getting better? I won't talk about anything else, just talk about a Nezha movie. For the sake of so-called national confidence, national pride, must use all means to attack the world's lottery champion. Whoever dares to say that Nezha is not good-looking, will be beaten into a traitor and a traitor immediately. Nezar2從純潔放映到現在快半年了明明很多地方已經沒人看了為了破紀錄還是不肯從影院撤出5月21號Nezar2宣布第四次延期要放到至少6月底就是為了爭全球票房榜第四名如果到6月底還是破不了估計還要苟延殘喘的繼續延期這是一個正常的社會嗎 所以很抱歉今年我依然沒有看到希望看到這裡肯定有很多人想問我了那普通人應該怎麼辦呢面對時代的大山普通人能做的很少如果說一定要給年輕人或年輕人的家長一些建議的那麼我想說在中國學歷貶值已成定局 但是我向来非常不愿意劝人不要去上大学因为对我来说上大学不只是为了找到一份好工作还有求职和树立独立人格的这层意义但我们也要尊重现实的考量如果你孩子上大学是需要你们家砸锅卖铁的那么你应该慎重考虑如果你上大学的唯一目的就是为了找到好工作那么现在这个投资回报率已经非常低了 The most important thing is that we must not blindly treat the university as the only way to change our destiny. This road is closed. The real hope is not from the blind optimism of the current situation, but from the clear knowledge of the problem, the face-to-face reality, and make rational planning and choices for ourselves. 好 那我今天就分享到這裡我是老周 橫沒冷對 時言不諱我們下集再見