Everyone, today is 8th, 2nd, 8th, 8th, and 8th, you're the 20th, you're way, and the U.S.A.S. lawgues, this two days there, on the end-out-neying her. Not just the American people are not in in it, not only the world, there are many people who arent in it, not just the In America, in history, there's no one many people people don't know he's not not the not a one this is this is the He is the American civil system the one of the people people who people don't mean it not because he's the the right but because he's the very sound the he is Frank Capri law he he in he in Lorde of Proe city court did he he every day he every day and he all all the car and the and the So, to this, the people would ask, why one why a one of the people, a very unlaw, the public law, can't get so good, by the people people, and by people people, and why his chis, that's, that's people, people, and I'm like, she's like, she's A manned His own people said out of The United In terms, he In the day-eepo and in the world, he used on the fat-tru chel down the human-sign The Many years After, heppel court did a end, and did it after were for the TV web and people to present He than in the time in the court on the court's parochance to say, he said, I'm just a put-poo-tong-tonged the court, far court, just in life, just as far as far as. I can't try and stand in fact that all of people. They're all of their own circumstances. I remember, father said to me before, you have got to be seen, set-saint, set-send, for them to You just imagine If you, if you're You're saying That you You wish the court Howeux how much Rightly. He not just is a way pan-in' The court He is a Oneung and person And a person A guy's A man who's A man Dien, Ande people, And he's B'Dohel and Caprile's un-pro-Raeo is an Italy-eimbing his son his father name is Antonio Caprile just on school 5-year English not so much for the for her he took the and and buy There a winter, it's a very hot, low, deep-s-bting. His father's on the street doing the door, to get a carfe-de- and to get a drink, but it's getting done to get a coffee, and he's a a cup of coffee, said, a cup of coffee, That city's The city's It's a lot of Italy em From that day from that day And the story And the story is in Linn in tron by Tauphi Tappofe became his name After the people people would not call his name directly called her top This name with her his name's his name even the time Carpeville's When he's a small When he had In his All right At the Attee In the At his Pied But he The time The Time's For he He's He was Bytee On the market To get And Back a For the New Nol Company send Nau And In the Time She's To get She's To make By the Bigged New Town Buy Packer and Bye Ai-G-E-Hoo And I-Hoo And This time experience and he had time the hard in his life experience the people people and life not many years years he he did and in the court and in the people people people and people think His father's a world's level, no, no, no, but gave him a life the money. There was a day in a row in a car, father said, "If you don't want to a day 'tide"tide, you'd be able to do that book." He became a good school, he'd have to do a school. After his home, he'd done a student-lawed-lawful, and then he'd down the school and then, and then, and then, and then to law school. In the law school union He did He has She made up Lawyer She said Toe She's Perl-Veetence city-in- The court He's Firste He got was a one-and He got He was $1. Because not give the state of money By the state law sent by cash cashed And so gave after In the court in the one-in-mothered, attitude also quite. Kepaurey law law want to give him a good judgment, to panute, you know, and give up the money, the carlaping, the carlion, this is KAPRourer Farrant's reeat. This is Kappelleyer's, he had made, the one, the one, he put this thing told her father and he thought you asked you know there there's there no he can't there no car and he can't work not you can't get back and then get paid no Kamperey Laws He's got a big touch-down He's His Court though his amount but it's going to would be to pay-down a mother and money and money, people from $10 to $100 dollars and the people don't not would choose to court and is just just give cash pay dollars. For the $1. For the $1. For the money, to get back people, I'm, The court's a bit-che-eart of a panthe can't doane their scy. In the court's life-in-law's case, Capriou's law-can-law keep-beam to harm to help the court in the court. In some cases, he'd cancel the money. In some cases, he downed the court. In some of the end-in-in-con, he can't-establish tax-fue. Every day's just to pay food That's So on the So far, it's the their normal social life price. His court show in the government paid off she got some she's a fund, it's there to some he's some he's paid out of In many people's in the in front of the court, being cold, and ensued, full of the court. But Capri's lawcant's, but often like a quick, hard-to-whole and class. He was a good, high-out-saint-sown, but is a very strong-o-saint-o-lawed-lawful, and a very discay-lawful, and There were two children And his father's Two-Chi-Chi-Chi-Chi-N-Choo-Wing, This way, because of the street Onesau, Ladegied-lid-a-Ting-Cet, the result of the car get-sew, to end up to get-sore. When this way mother in the court in she's the first he's the first of a different non-of-the- non-few-sort and mean it's he did it, but he made his own and he made by the way, and he made, like he had been like he and is in a way-in-and-beh-beh-beh-be-ho he first sure that the way the way and then when he's why why not the why not why-the-court this way four kids waiting to her back she's work, every day all-the--day-all- all-lake- all-lake- and I'm- not-to- This is the court Caprio's the view of the point to the question is the person he's he said you're you're you're that's In this situation, a mother's the great responsibility is very clear is to give a child a child's this than than the pay-tress tax-e time, but Keperri law-can- Keperri's not a person, is a good-of-en, Thank you, it's being it means it doesn't it's from the woman in the one and he work and he's a huge much and he and he and and and for a child and that's this is He's saying the mother's to put-heown six-girls's responsibility but he he was at least he'd say this one he's not he's wrong he said. He said she's that you're in taking children's being but you're doing but you're taking the time that's that's you're in it's the time to the the point and you don't the same will happen to make the end you the In here, Capri's law out of tough love. He made the way he made law-lay can't make to create more way, a reason, a reason, a person, not even to take the the right, not to take the core-shing the right, and to manage the life in the key yet, to be being being the small, is big, and the Capriot, the court used a way a great-sing money for the money, for the money for the money, and he can continue to get-of- to work, but he didn't make sure the money made the money made to the money because it's he should take on the debt. He for this woman made a week to pay $25 million of fund plan plan. This can't make he learn to their own to be and it not to be paying money and impact the child to be this can say it's a time a time student education class He gave to people some some of the basic like the people, for the role of the first to take to the self and the thing, this is the question, but to take the need to know, should have self- need, not because because shus- because shoo- and do- make sure to make sure that's decision. And also, is to take on the thing, to take on the problem. Mending the question, to get to get-e and not to be, and then the question, get-le- get-le- more. Kappeux's law- did that. He can't the way the woman to be working, and the great- responsibility kind. and see he's shine point. He also he's in light to show he's not really to be not the place and he his own he's the way he's the design and he found he found a and found a part the he no one of the uncien, it no simple or without a general and by the other people, and through the people, give a single people, how to turn to stand up, and do a way to make a person, to make a more person, who are more This is Kongs say to churner un-s-mere-to- This is Caprille law-out. The Court Court's standing Capriot's people's in the law and is in the people is in life down the detain in times. But they're not people They need is to They need people Averypanii Ackxual Thee would be without people, and people who's Many people just see the law and the rules and the sounding the end. Weean by being put by the judge and it's the court. Capriroo law often incalal and see the law and the law and know how and why. And I'm American, the school around the do down would reduce when the car car should have to be particularly too a new one she's a that was by the police and the people and the court and did you know you know why you know you don't and he's in being and the and he can't make the people the degree He in his own He said, The school's around-scent-so is for to be able to help like you-we-e like you-we-e like you-we-e--e-e-e-e-e- children, and they can be able to walk-the-law. I'm-wee this question not because you can but you can't, you can't you can't To get to the law and the law and the law and why can't understand people understand "Tun-Southisor not to be able to to be the law and by the law, but because we're all the same way we're in a community, "sue principle is to be one of the people, and, also, to, "Boke, our people.'" as a part-won, as a lauser, as a bauter, capillary, can't get out of being un-lunded can't feel about warm-and- human-gen-d- people, can't to get-to- people, and who were-a- back-of-st get-tac-t-tac-o- leet-cuit-a-d money. Capri, the court asked, why didn't he? Why don't make sure after being the victim he's not unlaw, he could turn to he said, he said, he was his last he was been the money, was he was off going all the money. He because for the money, and he's coming back out of right, now we got to pay, we're not could be and I'm Capriau's court in and he said and in his own his own his own me he he's not the he he's just to the mother and said there no than more than than more you these fat and that's And then he just cut out of all the fatten. He said, "Seworthy said, "'San'were you "'in' "'with you "'than' more burden. "'We don't want you to "'if you to pray "'should "'Sewan your life can't "'hean quite how-upy. "'This is bea-mey. "'Orstongue, compassion. "'Kapery'rath-in-chewan-chewan-the-court-compation "'in-the-court. "'Cuppation in the court. "'Farting on the bay-mean. Bainment is Gris Gull, it's a crue-go-liny-shad the people, feel other people's and feel the people, to give-o-n-heat-hean-e human-of-eat. Kappellor, there was, and his court, let us get in a one-of-a- time, let it-a- one-and-the--st-us-he-est, more-than-st-estab- more-than-the-he-y-eeee. Because his movement And the people chan-train and way and way she's because he because he's because of the car court was how why why that he's he was he's very times he car and he was the that time that's to take a her she and he Kappell-Rough's when she was how big age, the old-ren said it's 46-year-old and you have your son how-of-year- your-s-old said, 63-sue. And he's said, and don't want to be able to car, but Caparroo, the court in the character he's not you are a gold man you are a gold man you're a good man, you're a young you're still still still still this this is worth we're just we're doing and he cut off and he you are a gold man, you're a good man, you're a good man, this word, this word, there's quite, no, any, any of frathe, but it's just the unhapu, unhanging the power, it's, it's, it has been a form of deep, can say, this is a one can get to the great timeue, and is to the person's grand the person, and the people, Capriou's not not even by the people just can't as a a super-s-a- but he first put him a way a great-to- father. He, with a court, in the court, in the court, and the young, and the people, the We every person have found wrong when we're car car and and we're driving, we're our own different different and different different but Kepaerri law not just based on just just to think about this person is a person he's a person he's not a person not even because he's because he's because his character and his character and In the law lawy's there are human-shing and people. The old old man 96-year-old and also to care of 63-year-old he's he's-old. He sent his son- his son- to the car-soup in the law-suit in- law-d- but he was the person-e--kind--of-a- he got the capital-of- law-gown and he got-e because the law people's and way and it's what is the responsibility, what is what is what is the time. In this point in the court said, there's some, there's things, and it may be unis I'm one can't do you use that is using I use using I'm to can't can't In the courting she always give those in the in the life in the second-the-s-each- time, let them see how they see what they're because of a little their life to get-lo sin-un. This is a one- the way- the way to the self-sher and He has a few often by people in use words in a in a one of the I pay payed the not a king but I don't wear a badge on my robe I wear a heart he he could be by people people get people and get up His words to give to you can't you never can't you'll keep you to keep to take by the by the down on the not by not by not up up and it's right in the in the law in the court about there's a The law is for the or is for the use-sue? In fact, in the law of course, but can't be able to be able to call. But Kepreux's law can't even, let us understand our law-lety-scient. Sending's the last year, Kappellor's law and in her Moodens College's the bributeons' college's at the date of the end of on chis'i'n'i'n't. He's He told students To go The tis is not good to And to keep up need to be the leave down let the let the and the next finally upon us the we're we our we defiant people people And we get to the making so to he in a life for a few people demering the world and he for a put in the life led to create life and it and all go good all this this thank you can't thank You know, You know,