Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Tuesday, November 11th, 8:46 a.m. We are live. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh we've got a lot to talk about today. We had Nebius earnings this morning which quite frankly Nebas crushed it. So we'll talk a little bit more about what we got going on with Nebius. We got the shutdown coming to an end which is very important. The Senate officially passed their procedural vote. It now goes to the House as that gets voted on. Hopefully later today we're going to get some updates in terms of this shutdown coming to an end and potentially the government officially reopening. Uh you got a bunch of different macro stuff to talk about. We are getting a little bit more data now that the government is getting ready to be open particularly around ADP private payroll. So we'll talk about that. We did get a couple of pieces of macro data yesterday that will be important to dissect uh and we will go from there. SoftBank sold their Nvidia stake this morning which is pretty crazy. Uh $5.8 billion stake. The story with SoftBank is if they held on to their position that they sold in 2019 they would have a $250 billion stake. Masasan obviously seeing more opportunities in OpenAI ARM and some of these other companies potentially Marvel. There was a rumor last week Soft Bank wants to take them private. So, um you do have them exiting their Nvidia stake and they said it wasn't really about their conviction in Nvidia. It was just better opportunities that are out there. So, we'll talk about that, analyze it, and we'll kind of see the implications of it as well. Um and then we have a red premarket. Now, the red premarket, in my opinion, is not based on any specific headline. Uh and I kind of saw it went red when the futures flipped red yesterday at around 12 a.m. Eastern. I think it's just because we had a crazy day yesterday. We had the best day since April for Nvidia. Nvidia was up 6% in a day. That hasn't happened since April. So quite incredible to see Nvidia get that type of momentum. The broader S&P 500 was up one and a half percent. I mean it is normal for the market to take a little bit of a breather on a day like this. 679 on the S&P down about 0.25%. So we'll see when the market opens if this selloff intensifies. Not really that much of a selloff in the pre-market, but nonetheless, I do think it's consolidating some of the gains that we are getting from yesterday. And that's some of the stuff we got going on in the pre-markets. First of all, before we get started, it is Veterans Day in the United States. So, want to wish a happy Veterans Day to anyone who has served uh for our country. Uh it is, you know, one of those things where as I've gotten older, I've started to realize just how special America is and how much myself and so many Americans take freedom for granted. And uh, you know, as you get older, you start to recognize, you know, what have you contributed to society? And outside of paying taxes, I've never defended my country or put my life on the line for my country. It is an incredibly incredibly uh honorable thing to do and very very grateful to those who have served in the US Army, military, navy, air force. If you've you know put your life on the line for this country, I am deeply appreciative of that. Uh having said that, Veterans Day means that uh the bond market is closed and the stock market is open. So you might not see as much volume given credit markets are going to be closed today and a lot of different banks are closed today. So we will see a market open. We just might not see the type of volume we saw yesterday. And that could also potentially influence some of the behavior um in the stock market as well. Yeah, for all the vets in the chat, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your service. I mean, there's thank you is not enough to say, but uh it's the least we could say on a day like this. So deeply, deeply appreciative and thank you. The older I get, the more I realize how important it is to not forget that the only reason I'm able to talk freely on a platform like YouTube that was developed in this country is because we have free speech. But one of the reasons we have free speech is because people fought and died to protect that speech. So deeply deeply appreciative to those who served our country. Okay, let's get into it. Uh Nebius, let's start off with this. Well, first off, let me say the uh the obvious for those that just saw my tweet that I posted 40 minutes ago. And the reason I posted it 40 minutes ago is because I did something 40 minutes ago, which is I bought Nabius. I'm in. I am in officially. Nate can stop texting me every day now. I am officially in. I'm in the stock. I'm in the Nate. Look, those earnings were pretty damn good. Quite frankly, I forgot Nebas had earnings this morning. I woke up, I looked at my phone, I saw the numbers, then I saw the stock. It was red. I'm like, wait a second. These numbers look too good for this stock to be read. Revenue of 146 million. Adjusted EBIDA beat expectations. They are targeting 7 to9 billion of ARR in 2026. That means the stock at this valuation is trying to get three times revenue. It's pretty damn cheap from that perspective. When you also think of the margin profile extending or inflecting going into 2026 as they continue to increase the ability for them to actually make a profit on this type of revenue growth. Their contracted power for 2026 went from 1 gawatt to 2.5 gawatts. And in the end of 2025, they were scheduled for 220 megawws. They are now targeting 800 to one gawatt by the end of 2026. Not just contracted power, but connected power, which is like actually what allows them to be able to scale their data center operations. One of the biggest things from the press release and from what Roman said on Twitter, um, who is the co-founder of Nebus, is that we sold all we had and we're going to build much more. aka this was not a demand problem for them which is what we're seeing as as a trend for these neoclouds. This was more so a question of hey whatever we had we gave to the market and we got you know compensated for that but if we had more we would have even given more reminds me of kind of how Amazon was talking about AWS compute and how they just need more data center capacity to be able to even sell more of AWS. So they sold out of all their available capacity 19% adjusted EIA margins 355% year-over-year group revenue growth and they've also secured about 4.3 billion in convertible notes in an equity offering as of September 2025. Now the other reason I was really excited to finally buy the dip on Nebas. Remember I did a deep dive on the stock when it was at 130. So obviously I was getting interested in it but uh one of the reasons I said I didn't want to buy it in my Substack when I published it about a week ago. First of all the stock was at 130. Kind of wanted a better opportunity. Uh, second of all is like I was just kind of confused about can they actually get more of these hyperscalers to um, you know, sign on to their business. Can they actually get another Microsoft type of deal? Well, they got Meta. They got Meta today. $3 billion deal over five years with Meta. It's not as big as the Microsoft deal, but for me, and maybe it was just like a nitpicky thing I had, I wanted to know, is this legit? Can they actually get more deals or are they just promising deals and saying, "Hey, we're going to get more hyperscalers, but it's never going to come through." Based on what I saw today, they are getting more deals. And it looks like given the capacity that they have and how they're building that capacity going into 2026, it looks like they're going to get a lot more. It looks like they're going to get a lot more. So from that perspective, I mean, when you're trading at three times 2026 forward guidance, when you're raising guidance at the level that they're raising, when you're beating on earnings, and most importantly, when they're actually establishing a more holistic view of data centers, because there's a lot of other things that go into Nebius, like this new token factory, which I don't know exactly all the different implications of it, but that is very suh synergistic with what they're doing with the overall data center offering, not to mention they're staking Click House. I mean, there's a lot of parts of the thesis. Again, I'll link my deep dive for those that want to read it. So, I've understood Nebius, I would say, better than I have in the past. Ever since I've done the deep dive, I just, you know, didn't feel at 130 after that big of a run, it was worth the the opportunity to jump in. Seeing it red in the pre-market today after those earnings. I mean, I didn't buy immediately when I saw it was red, but then I'm looking at the earnings and I'm looking at the stock and I'm just like, wait a second. Okay, maybe this is a maybe this is like some better of an opportunity. And why is the stock down today? There could be a bunch of reasons. Maybe some more dilution. Maybe the entire market's red. I mean, there could be a variety of reasons, but those earnings should not be a reason why the stock is red. Same thing with Robin Hood falling to 120 after earnings. Like, that made no sense. But I understood Robin Hood, which is why I could confidently say that made no sense. For those that understand Nebius, you probably could confidently say that makes no sense. For me, I need to do a little bit more digging. At the end, I concluded um it probably makes no sense. So, I'm in. I thought it was an incredible quarter. I am now part of this journey. I will try to do a lot more research on Nebius. Did not obviously establish a full position. So, I'll be looking to buy on more dips and seeing kind of how the story plays out. But this stock was at 130 last week, then it fell to 104, then it went back to 130. So, I do think the volatility in the stock is something people do have to be prepared for if they're in it. I am still not fully fully fully excited about the broader neo cloud thesis. I've been pretty transparent on my thoughts there that I just think Nvidia and having exposure to that might be the best way to play the overall data center space. However, I like growth and when you see this type of growth and you see the types of contracts again, they also got cursor which is one of the fastest growing startups to uh 100 million ARR, which is an AI coding assistant. Uh when you see that type of growth and you see the type of management that's being able to steward that growth, by the way, the other thing I'll say is I really like management. I've been doing a little bit more due diligence. I didn't put this on the substack, but doing a little bit more due diligence on Roman and the team and just trying to understand, can I trust these guys with my capital? I feel like I could trust these guys a lot more than the Cororeweave CEO, which look, Cororeweave had a good earnings. That stock got downgraded across the board today, down 8.5%. Uh we'll talk more about it, but kind of the key story is that they're increasing their debt load and the street's not happy about that. But just listening to Roman on the call versus the Core guy, I just feels like there's a little bit of a difference. Not to mention the valuation on Nebus feels way more attractive than on Core, especially because they just don't have the same type of debt profile. So that's why I'm in Nebus and um that's what we got and I will do a lot more due diligence and give you guys more research on this but I'm in it's let's call it a starter position. Let's call it hey stocks red after good earnings and we'll see if it continues to develop over time and that's what we got on Nebus. Now I know there's a lot of different implications of what does this mean for INE and all these other stocks. Again I have not done super big deep dives on the Bitcoin mining HPC facilities. I will say at its core from the analysis I've done on Nebius, it is just nice to have a more diversified player that didn't uh that wasn't a Bitcoin miner at one point and then transition because there's just a little bit more of a holistic offering. Not to say the Bitcoin miners are bad. Just to say that I think there's a different type of moat that a company like Nebus has. But again, the whole point of investing in the space is that if you're an IN from 20, I don't think it's going back to 20. You know, now it's at 60. Like they've only leased out about 12% of their capacity. they have another 88% left that they can give out to the markets. And there's a lot of different verticals that I think these companies are going into. I just wanted to pick a name that I thought had a reasonable valuation and was putting up reasonable growth. And based on what I saw in earnings, I think that's what we got on Nebas. So there you go. Nebas crushed earnings. Congrats to everyone here. I know the stock's not super super pumping. It is up 4% which is nice. Maybe it goes down 4% as soon as the market opens, but I do think it was a quarter that was worth at least getting into. That's what we got on NBS. Made a couple other buys yesterday and then we'll get into SoFi and some of these other headlines with Nvidia and um and SoftBank. Uh I bought Meta yesterday, folks. I bought Meta. So, why did I buy Meta? Quick TLDDR. The reason I bought Meta, very simple. Uh I don't think I'm going to get the best price that I want on Meta. So, couple things. I know last week we talked about my friend who's long meta and basically said, "Hey, you might want to wait a little bit before you sort of nibble at the dip because obviously the Zuck spending on capex is not going to be um interpreted well by the street." I think he's right about that. And quite frankly, I think we might get an even better dip. I bought at 632 last night. But then I started asking myself after going through the numbers, okay, he's probably right that Zup is spending carelessly on capex and there's no plan for the ROI. He's also probably right that waiting and getting some, you know, due diligence from the management on terms of where the trajectory is going going into Q1 of 2026 would be like appropriate to do. But A, we're in a bull market. B, rates are coming down. C, Meta's already down 15% from the highs. For a MAG 7 to go down what, 30% from the highs, it's possible, but there's got to be a massive narrative rerating. And I don't know if that's going to take place. Like I I think it could take place. And if it does take place, I would be a lot more excited to buy Meta anywhere below 600. But if it doesn't, by the way, Meta was at 600 on freaking Friday when the world was collapsing. So, the last time we got Meta to actually go down to such an extent was when the entire market was taking a dump and then the market rebounded and now Meta is back to 630. So, 624 in the pre-markets. I do think it's worth setting up a DCA. You know, I I wouldn't buy everything that you wanted to buy of MET at 630, but I think starting at 630 is not crazy because at some point if it gets below 600, great. That's a buy the dip. That's when I think it really becomes a generational opportunity. If not, it's like, are you gonna wait until it gets to 500? And maybe that happens, but if it doesn't, then you're, you know, fading a company trading at 19 times forward earnings, which is one of the most important advertising companies in the world. So, look, we'll see what happens. Maybe this is too early. If not, then, uh, you know, maybe this is a good dip buying opportunity. But I do think as we get towards the end of the year and things start to shape up, I don't know if Meta gives us that easy opportunity down into the 570s. Maybe in 2026 if the entire market corrects, but right now, I think it might be harder. S&P 500 right there down about 025%. Then you got Meta that's down about 1.03%. Yes, the Meta chief AI scientist is stepping down. Uh I kind of don't hate that this guy was like really annoying from from what I understand and he was treated as a meme by a lot of the AI community. They also basically replaced him with Alexander Wang when they bought out his company five months ago. Like like Yan Yan Lun was supposed to be like the core guy and then Alexander Wang became the core guy. I still have my concerns on what the hell is going on with meta and AI. Like I don't know why they're spending all this money. I don't know why the hell they gave 15 billion dollars to scale AI. That feels like a waste of money. Quite really there's a lot of competitors to scale AI that are doing way more revenue than I don't know if Alexander Wang is the biggest AI name in the market if they did pay 15 billion for him. So I have my concerns. But then you look at Instagram reels doing $50 billion a year and it's like okay it went from zero to 50 billion in three and a half years. It's like all right. So like it's really hard to bet against sucks. It just really is. And so even with those concerns, I think it's worth taking a an opportunity on the dip. So that's what we got with Meta. And uh that's what we got with Nebius. New positions in the portfol, but you know, I bought at 659, so I guess you can say at DC8, Nebius is officially in new position. Um SoftBank and Nvidia. Okay, so let's talk about this news. I don't think this is that big of a deal, but nonetheless, it is a headline that is crossing over the news this morning. Soft Bank sold their entire stake in Nvidia for 5.83 billion. Again, SoftBank, if they held on to Nvidia back in um in 2019 when they sold the original position that they had, or at least a good chunk of it, they would have had a $250 billion stake in Nvidia. And I think that annoys um that annoys Masasan a lot. But nonetheless, like money to fund all their other bets and they got to get the money from somewhere. Uh Nvidia, you know, probably one day is going to be worth more than what it is today. But, you know, maybe it's a $10 trillion company. Okay. Is Masan going to hold for a double? Probably not. So, I actually think logically it makes sense for them to sell the stake. It's just if they held on from 2019, you know, they would have had a better stake. And so I think they think if they can put this money into something else that could compound in a much more aggressive way that'd be a better use of that capital at the moment
>> about AI valuations and they worry is it a bad sign that Soft Bank are actually selling after Nvidia stake
>> that's a big question here. Yeah Masoshi Sun decided that he's going to sell off all of his uh shareholdings in Nvidia at this point and and take the $5.8 billion that he made from that stake. Now, we just got the conference call from the company in Tokyo just a few minutes ago. And there, the CFO said that that's actually not the case. It's not because they have any uh questions about Nvidia or Nvidia's growth prospects. Instead, what they really need is they need that money to be able to make their own investments. They want to invest in AI in a number of different areas. They're partners with Open AI, of course, in the United States with his Stargate venture where they plan on investing a hundred billion, maybe $500 billion. We've also heard plans about an Arizona manufacturing uh facility where they want to invest hundreds more billion dollars. So
>> So they need the money. They need the money to put into different places and it looks like they're getting more into these data center infrastructure investments. Speaking of data centers and get again going for the bullcase for Iran, Nebius, all those companies. Microsoft today said they're going to do 10 billion of data center investments for AI infrastructure in Portugal. And Google today said they're going to do 5.8 8 billion of data center and infrastructure investments in Germany. I mean over and over again you're seeing I know we had a little bit of a hiccup last week on this sort of AI capex trade and Oracle is now back to levels that it was at in September. And I think it's fair to be skeptical. We had Michael Bur yesterday basically say everything's a bubble and expect something big on November 25th. I don't know what he's coming out with if it's a book if it's more analysis or what we're going to see what it what happens. But you know, Michael Bur is concerned about depreciating assets and what that means for overstating earnings and like those are all concerns that are worthwhile to discuss. At its core, you cannot deny the amount of investment that is going into these data centers from these hyperscalers and these hyperscalers are going to need the neoclouds to help them facilitate all the transactions on these data centers. I think SoftBank understands that and that's why they're getting excited to invest in these data centers. On top of that, SoftBank just put in $35 billion into OpenAI. They need that money from somewhere and I know they're raising debt to be able to finance their investment in OpenAI. That's how confident they are that OpenAI is going to work out. But they also need like liquidity. And so I mean look again if Nvidia can go to 10 trillion that'd be amazing but it's going to take time for that to happen. And the question is do they hold on to that stake for a double if OpenAI can potentially quadruple over the same time. And so I don't think it's bearish. I think it's just something they have to do. And if you are managing that much money, you know, you probably would want to navigate by doing the same thing and taking some profits. But that's what we got on Soft Bank. Yes, AMD will have a big analyst conference later today at 1 p.m. as well. I will not be streaming that. I think Jose will be streaming that and so uh we'll get some updates from from what AMD says later today and we will keep going from there. So, Navius earnings crushed it. Uh bought the dip on Meta last night for myself and SoftBank selling their Nvidia stake again. Nvidia having one of the best days they've had since April. 6% move on Nvidia. That's why I think we're right in the pre-markets. I think honestly we just need a little bit of a breather and you got Nvidia taking a bit of a breather right there down about 2%. Google as well that is down about half a percent in the pre-market. Okay, real quick let's talk Grab updates and then we'll get into SoFi. So the story is getting very very juicy on Grab. I don't want to spend too much time on it. I'll make a longer Twitter post later tonight. I'm also making a video on my Grab update on earnings that'll probably be out tomorrow. The TLDDR is that yesterday we talked about rumors about Grab and Goto potentially getting ready for an acquisition. There was a actual state official from the Indonesian president office saying that they want grab and go to merge. Not the go-to part of the fintech, not the fintech part of GoTo, but rather the uh ride hailing and delivery part, which would be very accretive to margins because right now they're in a price war, and that's why the margins kind of suck on both companies. Obviously, Goto has not really returned well for shareholders. Grab is starting to return for shareholders. Grab is much more of a dominant business around Southeast Asia. Last night at 10 pm, Bloomberg comes out with a post. Speaking of SoftBank, which has a stake in both of these companies, a pretty heavy stake. I think it's almost 10% of each one. SoftBank joins Move to ou the go-to CEO, paving way for Grab Deal. I mean, this is freaking this is becoming like a like a Netflix uh show in regards to kind of how ruthless corporate capitalism is done. Several GOTU shareholders signed a memo to the board requesting an extraordinary general meeting on December 17th, 2025. People familiar with the matter said asking to not be identified. The backers, which includes some of Goto's co-founders, are proposing a vote on matters inclus including replacing the CEO who oversaw a more than 40% decline in his tenure, aka the stock was down 40% over the past five years. Uh, Wuho is also perceived as opposing a takeover by Grab, the people said. So basically you have a bunch of shareholders that are significant executives or significant stakeholders in the company signing a memo including SoftBank to get rid of the CEO because of two things. A the CEO has not been able to get shareholder returns because um uh you know the stock is down 40% and look Grab has not been the best performing stock since the Spack days either. But Grab's numbers are going like this even if the stock is flat. Go's numbers are going kind of like this and the stock is just going down. There's just like no trust in the business. Not to mention the corruption case that the go-to founders were involved in earlier this year where they were stealing money from the government that was supposed to be going to Google notebooks for underserved children in the region and they started pocketing the money for themselves. I mean just like disgusting uh use of of of corporate ties to the government and as a result you've got a lot of people from a brand perspective that are just not fans of goto. That CEO apparently is opposed to a Grab takeover. So you've got a lot of shareholders that are voting to get rid of the CEO and to potentially introduce the opportunity for Grab to take over given the CEO is, you know, afraid of the company taking over. Obviously, he's opposed to that taking place. So now there's going to be an extraordinary general meeting on December 17th, 2025. I don't know if the CEO is going to be ousted. I don't know if Grab's officially going to enter into a binding agreement to acquire them. All I know is that if Grab gets them for hopefully two billion or less, I would not want to pay more than two billion for the ride hailing and delivery part of the business. I don't think it's worth more than two billion. Um, we are going to definitely accelerate revenue and GMV growth into 2026. Now, again, you can't guarantee that's going to happen. That can't be the core investing thesis, but we've had rumors over the past 12 months that this acquisition and this merger will take place. This is the most significant update for uh SoftBank which has a big stake in both companies to now say we need to call a meeting and see you know if we can get something done because obviously SoftBank is annoyed that their stake has been uh diluted and you know not really returned that well over the past couple years. It makes sense that they would want to get them to work together. So I like it. It would be good for grabb obviously strong for shareholders. You know maybe that explains some of the darkpool orders we've had and the billion shares of volume we had in September. Maybe a lot of the institutions knew that this was going to happen and they were a little bit early to the story. But if this is happening, it's a complete narrative rerating and this is the most significant development we've seen over the past seven months that it seems like it's going to happen. It's just a question now. And if the CEO remains a CEO and uh if he's gone and and SoftBank puts in a new CEO, does that new CEO work with shareholders to make an acquisition happen with Grab? But we're going to see how that plays out. So that's what we got with Grab and that's why that stock is up in the pre-markets. China is considering a plan to keep rare earth magnet materials from reaching US military users by blocking exports to military link firms while speeding approvals for civilian companies. So we've seen China start to capitulate to a lot of the United States demands over the past couple weeks. Obviously we have that deal with the Chinese, at least a framework for a deal in terms of being able to export rare earth minerals and metals. I can understand if the Chinese don't want that stuff to go to the United States military. I don't think the United States would be that happy about that. So that's one thing that I think we have to keep in check. But over the past couple of days, you've had the US take down our tariffs on China, particularly on fentinel. You've had China get rid of the export controls. Maybe there's certain types of export controls they're not getting rid of. But it is at least a healthy form of dialogue and action that we're seeing with China and the US. And you know, that's not a bad thing to at least see the tariffs start to go away from both sides. But if the Wall Street Journal is correct on that, then that might be a new development in regards to how rare earth magnets are going to be going to the US military. Uh, no. No. On CNBC, here's what he had to say. SoFi is officially bringing back crypto
>> on its platform. Joining us right now first on CNBC is SoFi CEO Anthony Notto in town. It's nice to see you, sir, in person.
>> Good to see you as well.
>> Okay, so what's going on here? This is a big deal.
>> Yeah, this morning for you. It is a very big deal. Uh, it's a big day and a big milestone. uh reverses the course of time. Um it does. We've wanted to be a one-stop shop for all your financial services needs. And one of the holes we've had for the last two years was in cryptocurrency, the ability to buy, sell, and hold crypto. Uh we were not allowed to do that as a bank. It was not permissible. But in March of this year, the OC came out with an interpretive letter that it's now permissible for banks like SoFi to offer cryptocurrencies. So this morning we're launching as the only national bank, the first and only national bank, the opportunity to buy, sell, and hold cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Solano.
>> So I was going to ask if we're just talking about three for now.
>> Uh we'll expand well beyond three. It'll be a pretty broad assortment. We try to differentiate on being fast, having broad selection, great prices, ease of use. So we'll try to give members, SoFi members, as much selection as they would like. And what's the difference between going through you and going through Coinbase or going through Robin Hood or somebody else?
>> Yeah, there's a couple of really big differences. First, we're a nationally chartered bank, which means we have the infrastructure, the processes, the financial conditions that provides the safeguards that a consumer would expect from a bank. Um, which is going to allow us to scale responsibly. Uh, the second thing is because we are a one-stop shop, you can do all your banking, checking and savings at SoFi, your borrowing and your investing, and now crypto. And one of the unique things about that is when you come to SoFi and fund your crypto investments, you'll fund them in a SoFi checking and savings account. That checking and savings accounts deposits earn interest.
>> Say that again. You're going to fund it with crypto.
>> You're going to fund your checking account.
>> You're going to fund your checking account with cash. Okay?
>> And then when you buy
>> Bitcoin or Solano or Ethereum, the money will come straight out of your checking savings account. So when you're not putting cash to work, it's not sitting in an account that earns no interest and it's not sitting in an account that's not insured. So the money will sit in an FDIC insured account up to $2 million is what we offer and when you buy it will instantly withdraw from that account and sending it to the marketplace.
>> So here's a question. This seems novel in this moment if we're sitting here a year from now given this OC decision and every other bank in this country how novel will this ultimately be? Meaning do you imagine Bank of America and JP Morgan and every bank Wells Fargo, all the big banks and everybody else will be doing exactly this?
>> I don't. And a couple of reasons for that. We're the only digital one-stop shop. They do not offer the breath of products that we offer across borrowing, saving, investing, protecting, um, and and and spending. So, we have the ability to not just buy cryptocurrency, but we're now providing the ability to send payments internationally via uh the Lightning Network, which is a crypto uh network, and we'll add others to that.
>> Why can't they? The why can't some of these sort of more traditional legacy banks do the same thing?
>> They'll have to answer why. I fundamentally believe that we put the member at the center of that what we do. We focus on these things that are activities to do with your money, not products. And so the SoFi money account is an account that you can use for international remittance, you could use for self-s served wires, you can now use for crypto buying, you could use for paying friends via email, Enzel. And so the whole idea is to leverage technology to make moving your money as easy as possible, but also doing all the other things you need to do to get your money right.
>> Let me show you. Can we just put Bitcoin up on the screen for a second? So we're at about what 105,000 today. I don't know where we were.
>> 104 in chain.
>> So what what do you make though of how your new c your your clients who may be buying this should be thinking about this? Should it be digital gold? Should it be a a speculative asset that they're, you know, sort of trading? What what do you think of this?
>> The first thing is we've asked our members what they want and 60% of them have said they would like to invest in crypto, but they want to do it from a regulated entity like a bank and that's what we are. And so that's one differentiation. The second is it is a highly risky asset. It should be a very very small piece of a total portfolio and and people should dollar cost average into it and make sure they stay very diversified because it is risky and is volatile. You could lose all of your money and we want to make sure that our members understand that. Um but they do want exposure to that just like people wanted exposure to Amazon back in the mid90s. Risky. Now it's a trillion dollar company. What is your exposure to all of this in terms of the the risk to the system? If everybody were to do what you're doing, what kind of exposure would would ultimately the taxpayer have if all of this, you know, if if Bitcoin goes from this to, you know, loses 50% of its value?
>> It's like any asset if it becomes overvalued be that risk increases increasingly over time. If there's a lack of liquidity, that risk increases. And those are all things members should understand. We provide education on the platform and in fact when we used to provide cryptocurrency investing we would have a warning just before you hit buy that said this is a risky asset you could lose all of your money. In our press release we say that exact same thing today. So it's just another asset that's not proven over the course of centuries um that will take time to level out and become more stable from a price and valuation standpoint.
>> Can I ask does the notto family invest in crypto right now?
>> Yes, we do. I have about 3% of my investable assets in cryptocurrency.
>> Mostly in Bitcoin or what's the
>> mostly in Bitcoin
>> and we were
>> no to crypto bro 3% of his net worth in Bitcoin. I mean or not net worth but investable assets. I mean that's that I mean that's pretty significant coming from him as a CEO of a company that wants to officially offer crypto to everybody.
>> Early I was not super early. I we've done perfectly fine. we have exposure to because one I believe we're investing in a technology not in a currency. Um the analogy I use with people is imagine if in 1990 you could have bought a piece of the worldwide web through some coin called the worldwide webcoin. It's very similar to that. These are networks. They're communication networks used for payments and other applications. What do you make? We were
>> it is just so cool to see these high-profile CEOs make these type of analogies. I mean, like, I know the Bitcoin price action has not really been the best over the past couple months, but like some of the smartest people in the world just are convicted that this is going to matter and over the long term, you know, they kind of don't care. They just want to have exposure to the asset.
>> Um, talking to Kathy Wood, was it just this week or last week? Guess it's Tuesday. Last week, we were talking to Kathy Wood and she, you know, has had a very sort of sky-high um valuation for for Bitcoin. I think it was $1.5 million she thought it could ultimately get to. She took that down interestingly last week and suggested that the success of stablecoin has become is so much higher than she thought that in some ways stable coins for transactions could ultimately crowd out bitcoin that might have been used for that big big picture we believe blockchain and cryptocurrencies are a super cycle technology super cycle just like AI and it will be pervasive across all the financial system stable coins is one example that will fundamentally change payments. SoFi will launch SoFi USD uh hopefully in January. That'll be backed dollar fordoll by reserves. Because we are a bank, we'll actually put the dollars in our Fed bank account. So we'll have no liquidity risk, no credit risk, and earn Fed funds. That's a really attractive um vehicle for people to use digital currency for and that will compete with other digital currencies. It's not clear who will be the winner. Stable coins are one example, but if there's a huge proliferation of stable coins and they don't have the liquidity that I mentioned, they don't have the credit risk and duration risk, that could become a very risky asset. Also,
>> should we worry about stable coins in the following way, which is that hopefully if the stable coins are backed by something meaningful like treasuries, that effectively takes treasuries out of the game to be lent in a different way.
>> Yeah, I actually worry quite significantly about stable coins from operators that are not banks. Where are the reserves sitting? Is there duration risk for those reserves? Is there credit risk for those reserves? Are those reserves bankruptcy remote? SoFi, the answer to that is zero credit risk, zero liquidity risk, and working on bankruptcy remote. That's three elements that you have to think about with whatever stable coin you use. Just because it's back dollar for dollar doesn't mean those dollars will be there when you try to liquidate, just like a money market fund that breaks a buck.
>> Um, we got to go. This is great. You want to put it
>> all right there. And those are his thoughts on SoFi. Now look, I think it is very impressive for SoFi to officially have crypto coming back to the platform. I think earlier this year, right around February, March is when the OC came out and said that banks are going to be allowed to trade cryptogrand. And you know, I don't know how many people thought they were going to be able to do it in about eight, nine months, but it seems like they did what they had to do. They got the job done. And obviously the Trump administration from a deregulatory perspective also made it easier for them to get on board with this and they got it done. So crypto will be coming back to SoFi. Tanner yesterday said on our Tech Bros podcast that SoFi is going to be charging 1% as a fee on uh their crypto. So it's less than Coinbase. It's a bit more than Robin Hood. So it's kind of in the middle right there. And they're probably not looking to undercut Robin Hood. They're probably just looking to charge a standard 1% fee. And you know, we're going to have to see what the crypto volumes look like on the invest platform over time. The one thing I will say is that this is not bearish. So right there, $3043. It was up 9% yesterday. Uh when you have more offerings on the platform, especially offerings for assets that people really care about, obviously like cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Salana, I mean, people are going to want to trade it. And if people start trading it on SoFi, if you already have all your banking and financial assets on the platform, you might start buying some stocks, you might start trading some options. that's not their core business, but at its at its core, if you have all that integrated in the ecosystem, that's definitely bullish. So, I think it's good for SoFi to do this. I think a lot of people have been waiting for this. The real real hardcore SoFi power users that use the invest platform as well and the banking probably wanted this option. I mean, you might get some assets leaving companies like Robin Hood to go to SoFi now that they finally offer crypto. Um, but it is kind of funny. So bringing crypto, Robin Hood is bringing banking. So it's like both of these guys are going into different perspectives to try to compete with each other and you know consumers are going to figure out which product they ultimately want to use long term. So that's what we got on SoFi very bullish as crypto has now come to the platform. I hate Nate so much. I hate Nate so much. So who listened to daddy? Nate I hate you so much. But yes I am in Nebas now for those that missed the news. I'm in it. I got in at 110. I saw the dip in the pre-markets. didn't make sense to me based on those earnings and I'm in the name. Nate, I wish you told me about it at 65 though. I don't know why you started telling me about it at one at 130. He was blowing up my line every day like, "Yo, you got to look into Nebius." Like, bro, it was at 65 like four months ago. Why didn't you send some texts when it was at 65? Why are you bugging me at 1:30? But officially in. Officially in. You can rewind to the beginning of this show when I talked about Nebius and why I got in. I'll probably, you know, put out some more content later. Again, I did do a deep dive on it. So obviously I was interested around 130 just didn't want to buy at 1:30. A deep dive linking right there in the chat and um I think as a Neocloud it's probably one of the better NeoClouds that's out there and this is my only exposure to data centers outside of Nvidia. I mean, I guess you could say the hyperscalers are a form of exposure, but in terms of direct exposure outside of Nvidia, Nebius is the one. And again, given the deep dive that I did a couple weeks ago, it if I feel more convicted to build on that position, like I was thinking of, okay, in 2026, is it going to be a spray and prey approach where it's like I throw money at Nebius and I ran at Cipher, yada yada, or do I consolidate? And my personality, you guys know by now, is more of consolidating. So, it feels like Nebius is going to be the one I consolidate on. Again, I like it's not like, oh my goodness, this is the next big thing is going to the moon. I'm super sold on it. It's, hey, I've done my research, at least at a preliminary level. I see the earnings. I had two things that I really want to see increased guidance to the point where they're trading at three times forward revenue, which just feels stupid for their growth. And then two, the meta hyperscaler deal. I really want to see another um hypers scale that they can get on board. And then three, I needed a dip. All three of those things happen. So, at that point, I have to ask myself, why am I not buying? And so, that's why I bought in the pre-market. But for me to increase the position, I'm just going to have to get even more convicted. And you know, that's going to take more due diligence. But I'm on the train with Nebius. Um, Moore, thank you for the super chat. Hey, Emit. I'm looking to initiate a position in Dualingo today. I'm curious for your perspectives. Appreciate your work as always. So, I did a deep dive on Dualingo as well. Uh, Moore, thank you for the super chat. I'm linking that right here in the chat. Uh, I think Dolingo has a moat. I know that's controversial to say given how the price action has been has been playing out over the past couple months. However, I am not buying this name. And in the deep dive, I go a little bit more deeper on why I'm not buying. Number one reason is I I just think the narrative on big tech uh commoditizing their AI offerings is a little tough for them to to overcome. Now, technically, that should be why people are buying. If you're a Duolingo bull and you've been waiting for a position, I mean, it's down more than 50% from the highs. Like, this probably is the time where you have to nibble. Same thing with Meta, right? The reason I bought Meta yesterday, and I talked about it earlier in the show, is like at the end of the day, I don't think I'm going to get below, you know, 570 on Meta. Maybe we get below 600, but like at that point, I would just DCA. Am I going to get some amazing entry at 550, 575? Maybe. I just think the odds are low given how good of a quality Meta is. And so, if I want to get exposure to a hyperscaler that's down 15% trading at 19 times forward earnings, at some point you got to nibble. Dualingo. You got to be able to deal with that AI narrative from the hyperscalers, big tech, commoditizing what they're doing. I don't think that is going to be the depth of Duolingo. I really don't. And I and I made that very clear in the deep dive. I just think the narrative is is not strong enough. And their multiple is not like it's not like Meta trading a 19 times, right? Like even after the drop, their multiple is attractive, it's not that attractive. I I think when you have a a stock that's richly priced and you have a bad narrative on it and you know, it's not like Google DOJ narrative where Google's a $2 trillion company. When the DOJ eventually lets go of the core case, Google can go to the moon. Duolingo is a relatively small company that has a narrative that's really imputing the ability for the street to recognize if this is going to be a broader player when it comes to language learning that's not commoditized by AI and that's why I'm not buying it. I don't think it's a company that's going to be dead as some people are permitting over the next couple years. Like I think their user growth and their overall topline revenue growth is just too strong. Having said that, it's tough to hold it on to the portfolio if you think that narrative is going to cloud some of the judgment. So I put out that substack again. I'll link it right here and more. Thank you for the super chat. You can read through this and hopefully get a better perspective on it. Uh earnings yesterday. So, what companies crushed it? Well, Rocket Lab is one of the uh companies that crushed it. Rocket Lab, right? They're up 7% in the pre-markets. They are three cents away from profitability, which is very exciting for a company like Rocket Lab. They are getting close to being profitable. They also beat on revenue. So, I think if you are a Rocket Lab shareholder, you were definitely happy with those earnings yesterday. Uh, as you can see right here on Rocket Lab, they beat by 70% on EPS. They beat by 2% on revenue, negative 3 cents expected, and then 155 million. Revenue is up 48% year-over-year. Uh, EPS is up 70% year-over-year. Big Bear AI, they are also up in the pre-markets. Again, they are growing negative 20% year-over-year, but the street doesn't seem to care about that too much because they beat by 57% on EPS, beat by 4% on revenue. Uh, they are uh continuing to guide for 140 million, which would be down about 30% year-over-year in terms of the fiscal year guide. So they have not upgraded their guidance. They did acquire a company yesterday. They paid $250 million for a company doing 25 million in revenue, 100,000 customers and governmental agencies. So maybe that could increase that revenue guide going into 2026. But overall perception is reality in the stock market. And the perception was that Big Bear AI would do way worse than expected. And they beat by a hefty margin, beating EPS by 57%. That's why that stock is green. Coreweave, let's talk about that real quick. What is going on with Cororeweave? I can only conclude given they beat by 57% on EPS negative 22 cents versus 51 expected and then 1.36 versus 1.28 billion again revenues up triple digits EPS is up 88% year-over-year. My only conclusion after listening to the call yesterday and some of you guys were with me listening to the call is that the debt profile that they are guiding for even if they say they're guiding for increased debt via demandbased debt. So they're trying to, you know, soften the blow that they're increasing debt because they're saying it's from demand, which is like a reasonable argument is just becoming a little aggressive for the street. They lowered their fiscal year 2026 revenue guidance that got the street upset. And they lowered their adjusted EBA guidance. Now that's not that big of a deal. And it's definitely not a sign of demand is going down. But if you're lowering guidance and you're increasing debt, even if you know they might be lowering guidance just to be able to beat and raise going to 2026, I think that's why the street's a little upset. Also, the the the the the real like kicker for why their stock got hit is because there was something that is going to delay one of their clients setting up uh a data center. I'll see if I can get the exact quote. And that is causing a little bit more pain. JP Morgan downgraded them to 110 from 135. You had a couple other firms downgrade them into the 100s. I don't know if it needed to be that aggressive of a downgrade, but nonetheless, that's what happened today. Here's the quote. We are affected by a temporary delay by a thirdparty data center developer who is beyond behind schedule. They did say that uh that delay is not going to decrease the margin profile on the customer and that um it's within like 5% of what they already guided for. So it's not like a substantial delay that should be hurting the company. But I think the street's just annoyed that all these companies are taking on debt and core is the next one to take on a massive amount of debt and increase that debt load. And maybe that debt load is becoming a bit too substantial even though they doubled their revenue backlog to 55 billion which is net bullish data centers AI in general because there's so much demand. It's just core as an operating business even though they're 20 cents away from profitability is something that the street is struggling with to deal to analyze with just given the the the level of debt that they're taking on debt to equity ratio you know at this point now well over 300%. So yeah, but I agree with Yo in the chat. The call was good until they mentioned the delay. I agree. And ultimately, I think the increasing of the debt is just something the street is thinking about. Is it a buy the dip? I don't know enough about Cororee to buy the dip like I know about Nebius. Again, I did not do a deep dive on Core. I did do a deep dive on Nebus, which is why I think, you know, Nebius read on those numbers is worth buying. But ultimately, we're going to have to see how this ends up playing out for Corwe. Uh we got two minutes until the market opens. Here's Bent this morning on tariffs and why they are net positive for the consumer. Think
>> that the tariffs help consumers the because the uh we are able to if you go back and look we have they brought down the budget deficit and if you MIT came out with a study that said that 42% of the great inflation was caused by the big deficit spending. So as you bring down deficit spending, inflation will come down and the tariffs right now we take in substantial tariff income over time that will rebalance as the factories move to the US and that will become the corporate income or wage income and by bringing down the budget deficit we are bringing down inflation. I think that the tariffs.
>> So, uh, Trump tweeted last night about the Supreme Court decision. Again, I've been telling you guys from what I've been reading, it it it is not confirmed that the Supreme Court is going to go his way. And, uh, we got about 40 seconds till the market opens. You know, Trump was pretty upset last night and he basically went off on how people need to understand more about tariffs. Uh, he said the US Supreme Court was given the wrong numbers. the unwind in the event of a negative decision on tariffs would be including investment b and return of funds in excess of three trillion. It would be not possible to ever make up for that kind of drubbing that would truly become an insurmountable national security event and devastating to the future of our country possibly non sustainable. So obviously Trump is trying to warn the Supreme Court saying hey if you guys get rid of the tariffs it's going to be a $3 trillion windfall for the United States. And that's why you have Bent as well explaining why the tariffs you know are something that we do need to care about more going into the long term. All right, folks. There you go. We got about 10 seconds until the market opens. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, November 11th, 9:30 a.m. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Coreweave down 9% on the day. goes red. Navius up 1.682%. I think it got to a lows of 108 in the pre-market right now at 111. That's up 1.34 slightly green. Coreweave is getting hit 9% right there. Dualingo down 1%. Grabby Grab gets a 5% move. Uh I think that 5% move is obviously based on this rumor that they could be acquiring Goto. So you got to see if that is sustainable. But it is getting a bit of a move right there at 620 on Grab. CleanSpark down 5%. They diluted by 1.15 billion yesterday. That's why CleanSpark is down. They're using 420 million of the 1.15 billion to buy back their stock, which it always confuses me when companies dilute to then buy back their stock. But nonetheless, that's what Clean Spark is doing. That's why that stock is down 5%. Beyond Meat, that's down 5.6%. Beyond Meat had a horrible earnings again. I understand there's a retail cult, but they missed on EPS by like 40%. Gross margins are basically negative. Beyond Meat right there, 1.26. That's down 6%. Amazon, that's flat. Open Door, uh, the CEO said he and his family are buying a million dollars worth of stock today. Quite literally, the CEO yesterday tweeted that he and his family are buying a million dollars worth of stock. JP Morgan upgraded them to $8. So, I think you put two of those catalysts together. That's why that stock is back to eight and that's green. Amazon, that's flat. Cipher, that's down 4%. Rumble, which is trying to get into the data center space, that's down 2%. D-Wave is down 2.4. Big Bear AI up 13%. It was up 20, so it's giving away a little bit of the gains from the pre-market, but that one is still green. Where is Nvidia? Nvidia 194, that's down 2.26%. Meta that is at 626 down about 1%. Tesla that is at 440 down about 1% as well. The Q's are down.39. Zeta down.35. Ethereum has been basically holding 3500 over the past three days. Uh did get to 3650 at one point. BMR 40.81 that's down about 1% on the day. CleanSpark again down 7%. Street really not liking that dilution move and you're seeing the pain right there in the stock as it continues to go down. 1382. Google at 288, DraftKings down about half a percent. Regetti, they missed EPS by um 933%. Uh that stock is down 6% by the way. Terowolf missed EPS by 2,163%. Terara Wolf down 6.8%. So you got a lot of these names that you know obviously are not putting up massive massive earnings growth. Um but their stocks down about four to 5%. VG good earnings yesterday down about 4%. Archer down 1.8. Archer now below $9. Joby down about 1%. Abselera down another 5.7%. Uh Trade that one's actually kind of green. And then SoFi still holding 30, which is nice to see. Is Nebus tanking? Do we get to really buy Neb? Okay, 108. There you go. I think we got a red day. I mean, we'll see if this reverses. Grab is Grab is holding green, but Grab honestly should be red because the entire market's red. So, the fact that it's holding this green means that the rumors of the uh the rumors of the the the go-to acquisition are really strong, but it would not surprise me if Grab goes red because it's just hard for it to hold green if the entire market is red. AS 14 million in revenue, a billion in contracted revenue. It was a decent earnings. They did miss on they did miss on the top and the bottom, but you got a 1.74% move on as S&P 500, although we got a red day, is not that red. It's down 7%, still holding 680, which is pretty nice to see. Rocket Lab right there was up 11%, now it's up 6%. Again, Rocket Lab, great earnings, but do I think it can really hold a massive green day on a day like this if we end up going red for the whole market? Probably not. A lot of these names end up just trading with the broader market and you might see some more pain right there. Duolingo 192, IM, that's down 2.68, ESTs back to 70 after a couple weeks. So, holding on to that 70 level. Open door that's up 2%. And then Amazon going green as well. Maybe it's too early to say if we're going to have a full-on red day. I'll put the poll in the chat, but obviously uh we are seeing some red as we get into it. And honestly, I think the red is kind of healthy. Yesterday, I didn't expect% move on the S&P 500, but we got it. I also didn't expect a 6% move on Nvidia, but we also got that. So, I mean, I I kind of think it's okay for the market to take a breather a day after a massive move, especially because the week before it was a massive move down. So, you know, you probably want to have this consolidate. Pouncer 191. Pounder got to 194 yesterday. So, you know, pounder was at 169 last Friday, now back at 191. It is nice to see pounder making that rebound back into the 190s. Weeble's down about 2%. Chipotle is down half a percent. Hims has not been able to make a move back above 40. AMD right there 244. And then Lemonade, that one is also flat. Where is Coree? Again, I don't think they deserve to be down 11%. I don't know their business that well, but there were some red flags in the earnings, but those are red flags that every investor should already know about. Uh, especially if you're, you know, you're concerned about their debt. So, I feel like feel like there's something else in the earnings that maybe I'm not looking at for why the stock's getting hit. Let's read one of these updates. DA Davidson says underperformed. They have a $36 price target. We reiterate our underperform rating and $36 price target following the three Q earnings that were highlighted by another quart of deteriorating profitability, significant downward revisions to fullyear capex revenue and profit guidance. We continue believe this business is not worth scaling. Wow, that's a pretty ugly downgrade from Gil Lauria at DA Davidson. And then we'll get the JP Morgan downgrade as well, but the street was not happy with this. Down 11.2%. Tesla right there at 441. Lily is getting close to being a trillion dollar company. 917 billion. That's green at 971. Did hit 982 at one point. Apple, where's Apple? Apple is at 270. That's slowly green. Slowly getting green. Oscar again is up 2%. It was down 17% yesterday because of this ACA subsidy debate that is now extended to January. So I think the healthcare names es, you know, especially the ones that are affected by ACA subsidies, you really got to be careful with them going into the new year because you just don't know how the Democrats or Republicans are going to come to a conclusion. I mean, quite frankly, what if the Democrats can't get their way? What if they can't extend these subsidies or what if they do extend the subsidies, but it's only for like a year and then, you know, the the sort of trajectory of earnings growth gets downgraded for Oscar or for Elevate or some of these companies. I I don't know. I think there's a lot of different nuance to this debate, but it really does rest upon these healthcare subsidies making sense. Terra Wolf right there at 1347, that's down 5%. Bit mine, that's down 2.3%. New bank, they have earnings very soon. New bank right there 1639, that's up 2.39%. I think that's a 52- week high for New Bank. Uh ARM, what do we have on ARM? ARM is at 150. That's down 2 and a half%. Again, Soft Bank owns the majority of ARM. Soft Bank also sold their Nvidia stake not because they are bearish but based on what they said on their earnings call this morning. It's because they want to fund their other AI endeavors which to me makes sense and is not the craziest thing to see. Grab right there still holding 5% at 619. Again, the rumor here from Bloomberg as of last night is that the GoTo CEO is going to be ousted by the SoftBank Group and that will create the conditions for a merger between Grab and Goto, which would be freaking crazy if that happens because I think that solidifies Grab as a behemoth in Southeast Asia. And it's something we've been talking about for the past nine months. I kind of gave up on the thesis over the past couple of months because we just didn't hear much from it. that based on the developments over the past week, like I was bullish grabbed before I heard they could possibly acquire one of their largest competitors that has a 100 million users in one country alone. Now I'm like, if they actually get the deal done, I mean, I think that really solidifies their presence in the region and uh gives them the ability to become a compounder for the next few decades as they consolidate control. So, it would be very nice to see if that happens and that's why I think the stock is up 5%. S&P 500 680 right there. Intel 386, that's down 1%. Amazon somehow goes green even though the other hyperscalers are red. Where is Microsoft? Microsoft continues to be red 50358 but Amazon is green. Are we dumping Nebius? Are we dumping? I mean, all right. Let's let's buy some more Nebus. Let's do it. We're in the position. I would love 100s, but 108. We're going for it. We're buying more. All right, 100 shares. 108 10840 10840. So we bought 100 shares in the morning at 110. Another 100 at 108. I'm thinking overall size of the position, you know, long-term probably 500 shares. And we'll wait for those extra 300 shares if we get this thing actually into the low 100s. The earnings were good, dude. I mean, I don't see the red flag in the earnings. I'm sure there's red flags on the overall thesis that I probably don't know about, but on those earnings, I don't think the stock should be down. I think the stock is down with the broader market and that's why Nebius is down. I make get used to the Nebius price action. This thing loves swinging. Well, you know, that's also why the volatility on the covered calls is probably really good. I haven't looked at the covered call premiums, I would imagine. Is anyone running active calls on Nebius? I feel like you could do 0.2 deltas a month out and still be able to get a decent return, which is not the craziest strategy. I I want to keep my Nebia shares, but if I can reduce my cost bases by a couple bucks every month, I also am not opposed to that. So granted, when it swings higher, you know, that's when they can get into jeopardy. But I'll take a look at the cover call premiums. They're right there. Nebia still down 2%. Intel down 1%. The Beyond Meat down 8%. Wow, a bunch of you guys are doing that, huh? Okay, a decent amount of you wheeling this name. All right, I will look into those covered call premiums today. I really haven't looked at I didn't buy it for the premiums. I bought it because I actually want to own the stock, but if the premiums are decent, that is a plus. Um, where is Apple? Apple's still holding 271. That one going green. Um, Oakllo, they have earnings today. Oaklo is red, down 2.7%. Again, I don't think they're going to put up any revenue or earnings today, like EPS. So, the street already knows about that. We just got to see how the street reacts to it. VG still down 5%. Then EOSC Energy, that one is down 4% as well. Sam says, I sold 170 monthly when it was at 135. Haven't done it since then. Yeah, I don't know if I would sell calls at 108 on Nebius because I feel like given how volat it could bounce back to 115 or 120 anytime, but you know, if it really dips into the 100s, then we'll see if it's worth buying more and then selling calls on it. UNH right there at 322. Where is INEN is at 58. That's down 3.4. Novo is getting a move. Novo, I think a lot of people have been waiting for it to get a move ever since Lily and Novo announced that deal together. Lily ended up pumping. Novo dumped last week. Novo now getting some green. Oscar coming back to life a little bit from 1450 here to 15. Coreweave, are we still red? Coreweave. Wow, it bounced a little bit off 92. Let me see if I can get another downgrade on Coreeave. JP Morgan says, "We continue to see tremendous long-term opportunity on the negative side. the new variable supply chain pressures escalating to a point that they are impacting one specific thirdparty data center which is running behind and that shifts some of Cororeweave's Q4 revenue. This means that they are not only major hyperscalers being forced to issue capacity constrained revenue guidance but the phenomenon is also spreading to Coree which has historically set one of the highest bars for orchestration and delivers timely deployment of modern AI data centers. This doesn't seem that bearish. They're kind of just annoyed that Q4 revenue is going down because of the delay on the third party data center developer. they downgraded them from 135 to 110, but that's not seeming to be like upset with the thesis. DA Davidson is kind of just like, hey, we don't think this is a good business to invest in. JP Morgan seems to think that the um that the data center delay should be a reason why you take the stock down, but that's not necessarily that bearish. Cory right there down 11.2%. On the day, Nvidia is getting hit. I kind of expected this. Nvidia added 300 billion in market cap yesterday with no catalyst. Like it was a great day, but it was also like well does it deserve to have 300 billion. So down 2.56% not that crazy. Nebius right here down about 2%. If Nvidia is dumping, Nebius is going to dump as well. I mean if Cororee is dumping Neb I mean if I correct that means the data center trades for today are definitely not on the side of the bulls. Granted if you've been looking for an opportunity that's where today might become more attractive even if you want to sell puts. But all those names are red. Big Bear holding on to a 14% move and then Palanteer also getting hit right here down 1.4%. A Nike Insider bought a million of stock. Really? Huh? Interesting. You know, honestly, the the the conspiracy theory here could be if the tariffs go away, you got a company like Nike that's really going to benefit from that. Now, granted, even if the Supreme Court strikes down the tariff case, I don't think the tariffs just go away. I think the Trump administration is working with their lawyers to make sure they can meaningfully uh make sure the tariffs stay in place. But yeah, you're right. The director, one of the directors and the seauite bought 16,000 shares at 62 bucks disclosed yesterday. 6209 is what he bought at Nike right there. 6224. Um there you go. That's green. So, what do we got? So, wow. Below 30 again. This is the entire market. You can see the algos taking everything down today. Uh Clean Spark down 7.5, Intel down one, Beyond Meat down nine. Big Bear and Plug Power holding on to the green. A lot of other names are just going red. Molina's up a little bit. Robin Hood down 2%. Robin Hood almost hit 140 yesterday. That one's getting hit. Door Dash down another 2%. Celsius down another 2%. ELF got to 85 yesterday. Right back to 78 as that goes down. S&P though is not S&P's down a dollar. So, it's you're not really seeing a significant level of pain. Um, I know people hate hearing me say it's the ALOS, but like give me another reason. Like, why did we go up one and a half% yesterday and now we're down 022% today? Like, like legitimately give and if you give me a broader macro reason, well then how do you explain the one and a half% move yesterday? Because whatever macro reason you're going to give me, I'm sure in 24 hours nothing has changed. This is why I hate using the word it's probably alos but like when there's no core headline to look at. I mean there's nothing that happened in the past 24 hours to my understanding that could easily explain a 1.5% move to a 0.2% downturn other than just hey like the market has to consolidate a lot of those gains if you if you go up you know the market added 1.8 trillion dollars or sorry $1.1 trillion dollars in market cap yesterday. It's not probably going to go in a straight line up. And so that's why I think some of the algos are taking it down today. Gravity. Yes, I should be saying gravity more than alos. I need a better word than alos. Gravity is a way better word. Thank you Midwest for that. That's better. Um, can you explain what the algos actually? Algos are just algorithms by a lot of these market makers and hedge funds that are working in tandem usually with each other to show the market to give the market either deals or opportunities or to take things down or up. So from my understanding of how algorithms work and again I'm not an expert on this. I've never worked at a hedge fund, but at its core, there's a lot of sophisticated Jane Street, State Street, Black Rockck, uh, traders that work together to consolidate different moves that they want to see happen in the market. And they're not necessarily doing it for their own benefit. They're doing it to be able to make better liquidity for their positions. And sometimes if they're overlevered or underexposed, then they have to create different conditions. I mean, it it is it is sort of the the de facto explanation for why a stock would be up 10% after good earnings and then dump for no reason and then it's up 10% the next week. It's like a lot of this stuff is controlled by forces that are bigger than us and there's not really fundamental reasons to explain it. But at its core, that's also part of the market and that's what creates these massive opportunities for people to to get different dips. I mean, in April when everything was getting hit, a lot of that was algorithmic selling at its core because you had a lot of d-risking from different funds and that created some of the best opportunities we've se got to $3.50, you know, Robin and got to 29. Those become incredible, incredible opportunities at its core. Uh, Novo right there, 4780, that's up 4%. Coreweave still down 10%. So, that's not getting any love. Some of these names are overbought. Yeah, I agree. I mean, you could definitely argue some of these names are overbought. Dwave right there down about 3%. Chipotle down 1.6. We are going to be getting a lot more jobs data very soon. We have not officially gotten that jobs data. We're getting some hints of it as the government is getting reopened. Uh, one thing I saw today from the ADP private payrolls is that in October you had private payrolls falling to 11,000 a week on an average over the past four weeks, which is obviously not good. 11,000 jobs a week is like not significant growth, which feeds the argument that the labor market has having some issues. The uh Fed probabilities now show a 67.4% chance for a rate cut in December. Again, I don't see a world where the rate cut doesn't happen. Um, but time will tell and we got about a month and a half to see if that takes place. And right there, 193 getting a little bit of a bounce off 192. S&P again barely down on the day 680.29. Rockab are we getting back to 10%. Wow. Rockolap quite the resilience fell all the way down to 53 back to 5640 again the quarter was phenomenal that's up 9% on the day 5654 on the lab of rockets nebius still getting dumped that's down about 4% uh again based on those earnings I have to go through the entire quarter I don't know if there's anything they said meaningfully that would cause this type of a move but if Nvidia and Coree and Iren are down the Nebius you know kind trades with them, that is going to go down as well. So, I would say the entire sector is getting hit. Is Cippher also down? Cipher is down 5% as well. Yeah. I mean, look, if you're going to own these data center names over the long term, the best ones are going to outperform. But in the short term, they're probably going to move with each other. And if Nvidia is down 3%, it's going to be very hard for Nebius to be up 3%. Like, that's just not easy. Which which is why again I you know what I've been saying over the past couple weeks is like if I own Nvidia or if anyone owns Nvidia does it really matter if you need to own the Neoclouds and like yes there's a elevated alpha but it works if Nvidia goes up like Nvidia down 3% there's no way in hell Nebis is going to be up 4% if Nvidia is down 3%. or Corewave like that's just like no if the if if the if the thing that creates all the GPUs that goes into all the fancy data centers that Nebia's core by Ren are creating is down and losing uh doing the math about $110 billion of market cap in 20 minutes those derivative plays are probably going to get hit even Palanteer you know Nvidia goes down Palanter has started to trade many times in tandem with Nvidia Paler right here down about half a percent you could argue they worked with each other and Na'vi right there. That's down half a percent as well. TSM, where's TSM? TSM right there 292. That's also down about 1.12%. Corweave, CEO on CNBC. Okay, let's transition over to him. He can probably give us a better explanation about why the stock is getting hit, but let's take a listen to uh to what he has to say facility so they can monitor progress. So it it's actually a great great source of information. Um look they uh um it became apparent to us in Q3 that there were uh delays at the facility at which point core responded by deploying our own uh uh boots on the ground to ensure that everything was being done in order to move those facilities along as quickly as possible. We have uh um uh teams of folks down there every single day working with the contractors working with core scientific working
>> down there meaning all the sites I mentioned.
>> That's correct. We have people on the sites working at the sites with the teams there to ensure that the delivery that everything possible is being done to ensure uh timely delivery of the infrastructure. So that kind of fits with some of the reaction today that to make sure this doesn't happen again, you'll have to assert more control over the engineering. Some analysts say vertically integrate further. Is that a reasonable assumption?
>> Yeah. So, so when you when you look at the way that we've been behaving over the past, you know, 9 months that we've been public, one of the things that we've done is we've built a portion of the organization that is self-built, right? And uh we we'll never be completely self-built. don't tend to be there, but we do intend to have the capacity within the organization and we do have the capacity within the organization to go ahead and build these sites from the ground up. And the reason for that is because we need to be fully emerged in the supply chains that are so incredibly stressed uh uh across the across the globe because of this incredible buildout that's going.
>> Okay, so the same explanation he kind of had on the earnings call last night. Ultimately, it's not he's basically saying it's not really our fault. This is more to do with supply chain constraints, which look, he could be right about that. It's just the street might not necessarily care about uh about that excuse on a day like this. Nebas right here 104. Nvidia 192. Entire markets getting hit. Pounder down 1.3. SoFi back above 30. S&P now you're getting a bit more of a red candle. 679 losing 680. Grab is somehow green. I don't know how the hell it's holding green. That means this rumor about goto must really be exciting the street because on a day like this grab would be closer to like 570 by now. So 608 that's up 2.9%. Rocket lab losing its 10% move. Now we are seeing a little bit more of the aggression on the dump. Robin at 132. Micro strategy down 1.7. Where's Bitcoin? Bit Wow. Bitcoin lost 104. It was a 105 in the morning. All right. 103.9. Not super low in the 103s, but it is down. Rivian, Rivian had a great earnings. Wow, Rivian up 3%. Dude, Rivian was 12 before earnings. Now 17. Not a bad move. I know they're not profitable yet, but uh R.J. did say that the tariffs are not going to be stopping the production of the R2 going into next year or it wouldn't have a meaningful impact on their margins either. So 1695 on Rivian. That one continues to go green. Lily 980. that's holding up. Let's look at the heat map. What is actually green today? Well, you actually have a decent amount of the market green. It's just not a substantial amount of green. So, consumer defensives, healthcare, real estate, industrials are green. Tech is red. Semis are a mixed bag. Software is red. Technologies red. Consumer electronics, Apple's holding up. And then financials are basically flat to red with JP Morgan and Bank America. But you got those names that are uh got those names that are getting hit. Again, I really think today is actually relatively healthy. It's giving people some good opportunities. And again, yesterday was a great day, but yesterday was a lot. I did not I mean, Nvidia 6% in a day. You just don't see that. I mean, you literally have not seen that in five months. So, having that retrace and go down 3%, which means net net 3% over the past 24 hours, I don't think that's horrible. I don't think that's crazy. Reddit is green as a lot of these other names go red. Reddit right there 20483 S&P 679 and then SoFi trying to hold on to 30. It is going to take another couple weeks until we get Nvidia earnings which is going to be another massive catalyst for the broader market. And you know, you might have a lot of hiccups until we get that catalyst. So that's also really important to understand. But but but we're not at the lows of October and we're not at the lows of where we were on Friday. And I think a lot of that was reversed because the shutdown. So, as long as we're not, you know, heading back to that 660 655 territory, I think most portfolios can withstand that and hopefully that gives us a leg up for uh for tomorrow or for the end of the month. Chad says, "Red or green, that easy?" Chad, I don't know what to tell you, bro. My job is a bit more complicated than yours. Like, you're out here building software to change enterprises. I have to analyze if things are going to go red or green. Okay. So, I know that you have your little fancy AIP architect job and you talk with all these executives, but I have to analyze if things are going to go up or down. And quite frankly, I would say it's a bit harder than what you do, man. Just saying. It's a little bit harder, you know, and if I don't know the answer, the only thing I can say is alos. And then everyone gets mad at me. So, the level of public scrutiny I have to face every day when I don't have an answer for why we're red or green and I say it's alos. I don't I don't know if you're dealing with the same thing. Just don't know if you're dealing with the same thing. Shout out to Chad, by the way. Yesterday was his birthday. He He was surprised that you guys knew it was Dude, I'm I love Chad, but I did not know it was his birthday. So, the fact that you guys knew it was his birthday. Like, I found out from the chat. He was just like, I don't know how your chat knew it was my birthday, but you guys are awesome for knowing his birthday. And also speaking of Chad, here was our boy Tom Lee yesterday defending Pounder's valuation when asked about it.
>> No, but I don't think when they talk about the valuation of AI stocks, they're necessarily talking about Nvidia. I think you would agree with me on that. They're more so talking about names like Palunteer and some others where you could easily say, "Yes, the the earnings have been great and the the story is incredible, but at some point you're only willing to pay X for a stock and maybe that one's gotten a little bit too rich." using that as an example of the kind of names they're talking about.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think Palunteer is an example of what they call like an N equals one company. You know, you've got a founder business developing products that really seem like magic for the companies that adopt it. So, you know, should this just be getting a software multiple? I don't think so. And, you know, Palanteer's opening up so many markets and if and if it was a venture capital firm, they'd be getting, you know, potential carry for how they transform businesses. So to me I I think that this is still a market discovering you know how to define the valuation model for Palanteer but to me that's that doesn't mean it's a bubble. You know people would have said that about Tesla in 2018 because it looked incredibly expensive and the stock in Tesla has been a huge performer since then.
>> I think it's a fair point by Tom. It's something he's been pretty consistent on for a long time. When I did my podcast with him in July he said the same thing about Tesla. when you have some of these names that can't be fully understood through traditional valuation metrics and I don't think it's a copout either when he says that they can't be understood. I mean Palanteer for I mean the guys on Palunteer weekly, myself, Amamir, Arie, Matt, every single quarter, we have been blown away by how Palunteer has exceeded our expectations. And if we're blown away and we understand the company I think better than a lot of the institutional analysts, I can only imagine the guys that don't spend years or haven't spent years understanding the company, they definitely do not expect 63% revenue growth with 51% adjusted operating margin. So, as a business scales using PE or price of sales, although pounder has an aggressive one to make sense of it, especially when you actually talk to the customers and you know, I've got in a front row to really talk to a lot of these customers and you know, one of them said it's like looking into the matrix. When you hear that type of stuff and when you have Tom Lee who's talked to customers say it feels like magic, it's just hard to to say multiples are the only way to define that name. It's not saying that it's not important to talk about multiples and quantitative metrics, but it's not the only part of the story. And quite frankly, if you focus on that with Tesla in 2018, you would have missed Tesla as well. So, I think it's a fair point. Tesla right there 438. That's down about 1.4%. BMR getting a move right here. That goes green on the day. Is that because ETH is moving? ETH is indeed moving. If ETH is moving, is the S&P moving? The S&P is moving, folks. Wow. We are 70 cents away from going green on the day. That would be a nice reversal about 30 minutes after the market open. Nvidia giving a little Vshape. Nevas right back to 108, fell to 104. Uh, Sofi just went green 30.61. Irene trying to go green. I think the Alos are on our side. The Alos were mean to us at 9:45 and they're nice to us at 958. There you go. See, like this is my point. This is why I keep saying Alos. How how does anyone explain at 9:45 Nebus was 104 and now at 9:58 Nebius is at 108. Like what happened in these 15 minutes? Nothing. Like there's obviously nothing fundamental has happened. There's no tweet. There's no macro news. Like the only thing you can chop it up to is the market decided to move higher because unilaterally if you look at every single stock making a V-shape right here you had algorithms come in and trading within those algorithms is just something that or or at least buying the dip on certain algorith on on on moves that are potentially algorithm induced you know that has been very fruitful to most investors throughout the year. It's FOMO. All right. It can't be FOMO across the entire market, though. Like FOMO could happen in an individual name. Like I'd understand if Nebius was at like 115 or something and it just exploded because everyone just, you know, FOMOed in. But like Nebius is right back to where it was 10 minutes ago after going down four bucks. Like that that's not FOMO. That's that's just computers. I feel like sending these stocks up or down. We will have technical Tuesday today. Let me confirm with Jason. Um but yes, we should be having TT today. We have no earnings outside of Oaklo, so we should be able to look at a lot of these stocks in their technicals. Pounder right there 191.7, Nvidia 193, Cipher down about 2.75%. Uh, this chart this morning I thought was also really important. US households now have 52% of their financial assets allocated to equities. This was part of the reason why asset holders have done well over the past couple years. Assets have gone up. If you own assets, you're doing well. If you don't own assets, it's not been the best. And so you do have uh the United States starting to benefit from a lot of these stock market returns. This was Trump yesterday giving a little bit more clarity on the $2,000 dividends that he talked about yesterday as well.
>> We're going to issue a dividend to uh our middle income people and lower income people of about $2,000 and we're going to use the remaining tariffs to lower our debt. We're going to be lowering our debt which is a national security thing. So we uh we're doing a lot of good work and the numbers were reported. So incorrectly, the real numbers are trillions of dollars have been taken in or gotten in terms of investment from the tariffs. And so if that were ever reversed, it would be a disaster. Frankly, it would be a national security problem for our country. And nobody thinks it's going to be reversed, I think we had a very good court case. As you know, it's before the Supreme Court right now. But if that were ever reversed, you know, people were saying, "Oh, it's uh a billion dollars." Some people said, "Oh, it's two billion." Well, that obviously we can handle very easily, but this is trillions of dollars we're talking about in terms of the tariff income and all the investment income that's come into our country. You know, we're going to issue a dividend to uh our middle.
>> Now, when he says we're going to issue a dividend, again, I I I don't know if that really means checks, but listen to what he said. We're going to issue a dividend. Band was talking about, oh, the no tax on tips, no tax on overtime. That implies that there's going to be a $2,000 dividend. give it to low-income Americans. Then Trump says we are going to issue a dividend. I mean, that screams stim checks, but then again, it's it's unfathomable that he's actually going to give out stim checks. Like, I don't even think he has the full power to do that without Congress. So, uh I'm not sure exactly what the argument is or how it's going to be implemented, but obviously Trump is going to get people or trying to get people on the side of the tariffs if the Supreme Court were to strike it down. And I don't know what implications that would have on the market. I mean ultimately if we gave a $2,000 sim I think the markets would like it but obviously there would be some concerns about inflation video right there 19343 and then pounder 19193 I do agree though on this perspective that Trump's been saying that if you do have the tariffs reverse it would be a disaster for the country just from the perception of the deals that might not be in place if the tariff was the lynch pin for why the deal was created in the first place you know what if Europe says hey we don't need to buy $750 billion of natural gas from you guys anymore because the only reason we did it is because we're threatening 50% tariffs. If that's not on the table, I mean, just logically, other countries would probably pull back. So, it is going to be very interesting to see what the Supreme Court says. I think we're going to get the answer towards the end of the month, but it's one thing that definitely could be something we have to watch out for in the market. Now, granted, the market might like it because there's no tariffs and the market never like tariffs in the first place. So, I mean, who knows how the market's going to react to it, but overall, it's definitely going to be something that we're going to have to keep up with as we get towards the end of the year. Cory right here still down 11% getting a little bit of a bounce off 9240 but not much of a bounce as that one continues to fall about 11%. So again the news from not this morning was that crypto is coming to SoFi. Put in the chat if you would buy crypto on SoFi. I'm curious if there's anyone here that actively uses SoFi that would also like to buy their crypto on SoFi. Um, I I think the biggest issue again is just like the spread and if people want to use crypto or SoFi as their core trading platform, but I'm sure there's a lot of people that would be okay with DCAing 100 bucks Bitcoin every month and they would do it on the platform that has all their their assets in the first place. So, it's not crazy to imagine that would happen. It's kind of 50-50. See a decent amount of yeses, decent amount of nos. Obviously, you know, Robin Hood is cheaper and the Robin Hood UX experience is a bit better, but nonetheless, if you're a power user of SoFi and they offer crypto, it it's it's not bearish. It is only accreative. I don't think it's taking anything away from the platform. So, it makes sense for them to get into crypto. And look, SoFi has been able to grow without transaction volumes. If they can increase transaction volumes even 10 or 20% per year, uh that should be something that helps their their operating leverage at scale. One of the reasons Robin Hood has such good operating leverage is because of the margins on crypto. So that should only be better for SoFi than not. Rock Lab right there 5609 still holding 8% and then Nike instead of buy of a million dollars that's at 3.2%. Again, Open Door Cass tweeted his family's buying a million dollars worth of stock this morning. I was talking to Tanner about this yesterday and Roy and um yeah, we were all three weirded the hell out from this tweet. I mean, I I don't know as a CEO if you can publicly say I mean, you can do it. It's just weird that your family's going to buy a million dollars worth of stock. Like, first of all, why would you give the number? And then second of all, why are you announcing to everyone you're gonna like it's fine for like it? Usually when a CEO buys stock, the form four comes out and then everyone sees it. They don't like it's just it was weird. It was like if Vlad came out yesterday and said, "Hey, my grandmother is going to buy Robinet stock tomorrow." I'd be like, "What?" like like I don't know that is weird. He did the same with the other company a year ago. He he did the same with Shopify, but that was internally in their Slack. And also he wasn't the CEO of Shopify. Like he's the CEO of Open Door. It just feels like he's trying to pump it, dude. That's what it feels like. And like as a CEO, you shouldn't be trying to pump it. You should be working your hardest to increase the value, but so explicitly saying, "Hey, I'm going to buy the stock." It's like, it's just weird. So, I don't know. But nonetheless, Open Door holding on to this $8 price and I still am not fully convinced what the new mission is going to be for the company. I listened to a bit of the earnings call. At the end of the day, they have to buy low, sell high. I don't know exactly how that's changed. Maybe tokenization plays a role, but then they become a brokerage and like so there's a lot of different caveats to this. I do think is legit. It's just that tweet yesterday made me really weirded out. Um, but then you got to give them a year and over the course of the year if they can get those margins up and rates come down that could be bullish for open door. Nebia is back to 105 again. Why does it go from 104 to 108 back to 105? I feel like this is a lot to do with just the broader market consolidating today. Nvidia back to 192, S&P back below 680. Very choppy within the first 30 minutes of trading. grab somehow holding green and then pounder holding 190. Big pop on VIX. Where is the VIX? We didn't even look at this this morning. VIX. Yeah, VIX from low 17s to high 17s. It's not up a lot today, but you do have a bit of a pop up almost half a percent. Um, pounder just below 190 right there. And so you're seeing a lot of these names get affected by that. 67934 all on the S&P falling knife. Appreciate you, man. Appreciate you. Best morning show in the world. Bit farm. Decent price entry. Thank you for being here, sir. And thank you for the super chat. Bit farms is an interesting one. This one got to 660 a couple weeks ago. Now it's at what 348. Yeah, I have not looked deep into what they're doing with AI data centers, but I know they did make the pivot. I know they also diluted by I think 500 million or maybe it was 350 million. So a lot of these companies are raising money getting that process over with and then they're getting to the execution phase of actually building out these data centers. But Bit Farm's right there 347 down 3% on the day. Uh Ernest, thank you for the super chat as well. Just want to say thank you for all you do emit all the best. Thank you Ernest for being here. Appreciate you being part of the chat. And Sony says emit at what point does I ren become juicy enough to buy? So, I have not looked enough at Iran's financials. Definitely not like Neb's financials to make that proclamation. The the the the Uber bulls would say, "Hey, you know, under 60 is a steal." I think your more conservative bulls would say around 45 is when you want to get interested. Did touch 80 the other day, so maybe 80 to 57 is your dip, but I'm not exactly sure. I do know that Nebias getting multiple deals. I's probably on track to get another deal after this Microsoft stuff. That is net bullish. The question is the ROIC and uneconomics of these deals. And for Nebius, they seem to be relatively decent. For Iran, I got to do my research and see, you know, how strong these deals are. But look, both stocks have done very well. I mean, Iran was at freaking six bucks earlier this year. Nebis was at 20. So, can't complain if you know, if you buy them here like I have and they go down 10, 15%, you just can't complain because you understand you're buying them after a massive move. ALD, are you getting a dump right there? Apply digital, that's down 8%. Yeah, this is all the data center plays. People are selling data centers and going into open door today. That's what it feels like. So, pretty much every data center play getting hit. Coreweave the worst of it down 12.7%. Uh Goldman Sachs US non-farm payroll employment declined by roughly 50,000 in October, the biggest decrease since 2020. I think I saw that headline this morning. Let me pull that up. Um, Golden is trying to do their own macro data until we get the labor market coming in. By the way, Stephanie Gild, who's Robin Hood's like macro economist and manages the um strategies that they have, she commented under my post yesterday about the sort of bifurcated economy. Again, I'm working on this Substack piece on the sort of dual economy that we're living in right now, at least in the United States. And she said based on her research, a lot of the layoffs are Dogeereated and government related. It's not really private related. So she said through combing through the challenger layoff data still led me to believe that most of the labor softness is still from Doge and the shutdown and businesses that locally benefited from the area. DC has the biggest layoff as a percentage of population followed by Georgia where the CDC was located. So her argument is that you can't fully say it's private payroll related or AI related yet. the challenger layoff data that said we had the worst uh jobs report in October since 2003. That could be more shutdown Doge related, which if that's the case, it's actually bullish because you could see a spike up in the coming months, but that is one thing that I do think that we have to um that we have to focus on. We got Corwe right here still getting hit. Jumpman says, "I'm in DC and Doge is hitting us hard." Yeah, the you know, we don't talk about Doge that much anymore, but I would imagine the effects of Doge and the voluntary buyouts that Trump offered to people. I mean, you're going to start to see more implications of that as a decent chunk of people took that buyout and then, you know, a decent chunk of people have been laid off. So, that could definitely be impacting the shutdown. I mean, one could argue, and I don't even think this is putting on a tinfoil hat here, but one of the reasons 2023 and 2024 was so good, not even in the stock market, but just like overall economy, job numbers, etc., was because the government was employing a lot of people and was spending a lot of money and I know the government always spends money but if you look at the 2024 economics in terms of the actual budget report from from the US government we spent a lot like we spent a lot and obviously we had a lot more immigration so there were a lot more jobs now we're doing the opposite we are not spending as much spending a crap ton of money but it's not as much as it was in 24 and we have a lot more deportation so those two things put together could obviously lead to some level of contraction in the overall labor market and GDP, which is why AI is kind of the only hope I think for us to grow out of this deficit. And Elon said the same thing yesterday, which is that uh the ability to grow out of a rising debt profile for the United States and you know five six trillion dollar deficit, it's going to have to come from AI and autonomy and robotics and all these other things that are going to massively increase margins. Elon said seems to be the only way to deal with $38 trillion in debt. So like one could argue that you know although Trump is having these massive layoffs and uh you know the government shutdown is obviously affecting the labor market we've got to have efficiency and AI to make sure this does not become a wide ranging issue long term market pulls back again alos I mean someone give me a better reason like I am here to provide as much commentary as I can about what I'm seeing I don't see a crazy headline this morning for why Nebius goes is back to 105 or why BMR goes red after going green. I mean obviously Ethereum just went red but the intraday swings seem to be more algo related than not. Now one thing I will say more fundamental reason it is Veterans Day and so uh you might not be having that much volume coming into the markets today just because the bond markets are closed. So that could also be leading to some wonky wonky price action as well. Hims just went below 40. Um and Meta still going red as well on the day. App down 6.5%. Goodness. App is getting hit. 607. That was at 640 yesterday. What about the Amazon and UPS layoffs? Yeah, I'm not denying that the private sector is having layoffs. I mean, I think we've done a pretty good job covering it on the show over the past couple weeks, 100%. And those are obviously not Doge related. I'm just saying based on what Stephanie's looking at from the data core we've now below 92. A majority of that 175,000 in October, which I don't even know if the Amazon and UPS stuff was fully factored for October if it's going to be counted in November. That had to do more with the shutdown and and government layoffs. Having said that, obviously, if there's deeper cracks in the labor market from companies like Amazon and UPS, and if that continues to extend, we had American Airlines last week announced corporate layoffs. You know, that's not a good thing. And I I I don't know how to resolve it. I don't like do you go short the market if you think the labor market is cracking or do you stay long the market because all these companies that are laying off workers like an Amazon are going to have better margins. I kind of think it's the latter over the former. Now obviously if the layoffs get so intense to the point where people aren't buying things from Amazon anymore because they don't have the money to spend on uh a new water bottle, you know, and that that affects Amazon's earnings, then that's fair. But what if Amazon's margin efficiency is so much better than the lack of demand they're getting from the labor market deteriorating that it doesn't matter? I don't think there's there's amazing answers to these questions. I do think if you know you bought Nvidia at 110, you're not selling it at 190 just because you're afraid of the labor market. Like that seems a bit shortsighted. I think having a hedge obviously is not the worst idea, right? Buying some puts on your position just in case. But I don't know if that means you get the hell out of the market, especially if this AI capex trade might not even be contingent on the labor market. The way it's effective for the that if the labor market affects earnings so dramatically for a Meta, Google, and Amazon, then I think you will see them pull back the spend. Now granted, I'm even skeptical if they would actually pull back the spend because like this is the once in a-lifetime opportunity and all of them have said that we have to keep spending because you know this is the next big scurve that we have to chase. Now granted, if their stocks get cut in half and you know the earnings are down 30%, then maybe they do stop the spend. But can we easily say the labor market would stop them from spending on capex? I don't know. I think we need to have a lot more data to see if that if that would take place. Um layoffs could lead to a recession. They could. And look, a recession is inevitable. The question is, is it just going to be a technical recession of two quarters of negative GDP growth, but not actually a meaningful recession that, you know, really hurts the broader economy like what we saw in 2022? Or is it something much worse? And that I don't think everyone has the the uh the best answer to. Um, Nabius right here is still getting hit down at 103. Nvidia 193. That one's at least holding above 193. Zeta, I'm talking with Ronnie tomorrow on Twitter spaces about Zeta. So, we'll do a little bit more of a deep dive on that. I am starting to warm up to Zeta's financials. Uh, it looks cheap. I'll just say that. I haven't fully done my due diligence, but it definitely looks cheap. Zeta right there, 2016, that's up 1.3%. VG, that's down three. and then Archer that's down 1.78% on the day. Yes, AMD will be talking at 1 p.m. Why did Soft Bank sell Nvidia? They said this morning that their main reason was to invest in other AI plays. I can't blame them. There's no reason to hold on to Nvidia if you think it's just going to double in the next 5 years at the scale of SoftBank size. I mean, there's lots of other opportunities that could compound their capital. So, I don't think it was necessarily a bearish sell. Also again, you know, logically put the pieces together. If you sell the the epicenter of AI to buy another AI name, if they were bearish Nvidia, why the hell would they buy OpenAI or soft or uh ARM or Marll, right? Like like you it goes back to Nvidia. You cannot invest in data centers or data center adjacent or foundation model companies if you think Nvidia has topped. It's it's like it's very hard for him to believe those other companies are going to do well if uh Nvidia doesn't. And I know there's an argument you can say for why like you know maybe the GPU buildout is over and therefore like yeah I get it but given the demand we've seen from Nvidia given the earnings projections it's hard to imagine that's kind of like the core thesis one can come up with Nvidia right here 8.5% of the S&P 500 again that one continuing to be a majority of the market and that's why when Nvidia goes down you got the rest of the market that goes down as well it will be crazy if Nvidia gets like 15 trillion in the next like I don't know decade and SoftBank if they had held on would have done way better than like piling into Open AI. I feel like that's the bigger risk. Like what if OpenAI doesn't become a multi- trillion dollar company and it's stuck at 500 billion, right? And then Nvidia was the one to kind of take the bet on, but at the size of their portfolio, it's not crazy to imagine that would be happening. Oracle, this one is down. Wow. 2 232. All right. So, Oracle officially back to where it was in September after their RPO guidance. Oracle, I think, deserves to come back down to reality. Uh, a lot of their financing is through debt and 232 to 350 in less than 24 hours made absolutely no sense. The RPO growth was great and the street was excited about it, but I mean, that was kind of stupid seeing that level of a move. So, not crazy to see Oracle coming back to reality again. They've filed for $ 38 billion in debt. Got a lot of people wondering kind of why exactly they're dealing with the debt profile. I mean, it's to a point where, and I don't know if I have the numbers exactly correct, but Oracle is not really going to have free cash flow over the next few years based on all the debt that they're piling on, which again, investors are okay with because there's this magical ROI at the end of the rainbow. But it is one of the largest pseudo hyperscalers that is taking on the most amount of debt. And that's why I think that stock is getting hit. CW says I sold at 300. Yeah, I mean if you sold anywhere in those 300s was not the worst sell. If I had Oracle that day, I probably would have sold. Obviously, everything's easier in hindsight, but even when I was I was I remember I went live from Vegas on the market open. I was looking at that price. I was like, "This is stupid, bro. They had a $300 billion in less than 25. It's not Nvidia." And it wasn't even revenue growth. It was contracted revenue growth. It was RPO growth, which might not ever happen. It might not ever qualify for those performance obligations. So, it definitely did feel weird, but I think it's healthy that it's back down to where it was. Nvidia right there, 192 core. We've continuing the dump down 14%. And that one getting hit on the day. Um, puts for airlines in Q4. So, the air traffic control workers are not yet coming back to work. Trump did say that they do have to come back to work. There was a clip yesterday about Trump being asked about them and um here is what he said about the air traffic control workers
>> post earlier today. I did where you blasted the air traffic controllers who had not shown up for work uh and offered potentially a bonus of $10,000 for those who have worked despite the shutdown. Are you worried that given the fact that we have a deficit of air traffic controllers still? I know we're trying to change that. That that might be a difficult
>> No, we don't have much of a deficit and we have a lot of people want the job. But I was not happy when I saw all these people. Oh, we have to look. Life is not so easy for anybody. Our country's never done better. We should not have had people leaving their jobs. And what I basically did is say the ones that stayed of which were there were a lot of them. I'm sending them a $10,000 bonus.
>> Where's that money coming from?
>> Uh I don't know. I'll get it from someplace. I'll get it from I always get the money from someplace regardless. It doesn't matter. We did a lot of I do a lot of bonuses for people because it's really something that it's like the American way when you think about it. So here's somebody that goes and shows up every single day. Some of them showed up early because they knew there was going to be a problem. Those people should be rewarded. Others we couldn't. We we can't make it. We can't you know. A lot of the people that showed up also had a second job. They took a second job temporarily, but they all know the money's coming and the money was coming. So, I want to reward the people that showed up without a lot of nonsense, with a lot without without a lot of talk. They did their job and in many cases they worked longer hours to get us through this period.
>> When can we
>> So, I mean, look, you got Trump trying to make the argument that these air traffic control workers should come back to work. Obviously, he is upset that a lot of flights have been delayed. Flights have continued to be delayed. I think it was about 10,000 yesterday and then about 11,000 over the weekend. So until the government officially reopens, we're still going to have some of these issues and ultimately we're going to see if these people can get back to work. Here's some updates on core right here as that stock is down 13% on the day.
>> Essentially, that's data centers building data center buildings with power connected uh but interiors that are unfinished. So just exactly what it sounds like a shell. And this is pushing forth uh some fourth quarter revenue into next year of Q1. The company also cutting its Q4 capex guidance nearly in half, though that spending is also just shifting into Q1. Coreweave wouldn't name the data center provider causing the delays, but analysts widely suspect it's core scientific. Some on the street are also connecting the dots, wondering if this is why Microsoft started diversifying to other Neoclouds like Nebulus, why Azure recently missed expectations, and why a Microsoft CEO is now blaming shells as a constraint instead of GPUs. The bulls say look past the near-term noise for Cororeweave. Wedbush uh points to Corore's backlog nearly doubling to $55.6 billion and capex expected to jump over 100% next year as signs of demand just remain incredibly strong. But JP Morgan downgraded the stock to neutral this morning saying supply chain pressures make forecasting just too difficult at this point. And as one other analyst put it, Cory trades on vibes. Yeah, he did write vibes. and cutting guidance uh no matter the reason translates to the stock being down. So that's exactly what we're seeing play out this morning, guys. And then I just want to point out separately AMD's analyst day is here at the NASDAQ up on the 10th floor. The stock is down what one and a half% right now, but still outpacing Nvidia and SMH. Expect comments from Lisa Sue on the update to the total addressable market for AI and AMD. We could see that hit one trillion and more comments on their AI GPU rack rollouts, guys. vibes. Okay, maybe maybe that's a core weave does trade. By the way, did she say Nebulus? I think she said Nebulus. American Airlines 1309. That's down 1.65. Where is Nebulus? 104. Um, U is at 95. Then Delta is at 58. All right, so it looks like we got a relatively red day. It's not as ugly as it was on Friday. S&P down.3, but everything else pretty much down two to 3%. Grab is holding on for its life, up 2%. It definitely looks like it wants to go red, but holding on to some of the green. And then Rocket Lab, pretty impressive. Rocket Lab as well, holding 5% here. Uh, E Toro's up 8%. They had a pretty good earnings. E Toro had a good earnings. Uh, crypto brought them a lot more revenue as well. I have not really done a deep dive on e Toro. Um again in the brokerage space it's just hard when you compare them to to a company like Robin Hood but it is worth only three billion. Same thing with Weeble. So I it is worth looking into if we are continuing to be in a bull market. It's just whenever I think of like the bull market as the catalyst for the brokerages I think of okay two things. Number one what if the bull market is not as aggressive next year? That means all the brokerages are going to take a little bit of a haircut maybe even more than a little bit right could be aggressive haircut. Number two is like when they take a haircut, what company is innovating when things aren't going the best in terms of bull market momentum? I don't know if it's e Toro or Weeble, but I know for a fact it's going to be Hood. So, that's what keeps me probably more allocated to Hood than a lot of these other brokerages. They got ETOR right there up 8% on the day. Why should Grab go red? Wasn't it undervalued after the earnings? I'm not saying it should go red. I'm just saying on a day when Nvidia is down 3%. You know, it's inevitable that pretty much every stock is going to get hit. And that's what you're seeing right now. And you know, Grab probably goes down if Nvidia is losing 200 billion to market cap. Bit mine right there. That one goes red again down 1.5. SoFi holding 30, which is nice to see. SoFi would be like 28 by now. The fact that it's holding 30 is nice. I actually don't know why Rivian's up. Did they get upgraded today? Rivian making a really big move. They had earnings last week and they made a move. Feels like there might have been an upgrade to get this one going green. Um, no, I don't see any upgrade. I don't see any headline. Maybe that one's more technical. It is weird though. That one going green as the broader market goes red. Admit you're being biased towards hood. They literally copy paste euro social trading. That's not innovating. Well, first of all, I'm not saying the social network from Hood was innovative. I don't think I've ever made that claim. But I think like the ability for Hood to enter into new verticals and markets even when things aren't going good, that's when it requires really, really strong technical engineering and talent and a leader who's setting the culture. I don't know if it Toro has that type of culture or mission or ability to expand to multiple. I mean, again, Robin has 11 different lines of businesses doing $100 million of revenue. That's not the case for the other brokerages. So also does anyone even use e Toro's social network? Like the difference between Hood and E Toro is that when Hood launches it, I don't know if it's going to be a success, but I think a lot more people will be using it that you because Hood has 30 million users, right? So I don't know if it's going to be the And look, I'm not the most bullish on social networks on finance platform. So I have no idea how it's going to work out, but I think they're going to get a lot more distribution than e Toro or like Stock Twits. That's why that could be a additional catalyst for them. Ire down six, APLD down 10, Cororeweave down 14. Lots of people use Weeble social network. Do they? It's like Weeble. SoFi has a social network. Public has a like I I've I've never been net bullish on those types of products. I really I I don't think people want to put post every single trade they make and stuff like that. I think if anyone's going to figure it out, it's going to be Hood and that, you know, it's going to be a big challenge for them. But I think they have a shot. I just I just don't think you know, e Toro is necessarily accelerating in that arena. It's more like message boards. Yeah, but when I talked to the hood people, they said you're not going to be able to like post news. You can only post your trades. Core weave down 14%. And that to me is kind of confusing because like I know it's like signal from noise and stuff and people want to see trades, but a lot of times people go on social networks to like catch up with what's going on in the world. And if you don't really allow people to share that stuff, I don't know. I don't know how much how sticky that product becomes. So, we're gonna have to see when they launch it next year and see how it plays out. Robin Hood right there down 2.7. So, still 30 and then Tesla 435. Shout out to Farzad. He's going to be a hood user as well in a couple probably a couple weeks, maybe even a couple days. He's moving all this Tesla to Robin Hood. So, you've got 50 million shares of juicy Tesla stock coming over to Robin Hood, which I'm very, very excited about. And um you know, he's been a lot more of a fan of the entire Robin Hood ecosystem. So, thank you, Farzod, for bringing over your 50 million shares. We appreciate it. And hopefully that continues to help hood. Apple right there 273. All right. So, Apple going green in the face of this red. everything else that's kind of high beta getting sold off and people are piling in to Apple, which is kind of weird because again, like you talk about these consumer issues. I know Apple and the iPhone sales are going well, but do you really bet on the consumer via Apple if we have some issues? I mean, how many people are going to really be buying new laptops and iPads? But then again, Apple did guide for 12% revenue growth in Q4. And if Apple's confident on that guide, obviously that could be very bullish for Apple. Um, yes, he has 50 million shares. That is correct. Oh, sorry. It's 500 million. Sorry. Sorry. He corrected me in the chat. 500 million. It's a decent amount of uh of shares for Mr. Forzon. So, yeah. 22 billion in Tesla. Correct. Oh my gosh. He obviously does not have 50 million shares, guys. I'm joking here. He has 500 million. Has he clever? No, I'm just joking. I don't know how many shares he has, but he's he people forget Farso was a Tesla employee. He worked at Tesla back in like 2018. So, he's he's been following the story for a very long time. I think he's pretty much all in Tesla. So, it is cool that he's bringing that over to Robin at American Airlines right there. That's down 1.6. Oracle down four, 230.5. And then Nvidia down 3.2. All right. What other headlines do we have? What other macro data do we have? Let me see. Option flow. Google. Someone just bought or no, someone just sold 3 million worth of puts on Google at 285. That means they're bullish. That's expiring January 26. Apple. Someone just bought a million dollars worth of calls for December uh 275. So, you got some call buyers coming into Apple and put sellers coming into Google. Where's gold today? Gold was up yesterday almost 2%. Gold is down, barely down, but it is down. Still holding 4,100, fell all the way to 3,900 two weeks ago. Gold is down. Silver's up a little bit. silver back up to the $50 range as well. By the way, um you know, Elon officially got his shares yesterday or he got the grant to get his shares, which is very nice to see. And quite frankly, I'm not going to lie, dude. It's making me want to buy more Tesla going into 2026. And I understand the valuation is aggressive on Tesla. I understand the multiple is hard. I understand that they're not growing as much. But dude, I kind of just think he's motivated. like he gets to go to work now every day knowing that if he works his ass off, he's going to be worth a trillion dollars. And he's only going to get there if the company does 400 billion in adjusted IBIDA, they sell 20 million cars, that he takes the market cap to eight and a half trillion. And quite frankly, I am very surprised the stock has been trading above 400. Like the fact that it's been holding these levels and it's not been dumping even after the crappy earnings to me is a real sign of confidence by the street which has been upgrading the stock well into the 500s and also by the broader market thinking that Elon's now ready to get paid and yes it's going to go up it's going to go down but I don't know if you get that 350 level or that 335 level when I bought in a couple months ago again. Now obviously it could happen if you know the market tanks but I I do think the the raw compensation package in of itself is a reason to be bullish. Now again the the sort of hedge to that argument is that if 2026 we get more bearish you get a 10% correction on the S&P obviously all these stocks are going to take a dip. But withstanding that I do think that him being more bullish or him being compensated is a lot more bullish for the trajectory of Tesla. New bank right there 1630 that's up 1.72. United Health goes green. Oscar still going green, a little bit of safety on a day like this and then Eli Liy that is up 2%. Shouldn't he prove first that he can increase revenues again? Well, I think he's heavily incentivized to prove that he can increase revenues. I mean, look, this is the thing with growth stocks, right? You have to buy before you see massive, massive levels of growth. And when you see those massive levels of growth, oftent times it's not that it's too late, it's just that you're buying uh at a higher price, right? because a lot of that was already front run and I think that's potentially what's going on with Tesla. So, we're gonna have to see uh if it's a question of can he increase growth again. I do think by the end of 2026 that will happen for Tessie which means then the question is can it just sustain the multiple that it's trading at since then or till then but you know 2018 $50 billion stock people didn't think he'd get it to 500 billion and he did and maybe the same story happens again it Toro up 8% Rivian up six Google down half and then Elon with Tesla down about 3.4 for um yes I did buy Nebas today. Do you think FSD could work in New Jersey? Dude, I use FSD. I don't drive my car that much anymore, but I I drive it kind of like once or twice a week and when I go on a drive it's phenomenal. Like yes, absolutely could work in New Jersey. I mean it's it's been working for the past couple months for me and it's amazing. That's the other thing, you know. I mean the the the bullishness I have towards FSD I don't know how the business model turns out over the next decade but I mean the product alone makes me want to buy more Teslas it's just it's just becoming really good and it's hard to imagine fading that as like you know when people talk about what's the use case of AI well self-driving should be one of the big ones and that should create meaningful value over the long term. Duolingo right here down 3% app loving down $48. My goodness down 7% on the day. I feel like there's something specific on Apploven that's creating this pain, but it is red. It is indeed red. Let me uh go to the stock draft right here and see how we're playing things out. So Matt's up 28, I'm up 35. So still in first place even with Dualingo down 60. Steve's up five, Tanner's up 19. And then Chris is up four. Again, Chris having Axe on an elf. That kind of hurt. Matt's up 28 and then I'm up 35. Tanner was telling me about Axon yesterday. I thought they were just body cameras. Apparently, they're a much more integrated cloud service provider with software outside of just body providers. And so, I mean, there is a thesis on Axon. The problem is, and this is what he said as well, it's expensive, 180 times earnings. And so, when when I think of a company like Axon, I'm like, well, wait a second, Tesla's also trading at like 200 times earnings. So, like, would you buy Tesla? Would you buy Axelon? I, you know, kind of feel like Tesla has more potential. But the video he showed me yesterday was pretty damn cool. I mean, I did not know they were doing as much as they're doing in terms of integrating the ability to manage and understand when a robbery happens, when a crime happens. They're now extending to workers and warehouses. I mean, there's a lot of interesting stuff they're working on. It's just an expensive st name, but he got it at 564. So, looks like he kind of got the bottom on this name as per that earnings dump. Tesla right there still down 2%. Then Apple kind of your safety on a day like this. Yeah, shout out to Star Buccaneers. They were talking about Axon in the chat for the past year. Massive moat. That's that's what I got away from that. I mean, the reason I think it's trading at almost 200 times earnings similar to Tesla is because there's a really big moat and it, you know, it's hard to find another company that would actually be able to replicate what Axon has built from a hardware and software perspective and actually be able to sell that to the level of agencies. I mean, they're expanding to Europe now. Like, it's not just a domestic police uh institution in the United States as their core client. Seems like this is going to be expanding across the entire world. Nebia is back to 105. It's just expensive name and that's probably why they got hit on earnings. Cororey fell below 89. It's now back above 90. Street really is upset with those earnings. That stock right here down 14% on the day. Amazon says Prime Video now reaches about 350 million monthly ad supported viewers, up from 200 million last year. Wow. You know, this is interesting. They're disclosing this. And Netflix, they stopped disclosing subscribers the other day. Netflix came out and they disclosed how many monthly active um users they have that are watching Netflix via ads like that are on an ad supported plan. I think it's about 190 million. So they they probably wanted to tell the street, hey, like I know we don't give subscriber numbers, but we definitely do have massive distribution on these eyeballs for advertising. Amazon right here, 315 million. You know, we don't talk enough about Prime Video, but it is another part of Amazon that is very, very exciting. And over the next 10 years, that's only going to get larger and larger as it scales. VIX continuing to spike a little bit. Coreweave still down. Poundier, are we losing 188? Poundier 187. We lost 188. So, that's down 2%. Uh let's get an update from this jobs tracker on ADP. This is also potentially one of the reasons why the market's going a little bit red as we got some of this new data this morning.
>> Average of private sector job creation uh in the ADP premier report down 11,000 on average over the four weeks. So that would equate to a month-on-month change of minus almost 44 45,000. Uh and just to explain first of all in the middle of the shutdown we're trying to bring viewers uh every single bit of alternative data we have. ADP is something we follow closely. They've begun putting out three times a month a lagging uh by two weeks. So this is for the week ending October 25th um uh index of average weekly job growth over the four-week period that is down by 11,000 and somewhat in contrast to the month-on-month that we got last week which was plus 42,000. So it does suggest some weakening as the month of October went on compared to what they had from September to October. Remember this is a two week is a weekly uh index that comes out three times a month. Um and and it's just really looking for what is the right level of job growth here. Uh separately guys
>> that could be the reason folks. I mean I know we've been looking for a reason today. This jobs data showing very slow October. I mean we talked about this with the headline. Now we're getting some more details on it. I mean maybe that's the reason. Maybe it's labor market. Then again, the market didn't care yesterday about the labor market. They cared more about the shutdown. So, not sure if it's that big of an issue for the market to care about it today. Yeah, 11k jobs per week is obviously not a super super growing economy. Again, dude, I don't know how Trump's going to navigate this. If we really do end up seeing some labor market numbers that are not good, but all of it's because of AI and the stock market benefits from uh labor participation going down because margins go up, which again, there's going to be a demand story to the labor market going down as well, which is more macroeconomic versus the AI trade. But Trump's going to have to somehow explain to the American people that the country is not hiring as many folks. and you know, the number one thing that he cares about is people have jobs. And any president would care about that. And so it's it's one of those things where it's it's I don't know how he's going to navigate it. And if the market continues to go higher, I mean, shareholders will love it because obviously asset prices go up, but Main Street is the one that has the majority of the votes. Then again, I don't think we fully know if the labor market is deteriorating as bad as people say it is. It's definitely declining. Is it declining to the point where, you know, every month we're adding 10,000 jobs or something like that? Or 40,000 jobs. That would be abysmal. I don't think we're at that level yet. And we need the government to reopen so we can see the like jobless claims. We are in a recession if jobless claims take up to 350 to 375,000. Before the shutdown, we were averaging 220, which is very reasonable. There is no recession in sight when you're only averaging 220 historically. Are we back up to 280, 290? Are we at 300? Like that's a very important piece of data that tells the market if people are filing for unemployment and that lets you know how bad the labor market really is doing. But we haven't had that data for 40 days over three weeks and so that stuff is going to be really important to get going into uh going into next year. Amit if AI continues to crush the jobs market, do you foresee AI turning political? I.e. the AI reduction act 1,000%. I think it's going to get political. I mean, we're already seeing this with the data center spend and how electricity prices are going up and certain municipalities are basically like protesting against data centers being built in their region. And the only solution to this is that Google or Meta or something is going to have to figure out a way to make sure that they can subsidize the rising electricity prices of downtown Virginia if those prices were to double. I don't know if they can do that. I would imagine they have the free cash flow to do it, but nonetheless, it would hurt their margins. Like there's a lot of different ways I think the hyperscos have to think about it, but there's no way in hell the American public will be okay with electricity prices doubling for people to type more queries into an LLM. So I think at 1,000% will get political and right now, you know, the administration is on the side of AI. As soon as AI starts really either taking away jobs or potentially sort of decreasing affordability, it really creates a whole new question. Nebius right there 105 64. Um the solution is much more energy production. Yes, that is also true. The problem is we do have a pretty big bottleneck when it comes to energy. But obviously that would be the you know the most important way to get out of this. Uh in terms of anthropic we have some increased projections by them as of yesterday. uh they are projecting break even around 2027, 70 billion in revenue and 17 billion in free cash flow by 2028. This puts Anthropic on track to become profitable earlier than OpenAI's projected 2029 timeline. And most of their growth is coming from the enterprise usage of claude. So again, when you see numbers like this, it's very exciting for the overall sector of growth that AI is starting to materialize in, especially on the foundation models. But the level of energy, the level of data center usage, and the level of potential price increases that this would create, I think is a broader issue. And that's what we got to see. Google right there 288, Apple at 273, Delta 57.88, and then United at 9455. Anthropic has a better strategy than open AAI. I think in the enterprise anthropic I mean just from anecdotally the people that I've talked to like the claude for coding is just like magic and openi codeex is good but claude is like at a different level but you know open on the consumer perspective 800 million weekly activives it's definitely hard for claude to compete with that but both winning and both growing is obvious going to be very very important long term for this thing to end up scaling Let's get some more coverage on that SoftBank news we had this morning with Nvidia. Um they made about 19 billion off this investment officially exiting the entire uh stake today.
>> Yeah. This $5.8 billion stake that was sold was amassed in 2020 uh period. So it was not back from the original stake that the company had that is SoftBank when they uh amassed as much as a 4.9% stake in Nvidia back in 2017 and 2018. Had that been held it could be worth as much as $250 billion. Instead it was sold in 2019 for $3.6 billion. By the way, there also was a period where they were trying to sell ARM to Nvidia and the proceeds of which would have included $21.5 billion in Nvidia stock as well. If that deal had gone through, it ultimately was abandoned in 2022. It also would have been enormous meant enormous gains for SoftBank on a new Nvidia stake of quite some size. All that being said, ARM Holdings has done pretty well. Um, and OpenAI Sarah in many ways is really the key investment for SoftBank at this point. I can remember talking to Masa many years ago where he was talking about the promises of AI
>> long before others and yet kind of missed some of the key investments early on. Yeah.
>> So, a little maybe, you know, sort of still in the defensive mode when the Fed was raising interest rates in that period of of turbulence. I mean, SoftBank shares themselves have done remarkably well in the last few months. They've just pretty much tripled uh since April. And I do wonder if this is now Journal points this out now that they're out of Nvidia, just a way for public equity investors to play Open AI, right, which is is still a private company. And we sort of wonder what the valuation would actually be. I think it was last valued at 500 billion dollars in the private market. Um but but questions because it's spending so much money and using all sorts of creative methods to fund that, right? So there there's a question of how the public market would judge that. So far so good if you're looking at softbank stock.
>> Uh yeah, that is an interesting way obviously using that to your point as a way to
>> So they are out of Nvidia. This is the clip for those that have never seen it of uh Jensen kind of teasing Masa about selling early. of you probably don't know this, but at one point MASA was the largest shareholder of Nvidia. It's okay. We we can we can cry. We can cry together. This is why when your friend tells you to invest in something and you're good friends with them, you just say, "You know what? Screw it. I'm going to throw a little bit of money at it." Because if they make money and you don't, the level of [__] you have to deal with is is just it's worse than anything, bro. It sucks. It absolutely sucks. It's not fun to deal with. So look, they made six billion though. Decent amount of money. Yeah. Drying their tears with billions. The thing about SoftBank though is and I think the reason MASA is so upset that they sold early in 2019 is because it's only a hundred billion dollar vision fund. I say only, but like it's it's you know it's one of the largest VC funds out there. But if they had kept their stake, it would have been worth 250. They would have more than double the entire fund. Doubling a hundred billion in venture capital is not freaking easy. like that like you're lucky if you find one name that could potentially return you know 10 20% of the fund. So Axon right there at 570 down 2.3. I think that's why he was upset. Also they had some you know crappy investments in Weiwork and their Uber stake was not really the best timed. Um Alibaba was a great position for them but that was back in the 90s. So you know Nvidia would have been that real next big win. It's just they they ended up selling a bit too early, but nonetheless, they did end up making a decent amount of billions on it. Rivian right there up 6.8%. Nebia is still stuck at 105. S&P now new lows of the day. 678. 678.90. New lows of the day. Is him still getting hit? Hims is still Wow. Four and a half% down on Hims. I don't know about him, dude. I mean, you see all this credit card data from some of these analyst reports saying that things are going bearish. Obviously, they missed on EPS by 40%. But maybe this is the growth name that has more fun in 2026. It's just a lot of the hype has definitely died down on him. I still think it's relatively cheap, but you are seeing that hype die down. Yeah, SoftBank also sold uh T-Mobile, 40 million shares of T-Mobile today. They were a big shareholder of T-Mobile and they took a decent chunk of their stake out of that as well. So, they're getting liquidity and I I think they want to invested in some of these more AI names that they think are better opportunities. So, T-Mobile and Nvidia were the uh were the options today. Um, Musa says I sold him at 58 was not bad. You know, my uncle actually sold he had 2,000 shares of him. He sold all of it at 58 as well. The day they were pumping, he texted me and he was like, "All right, I'm out." So, those 50s and 60s. I have another friend who unfortunately I was talking to him yesterday. He sold um uh 56 puts on him and he got early assigned. This is the thing about option trading. Sometimes you can get early assignment on your trades. So he sold a put, meaning that he is obligated to buy the shares. He likes him. He loves the growth of hims and he, you know, he he likes milking the premium, but he sold the puts at $56. So, uh, you know, him is now under 40. It's bag holding about 5,000 shares at this point on that stock, which is not the best thing. So, he's going to need this one to pump up. I think he got like five bucks of premium. So his adjusted cost basis is like 49 bucks. But still, you know, MS is still getting hit right here. Sometimes early assignment happens before you even have a chance to roll. That's when you have to buy the shares. Nvidia right there 191.87. That's down 3.6. S&P again lows of the day at 678. It was not Teis. I think Teavis has been bullish for a long time. So TES has been owning the name for a while, but no, it was not Teis who sold those puts. Um, Enzo, thanks for the super chat. How much of Nebius did you buy? About 200 shares today. 100 at 110 and then 100 at 108. I think the idea will be to make it 500 shares as like a core position or at least you know a position in the data center p space that is core outside of Nvidia. But 100 at 110 in the morning. 100 at 108. Thank you for the super chat, Enzo. We have 200 shares of Nebius. Douggee, thank you for the five gifted. Appreciate you being here, sir. And thank you for the five gifted. Do you think Friday was a deadcat bounce? I don't think so. I think the S&P would need to get closer to 670 to say it's a dead cat bounce. Again, we got to 661 on Friday. We're at 678. We were at 681 yesterday. I think there would need to be a little bit more evidence to see uh the conclusion for this to be a deadcap bounce. I just I really do think we went up a lot yesterday and we needed to have a little bit of consolidation on a day like today. So, it's not crazy to imagine that we're getting a 3% draw down on some of the big names. Uh here's the update on the the Senate did pass the bill. Now it goes to the house and if that goes through the shutdown should be done in the next 48 hours.
>> That will be to reopen the government. Part of it will be for the rest of the fiscal year. Part of it's only until January 30th. But now it goes to the House. Passage there seems very likely even though House Democrats are whipping against the measure. Fiscal hawks in the Republican conference are already calling it a total win. We're expecting to see that vote tomorrow afternoon. Members have been told to aim for around 4:00. could go a little bit later. But now the race is really on to see if those healthc care tax credits can be reauthorized before they expire at the end of the year. Senator Jean Shaheen, she was a key part of brokering that deal to end the shutdown in the Senate. She told NBC that the 40 plus day shutdown has put the healthc care debate front and center and if Republicans don't find a path forward, they will pay for it in the midterms. There are a number of Republicans who now recognize that this is an issue that's important to them and they need to work with us on it. And if they don't, then the American people are going to hold them accountable. Still, Republican senators that I spoke with yesterday, they're looking to make any sort of bill about more than just the tax credit, potentially making some larger changes to how the Affordable Care Act or Obamacare as it's known works. Now, Senate Majority Leader John Thun did promise Democrats that they will get a vote on a bill of their choosing in mid December. And in Congress terms, that is just not a lot of time to come to a complex agreement. Then again, Democrats are going to have the chance at the end of January to shut down part of the government again if they are not happy with how things are going.
>> That's the part that's annoying me going into 2026. if um if we get into a shutdown again going into the end of the end or the beginning of 2026, I mean we have to deal with this rodeo all over again. And quite frankly, even the threat of that shutdown, I don't know if it hinders an end of year rally or it makes the market a little bit more afraid, but we saw what happened over the past 40 days with the shutdown with airports furoughed employees, etc. To go through that again and imagine that one lasts even longer than 40 days. Imagine the first couple months of 2026 are a shut down government. Like that would be insane. So I would I would hope that's not on the table, but it's definitely a risk that we can't uh we can't ignore. Ethereum, are we moving on ETH? Dude, Tom Lee yesterday, he said freaking he said freaking 9,000 by the end of the year. I love Tom. I don't know if we're doing 9,000, bro. I don't know. It was like 9 to 12,000 by January. I mean, maybe maybe it'd be a bit aggressive. This was his interview yesterday with Tom Nash talking about crypto and there have been a lot of OGs, uh, original Bitcoiners that are selling above 100,000, but it is still an underallocated asset class. So, I think Bitcoin actually potentially can get to the high 100,000s, you know, maybe even 200,000 by the end of the year. I think it's a big ask, but to me, um, what's more obvious is Ethereum, uh, can have a huge move into your end because even Kathy Wood wrote about it. She thinks stable coins have been cannibalizing demand for Bitcoin and and gold and tokenized gold is cannibalizing demand for Bitcoin. But stable coins and tokenized gold run on smart contract blockchains like Ethereum and Wall Street is building and Larry Frink wants to tokenize everything on Wall on on the blockchain. That means Ethereum is where people are starting to raise their growth expectations. And if you're raising your growth expectations, then your your discount to the future is going up. So I I think that there's a bigger move in Ethereum. And Mark Newton, our head of technical strategy, thinks we're going to be like 9 to 12,000 by January. I think that's about right. I think Ethereum just 3,600 more than doubles between now and year end. between now and January,
>> bro. Does does anyone see 9 to 12,000 by January? I'm sorry. I don't like I just think that's a really aggressive target. Would I be happy? Of course, because that means Robin Hood, BMR, Coinbase, all those risk-on names. You get a triple on Ethereum in the next two months, those names are going to really do well. I mean, I think maybe in the most bullish of scenarios, and maybe because I'm not bullish enough, I think I see 5,000. Like, you want to really get super bullish, maybe 5,500. I did not see 9,000. Like, that's I don't know. I just think it's I think it's up there as a price target. 4,500 end of November. 55 end of December. Yeah. Like that's not crazy. And also I feel like we're being super aggressive there because like yes, should crypto pump towards the end of the year with the money supply increasing, rate cuts, yada yada. Yes. But like it was supposed to have a massive pump in October and that didn't happen. First couple days of November have been pretty sucky as well. So it's like at some point the market humbles you and you're like okay so it's not really reacting. Now obviously crypto can swing up and down like crazy, but does it swing to the tune of $10,000 from here or sorry uh what would it be? $6,000 from here. I think that would be a big ask at this point, but I would be happy if we do get there. Yeah. And look, the top on Bitcoin or Ethereum was like what 4,900 a couple months ago. For the past few years, it hasn't really it has not been a Bitcoin that has like meaningfully broken out. And so like I think you would need a massive catalyst or a massive level of reorganizing of capital. You need a lot of retail investors to be excited. I just don't see those tailwinds in place right now. I see the long-term tailwinds of stable coin tokenization in place. Not over the next coming weeks. But if it does happen, you know, then exposure to BMR, I don't think is horrible to have it. Gold is sucking the life out of crypto. This I agree with. I I I don't I don't know if anyone expected a 70%. I mean, I don't know if we have any Peter ships in the chat, but who expected gold up 40% or 70% this year? 55% to be accurate. Like I I I think that put a lot of money, we're talking about tens of trillions of dollars into an asset that I think people thought Bitcoin or Ethereum would be the beneficiary of and it just went the opposite direction. So this could also be one of the reasons why. And also that whole crypto rotation from gold. I mean you had a 3% decline on gold two weeks ago and people thought there was a rotation. That's when Bitcoin got to 110 and then it kind of faded out because gold just went back up. People bought the dip on gold over Bitcoin. So maybe that is one of the narratives why Bitcoin has not been able to make a massive move. My uncle did know that is correct. Now he choosed uh silver as his core holding but he definitely had a feeling commodities were going to do well. Um, I think we have Kevin Hasset on soon. We'll get to hear from him as the national economic director and see if shut down tariffs as well. Um, did I say choose? Okay, whatever. I meant to say chose. I meant to say chose. I say to everybody say choose crazy. All right, Kevin has it. Let's see what he chooses to say.
>> There's something more we can expect maybe in stimulus as people get paid. Yeah, I I think that the way to think about what was going on, right, is over the last couple of quarters because of the success of President Trump's policies, we've had about almost 4% growth. And we were looking, we were carrying that momentum into this quarter, but then because of the shutdown, I think that the estimates from CEA and Gold are that it's going to knock maybe 1 to one and a half% off of that trajectory. So, we're looking for lower growth of the quarter. The question is when when does it all come back? And I think that some of the stuff is lost forever and and some of it isn't. And but I would guess by the first quarter of next year, we'll be back at the three or 4% growth pace.
>> When do we get the economic data releases? We're craving data, especially those numbers on jobs.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You know, that I haven't been briefed on that yet because there's been, you know, quite a lot of disruption because of this terrible shutdown. And so, for example, I've been told that some of the surveys were never actually completed. So, we'll never perhaps even know what happened in that month. And so, we're going to be uh staring a little bit in in cloudy cloudy weather uh for a while until we get the data agencies back up.
>> What What do you make of some of the alternative data sources? I I highlighted for instance last hour the warn notices which are indicative of layoffs. We've seen a little bit of a spike lately. The challenger layoff data. We've seen a little bit of a jump lately. actually the highest October that we've seen in decades. Are you concerned about about the labor market here making a turn for the worst?
>> Well, you know, the the thing is, as you said, that we don't have the actual bottom line right now. Uh but uh one of my old friends and one of the best Wall Street economists, Torstston Slack, you know, put out a summary of all the labor market indicators and on average at his newsletter, it looked like things were still pretty positive. But, you know, not as uh high as it was in the first term of the Trump administration, but if you consider that we're also doing things like an immigration policy that's cutting the number of workers, uh the fact that we're still gaining jobs and reducing unemployment is something that we expect,
>> right? That's something that came up today in NFIB. We mentioned it in the last hour. The percentage of employers who think uh quality of labor is the number one problem up nine points. Uh that's the biggest month-on-month jump we jump we've seen in a while. You think that is related to restrictions on labor supply?
>> Well, I think it's also the case that one of the things we're seeing like you you saw what an incredible earning season it's been because AI is making workers way more productive. you know, we're seeing that it's making wages go up a lot and it's also making firms more productive. I think that smaller firms are behind the adoption curve for AI a little bit and so that probably explains why uh surveys can count, you know, on people saying, "I wish I had better workers." I think basically what what's happening is that firms everywhere want workers that understand how to use AI tools.
>> Agree. How much do you think AI is the investment, the trillions, how much is that driving the economy right now? Well, I think the way to think about it, right, is that the AI is making it so that people can run their business better. I don't know if you've ever tried to defeat an AI at chess, but you can't, right? And and so imagine you got this really complicated chessboard of a business and now all of a sudden AI is helping you run it better. And that's why we just had like a record for uh success in terms of positive earnings surprises because the firms have been uh accelerating their uh profitability and productivity so quickly and the workers have as well. uh really the adoption, you know, skyrocketed this year and already we're seeing it in in the bottom line data. And so it really is an incredible uh productivity boom. You know, the productivity data, do you remember back in the computer age, everybody was saying, well, the productivity is everywhere a bit in the data, but right now we're looking at about 3% productivity growth and uh that's probably going to revise up once we get the the data better in the future. Usually these benchmark revisions make productivity go higher when there's a tech boom. So think about it. you got underlying 3% productivity growth. That means if you get labor stock growth and capital stock growth, then you're really looking at, you know, blowout positive growth and you're doing it from the supply side.
>> The problem here is the labor market.
>> The pro like all this stuff makes a lot of sense and it's kind of what's baked into the big beautiful bill. But if people don't have jobs, can that growth be enough to overpower a weakening in the labor market? That's why Sarah's asking for data because we really need to know what the hell's going on with the labor market to make an accurate prediction on if AI is enough to withstand that.
>> And so it's not really inflationary. So So I we're really really bullish on what's going on in the economy and really grateful uh for the uh senators that that did the job and got the you know the cooler heads and got the economy and the government open again.
>> Yeah. But just beyond beyond the productivity boom which sure it's it's happening just the investment that's flowing into building data centers and and compute just offsetting it's not like the entire economy is is perfectly healthy right now. Manufacturing has been in a slump for several years contracting. Housing has been weak as well. Higher mortgage rates hurting affordability and and supply too. The consumer has slowed down and and there's this bifurcation in high income versus low income. So I I so I just wonder how much of the growth that you're that you're talking about is really just the the AI trade.
>> Oh well well again the that the reason that the AI firms are being successful is that their customers are being successful and their customers are being successful because there's this massive positive technological change which is improving the productivity of workers and the profitability of firms at a remarkable rate. And you know I think that if you look at year-over-year consumption growth it's about uh 6% nominally. if you look at investment uh capital spending was a massive capital spending boom and it's not uh uh just in the AI space and so so I think that the AI is part of the story but the rest of the story is that we just had this big beautiful bill which uh was like one of the more powerful uh tax stimuli that we've ever seen because it not only did the stuff we did last time on the corporate side but also helps supply side uh tax cuts for workers with no tax on tips, no tax on overtime and so on. And so we should be getting a big increase in labor supply and investment and that's the kind of thing that gives you a boom without causing
>> uh although with the reopening Goldman today says the reopening does raise the prospect of some reflation plus the uh you know a tailwind from tax season obviously depreciation and the bill's effects. Do you think fighting or getting disinflation in the first half is going to be a little more of a challenge than it has been? Well, I mean, if if you look at it right, uh the the last uh CPI report uh surprised almost all the Wall Street analysts, 48 of them, uh on the downside, meaning it was good news on inflation. And and and that number itself was inflated because there were a bunch of refineries shut down if you're looking at the top line. And so, we're comfortable that inflation has come way down. The 5% on average for Joe Biden, it's probably a little less than half of that right now. And the trajectory is really, really, really good if you look at it. and and inflation is one of those things that has a lot of momentum if you look at the charts and the momentum right now is headed really towards the Fed's target
>> even though even though it's been increasing for five straight months as of September
>> well I guess if you look at it from January there's ups and downs and seasonals uh but yeah it was surprised it surprised on the downside uh people were expecting it to accelerate and it didn't and I think that that is because uh this growth that we're getting is not from like printing a massive amount of of uh government debt and sending checks to people like Joe Biden did. I mean, think about it. If you look at uh the macro
>> Okay, so he just blamed Joe Biden for sending checks. Does that mean he knows that Trump is not actually planning to send a 2,000? I mean, why would he say that if Trump was getting ready to send out checks? This is why I've been skeptical of this $2,000 tariff dividend. Although Trump literally said yesterday, we were going to issue a dividend, which sounds like a check. But if you're blaming Biden for the checks and inflating the economy, I would imagine the same could happen if Trump gave a check, which means they probably aren't going to be giving out steady checks.
>> Economic picture. The way you get inflation down is you don't have the government uh spend like crazy. And we've actually got a deficit reduction so far this year that's really on track by December to be down $600 billion for the year alone. And so that $600 billion reduction in the deficit, you know, takes the macroeconomic pressure off. But the other thing is we're doing it is we're we're like really digging into what we could do at the micro level to uh go after price inflation, you know, on a item by item basis. And so you can remember all the work we did at the beginning of the year on eggs. Egg prices are now down relative to last year. And we're we are looking at housing uh and other things that we could do to make uh people's lives more affordable. Well, so I wonder how you read the message from the uh elections that we just had, the the big wins for for Democrats, not just the New York mayoral election, the governor's races in Virginia and New Jersey, because there there is this feeling that people I know that inflation has come down from the from the Biden era, but it's still elevated and those cumulative gains in things like beef prices and coffee prices, the everyday items that people face are still high and and that is something that President Trump ran on um I do wonder what what sort of economic takeaways you have from the big Dem wins.
>> Oh, sure. You you make a really great great point, Sarah. And and the thing is that under Biden, because the inflation spiked so much that real incomes, which is like the real purchasing power of ordinary folks, on average went down by about $3,400. And uh since President Trump took office, real incomes have gone up. That means purchasing power has gone up by about Oh no, we lost your camera. Oh, I was waiting to hear the the answer on that one. Um, well, we thank Kevin Hasset. We got we got to most of it. Kevin Hasset is the head of the president's National Economic Council. He's the adviser, also in contention. Oh, wait. You're back. You're back. Kevin Hasset, are you there?
>> It's not just me, guys. It's not just me. It happens to everybody.
>> Yeah.
>> Sorry. the the shop froze.
>> I forgot to make my best point in history.
>> I was like hanging on everywhere. So So talk to us about the inflation story and the pain that people are still feeling.
>> Yeah. That that that again the that I don't know where I got cut out. So apologies if I'm repeating myself, but but because people's purchasing power dropped by so much because of inflation under President Biden uh where it went up to almost 10% and averaged 5%. Then real incomes, real purchasing power dropped by about $3,400 over the entire Biden term. And since President Trump has took office, we've been focusing on affordability and have, you know, helping purchasing power go up and it's gone up by $1,200 right now already this year. But people are right that we haven't actually closed the gap. We haven't uh filled the hole that
>> Wow. Hassid acknowledging that people are right and the administration has not fully closed the gap on affordability. So he's making the argument that purchasing power went down due to inflation under Biden and that's getting better but also acknowledging that it hasn't fully been closed Biden dug yet and and they're right if you go to the grocery store is you know I'm the shopper in my family and I was looking around at prices of hamburger and milk and everything just this weekend and and they're still way higher than they were when President Trump left office and that's something that we're working really hard on. So should the Fed be
>> So so the argument right there and kind of Bent said this this morning as well is they kind of inherited I think was the exact term Bent used an affordability crisis and they're just straight up acknowledging that it's not the best right now which honestly I think is the best approach because like you can't lie about it right so if they're acknowledging it's not the best and they're working on it uh any level of progress on that could be the administration's best argument to say hey we are working on making things more affordable
>> cutting rates in December uh Chair Powell kind of made did it seem like it wasn't a given.
>> Yeah, it I was disappointed in what chair pal said in the following sense that if you think about it uh between the last two meetings uh what happened is that we got a government shutdown which was probably a surprise and we got inflation number that was much better than expected and so it didn't make sense that the so that news would make them more likely to cut in December. And yet somehow they came out of the meeting saying they're less likely to cut. And I was kind of befuddled uh by that statement that they were doing and wondered again if they're once again doing something political.
>> Finally, Kevin, I wonder what's more likely, a $2,000 uh tariff rebate check or a 50-year mortgage.
>> Well, you know, I think that they're both really good ideas. Uh the fact is that we've got a big reduction of the deficit. And the interesting thing is that it's not just because of tariff revenue. uh we've had a big positive shock to uh income taxes as well because people's incomes are so much higher. And so back in the summer when we were saying that for now let's think of the tariff revenue as something that reduces the deficit. There's more room even for deficit hawks to think about rebate checks like the president talked about because we've actually done such a good job cutting spending and the supply side effects the laugher curve effects of the tax cuts have actually made revenues go up. We're up about 200 billion relative to last year in revenue as well. So, it makes room for it. And in terms of the 50-year uh mortgage, the the bottom line is that uh it would reduce the monthly payment. We've got a real problem in America that too few people are getting that first home. Uh and the age of first-time home buyers has gone up by about 10 years over just the last few. And so, President Trump is really focused like a laser beam on trying to come up with something that that addresses that.
>> All right. Well,
>> all right. There you go. So, again, we looked at the math yesterday on the 50-year mortgage. It decreases the um the average price by about 10% a month. Do you take a 10% decrease for 20 years of paying more interest? Not sure if it's the best trade-off. Appleven getting wrecked today below 600 down 9%. But nonetheless, if it encourages more home buyers, you know, maybe that's the argument that Trump is going for as well. So, look, that was pretty interesting to me because I did not expect Kevin Hassid to full-on acknowledge that uh the administration has not closed the gap on making things more affordable. Quite frankly, I I mean, Trump was asked the same question yesterday and Trump started talking about Russia and Ukraine. So, you could tell Trump is not fully on board with kind of acknowledging the same way that Hasset acknowledged that, you know, things are not perfect. Um, and like, you know, sometimes you kind of just got to acknowledge like, yeah, things aren't perfect. Grocery prices are up, electricity prices are up. Working on it though is what people care about. And for him to actually acknowledge that, I did not expect him to do that. I really didn't. But that's what he said. And you know, Bent kind of said the same thing as well. So the question then just becomes how does the administration continue to make the argument that affordability at scale will be able to take place? And I think they can work. I think they have a chance to figure it out. It's just a question of like what policy initiatives they're going to go for. Pounder there 189, HIMS below 40, T-Mobile 211, Tesla 435, that's down 2%. A little bit of a rebound. Pounder rebounding up 187. Neias 106 up from 103. And then Nvidia 19258. Yeah. In addition to the fifth year mortgage, as some of you guys are saying in the chat, there are rumors yesterday that the administration is thinking about 15-year car loans, which again, a lot of these aren't aren't, I think, solutions to affordability. They're just ways to potentially open up the ownership economy for people that can't afford those monthly payments. The question always comes down to the trade-off, right? And I think time will tell what that trade-off looks like. I don't know if a 15-year car loan is the best idea. But you know, maybe it needs but but it goes to the point of how again how you keep saying this but how bifurcated this economy is. The fact that you have a subset of the population that needs the option for a 15-year car loan or a 50-year mortgage just shows like there's two economies in this country. And for that point, every country, but you know, given the United States has the world's biggest economy, it's really prevalent here. And I think a lot of that is divided on the lines of if you have assets or if you don't. What car lasts 15 years? That's a good question. That is a good question. My Civic lasted a nice I mean my I probably could still be driving my Civic, but after about five, six years, I was like, "All right, I would like to upgrade." Dude, my sister, she's had her car from 2016, and she's just not replacing it. And every time I'm like, "Dude, this Toyota Corolla is on its last wheel. Literally, like, it's time to move on." And she just won't replace it. But she she feels happy that she paid it off and she doesn't have to do a monthly payment. And so like peace of mind to her is really important. And so it goes back down again to that question around how much people think they need to allocate to these types of expenses and if they have the chance to afford it. Tesla getting a little bit of a green candle right there from 432 to 435 down 2% still down about nine bucks on the day. And then pound at 190. Again this is not that ugly of a day. S&P is at 680. I mean, we went to 682 yesterday, up from 670. I am not upset, not even the slightest at 680 on the S&P. I think if we can hold that for the next couple weeks and then potentially get ready for a next leg up if we have good Nvidia earnings and rate cuts, that would be the right way to approach this. But it's not crazy to imagine 7,000 end of year if Nvidia delivers and we end up getting those rate cuts. Yes, Hood is still down 3%. I don't see the news on Apploven, guys. I don't see any news. I mean, they obviously have that SEC probe. Austin, do you have any news on Apploven? Because I didn't see any headline. I would imagine I don't know. I guess people woke up and said, "Hey, we're still worried about this SEC probe. Maybe people know there's an update coming and selling it off beforehand." Um, yeah, Austin doesn't have any update either. It's a pretty big move though. 9% down getting hit today. Uh natural gas futures up 5%. Oil prices are they up today? Oil prices are indeed up almost 2%. Still below 65 which is good to see. But oil prices are higher. By the way, there's a brand new Palunteer interview with Karp. Remember I told you guys that Karp was going to be doing this like uh sitdown or not the sit down this like walk across the office? It just came out. So it's 40 minutes and we're not going to watch it here but uh for anyone who does want to watch it. There it is across the New York office him talking about the book. So super cool. I'll link it right here in the chat if anyone wants to watch it. But that one is officially out. What else? What other headlines do we have? We got Oaklo after the bell. I texted Jason. He's got to confirm if we're doing TT after the close. He is not officially confirmed with me yet. So, uh, if he does confirm, he might he might have other obligations today. So, I just have to confirm with him. But we should be having technical Tuesday. If not, um, then we will delay that. And you have 680.3 on the S&P. A little bit of a green candle right there. In terms of other headlines, I don't see anything too crazy. We talked about the labor market data, talked about Goldman Sachs, looked at some of the option flow. Nebus earnings were awesome. Oh, C Limited also had earnings. They uh missed on EPS by like 20%. And that's why their stock is uh is down 5% on the day, but overall seems like a relatively good earnings. But EPS miss got them hit. Are you bullish on Oracle? I do not know enough about Oracle. I do think that the debt they're taking is getting a bit aggressive. I don't think it's an issue that these companies are tapping the debt markets. It's like trillions of committed spend and 100 billion total including Oracle's 38 billion of debt. But it's something you can't ignore. And given Oracle is not a hyperscaler like Meta, Microsoft or Amazon, they don't have the types of free cash flow that those companies have, them taking on debt is definitely something to at least pay attention to. But I've not done enough of a deep dive to get super bearish or excited for Oracle S&P. Yeah, I mean it's trying to go green, folks. Look at that. About 90 cents away. There's your green candle. 680.6. six on the SP. Again, the big update on Grab was that it looks like SoftBank is trying to get rid of the go-to CEO, which would make room for Grab to acquire the company. I think it would be a massive, massive move and consolidate them in Southeast Asia. No confirmation on that, but towards the end of December, I think we'll get more updates and then we'll see. Nebas back to 108 again. Nebas moving with Nvidia. Corewave was at 88, now it's at 91. Cory getting hit the most today, but you are seeing a lot of these names get a bit of a bounce in video right there. 193. Oh yeah, the biggest news of yesterday, John Cena became the new Intercontinental WWE champion. So that was also a pretty big deal for those that care about the WWE, even though it's fake. Sorry to break it to you guys. It's fake. It's not real. I was heartbroken in 2008, but we all move on. Yeah. I thought he retired a billion times, bro. This guy keeps coming back. I remember watching his retirement in 2010. I'm like, "Okay, he's gone." And then like five months later, he was back. I was like, "Okay, I guess I guess the dude always comes back." Is it bullish for the market? I would hope so. Maybe it's not fake. You are fake. Maybe I'm AI. Maybe. See, AI can't can't butcher the word of the day like I do. Which speaking of that, let's get to word of the day. Let's see what we got. Can we go three for three? We got the last two. Can we go three for three? Oh, we're not going three for three. What the heck is this [__] dude? What is this? Maybe. Let me see. Hypothesis. Apothesis. Has anyone heard of this [__] The highest point in the development of perfection or something. It's the ultimate form. The elevation of someone to divine status. To be glorified or idealized. Okay, let's see if we got this one. I'm going to say apothesis. Apotheiois. There was no chance. There was no chance. There was no freaking chance.
>> Apotheiois.
>> Nah, bro. No way. Apotheiois. That wasn't happening. His final symphys symphony was the apotheiois of his career. Every note felt transcendent. Dude, talk about the glaze of that sentence. Goodness. His final symphony was the apotheiois of his career. Every note felt transcendent. I mean, I know I I glaze carpon Vlad, but I don't think I've ever said something like that, bro. Every note felt transcendent. What? That is a different type of glaze in that sentence. That's what you got. Apotheiois, would you buy the dip on Axon? I I just think they have a very high multiple and I haven't done enough due diligence. I know Tanner bought it. He likes it. He was telling me about it last night. I think they are basically a monopoly, but you got to be ready to put up with basically 200 times earnings if you're if you're buying the dip on that one. This world isn't This word isn't difficult to pronounce, dude. that. Don't tell me anyone saw this without the pronunciation breakdown and was like, "Oh, apotheiois." Like, no, it looks like hypothesis. Looks like freaking hypothesis. Because I don't like using the phonetic breakdown because then it's like cheating. Like, I want to just I like when I see the word, I want to be able to say it myself because anyone can use the breakdown and figure it out. And I know most of you there's no way most of you thought this was apotheiois. Like, there's no freaking way. That's what it is. That's what we got. What do you think about Ferve? I don't know anything about Fiserve. I know Chris likes it. I haven't looked at his DD on it yet, but I think Chris did did Chris do a podcast with Steve yesterday about Fiserf. Was that the stock? Because I didn't get to watch it, but I know they pick one stock every Monday. Is that the name they were looking at? Honestly, bro, I know they're in the payment space, but I really don't know that much about the company. So, I'll probably watch that and try to get more updated on it. I haven't looked deeper into XPEV. I know a lot of people like this. There's only so much time in the day up another 3.2%. I mean, I really haven't looked into it. I know robotics, EV, China. I just have not had the time to actually look at that one. Tesla right there 433, Bitcoin 103, and then Ethereum 3474. Yeah, Tanner likes four and he likes them also because they're buying back like a billion dollars of their stock and the company is only worth six billion. He also thinks there's a major acquisition play in shift four, but Fiser is down like 50%. So, I think that's why Chris is getting more excited about that one as well. I got to look into it. I have not looked into either. I mean, honestly, good old PayPal sitting there at 67 waiting to make a move. Maybe that's the payment move for 2026. I don't know. It's just some of the other names have a bit more growth, which is why they're getting people to be more excited. All right, that's it for me, folks. S&P lose a 680. Very choppy price action back and forth. Uh again, we had a really good day on Monday. Not crazy to see Tuesday kind of give back some of those gains. And if we're up one and a half and we're giving back.3, I think that's all right. I'll be back for the close. We got Oaklo. We'll see if we do TT and um then we'll keep going from there. Tomorrow we have a bunch more earnings and Nvidia is the next big catalyst going into next week. So that's what we got. Again, this labor market thing is the most important thing I think we all have to be paying attention to. But outside of the labor market, rate cuts coming up hopefully in December. The probabilities of that are really important. And then you got Nvidia. If you can get a good you can get a decent Nvidia trade even with declining rate cuts when the shutdown opens we'll get more labor market data and uh you know then be able to conceptualize what's going on with the labor market in the face of more rate cuts if deliverant thing going into the end of next year that's what we got all right thank you everybody appreciate it Siege thank you for a channel member appreciate it man thank you for being here uh C Harris thanks for the super chat when do you think Android will IPO I have no idea I would imagine 27 Harlucky did say in a couple years probably not 26 but if they do IPO in 27 we know Mr. Douggee who has a stake in Andro will be very happy. So, probably closer in in another couple years. All right. Thank you all. Appreciate it. Hopefully everyone has a uh apotheioisclipptic day. That was so bad. So bad. I want to say hope everyone's having a divine day or whatever the hell that word meant. But I'm just gonna leave. All right. Thank you everybody. Love you all. See you guys on the market close. Bye everybody.