美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者美国经济终于还是撑不住了最近各项经济数据集中出现滑坡各大投行也纷纷开始吓跳他们的预期似乎一股巨大的危机正在悄然酝酿然而另一边的美股却完全是另一番景象不仅大盘率创新高而且暴涨股是层出不穷相信如果你慎住现在的市场一定会有一种高处不胜行的感觉 现在的市场确实存在着很多诡异的矛盾也正因如此今天这期视频美投军就来帮助咱各位看官全面梳理一下当前的美股市场为什么经济疲软股市却会履创新高为什么财报记公司的股价会出现两极分化为什么说下半年美股有最大的风险又有一个潜在南冯的机会看完本期视频你会发现其实所有这些矛盾背后都有一条清晰的投资逻辑 As long as you grasp this logic, the risks and opportunities of the next half year of the US stock market can be easily handled I don't know if you noticed that the recent market has been re-stuck with concerns about the decline 向穆迪的首席经济学家就表示美国经济已经到了衰退的边缘美银的报告也显示美国经济的衰退概率上升到了60%而市场参与者也在上周五用一次大跌表达了对衰退的担忧而所有的这一切都源于一份诡异的就业报告 In the data released last Friday, In July, the new non-farming employment rate is only 730,000 people, which is 1040,000 people lower than expected. From the performance of the division, In July, the new employment rate is only one of the health insurance companies. But this part is very sensitive to the economy itself. Its increase has no significant role. And all those industries that are sensitive to the economy Almost all employment has declined. This may mean that the economic pressure has been too great. In addition, it was even more worrisome that the non-farmers' jobs had been greatly reduced in June and May. The 5th month, from 1470,000 people directly reduced to 1,900,000, and the 6th month, from 1250,000 to 1,400,000 people. After the decrease, the increase was almost zero in two months. 从趋势上我们可以看出这半年来就业情况在持续发生恶化现在已经来到了疫情以来最糟糕的水平而下修本身也是一个非常危险的信号因为从历史上看每次这种幅度的下修几乎都发生在摔腿中或者是摔腿前期 那么美国经济到底怎么了之前不是一直都说不会衰退吗怎么突然又不行了呢为了回答这个问题美投军又去申巴了其他的就业数据结果确实让人始料未及下图是按周公布的每周出领失业金人数这个指标反映的是失业人数的及时变化可以看到出领失业金人数并没有出现什么异常的提升过去两个月甚至还是在下跌的 And the unemployment rate data announced by the Labor Department in July is only 4.2% It is also extremely low in history, close to full employment What does this mean? It means that although companies are not hiring people, they have not been hiring The bad data is related to new employment data And the data related to unemployment are very healthy We can also get the left of this from the performance of the manufacturing industry Manufacturing is a very good front-end indicator Because almost every time the manufacturing industry falls, it is a field that can't hold up We just saw the unemployment figures of the manufacturing industry on the Feinong Xifen data in July But from this map, we can see that the manufacturing industry's profit level has been maintaining a high position This means that the companies are actually rich, they have no need to hire people This phenomenon is likely to be related to Trump's policy May to July is the period of the tariff negotiation The companies don't know how the future policy will develop So they are willing to keep an eye on it And this is different from the historical situation of the pre-election of the history 事实上如果我们从就业中跳出来看美国人的消费情况其实还是比较乐观的在刚刚公布的银行业财报中美银和JP Morgan披露的卡雷消费分别增长了4%和9%麦当劳和沃尔玛的财报也显示美国人的消费依旧坚挺而从零售消费数据中我们也能看到在4月关税风波以来零售消费也正在逐步的回归增长 而从信贷违约中我们也能看出违约率近半年是在不断下降的趋势中唯一例外的是学生贷款但这和近期的学生贷款恢复有关可见消费者的健康状况没有出现任何问题消费占美国GDP的70%如果这部分能保持健康那么经济理论上就有足够的人性 Of course, as mature investors, we can't just look at the good side. Do you think the US economy is really completely fine? Of course not. From some of the preliminary data, we did see a little bit of a threat. The following two pictures are the production page PMI index and the service page PMI index. They are both the preliminary data of the economy. High above 50 means that the economy is expanding, and low 50 means that the economy is shrinking. You can see that these two types of data have been deteriorating over the past six months The manufacturing market is still below 50% in the search range This shows that the American economy is indeed under pressure What is more worrying is the inflation The root cause of the problem is the tariffs We have analyzed many times before that the inflation caused by tariffs is post-economic. Because companies often store a large amount of stock in advance, so the tariffs will not immediately affect the price of goods. But the problem is that you can't always be post-economic. Now, the tax break in April has been four months, and the stock of companies is gradually running out of fuel. 再加上8月7号川普政府对于90多个国家实施了新一轮的乘法金关税这两者叠加未来这几个月价格很可能出现加速的上涨投行大魔咒预计8月份PCE就会抬头升高到环比0.4%并且维持两到三个月的时间这很显然对于当前的市场来说是一大风险 所以你看我们不能说美国经济是毫无问题只能说经济现在的状况还相对的坚定但是却在一个可控的范围内在持续的疲软而通胀也有一定的抬头风险但你说这样的风险会不会导致衰退甚至是滞胀呢我认为以现在这个情况要想衰退其实还挺难的更别提滞胀了 从通胀上看,虽然短期通胀存在着一定的抬头风险但毕竟通胀的起因是因为关税而不是消费的过热关税的问题就是一次性的它加一次就完了不可能年年加,月月加而这一点也得到了美联储主席鲍威尔的证实她曾明确表示,关税不会造成持续性的通胀所以说,即便通胀真的抬头了,也是短期的现象它既不会影响到货币政策,也很难给经济带来实质性的冲击 In addition, for the economy, on the one hand, although the economy is continuing to weaken, there is still a long way to go before it completely falls into decline. This gives us enough time. On the other hand, even if the economy really becomes bad, the Fed has plenty of policy measures to reduce or temporarily stop the clock to stimulate the economy. And don't forget that the U.S. and US legislation that Trump is about to implement, including the tax reduction and the removal of the regulatory body, is also a major boost to the economy. 所以说整体我对于美国经济不会陷入衰退还是比较乐观的我也不认为通胀会成为真正的威胁因此我也不会担心宏观上的这些风险会给股市带来大跌的可能不过虽说整体没有任何问题但是短期内市场确实有可能因为宏观风险而出现一定的回调 因为不管是美联储的货币政策还是川普政府的财政政策执行起来都是有一定的滞后性的而上述的宏观风险则是很快就会看到的情况这种时间上的错配有可能就会给短期的市场带来一定的波动如果说经济数据疲软或者通胀数据抬头恐怕并非所有的市场参与者都能够朝前看尤其是在当天股市情绪高涨的情况下所以说投资者因为恐慌而造成一定的短期下杀我认为可能性也是不小的 So how should we investors respond to this? I will put this question at the end of the video When I introduce the other big opportunity of the US stock to you Then we will analyze it together Yes, what we just talked about is more about the risks Then, Mito Jun will tell you about the next half year's US stock investment opportunity有机会 Let's talk about the opportunities of the US stock market. We will start with the financial reporting season that we are experiencing. As of today, most of the US stocks have already released their financial reports. Many people may not know that we are experiencing a phenomenon financial reporting season. According to the data of FIXED, the stock index index of the share price is 11.8% higher than expected by the market. And the gold amount of the expected excess is high. After all, we have analyzed that the US economy is still in the depression, and the pressure of the business profit will not be small. In this case, it is natural that the expected excess can still be high. Why does the corporate profit grow so strangely? The reason is nothing else, it's AI One of the biggest doubts around AI has always been Can it change? We did see the experience of the chat GPT model But how do companies make money on AI? Currently, in addition to the few basic companies The real company that makes money on AI is not a phoenix But this time, the financial report machine seems to have changed The following picture shows the income increase of Microsoft's Azure service. You can see that this quarter, the company's growth has made a sudden jump, and created a new high since five years ago. You should know that the amount of Azure before five years is only the zero now, and now it is already 300 billion per day. In this case, it can also achieve accelerated growth. This is due to the demand for improvement brought by AI. 另一边Meta的表现也令人惊艳广告是当今市场上少有的能够直接授予于AI的应用场景而Meta在这方面的表现可以说是完美诠释了AI的变现能力本季度公司通过AI大幅提升了广告的变现效率一举带来了22%的收入增长冠决整个广告业 With these real-time income growth, The big technology is also starting to increase in AI investment. We see the capital expenditure of Verra, Meta, Amazon and Google is rising constantly. This season has gone up another big step. And from the expected data, we can see that these big techs have further expanded their investments in the already very exaggerated capital expenditure. The total investment amount has risen from the previous 3,250 billion to 3,642 billion. 大科技们也不傻他们不会无脑投入这么多钱去搞基建他们一定是看到了明确的投资回报率才会不断的去投资加码这说明AI不仅给他们带来了现实的变现效果而且未来这个效果很可能会更高 Don't think that this is only happening to the big tech that is making a big deal This season, we also see the AI revolution wave Spreading to a wider industry For example, Palantir, a company that uses AI to do data analysis This season has given 48% of the super high growth speed Far higher than the 29% growth target set by the management last year And this speed is still increasing gradually In the US business that plays the most role in AI, the company's growth is even 93% Therefore, the management has put out the good word that their income will increase ten times in the next five years And all of these are due to the improvement brought by AI Dolingo, a company that does foreign language training, has increased by 41% in this quarter 40% increase in daily living, 30% increase in stock price after the financial recovery The reason is also the improvement of the product experience brought by AI. Guan Jingseng said that AI functions directly promote the user's participation and payment conversion. Shopify, a e-commerce infrastructure platform company, also submitted a report far ahead of the expected price. After the report, the price dropped by 20%. 公司靠AI简化了商家的入住流程优化了用户的购物体验再加上自动化客服自动化营销等各种AI附加功能使得公司的新用户转化和老用户留存都得到了极大的提升类似JR的例子是比例皆是而且已经体现在了各行各业当中像是保险公司Lemonade投资公司软银游戏广告公司Apploving云计算设备公司Arista等等 They are all in the financial report machine this season Because AI has brought a real performance explosion So we just saw that this financial report machine is like a fireworks A company will explode in a moment, and the stock price will rise and fall What's more interesting is that if you look at it the other way around Those companies that do not use AI The common performance is relatively poor Especially those companies that are affected by customs tax or economically sensitive For example, airlines, toy companies, clothing brands, etc. Even the companies that are more consumer-friendly and light AI, such as Tesla, Apple, and Amazon, their financial performance is clearly inferior to those of other big tech companies. This also shows the importance of AI on the other side. And among them, the most representative one is IBM. This blue giant shows in the financial report that the company's AI-related business revenue has increased by 25%, which is still relatively bright. But other AI-related businesses, such as software and consulting, are on the flat. Microsoft also performed well with AI related Azure cloud services, but similar to the part of computer game hardware, there was even a decline. You can see that even if it is within the company, whether to apply AI has also become an important factor in performance decision-making. Friends, you should know that all these things we talked about above, whether it's AI enhancement or AI classification, are real-time performance, not stock speculation. These are real AI effects. I admit that these examples have some of their own specialties. But when many specialities are stacked together, you will find that there is actually a big logic behind it. That is, companies that can achieve profit over time are mostly far away from AI, and companies that have little to do with AI are still heavily restricted by the macro environment. And the market is very realistic They are paying for profit If you have enough good performance to improve Then the market will give you enough rewards It's normal to have a 20% to 30% increase But on the contrary, if your profit is not good The market is actually very picky From the following we can see When the financial report performance is not as good as expected The decline rate of this financial report is up to 5.6% It is 2.4% higher than the average of 5 years This shows that investors are not only realistic And even a little nervous So we can see from this financial report that there is a clear investment logic That is, AI drives the profit of the enterprise, and the market only pays for the profit Otherwise, no matter how well the story is told, it will also be punished I believe that this logic will also last for a long time in the future Since we are talking about the future, let's ask this question Will AI have enough potential to bring more profit and increase, and even more stock price rise? I personally think the answer is definitely First of all, you should know that AI's adoption rate is still very low The following is a research by Gao Sheng They found that even if the big model has been new for three years There are currently only less than 10% of companies in the United States that are applying AI And from this map, we can see that even these big American companies Now the proportion of applications for AI is only about 14% It can be seen that there is still enough room for growth in the future In addition, the current AI technology is still very early And the real application field is also in a critical position It can be imagined that more and more application scenarios will be used in the future as technology continues to improve Which means that the phenomenon of AI bringing real profit and increase will continue I believe the final effect will be beyond our imagination In terms of the long-term vision, although I can't predict the development rhythm of AI, but it can be sure that it still has a huge potential to be released We have now seen the clear AI transformation ability Its feasibility has also been confirmed So even if there are some fluctuations in the macro There are some risks in the policy It won't affect the real-life improvement of technical development In my opinion, AI ​​transformation is the most core logic for the future growth of the US stock market. Therefore, I am still very optimistic about the US stock market. I think the current growth is very reasonable and the future can continue. I will still keep my eyes on the next half year. 现在我们了解了美国的风险和机会那在分享操作之前我们先简单做一个总结当前的美国经济从就业到消费都仍然表现的较为坚挺虽然在持续承压但距离衰退还有很长的一段距离所以我不认为股市会因为宏观风险而出现大跌相反未来我还会看好在降息和大美利法案的加持下美国经济走入缓慢的复苏周期 But in the short-term U.S. market, I think there is a higher risk of rising. Especially in the fully established market environment, investors' nervous moods may increase the risk. This may bring a short-term rebound to the U.S. and the range may be between 5% and 10%. Under such a background, it is possible to consider doing some short-term contrasts. But I personally will not make any response to such short-term macro risk. If it has been analyzed that the risk is relatively short, the range will not be too large, then I think there is no need to go into it. Short-term fluctuations are inevitable, the more operation, the easier it is to make mistakes. On the contrary, if this short-term adjustment really happens, it will be a good entry opportunity for long-term investors. In fact, the real key to the market is not to deal with risks, but to seize the opportunity. And this opportunity comes from the real improvement brought by AI to the corporate profit. Those companies related to AI will continue to see the growth of performance because of AI. And those companies that have nothing to do with AI may continue to be punished for their macro pressure. So in operation, the continued investment in AI must be of great importance I have emphasized this for more than two years Now I think it is still not over If your food warehouse does not have enough AI exposure Then the profit will definitely be greatly reduced Even though the value of the shares related to AI is no longer low But in the long run, they still have enough potential Their growth will only continue to exceed your imagination In my opinion, the risk of "taking off" is far higher than the risk of "highest" And in the AI field, except for the basic layer companies that I have been looking at, I think it's time to buy a service-based enterprise. There are good AI transformation opportunities for major software companies such as Microsoft, Meta, and all kinds of SaaS. Of course, the fall of AI application transformation also exists in the order and difficulty. This is another topic. I will share the reason later. Thank you for watching and welcome to subscribe to the channel of Meitou Jiangmeiguo. Finally, if we combine risk and opportunity, I think there is another special area that may be worth our investment attention That is, AI-related companies with sensitive economic conditions Economically sensitive companies are under pressure at this stage They usually perform poorly, so their valuation is relatively cheap And AI-related companies also give them enough high performance There is a chance to rebound in the upcoming recovery period So I personally think this type of company will be a good opportunity in the future For example, Tesla related to cars, Meta related to advertising, Amazon related to e-commerce, etc. There are many companies that meet these conditions that you can refer to Well, that's it, the analysis of the American market is all done with you In the Meitou Pro video on Monday, I will analyze a company with all the opportunities we have It is the only AI application company in the current market, and its customers are mostly focused on the sensitive economic field. And it has also recently verified its AI development capabilities. Since this year, the share price of this company has accumulated 137%. Yes, this is the AI data analysis company Palantir. I personally have always been very optimistic about Palantir. In the past two years, I will share with you every time I report, and of course this time is not exception. This is the most important financial report in the past two years, because it gives PLTR an important growth pattern. As long as we grasp this pattern, we can predict the risks and opportunities of the company's stocks in advance. If you are a PLTR shareholder or want to invest in this company, then you must not miss this video. About PLTR, I also did a lot of other in-depth research in the METRO PRO Including its technical research, its business analysis, its value analysis, its mobile interpretation, etc. Thanks for watching, welcome to subscribe to the METRO PRO New users can use it for free the first seven days Come and experience it If you like METRO GUN's video, don't forget to like, follow and forward it Thank you all