Welcome [snorts] everyone to the on poly podcast. I'm John Michael McGrath.
>> I'm Serena and I'm Emily Bjeli.
>> We're a provincial politics podcast, but today we're talking about a federal MP resigning his seat and how that has dominoes falling all the way to the opposition benches at Queens Park. [music]
>> And after nearly 15 years of construction, the Egllington crossdown finally has an opening date. Will the opening go smoothly or go off the rails? Unlike the Egllandon cross town, [music] the Darlington refurbishment project was delivered ahead of time and under budget. How [music] does the plan fit into Ontario's energy strategy and why did the province scrap its climate [music] goals?
>> It's February 6th, 2026. So, let's get to it. [music] Uh, our audience might note that Steve is not here this week. Instead, I am joined by Sabrina Nani, who writes the Queens Park Observer, a newsletter covering all things Queens Park, and Emily Gujon Pelier, uh, who covers provincial affairs for Leo. Uh thank you both for being returned visitors to the podcast.
>> Yeah, happy to be here. Thank you.
>> The last weekend the Progressive Conservative Party had uh their big uh convention. Uh Doug Ford had the the main headline speech. Uh Sabrina, what did you think?
>> Yeah, I actually was there. Um the the PCs decided to do a 180 and actually allow media into the room for Ford's speech. Yeah.
>> Um and
>> sorry, a bit of context there. We we were told initially that media would not be allowed which was a huge departure from past practice and the Queens Park press gallery rightfully made a bit of a stink about it and they eventually the the PC party retreated and eventually did allow reporters in.
>> Yeah, it's a bit bizarre not to have us in there especially for the speech um of the night. Like a political convention is when you want to, you know, pump up uh your party to kind of send the message out that everything's going well. Obviously Doug Ford had a lot to celebrate. Um, you know, this is one year basically one year after his third majority mandate win. Um, and the speech is usually pretty talking points heavy, so I don't think anything majorly controversial would be happening. But they did let us into the room for the dinner. Um, and I have to say, you know, it it was well attended for um maybe the the fact that it was in the middle of winter um and not anything, you know, major happening like we saw in Calgary with Pierre Polyv and the Federal Conservatives, you know, a big uh high stakes leadership review there. There were about a thousand people in the room. Um folks I talked to seemed happy to be there. One fellow told me that while some parts of the convention were boring, uh you know, he was happy to support Doug Ford. he's he's really happy about his his business um policies and and that sort of thing. Uh one I guess maybe unplanned part of the speech and it it was actually not really very noticeable but there were actually a couple of protesters that stood up and started shouting about Grassy Narrows and the mercury contamination there and you know whether there would be compensation for that. Doug Ford did not skip a beat um and just kept on going. OP his OP detail got them right out very quickly. Um, but I think the biggest applause that that Ford got, he got a standing ovation, is when he said he was going to run again for a four a fourth term. Um, I don't know if any of us are really thinking about an election yet, but uh, you know, hopefully not one anytime soon, even though we've gotten rid of fixed election dates, but Ford said he's going to be the guy who will lead the PC party. Um, whether or not he'll be successful, I guess, is the big question. You mentioned the optics and and there was some uh illusions to the concern that uh there would be a lot of empty seats in the room because of the uh federal conservative parties uh convention in Alberta. There was a thought that maybe all of the Ontario-based activists would be in another province. They wouldn't have enough people to fill the room. There was some hints that that was what they were really worried about that they didn't like the idea of the premier speaking to a half empty room. Seems like that wasn't the actual problem. Yeah, I mean it looked um you know busy enough. Like I said, a thousand people the tables were full. Um but you know, as in terms of what party insiders tell me is they don't think a thousand is is maybe the strongest number and and there were, you know, it was a battle of of delegates, dueling delegates here. You know, Pierre Polyv had had more than double that um at his convention, but again, I think a lot of people went because they wanted to have a say on on his leadership. Um, what was interesting is that I think the PCs, uh, if I'm speculating here, might have expected more um, to attend because they actually kept their early bird pricing at like $299 um, per delegate and and usually it's a little more than that. It's obviously a fundraising u, you know, move too for the party. And so I think that they kept it at a lower rate just to get more people to come. Um, you know, uh, as a non-member observer, you got to pay a little bit more, $1,000. And I did see Liberal MVP Adel Shamji there. Um, very closely tailed by PC staff. Uh, he had to do his scrum outside um, in the cold. But again, I heard it was actually 8 degrees in Calgary, so I think for some PCs, they might have had the better weather over the weekend. [laughter]
>> Emily, your thoughts? Well, I didn't get to attend, but watching the speech from afar, all I could think about was what's the next slogan going to be because, you know, it's kind of becoming a bit of a running joke at Queens Park, the protect Ontario ad nauseium. Uh, so I was thinking about that a lot, you know, and who knows by the next uh provincial election, Donald Trump may or may not still be in power. Uh, you know, the need to protect Ontario. Where is it going to be by then? Is the premier gonna be still just as popular as as he is now? Uh looking forward to that new slogan for sure. [laughter]
>> Yeah. No, we're not going to do a u your column my column segment uh this week, but I I did have thoughts about Ford's comments and people can read them at tvo.org, but you know, one short version exactly what you were saying that Ford can say, well, I'm I'm you know, excited to lead our party for a fourth time, but events between now and then are going to be what decide this, right? And you know, just think of how different things are going to be if, for example, the Democratic Party does very well in this year's midterm elections and President Trump looks weaker in a year's time, right? How how much sense is Protect Ontario going to make as a slogan? Just, you know, any any number of things can happen uh between uh now and then. Um Sabrina, any final thoughts? Yeah, I I wanted to add a little bit of gossip um because there's these rumors that there have been some uh cabinet ministers who were actually in the room uh on Saturday when when Ford made his speech that might be uh you know mulling over a leadership bid themselves, maybe you know the next PC captain if Doug Ford wasn't going to do it. I I he obviously said he's not going anywhere and so I think that was kind of pointed maybe a little bit towards them. But you're right, I don't think that it will be a slam dunk. He's riding high in the polls right now. But who knows what the the political landscape is going to be. And I don't think Ford's popularity is necessarily because people really love him and what he's doing. It's because of a lack of good opposition um alternatives right now. And so I think the NDP has a lot of work to do. I know we're going to talk about them a little bit later, but also the Liberals are in another leadership vacuum. And so a lot could change. You know, it will be a decade uh by the time or maybe more by the time the next election comes around and every government has a shelf life. It could be, you know, time for a change. just in general for Ontarians.
>> Yeah. And just to sort of draw that out a little bit more what you were saying that if he had said anything other than I intend to run again to lead our party into the next election, it would have just been the you know firing the starter pistol for the next leadership race whether it was announced or not. Right. And and all of those people, those cabinet ministers who uh you know wake up in the morning and they see a future premier in the mirror uh they would start uh organizing. uh of course they would and and we we've seen this happen to other political parties uh where uh a leadership challenge uh can can derail a government uh even if the premier doesn't necessarily have any intention of stepping aside.
>> Right.
>> Uh and so with that we are going to go to issue one. Bill Blair was until this week the federal MP for the writing of Scar Bro Southwest. So why are we talking about him? because the federal liberals have already found their candidate to replace him and she's the provincial MPP for the same writing. The catch, she's Dolly Beckham, the new Democrat and deputy leader who was until Tuesday second only to Mar Styles in the official opposition. There's more to discuss here, but we're going to start with that. Uh Sabrina, not a great day for Styles, was it?
>> No, this was a huge blow. And you know, NDP leader Mar Styles said herself that she was completely blindsided by this. she was not expecting her deputy leader um to defect to another party in a whole other jurisdiction. Um you know, this this I think this really caught her off guard. Uh it's a riding they've held for the last three election cycles and so I think it'll be difficult for them to keep the seat only because bi-elections are a bit of a wild card, right? Um turn turnout tends to be lower. Doug Ford has to call the bi-election by the by the beginning of August essentially. And so this could be a summer thing. could mean turnout is even lower. Um, and we do know that all parties are going to be pushing very hard for this. Um, in in terms of of Marid, I think it's interesting because they're having a caucus retreat at Queens Park this week and um I I think she'll really put on a big show about all her MPPs are aligned behind her, you know, um we're we're all on one side on one team. Um but, you know, Marailes has really had some obstacles since the last election. I mean, they lost seats. They lost the share of the popular vote. The Liberals did better on that front with them. Um, she got a really bruising 68% in her leadership review. Um, and she, you know, had started to roll. She's shaken up a lot of her inner circle, her her top staffers. She just brought in Caitlyn Pedaphor who uh had worked for Wob Canoe and Manitoba, you know, successful NDP or leaders like Rachel Notley out west. And so I think that while she has been making these changes and maybe that's appeased a lot of the party membership, um you know, losing an MPP like this is just um a huge blow for her. And I know we're going to talk about it more, but like this has really just set off like a wave of um uh you know, political reactions ac across Queens Park and and even federally.
>> Yeah. I mean, we've seen former MPPPs come out of the woodwork to criticize the the direction of the party. you know, something that started before Styles was leader and and has continued under her. Um, you mentioned her her 68% uh support in the last leadership vote. That was obviously enough to spare her the fate of Bonnie Crombie who was turfed, but um given that Beckham's departure, uh Emily, I mean, do you think that we are going to see questions about Styles's future reopened?
>> Well, that 68%, you know, is a little bit more than the 57% that Bonnie Crombi had received. in her last leadership vote. But to your point, there certainly will be discussions around this uh in the coming weeks, especially if you consider the fact that the Ontario Liberal Party uh despite Cromby's uh loss in her own writing and her resignation did increase their numbers uh of seats at Queen Spark and might eventually get some momentum if they elect uh you know, if the the members decide to choose a stronger leader,
>> right? And so speaking of uh the contest to be uh the next Ontario Liberal leader, um
>> Beckham's resignation, this is [laughter] like how the dominoes have fallen in the last few days. It's been fun to watch. Yes, call it
>> um Beckham's resignation now means there has to be a bi-election in Scarbo Southwest provinially. Uh, and now we get to our second piece of news, which is that the Liberal MP for Beaches East York, writing I live in, uh, Nate Erskin Smith, has uh, quickly announced that he will be running to be the Liberal candidate in Scar Bro Southwest. Don't believe the party has made a decision yet whether he will just be named the candidate or whether it will be a contested nomination. We'll see how that goes. But um you know he will uh potentially be up against uh the most recent candidate in that writing who was Liberal Kadira Jackson. Uh she uh said in a statement uh the Ontario Liberal Party needs a candidate who will be a full-time candidate. This is one of the criticisms that Erskin Smith has faced um consistently over the last year that he's treating provincial politics kind of like a consolation prize, a fallback plan given that his his federal ambitions have uh not materialized the way he might have wanted. Um just geographically, I'll say, you know, Beaches East York and Scarbo Southwest, they are adjacent writings. A lot of the community events that happen in Beaches East York will tend to bleed over into Scarbo Southwest. I have to believe that voters in Scarbo Southwest, they they know Erskin Smith's face, they know his name, he's very familiar. So even in the the uh chance that this is a contested nomination, I have to imagine he's he's got a pretty solid chance of both winning the Liberal nomination and potentially uh winning uh the race itself. But uh as you said earlier, Sabrina, I mean I suspect this is going to be a very competitive race, not least because the PC party and the government, the the premier gets to choose the timing of the bi-election. Sticking with Erskin Smith and his moves here, what do you think the significance are?
>> Yeah, I mean this has essentially become like a proxy war for the Liberal leadership contest, right? Um I I've already heard from Liberals publicly and privately that they would be really upset if the party decided to make this an acclamation and not run a contested nomination. I mean, like you said, Kadira Jackson, the former candidate, uh, just started ripping into to Nater Skin Smith. The race isn't officially on yet, but a lot of potential uh, leadership candidates, especially those who don't have a seat, um, might, you know, be unhappy if this was going to be an acclaimed nomination contest. Um, but like you said, I think Nate would certainly be a front runner. Um, I I think he could pull it off. And, you know, if you want to be a leader of a party and do things right, then why not show everyone that you can win a nomination and then go on to potentially win the riding. Um, but it was interesting to hear Doug Ford say he wants to turn that seat blue. The Liberals have placed third in the last three elections. So, it would be a bit of an uphill battle for them in Scar Bro Southwest. Uh but one interesting thing is I I think if Nate were to be the candidate um from the PCs who actually could get someone very high-profile uh they had run Gary Crawford, former budget chair, Toronto counselor uh in Scarbo Gildwood. So So I I do think that they could put up a good fight and potentially take this seat from the NDP. But one interesting thing we'll just this is going to serve as like a preview if Nate is the candidate um for the attack line that the PCs would have because remember when Bonnie Krombi became leader they were like so quick out of the gate with attack ads against her um and that rule in politics is you know define yourself before your opponents can do it. I don't think Bonnie Crombie was very effective at that. And so I think we will see a bit of a sneak preview of you know what could happen down the line even if Nkin Smith becomes um the leader and and certainly he'd be a front runner in that race too but even more so if he does if he is able to win this seat um and then have a seat in the house and go face to face with Doug Ford who has not faced a liberal leader in the legislature um in quite some time. I mean, he's never faced a permanent leader, right? Uh across the across the house from him. Like, it's he's only ever faced interim leaders in the legis. Yeah. One guy, John Fraser. [laughter]
>> Uh
>> John Fraser about to start his third time as interim leader. [laughter]
>> Um Emily, your thoughts?
>> Well, I think it would be interesting to see if one, uh Nate Erskin Smith can secure, you know, the ability to run in the writing. to to actually win the seat and then to also become leader because as as you said this would be the first time since since Kathleen win that we see a liberal leader actually have a seat in the house. Um but we also know that on the the political spectrum uh Nate Erskin Smith is probably the most progressive that we have seen uh in a long time. You know Bonnie Crombi and Steven Duka being coined as red red Tories. Um, and again,
>> you know, advertise themselves as as, you know, a break with Kathleen win's progressive side of the party, bringing the party to the center, that kind of thing.
>> And that's what's been said that that's what the Liberal Party of Ontario needed to contrast with Kathleen Wyn, but it clearly seems to not be working. Um, but also going back to the NDP uh of Ontario, I'd be curious to see what kind of uh impact a Nate Erskin Smith leadership uh for the Liberal Party would have on the New Democrats because they're known as the more progressive party at Queen Spark. So, another hit it would might be for for the Ontario uh NDP and Mar Styles leadership,
>> right? And and you know, we've already seen this to a certain extent federally where, you know, Carney's success was as much uh just wooing NDP voters to his side as anything else, right?
>> And especially now with Dolly there who uh I think he's kind of securing his his left flank. I mean, Mark Carney has been talked about as as being uh you know, maybe a small C conservative and that's why it's a struggle for Pierre Polyv. Uh even some delegates at the PC convention were telling me that they voted for Mark Carney and they support him too and they support Doug and it's because of um you know the these kind of businessminded uh policies that that they're putting forward. So I do think it was even more interesting um for the federal liberals to to pick up uh Dolly Beum for for them and and maybe kind of appease some of their more progressive voters. Um, but for Nate to be leader, like you said, like I don't know who's going to try to outlft each other, the the liberals or the the NDP, that might be
>> the Greens.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Can't forget about them. Yeah.
>> Uh, I guess my one last thought I I will uh add here is just the the language that Erskin Smith has been using in his um announcements this week. Uh, saying that he's all in on provincial politics. I think is very interesting. As I mentioned, he's he's faced some criticism in the last year as uh uh you know, treating provincial politics as a bit of a fallback plan and he seems to be trying to address that directly uh saying that uh you know there is no plan B for him. uh he has said that he will resign his federal seat uh if and when the provincial bi-election uh is called and uh but until then just remind people it is still a minority parliament federally and so uh his his commitment at the moment is basically to the prime minister like I'm here to be a warm body in the liberal benches uh so that you know you don't uh lose a seat when I resign but when the province calls that bi-election uh he will be heading to uh provincial politics. Uh just one last note on the liberal leadership for our audience. Uh we do expect to learn what the rules for the liberal leadership contest are going to be on Monday, I believe, on February 9th. Uh one potential candidate we had been keeping an eye on. Uh we've mentioned her a few times in the podcast was Dr. Danielle Martin. Uh she is now also running federally uh for the Liberals. She will be their candidate in University Rosedale to succeed Christopher Freeland. Um, when Erskin Smith does resign his seat, there will be uh another federal bi-election in Beaches East York. There are at least one or two more other uh MPs who are being speculated as as potentially uh resigning. So, it's going to be uh a very busy uh spring for federal bi-elections, I suspect. And um the situation here is still very fluid. Uh but all that said, uh Sabrina, do you have any inklings about what we might expect in terms of the the rules or are you hearing anything about the Liberal leadership?
>> Yeah. Um so I think the timeline is the thing that everyone is going to be looking for. Um I I know uh you guys in your column have kind of made the argument that sooner is is better than later. Um and and that makes sense, right? Because you have more time for Ontarians to get to know you. you have more times to combat whatever the attack line is going to be from the PCs and and even the NDP. Um, but some liberals I've actually talked to have been pushing for a 2027 race, which surprised me. And one insider told me that, well, if you know there's a big scandal with the RCMP investigation on the green belt or skills development fund, um, then it might start looking like Doug Ford and the PCs would not win the next election and it might attract more high-profile candidates to the Liberal leadership race. And it was like, well, what if pigs start to fly? I mean, that's [laughter] a big that's a that's a big um, you know, what if, especially if you're talking about uh, you know, pushing the race down the line. So, the last I heard was potentially September. Um, but obviously we'll see, you know, the actual uh, what what they actually decide next week. Um, and and I also heard that they're going to be introducing online voting, which it would be a new thing for the party. um but I think would also you know uh increase uh uh participation and get more people to actually have a say in this.
>> Yes. I I won't relitigate my entire sort of argument for a faster uh leadership process, but I will just say like, you know, in the time since Bonnie Cromby's uh unsuccessful leadership vote or however you want to put that, she didn't quite resign immediately, but uh in that time they could have already had a leadership process. uh they could have a new leader in place and like that leader would be in a position for example to run in the Scarbo Southwest bi-election, right? They they would be in a position to capitalize on these events. And I I really think that the party is getting too cute about like trying to figure out the perfect process that that that they'll control every variable and like you just can't, right? The point is to roll with the punches, so to speak, and and and actually capitalize on events as they happen. And uh yeah, that that I'll get off of my soap box.
>> Well, it might have been, you know, Bonnie Cromby's doing too because remember in September there were questions about whether she was going to stay on as leader and then she said she's not, but she's going to stay on until we find somebody new. And now she's saying never mind, I'm resigning. So, it's possible that all that wasted time could have been filled with, you know, other avenues and opportunities for the party, but you know,
>> they did not seem to be in a terrible hurry. So, [laughter]
>> um, of course, with the discussion of leadership conventions, I just have to uh acknowledge the absent co-host here. You know, Steve, of course, is gonna uh uh be yelling at his screen watching the saying, "Say something about a delegated convention." [laughter] No prospect of this. The the I believe the Liberal Constitution still requires that it's a ranked ballot. So, uh they will uh whether they do in person or online voting, uh it will still be uh some form of ranked balloting. Uh the Liberals of course held the last substantial delegated convention I think we're ever going to see in Canadian politics back in 20 god it was right before co right it was the Deluca convention so it would have been uh the the January or February of 2020
>> um and uh uh it it deeply upsets Steve that we've moved away from delegated conventions. Uh nevertheless uh we have moved on and we are going to move on to issue two. Mark your calendars. The Egleton Cross Town LRT has an opening date, February 8th, 2026. This comes after nearly 15 years of construction delays and cost overruns. It's a huge milestone for the line and perhaps the end of a major headache for the province or maybe the start of a new one. What else should we know here, Sabrina?
>> So, the TTC, which is operating the line, is going to be doing a phased start on Sunday. Trains are running from 5:30 in the morning till around 11:00 at night. Uh, that'll be free on the first day. buses will be running after that. Um it's I guess a cautious approach. Um and the same we saw with the Finch West LRT which has been uh a bit of a disaster. Uh not off to the the greatest start there. Um and and I you know the TTC says that the phase start was a recommendation from the inquiry into the Ottawa LRT. So um potentially lessons learned, but I think when this thing is unveiled uh it it shouldn't exactly be a ribbon cutting with a ton of fanfare. I think there's a lot of questions that still need to be answered about, you know, what took so long and cost so much. This thing has been, you know, 15 years now and over budget. Uh Doug Ford called it a nightmare the other day and and so I think that it'll be a lot more questions than anything.
>> Yeah, Emily.
>> Well, you know what? I think it's it's good to know that the TTC is interested in following through with the recommendations from uh the public inquiry into the the Ottawa LRT launch. But I'll say what people in Ottawa said for a long time and what people have been saying uh here about the opening date for the Eglinton cross town. I'll believe it when I see it. [laughter] You know, cuz just recently, uh, Global News reported that the the Finch West LRT, uh, was using a a switch technology that was similar to the one that crippled the Ottawa uh, LRT system and that the public inquiry had warned uh, other transit systems not to use it. So, you'll uh, you'll have to excuse the o uh, excuse the O train [laughter] on this one.
>> Uh, so, two questions uh, for both of you. Uh, do you intend to ride it on day one?
>> Nope.
>> Nope. [laughter]
>> No, I I will not be riding it. Um, but I know a lot of reporters will be and so I'm I'm curious to see how
>> that goes. Um, I I think I'm a little traumatized just from transit in in general. Um, but yeah, I I don't have high hopes that this one will be running as smoothly as as we've seen, you know, just from past LRTs. Uh, but I I I I'm like waiting to see, you know, the big photo ops and and what comes out of it.
>> They say you have to be patient about launches. You know, they tell the public, oh, you know, there's going to be some obstacles along the way. that's, you know, I'm going to wait for the obstacles to to be done with and then maybe I'll I'll experience the joys of
>> There was some discussion in my my household this morning about like, you know, would we like bundle up the the kid and, you know, it's supposed to be really cold on Sunday, like would we go and ride the uh the cross town? I still haven't gotten on the the the Fitch uh LRT yet. Uh so, we have yet to make that decision. We'll see. Um you know, it just I don't know. We've talked about this this LRT uh so much on this podcast and it is uh wild that we're like I think finally reaching uh the end of the story. Um but uh one of my colleagues who works here uh when it is up and running he is going to be able to rely on it. At least he will be able to use it. Uh and and his answer when I asked basically the same question was like I'm not going to believe it until I have written it three times in a row. [laughter] So, we will see how it goes. We will be back next week to to talk about the early reviews, I'm sure. Uh, but for that, for now, uh, let's move on to issue three. Unlike the Edgington Cross Town, here's something that was delivered ahead of time and under budget. The Darlington refurbishment project. The project was completed 4 months ahead of time and $150 million under budget, and the reactor will be delivering power to the provincial electricity grid on February 12th. The refurbishment will also keep the reactors going until at least 2055. Uh Emily, thoughts?
>> Hey, on time, under budget. Keep it up. More of that, please.
>> What a time to be alive. You don't hear that often about government projects.
>> Um I mean, I I thought it was interesting that the Darlington refurbishment and the Egllington LRT had the same budget of about 13 billion each. Um and even though the uh the nuclear uh refurbishment came in under budget, it was you know when you when you look at a uh 13 almost 13 billion dollars uh you know 1.5 or 150 million you know it's about 1.2%.
>> Um so it doesn't seem like a drop in the bucket but still you know something that the government was obviously pumping up and this was a good news story for them. Yeah, I will I will say not to, you know, rain on anybody's parade, but you know, this was not a decision that was made by the Ford government. The Darlington and Bruce Reefer contracts were both signed by a Liberal government. One of the things that Kathleen win did back before the energy file became entirely toxic for the Liberals. Um but uh you know they they uh had you know set out the the direction of refurbishing the nuclear fleet and uh reaffirming the centrality of nuclear power uh in the province. Uh people will argue of course about uh how clean nuclear power really is. Doesn't directly generate uh greenhouse gas emissions but there are is of course uh nuclear waste. Nevertheless, this is 50%ish of the province's electricity mix. So, uh, you know, you would think that this would be, uh, something that the province would love to talk about in terms of its, uh, ambitious climate policy, except I can barely even say that without laughing. Uh, Emily, uh, you had some reporting about, uh, the ambitions of the, uh, provincial climate policies, or perhaps the lack of ambition.
>> Yeah. Well, you're right. you know, the the cleanliness of nuclear power is something that's often used as an argument by the by the provincial government every time it receives criticism or push back uh on its climate policies. And it is an argument that they used recently uh just recently to justify the the decision to get rid of the legislative rules that forced them to establish uh climate targets and publish progress reports. I'm sure you remember uh JMM the Minister of Environment Todd McCarthy has said multiple times that what matters isn't targets, it's results. Uh but we did find out through a freedom of information request that the ministry experts had actually looked into the possibility of establishing new targets and uh had shared those options with the minister along with some science-based facts um before he decided to just get rid of them altogether. And what was interesting too is in the ministry's response to our findings uh is that they blamed President Trump uh and his attacks on our economy uh protect Ontario and the government is taking a hard look at unnecessary processes and uh you know unnecessary processes that that are holding us back. That that was the response
>> and in this case they're they're saying that the the climate targets were one of those unnecessary processes.
>> Exactly. So, I think we've talked about this on the podcast before, but you know, just some of the the legal context was that uh people will remember that Ontario was being sued by uh minors uh young people uh about whether their charter rights to uh personal security were violated by uh the province's uh uh less ambitious climate targets than the ones they that they inherited from the Liberal government. uh the court of appeal had said yes the if if the government is going to have climate targets then those climate targets have to comply with the charter and uh the government seems to have taken that court decision and in essence said well in that case we're not going to have climate targets at all and and based on your reporting there there was at least some debate within the public service about potentially taking a different course
>> yeah and when you talk to uh you know the opposition parties the NDP the the Greens uh obviously and and envir environmental experts. Uh they say that this is just another instance where the government has ignored its own experts and well as well as the science. Uh but that at least now they're being honest about it.
>> And with that, we're going to go to the mailbag. If you've got a burning question or insightful comment, send it along to on politicsvo.org. And uh I'm going to give one of our hosts a chance to reach into the ceremonial mailbag here. What do we have today, Sabrina? Okay, so here's a question from Malcolm Campbell in Windsor who writes, "Excellent presentation with Liam Casey. Bring him back. More stories on the Ring of Fire. Also, how about election stories of places not in the center of Ontario's universe? [laughter] Southern Ontario, Windsor, Chadam, Essex, Lasal, Amherstburg. We too hold elections. My best Windsorite Malcolm Campbell."
>> So, uh, Malcolm's letter is of course in reference to our episode last week. Uh we had Liam Casey from the Canadian Press on to talk about he did an excellent feature article about uh the Ring of Fire and the um politics within the indigenous communities there. Uh we also mentioned a few municipal races but perhaps we did not get far enough from Toronto, maybe far enough from this office uh for Malcolm's [clears throat] tastes. Uh so uh yeah, let's talk about other uh municipalities. Uh what are we keeping an eye on, Emily? First of all, I want to say that I agree fully with everything that this Rinszerite writer has said. Um, but for my for my part, I'll be definitely looking at Ottawa. You know, uh, Mayor Mark Sliffe had received a promise from the PCs and Doug Ford that the O train would be up updated to, um, to Metroinks and, you know, so far we haven't seen any action on that. So, it'll be interesting to see if the voters feel like Mayor Sliffe uh has been doing enough lobbying on behalf of his city to the province on that file. And uh because Leo has a a focus on Ottawa and Eastern Ontario issues, uh we'll be covering the municipal elections for the region of Prescott Russell and uh you know all the the Eastern Ontario regions that have a strong Franco Ontarian presence such as Cornwall as well.
>> Okay, Sabrina.
>> So, I won't say Toronto. Okay. [laughter]
>> Um, even though I might want to, but I won't. Um,
>> stipulate that we're all gonna be watching Toronto.
>> Yeah. Um, but one other race I'll be looking at is Missaga. I I hope that's far enough for Malcolm. But, you know, I think this race is going to be interesting. We just heard Doug Ford this week giving a glowing endorsement of Carolyn Parish, the current mayor who succeeded Bonnie Crombie. Uh, you know, Ford said it was refreshing to work with her, a not so thinly veiled shot at at Crombi. And there has been rumors that Crombi might be looking to to run for mayor again, which which uh you know would be very interesting. She obviously wasn't able to win her seat there proincially, but maybe she thinks she's got a better shot at city hall. Uh and you know, Carolyn Parish was also a former counselor when Krombi was mayor, and there was really no love lost between those two. I think it's no secret who uh Doug Ford and the PCs would uh you know be supporting and and maybe send some volunteers down to to support during the race, but I actually think that would be a really um interesting matchup to watch.
>> Worth saying that an endorsement from Doug Ford does not always guarantee success. Of course, in the uh Merill bi-election here in Toronto, uh he endorsed uh Mark Saunders, the former police chief who
>> came in third, I think. So yeah, it was not a great performance in terms of um
>> the premier's coattails, let me put it that way. So I'm going to be looking a little bit further a field to Sbury where there has been uh for like 10 years now. I last wrote about this nearly a decade ago, uh an argument in the city about uh where to build uh a new event center. Uh last time I wrote about it, there was the the fight was over uh building it out in the the periphery of the city. Um and uh the belief was that this sort of green field site was going to be the best way to generate lots of new jobs for the city. That plan fell out of favor and they decided to uh build a uh an event center more sort of centrally in the the city's downtown. And so like the construction is I think underway certainly it is expected to be underway this summer. The municipal elections are in October. Uh and yet uh this week there is a declared candidate, a city councelor who says he's now going to run for mayor saying he wants to stop the construction and go back to the old plan. [laughter] Um and so you know the no debate ever happens just once in municipal politics, right? Uh we could talk about Toronto's history of transit votes, but uh um I I will be watching that election in Sudbury to see if uh uh this particular issue uh gets reversed once again. Um I I will also add and and we spoke a bit about about this uh last week that uh this one of the details in this uh Sbury case is that the uh uh announced candidate uh the city councelor says that uh specifically he will use strong mayor powers to uh stop this uh arena even if it is already under construction. He will just zero out its budget. And of course, mayors have uh strong uh discretionary powers over their budgets thanks to uh changes made by the Ford government. And you know, this is just one example of something I think we're going to see a lot of in this election season uh all over the provinces. Uh various mayoral candidates promising to do um major perhaps even extraordinary things with strong mayor powers. It's interesting because I can remember very clearly that at the last municipal elections, we were do making the rounds through the municipalities and and coun uh candidates for for city council asking them will you be using the mayor their strong mayor powers and it was a selling point for them to say that we are not. So it's going to be interesting to see what the voters of Sbury feel about that promise.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, and and I I think we might be seeing the politics of that change slightly where when it was still kind of new uh and perhaps scary to some people, a lot of candidates thought it was safest to say, "No, well, no, I I I'll have nothing to do with these strong mayor powers." And as voters sort of get used to the idea a bit more um perhaps, and you know, we'll see. Uh but perhaps at least some candidates are are willing to be a bit more um uh forward about uh using them.
>> All right. Uh again, if you'd like to ask about any content on the show, please email us at onp politics@tvo.org. And that is the OnPy podcast for this Friday, February 6th, 2026. You can follow the show wherever you get your podcast so that you get notified each time a [music] new episode is available. And you can see the video version of the podcast on the TVOT Today YouTube channel. Any feedback you have, we are always happy to hear it. Once again, write an email to onpolitics@tvo.org. [music] Be sure to include your first name, last name, and where you're located. This week's episode was produced by Matthew Omera, [music] editing by Colin Kish, production support by Jonathan Howell and TVO's digital media services team. Lori F is the executive producer of digital. John Ferry is vice president programming and content. Uh special [music] thanks of course to our crew for making the video podcast happen. And thanks of course to uh [music] my guests today uh for everything you contribute to the show. Thank you so much. Until next Friday. Bye-bye everyone.