All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live and we have a lot to discuss. On top of that, we have a lot of earnings to get into. This is what we have up on the day for earnings. Pure Storage, Marll, GitLab, Asana, Crowdstrike, American Eagle, and Octa. So, you got a mix between Semiconductors, software names, more software heavy on today's earnings, and then American Eagle, which is retailers. So, you got a lot of different companies reporting today. We will be getting those earnings in about 15 minutes. We will have technical Tuesday after the earnings, probably around 4:20, 4:30. Uh, but we definitely have a lot of earnings to get into. Now, since the market opened, we've had a bunch of different headlines come out. We laugh last uh left when Trump was doing the cabinet meeting, and we honestly didn't get too much from that cabinet meeting. Even in the Q&A, I mean, there were a couple comments here and there. What we actually got, which was the most important thing, is the odds of Kevin Hassid becoming the next Fed chair, the shadow Fed effectively on prediction markets rising to 83%. Why did that happen? Well, this is what Trump had to say at his 2pm announcement. We'll talk about what that announcement was for in a second.
>> Joe Gibia, I want to thank you all for being here. It's a great group and I guess a potential Fed chair is here too. I don't know who's allowed to say that potential. He's a respected person that I can tell you. Thank you, Kevin. Today is giving Tuesday. So, we have a lot of special people here with us. Uh, and then he says, "Maybe I guess a potential Fed chair is here, too. I don't know. Are we allowed to say that?" Thank you, Kevin. Seems kind of obvious that this is going to happen. Uh, and Kevin Hassid is going to be the Fed chair. Now, prediction markets don't have Kevin Hassid at 95 or 97%. They still have him at 85% even after these com or 83%. He was at like 78% yesterday. So, you did get a bump up, but not fully out of the race from Kevin Worsh and some of the other people that potentially could be at that chair. Uh, is this bullish? Yeah, I mean, probabilities on the Fed futures went even higher based on Kevin Hasset potentially being the guy who is going to be the next Fed chair. We were at 86 in the morning. We are now at 89.2. I mean, it's all but guaranteed that we're going to get this rate cut. So, I mean, it's bullish and the market needs that. Now, broader market, what happened today? S&P 500 relatively green. It was it's been an overall green day. You have some pockets of red, but most of those pockets of red are actually the pockets that were going green last week, which were your healthcare names and the broadening out trade. Starting to come back to tech. By the way, the 2PM announcement was for the Trump accounts in Invest America. It was with Michael Dell announcing that $6.25 billion donation, which is going to be $250 for 25 million people added to their Invest accounts. By the way, um if you do the math on these Invest America accounts, that means 25 million kids are now going to get effectively $1,250 as soon as they're born into an S&P 500 fund. And uh if you look at the let me just pull this up right here, trajectory of what should happen. So by the time these kids are we're looking at 60, they should have $300,000. So from 18 to 60, if you assume S&P 500 returns 10% a year, which is not guaranteed, they should have about 320 grand or 310 grand. Uh, pretty cool. I mean, pretty cool to get people interested into the financial ecosystem and give them a skin in the game. And the fact that Michael Liddell is making that donation is definitely a big deal. So I think for everyone in the morning who thought that the 2M announcement was going to be about the Trump accounts, yeah, that's what it was about. Now, how much will Hood get of that? No one knows. We know that Brad Gersonner has been working very intimately with Robin Hood to be able to set up this initiative. Robin has already demoed an example of what these accounts will look like on their platform. I don't think, by the way, Meta right there, their high of day 647. I don't think Hood's going to get all those accounts. Obviously, if your, you know, dad uses Schwab and they have a newborn, the newborn's probably going to have that money on the platform that their parents use, like Schwab. But as more millennials start to have kids, if we ever have any kids, um, and we're using Robin Hood, then most likely our kids will have Robin Hood. So, I do think there will be a chunk of those 25 million that go to Hood. But more importantly, it's just more people investing, which isn't that good for Robin Hood. Robin right there 12691 that's up 3%. Micro strategy actually up 6%. Bitcoin also a nice little rebound on the day. It did hit 92 during the market open. It hit 83 in the morning. So that 83 to 92 reversal was nice to see. Apple all-time highs hit 287 4.23 trillion company. Nvidia at 18150. We have a headline invidia that we'll talk about in a second as well. Snowflake that's up 3%. Applovin great day that's up 4%. Costco's even up 1%. BMR up 11%. Google's trying to hit 315. Reddit's up 0.24. I mean, you're just seeing a lot of momentum across the board. Pounder was at 175, now back at 170, but still pretty green uh across the entire market. Iran, right? Wow. 13. Okay. I didn't see Iran being down 13%. Uh the convertible notes I am not an expert on because I don't know them. I I don't specifically know the ones that Iran issued. Um but I think there's something there. But I was reading one piece of analysis that it's just not the most shareholder friendly these uh these convertible notes. I mean not every convertible notes have a lot of different nuances to them but some of them can be very effective. So for example when Micro Strategy was getting all this money in 2024 at a 0% coupon and they were essentially taking that money buying Bitcoin at 50,000 60,000 that was not the worst idea. You know those are different types of convertible notes. Iran's not buying Bitcoin with it and and buying an asset that's going to outperform the interest they have to pay on the the debt, which in Micros um they're trying to build data centers which are very capital intensive. So I'm not sure exactly how the market's interpreting it, but IN's in a you know massive correction. The stock was at 80, now it's at 40. So you're talking about a 50% correction. Question now is does this rebound? But I ran right here down 13%. Nebas as well I don't think held on to the green. Yeah, Nebius back to 97. That's down 3%. and Cororeweave was at uh 82 in the morning back to 76. So that is down half a percent as well. I do not know what happened to ALAB. It was up 10. Wow. 13%. If anyone has the analysis, I didn't see anything today. I I mean, I just saw a bunch of people posting technical charts. It was up 10%. Now it's down 13. Something fundamental had to take place for this one to get hit. I'll put the poll in the chat for which one outperforms. Let me know which one of these stocks own. I think Marll is the biggest one that most people has most people have today. Which one outperforms? Uh we have Crowd Strike, Marll. What was the other one? Um Octa and I think we'll put put American Eagle up there. Let's see if American Eagle can outperform some of these names. Octa and then AEO. GitLab is another one that might be a more exciting name that gets up there because of Amazon. So, I don't know too much about the relationship between uh between Amazon and ALAB. But if that is the case, Amazon introduced those training three trips, got the market excited for like 5 seconds, then it went right back down 238 down to 234. Definitely chipped off a little bit of Nvidia when they announced that stuff. And we'll go deeper into the Amazon announcement later, but that's at 23480 up about.39%. Oaklow up 6% on the day. Tesla basically flat. Walmart's up 1%. Then the S&P 500 at 681 90 on the day. Apple again at 285. Now, what is the market expecting for some of these earnings? And by the way, before we get into that, let me just share this real quick. Remember American Bitcoin, ABTC, Eric Trump's uh company that's down 37%. Uh basically, yes, insiders were able to sell. He tweeted today, today are pre- merger private placement shares unlocked. These early investors are freely available to cash in on their profits for the first time, which is why we will see volatility. Our fundamentals are virtually unmatched in our differentiation, mining Bitcoin at 50% of spot with 56% gross margins in Q3 and climbing the Bitcoin ranks daily. I'm also holding all my shares. So, you did have insiders that sold, which was inevitable. Uh it was not Eric Trump as per his tweet, but nonetheless, you did get a bit of pain. Yes, we will have technical Tuesday after the earnings probably around 4:25. And so once we get through the earnings, we will have TT uh on Nvidia. I thought this was really important to look at. So the Nvidia CFO was at a UBS conference and here's what they said about the OpenAI partnership. Uh right now the quote is that 500 billion does not include any of the work that we're doing on the next part of the agreement with OpenAI. We believe we'll continue working with OpenAI and we still have not completed a definitive agreement, but we're working with them. So, you've got the OpenAI CFO saying, "Hey, that 500 billion in five quarters that Jensen talked about um in GTC that doesn't include China and it also doesn't include any of the stuff we announced with OpenAI at the end of September in that massive hundred billion dollar 10 gigawatt partnership that both companies came to agreement on. So, I mean, you got Nvidia turning at 25 times next year's earnings with two major things that are not included in the guidance. You get any of those things to help that might be a real big tailwind for Nvidia. Nvidia right there. Green on the day. As you can see, tech pretty much green across the board. The names that uh didn't end up going green were some of the red ones or were some of the the the names that got rotated into that are now red on the day. A little bit of preview on Marll and Crowd Strike. Let's get some coverage right here and then in about five minutes, we should get some answers on what these earnings will look like today.
>> Important piece of the chip puzzle. Yes, because this is also a custom chipmaker that competes with Broadcom. And so there's three key areas to focus on. First, the Broadcom problem. Analysts say Broadcom has won customer engagements with most of the major players, raising concerns about whether Marll actually fits into this competitive landscape. And you can just see the difference in the stock prices over the last year. Marll and the red brought come up 129%. Second, the Amazon situation. Marbell's AWS business has been essentially flat quarter over-arter since ramping in late 2024. Disappointing compared to Piers growths in AI projects. There are also specific concerns about Marbell's share in Amazon Tradian chips with some analysts suggesting the company has lost ground to competitors AWS did not mention Marbell today at their event. And last but not least, third, the CEO vote of confidence. Matt Murphy bought $1 million of stock in late September at around 77 bucks. uh shares have outperformed the socks index since then, but investors want to know what he sees that they're missing.
>> All right, we we will look for it. Christina, thank you. Uh and SEMA pretty strong stock within software, Crowd Strike.
>> Crowd Strike, Mike, has been killing it this year, and that's reflected in its stock price as you just mentioned. It's up over 50% in 2025 on this bet that artificial intelligence is accelerating the need for cyber security as bad actors get more sophisticated. So what Wall Street wants to know from CEO George Kurtz tonight is more evidence on new customer wins. How its latest acquisition of Pangia technology is using to secure AI agents is being integrated into the full stack. Curts recently sharing that companies agents can speed up the triage process by hunting down malware. Curts also added that at some point security will be fully autonomous. He didn't provide a timeline. We'll see if he does tonight. The stock is currently trading about 10% off its most recent high. Mike.
>> All right. So, Crowd Strike and Marll, I think, are the big ones that everyone's looking at. You got the data center names that are now starting to get into a little bit of a sell-off. Again, I've learned this with owning Nebius. Now, like seeing the volatility here, I just I I think over the past couple weeks, it's not affecting me as much because these are volatile names. I mean, if you own Iran, Cororeweave, Nebius, you're getting into them for the massive 10 15% days, but with that volatility to the upside comes the volatility to the downside. So, I mean, this thing could go back to 80 on any bad data center headline. If Oracle issues more debt, the street could get mad. Cororeweave's uh credit default swap starts spiking up. Nebas could get hit as collateral damage. Irre had this $2 billion dilution yesterday. I don't think it affects Nebius or Corweave that much, but nonetheless, it might be taking down all of them. So, I think it's And then Cipher and Wolf were up 11% each on Wednesday. Both of them now down 10% on the day. So, and both of them are cosigned by Google as well. Wolf actually down 7%. So I think when you own these names, unless you're owning them from a very low cost basis, which some people, you know, got into these names really early. If you're buying them here, you're buying them for the ups and for the downs and they're much much more volatile than a traditional stock in the market. So it's just it's just what comes with game on these data center plays. Microsoft right here 489. That's gapping up a little bit. Amcor amazing day hit $40.92. Now if we close above 40, which we have two minutes left, that would be incredible. If we can hold 40 for a second day in a row tomorrow, that would also be incredible. By the way, Stock Talk, the person who got me into Amcore, he will be on the show tomorrow at 10:45. So, he'll be on tomorrow. You guys will get to meet him and uh it'll be cool for him to explain kind of his stock picking philosophy and how he found Amcore as well. Reddit goes right on the day. Vertive, that's up.92%. Google right there at 315. S&P at 681. Basically, a flat day for the S&P. I will take it. Don't send us back down to 650. If we got to stay at 680, that is totally fine. Also, fun fact for everybody, tomorrow, December 3rd, is the seasonal bottom for December. Since 1950 to 2024, December 3rd has always been the bottom. So, I mean, who knows? Maybe tomorrow you're going to get a little bit of volatility to the downside and that would be our bottom. If not, then we're going to see how this December turns out. But that's one thing to watch out for as we get into the third trading day of December. All right, here we go. We got a lot of earnings on deck. Uh most of you guys are saying that Crowd Strike outperforms. Yeah, 54% of you say Crowd Strike, 28% Marll, 9% Octa, and then 7% AEO. So, we are going to see how these companies end up putting up results. Thank you everybody for being here. We will have technical Tuesday after the earnings. Tuesday, December 2nd, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, we are done for trading at least in the regular session for the stock market today. 68143 on the S&P. 68143 on the S&P. Basically flat on the day. Nvidia got about a$150 move. Coreweave was down about 1.34%. Nebius down 3.69%. Nebius was at 101 in the morning. So again, the volatility in this name is pretty incredible. Iran, I I got to do some work on why the street absolutely hated these convertible notes, but the street did not like it. 15% down on Iran. And it doesn't just seem like it's a reaction to dilution. It seems like it's a reaction to the type of dilution because dilution is inevitable within these data center names. And so we got to see what exactly the street doesn't like about this. Google right here 315. Intel, great day up 8.65% 65%. Intel, incredible move right here. Shopify, that's up 5%. Robin Hin, that's up 2.2%. BABA, that was down about 1.9% again. S&P 500 at 681. Nvidia at 18146. Micro Strategy got a bit more of a recovery at 18133 after being down 10%. And then BMR as well up 11% on the day as ETH got a move back over 3,000. Could it be ALOS on Irene? I don't think a 15% move is just ALOS. If all the data center stocks were like bleeding like I then yes I think this is something that someone whether it's an institutional shareholder or retail investors and I doubt it's retail because retail is really diamond hands on IN there's someone else that is not loving the convertible notes that they issue and so we'll have to look deeper into seeing what's happening there. Palant share 170.69 up 2% on the day. UNH as well not too bad of a day up.37% and then ASML basically hitting all-time highs as well. Okay, let's get into earnings. We should be getting results pretty soon. What do we have after hours? Pure Storage was up 7%. It's now up 1% after hours. We'll start getting these numbers soon. Marll was up 2% on the day. GitLab was up 5% during the day. Asana was up 4% during the day. Crowd Strike was up 2% during the day. American Eagle was actually down during the day. And then Octa was up 2%. So, a lot of these names were green. Um, and we're going to see how they perform after hours. Now, what does the market want from them? Uh, let's just pull this up right here. Crowd Strike Street wants 94 cents and 1.2 billion in revenue. Marll Street wants 74 cents and 2.07 billion of revenue. GitLab, they want 20 cents, 239 million of revenue. Octa, they want 76 cents a share and 730 million of revenue. Pure Storage, 58 cents, and 956 million of revenue. And American Eagle, they want 1.32 billion of revenue and 444. And so those are the expectations. A sauna, they want 6 cents of EPS and 198 million of revenue. Octa, do we have it? Octa goes red after hours by about 1%. Not too crazy. Octa revenue 742 million. Um, Octa, it's a beat on the top and the bottom. 742 versus 730. That's a beat on revenue. 76 cents expected, 82 cents earned. That's a beat on EPS. Stock is flat. markets not caring too much, but those are your earnings for Octa. Octa is not necessarily the most volatile name that's out there. Doesn't really move like that. Year to date, this stock is up 4%. 14 billion company. So, that's what you have on Octa. I think Marll and Crowdstrike are going to be the main main ones that we look at. So, that's what we have on Octa. Let's see if we can get some more of these numbers as we get into the close. And we talked in the morning about the Netflix Warner Brothers Discovery deal as well. Netflix has officially submitted a allcash offer. Um, now Larry Ellison really wants HBO Max and Warner Brothers. So maybe Paramount comes in with a higher offer, but Netflix is trying to see if they can acquire it. And the more I think about it, the more I think it makes a lot of sense. I mean, Netflix needs really good IP. And every time you get it into a show in Netflix that's not made by them, they have, you know, it's like leaving in five days or something, it's like really tough for them to just get really good content. And HBO would have that. Crowd Strike up a little bit after hours up 1%. Um, don't see the move. American Eagle, that's up 2%. Up a little bit more. Let's see. Oh, American Eagle. There you go. That's getting a bigger candle. 5%. Sydney Sweeney pump. Let's see if she can do it. Let's see if she can do it. Still don't have the numbers on either. I mean, she was a big deal last quarter as she got into a lot of controversy with the ad and all that stuff. So, I mean, if anything, that got a lot more people to talk about. American Eagle up 4.2%. Crowd Strike up 1%. GitLab, that one's up 5%. GitLab getting some love. Uh, Google was supposed to buy GitLab back in 2021. like they were acquiring shares and then they just never ended up making the acquisition. But GitLab right there, that's up 5.3%. Pure Storage is down. Pure Storage is down 6.4. Octa's now down two. Asana's up seven. GitLab just went flat. Marll, this is the big one. That's down two. Let's see if that reverses. Maybe we can get a little bit of a different print there. Okay, we got Marll beat by 3% on EPS 76 cents versus 74 cents expected. Revenue came in line with expectations 2.07 billion. Revenue is up 37% year-over-year. EPS is up 77% year-over-year. Street does not like it, at least not enough to give them a premium. Marbell is uh intertwined with Amazon as we talked about before. Marbell right there down what 1.87% billion dollar company. This one has rebounded really nicely on the six-month time frame as you can see right there in September hit 60 bucks. Right now 92 down from 104. So even in the November draw down 104 to 92 is not that crazy especially because it's up from 60 but stock still down about 2%. Wow. Pure Storage down 15. I don't have their numbers yet. Um let's see if I can find these numbers on Pure Storage. Again, this is a this is another SAS company. Um, enterprise data storage, a lot of those different things. PTSD. Oh my goodness. PTSG 17%. Okay. What did they say? Crowd Strike is not out. Pure Storage beat by 1% on revenue 964 versus 956. They came in line on EPS. They had to say something about guidance for them to be getting this type of reaction. 18% down. No, it's not a read. It's a SAS company and it's being pretty sassy right here. 17% down. Marll, you know, one could argue their products are sticky, but uh it's not it's not seeming like like Spider-Man is going to come save them even though he also has some sticky webs. So, Marll right there down 3% on the day. GitLab still down 6%. Crowd Strike now going red, but we don't have numbers on Crowd Strike yet. should be getting it soon. American Eagle also flat and then Octa down 2%. Octa down 2%. Wow. Pure Storage. This one's not No one's buying this dip. Like the market's just letting her fall. They're just letting her fall. Pure Storage down 17. It was up 7% during the day, too. That makes it worse. GitLab numbers are out 25 cents versus 20 cents expected. That's a beat by 25%. Revenue 244 versus 239. That's beat by 2%. EPS up 19% year-over-year. Revenues up 25% year-over-year. GitLab not really getting any love either. Down 4% even with a double beat. Even with a double beat. Okay, so Asana is the only one getting some love right here. Crowd Strike, we don't have the numbers yet. I expect Crowd Strike to have good numbers. I don't know if the stock's gonna really make a move. Remember, Crowdstrike is outside of Pounder, the most expensive software name. It's already up 50. Wow, I didn't even know it was up 48.7% this year. So, this one's going to need a really big quarter for the street to keep giving it some love. Um, Pure Storage again, they had a beat on EPS or beat on revenue in line with EPS. Octa also had a double beat. Street didn't care too much. Pure Storage, they didn't miss or anything, but the streak got upset. Sauna. Wow. They beat by 17% on EPS. 7 cents versus 6 cents expected. 2011 versus 198. Beat by 1%. EPS up 450% year-over-year. Revenues up 9% year-over-year. And it looks like that is enough for the streets to get excited. Let's get some coverage on uh Marll and then we will see if we can get these crowd strike numbers.
>> Say beat but not a massive beat. Yeah. earnings per share of uh 76 cents, three cents higher than what the street anticipated. This is for Q3. Uh Q3 revenues coming in at 2.08, just slightly slightly higher. Uh for Q4 revenue guidance, 2.2 billion, also a little bit higher than the 2.17 billion. Uh data center revenue that contributes a lot to their bottom line. Uh data center revenue came in at 1.52 billion for the quarter, which was also just slightly higher than street estimates. Uh the company also for gross margins a little bit higher but not by much. 59.7 for Q3, 59% for Q4. They are announcing though in their press release that they are excited to announce the acquisition of Celestial AI. This was a rumor from uh the information earlier today, but now they're confirming uh that it's going to help with their um the fastest growing opportunities in AI data center infrastructure. So they're confirming that. So that could possibly be contributing to the uh the the negative reaction in the stock and the fact that the um beat was not that big.
>> Okay. Spending some money. Uh Chris.
>> All right. So, Crowd Strikes left. Crowd Strike in American Eagle. I'm going to do a new poll in the chat. Crowd Strike pump or dump. I think we have uh either literally no time until those earnings come out or they're a 415 company. And that means we have five minutes. So, let's put that in the chat. The majority think will outform the names that we have here. Crowd pump or dump. I owned Crowd Strike for a little bit at 300 and then sold it I think at like 340. It wasn't a big stake, but I bought it after it fell from 350 during the whole uh outage that they had back in 2024. Honestly should have taken that opportunity to really buy more because this is a premier cyber security name, but just didn't do it. Crowd Strike right there. All right, down 1.4% after hours. I wouldn't say that's a dump yet. We got to see if that really gets hit. Could still reverse. Earnings 1.23 billion versus 1.21. That's a beat. EPS 96 cents versus 94 cents. That's a beat. You got a double beat. Revenue 1.29 to 1.3 for Q4. That is a beat against the expectations. A very slight beat against the 1.29 expectation. And then fiscal year revenue 4.8 to 4.81. That is a beat. Well, not really because originally the street thought it would be 4.75 to 4.81. So, they increased the low end of their guidance. Didn't increase the high end. Not something the stock should be dumping off by any sense of the imagination, but maybe not something that deserves a massive move higher. Pretty much in line. Even the beats were like by a couple cents. So, it would not shock me if this goes up, but it also would not shock me if it kind of just stays flat right here. Now, you're getting a reversal up 1%. It was down to trying to make a bit of a move right here. 1.25 1.32. All right. It's It's It's trying. The red candle didn't make that much sense. So, it's reversing. Question is, how big do we get a reversal for? Pure Story, by the way, was down 18. Now, it's only down 10. Marll is down seven. This one just was down two. Now, it's collapsing. Get Labs down seven. American Eagle 15. Whoa. Sydney Sweeney came through. Let's get some coverage on that one. Again, these retailer name folks. I I really do think we got to pay attention to this consumer week narrative because these retailer companies are just showing the opposite with their earnings
>> numbers.
>> Yeah. So, American Eagle reporting Q3 earnings of 53 cents per share. That's on revenue of 1.36 billion, beating expectations on both the top and bottom lines. For the holiday quarter, American Eagle is expecting comps to grow between 8 and 9%. Now, that's about four times higher than expectations. So, that's pretty big here. American Eagle also
>> they raised expectations by 400% and they beat EPS by 20%. I mean, look, Sydney Sweeny's probably helping, but outside of just Sydney Sweeney, there's something about the consumer that has enough disposable income or has access to a lot of credit to be able to buy overpriced jeans. But these companies are putting up the earnings. And it was Urban Outfitters last week, now American Eagles,
>> its fullear adjusted operating income guidance. It's now expecting it to be between 303 million and 308 million. Companywide, the results look solid, but the growth was primarily driven by airy. At American Eagle's namesake banner, comps grew just 1% while analysts were looking for 2.1%. That's after its splashy campaign with Sydney Sweeney. While the campaign didn't have a major impact on sales, operating margin did come in better than expected at 8.3%. John,
>> how is that possible with all of those genes? Uh, Gabrielle, thank you. Well, coming up, Michael,
>> I mean, that's pretty incredible. American Eagle, Best Buy, Burlington, Abberrombi. Look at that. 13% on the day. And that's not just off hype. That's off increasing fiscal year guidance by 4x and beating EPS by uh by 20%. That's pretty incredible. Marll still down 7%. Crowd Strike barely holding on. You do have uh some guidance. crowd strike confident in delivering 20% net new ARR growth for 2027 um which is increasing the expectation from 2026 ARR if you listen to George Curts he that is the number one thing he cares about as a CEO is how much more annual recurring revenue they can bring to the business that's why all of their um press releases kind of start off with that metric as you can see right here record Q3 net ARR of 265 million that's up 73% year-over-year overall ARR at 4.92 billion up 23% % year-over-year. CEO said, "Crowd Striker is the enabler of secure AI transformation with the right architecture, the right products, and the right execution. Q3 was one of our best quarters in company history. We achieved record Q3 net new ARR of 265 million, which accelerated 23% year-over-year. Our single platform strategy coupled with the Falcon Flex subscription model unlocks consolidation, positioning crowd as the operating system of cyber security. We delivered an acceleration in ending ARR growth across our endpoint business as well as in cloud security. Uh the CFO said, "We delivered outstanding third-party results, exceeding expectations across all guided metrics. Total revenue is up 22% yearover-year." Not bad. And they've got five billion in cash. And they've got five billion in cash. So you got Crowd Strike. Even though the stock's not moving, you do have some pretty decent earnings. And you know, if you bought it early in the year, you're up 50%. So can't be too upset. Marll still trying to understand why exactly. I know the operating margin on the fiscal year 226 guidance was a little bit lower than expected but still that one down 6%. Pure Storage down 10 and American Eagle is not stopping. It's up 15 15% on the day. Why are the NEO clouds down so much? Honestly, I do not know. I understand why I is down but I do not know why all them dumped. But again, I said this in the beginning like if you own these names, you just got to be ready for the volatility. They are any bad data center headline can take a hold any bad Nvidia headline can take them down. Any amazing Nvidia headline can send them to the moon. And so I I really don't have a headline for why it would be down. Nvidia said some pretty bullish stuff at their UBS conference, but nonetheless, they took a hit. Corewave down a little bit more after hours. S&P 500 basically flat at 68169. I mean, it could be Iren, but I was red in the morning and Nebius was up. So, I don't know. Maybe I ran falling even further, took everything down, but it might be it might be because of that. Um, okay. Is that all we got? I think those are most of the earnings. I don't see anything else. Uh, let's just listen to Michael Dell real quick. He did invest 6.25 billion for this Invest America. He was with Trump. That was the 2M announcement for those that missed Trump's big announcement. And then in a couple minutes, we will get Jason on and we will get started with technical Tuesday. I think over time this can be quite become quite substantial and you know we're particularly excited about the the long-term impact of this when you think about compounding and you know think about a child that's born uh you know this year gets $1,000 from the government. Let's say they work at a company that matches that. Well, it's $2,000. Now, uh, you know, if the parents or, uh, you know, a grandparent or a cousin contributes a little bit to that account each month or each year, you compound that over time. By the time the child is 20 or 30 years old, it it adds up to be substantial amounts of money. And, you know, when I was eight years old, I got a pass book savings account and I kind of learned about the power of compounding. Uh, unfortunately, we've got a lot of people that are not participating in the system today. And so we hope that this will create great interest in understanding compounding and financial literacy and uh investing in the market. All these funds by the way will go in uh a large index fund essentially the S&P 500 uh you know and and
>> I mean it makes sense. It makes a lot of sense and hopefully this influences a lot of other people uh to put money into this type of initiative. I think a lot of people that have substantial amounts of wealth sometimes don't want to put money to causes because they're putting money into nonprofit, the director of the nonprofit gets a half a million dollar salary and you just feel like the money is getting wasted. I mean, unless I'm getting this wrong, I don't understand how this money could possibly be wasted because every last penny of it is not going through some bureaucratic process. It's going directly into 25 million accounts, $250 each, that over the next 30, 40 years should be able to compound. And hopefully that's what creates some more momentum. Someone said we have Macy's earnings tomorrow morning. It's funny you bring that up because I took a screenshot of this just to show you guys because I couldn't believe that I got this notification from Macy's. But yes, we do have Macy's earnings tomorrow. This is at 224 earlier today. Saw these women's clothing finds and thought of you. Like what AI is running Macy's? Cuz last time I checked, I'm not a woman. So, I mean, honestly, I hope that freaking stock falls 50% tomorrow cuz I was I was looking at this notification like why would I care about that? Like like did did you get hooked up with an LLM that doesn't know anything? Like what what's what's going on here? So, yeah, bearish Macy's and we'll see tomorrow what earnings they put up. All right, so last look at some of these earnings after the bell and then we'll get into Jason. Pure Storage, that's down 12%. Marll down six. GitLab down 9.5%. Asana is up four. It was up seven. Crowd Strike is not able to hold on to its green. That one continues to go down. Tanner says you fit in women's sizes. They just have your back. That's ridiculous. American Eagle, that's up 15%. And then Octa, that's down 2.8. So American Eagle, Sydney Sweeney is the only one that was actually able to put up the results that the street liked. Everything else, all these other companies, these multi-billion dollar software names, they could not mess with Sydney Sweeney. That stock, American Eagle, up 14.5%. All right, folks. It is Tuesday. Thank you everybody for being here. Those were the earnings updates. Uh we are going to get into a bunch of technical analysis for those that aren't familiar with TA. It's essentially looking at charts and trying to make predictions based on a variety of different variables on how a stock will perform. Based on looking on the charts, not everyone's cup of tea. So, if it's not your cup of tea, that's okay. But there is someone who I deeply respect who understands TA. And uh he happens to be the Asian version of Steve. It is time to roll the intro. What's up?
>> It's Jason. What's up?
>> You're Asian Steve. What do you mean? Asian Steve.
>> Asian Steve in the house. Should I change it?
>> People name is Jason. They say like four agencies. So, see, you got to embrace it. That's who you are.
>> Uh, you know, we can embrace it. We can embrace it. Here, we'll do this.
>> Yeah. You gota change your turn.
>> Asian Steve. Boom.
>> You guys know you guys I was about to call you. Jason made that intro by the way. Everyone who loves that intro, Jason literally designed it's it's a phenomenal intro. A little bit about
>> Emit was actually really concerned the first time I sent it to him. I was like, "Hey, I you know, I have a we have like a tape you can roll for as an intro." And he's like, "No, no, no. We can't do we can't do uh what was it? You were the copyrighted music." And I was like, "No, no, no. We have like people that like check for that stuff." And I was like, "You know, we'll be good. We'll be good." It
>> was the best decision. Best.
>> Best decision ever.
>> All right. We almost didn't get that.
>> We almost didn't get it.
>> Um, we got a lot to talk about. We last talked on Tuesday when the markets were starting to recover from some of the November downside. Now, that was on low volume as we were getting into Thanksgiving. So, you can pull up the S&P 683, less than 1% away from all-time highs. I mean, it really does feel like there is a shot if we get this rate cut for some momentum to occur. So, I guess what are you thinking? How are you seeing the S&P 500?
>> Um, so it is Sorry, I got a lot of lines here. Should I start? Yeah,
>> we have a timer. First of all, and I I've been posting at least just general updates. Um, and I know Emit does this. Uh, by the way, did you guys see the thumbnail that he almost used? He thought about it. I don't know how how long he thought about the thumbnail, but we had a He spent all this time putting together this thumbnail. It was very, very thoughtful.
>> Did you Did you post it? Because I thought you were going to post it.
>> What do you mean
>> the thumbnail? because you said he was he was gonna do he was he was gonna do the thumbnail.
>> This was gonna be the new the new show. What do you guys think?
>> Hold on. This should be the thumbnail. Like
>> that's what I was saying.
>> 22 minutes ago I was live so I didn't even think of it. I like this should legit every Tuesday. This is
>> Well, I made this is uh you know it's Christmas themed.
>> Why did the AI make me so mad though? I look
>> I don't know. You're so serious, man. So serious. But it wasn't bad. It wasn't bad.
>> Did you donate today?
>> Also, so I'm totally We're just We're just catching up. But I did uh I post It's It's Giving Tuesday. This is my I don't we donate to scout troops every now and this is my picture of me as a boy scout back in that's legit me way back in the 90s.
>> I'll put that
>> if you guys need some uh tax deductible gains for sure. Actually, you could click this little link. I just pinned it. But um but anyways, moving on. I'll I'll put the link in the chat. I cannot believe that's you, dude. That's That's wild.
>> Yeah, this is 90s, man. N Well, I'm an 80s baby.
>> How old were you were like what 10, 12?
>> No, I'm uh How old am I here? This is probably 15.
>> Okay,
>> so maybe like late 90s. Late 90s. I was a boy. Look at the Boy Scouts. Hey, and if you guys if you guys have Boy Scout pictures, like reply in there, cuz like all the Boy Scout pictures of everybody, like this is pretty badass. Sorry, but this is pretty cool to see everybody's like memories coming up of like way back when. Like it's it's way cool. But anyways, yeah, good times, man.
>> That's awesome.
>> But so let's get on with the show, if you will. Um, you know how quickly we forget where we just were like not even that long ago. It's it it blows my mind. Um, oh yeah, just scouts now. Sorry. Um, it blows my mind how like we were just down here at these like at these lows. Literally like
>> I was not a Girl Scout. Stop saying that.
>> Well, girl are cool, too. And we here we are 5% in 11 days. um in the in the last couple days we haven't actually gone anywhere. Um and so that has me a little bit I think we're so the market goes three directions. They go up, they go down and markets go sideways also. Right now I will say this is this is one of those sideways moments the last few days at least few as in three two or three days. uh and so I think well so we are gearing up for another move in what direction that direction is TBD and and amidst uh what do you call that like the the preface of the segment if you will is it's it's not what did you call it when you first met me uh astronomy astron like male astrology is
>> I didn't say that but other people say that often
>> okay but you said it but
>> I I think it's useful, but you know, that's what people
>> to to to those people's credit, it's kind of like being a weatherman sometimes. And I saw a comment and something's like I can say like, "Hey, look, it's cloudy outside and it might rain and sometimes it might rain the next day. Sometimes it might rain right away. Sometimes it might rain a little bit, you know, later on. But if there's storms brewing, then there's storms brewing. whether or not they hit you right like right smack in the face right away that that's kind of actually pretty pretty legit uh in terms of an analogy. Um so meteorology I guess you could you could you could call it that. Um but it's good to know what the weather's going to be like if I'm going to go out. Do I want to wear a sweater? Do I want to wear shorts today or what? Right. Um so anyways it it's it's something like that. So, so right now we're we're very close. For a while when the government was shut down, we were the the market has been and still is using uh ADP numbers in in the absence, if you will, of NFP numbers. Now, we did get NFP numbers just recently and and the last time we were here, I said, um, look, we should we should actually make it up to 675. And if we can get a couple closes above 675, which we have, um, then we should be good. So we got one open and close, right? So this is one, we got two and actually we got three. So one, two, three closes above NFP like this 675. And so this looks good. The only issue I have right now is that the next level, and this is the way that this works, is that if we get we get there, then we go to the next level. Well, the next level we're already there. We we hit it like right away. It's 681. So, we have to do this process one more time and we we have not actually been able to do it. So, 681 in my post has actually been a pretty pretty big level. Um, and if we if we can't hold, well, cool. Then we'll just retest this 675 and see if it holds here and then then we can have this kind of situation. That would be ideal. So, where we are right now, it's a high-risk area to press new money long. long way to say that. Um because your riskreward is is not nearly as good as it was down here. Not nearly as good. And we have a lot of traffic above us.
>> And down down there was just two weeks ago.
>> Yeah. And down here was just two week two weeks ago. This is a better spot to to do a light hedge in terms of not wanting to sell a whole lot of upside calls, but I don't mind buying cheap downside insurance. Actually, I don't mind that. Um and this red line here is the prevailing downtrend if you will. So um in terms of our trend count from from a market perspective, trend count meaning series of higher highs and higher lows. This was our last high. This was our last low. We locked in a lower high. We actually locked in a lower low. Lower high. Lower low. You can kind of finagle it however you want, but if we can get over 68588, which was pretty much our last high right around here, then and we're very close to it, then we should definitively at least now we're looking at 700s. And that is how we get to those 700s. And and at that point, you know, it's it's it's basically a foregone conclusion, which I said exactly that last week. I'm saying that exactly that one more time. But it's better to be patient. Patience pays in this situation. What's a couple points on the S&P from here to be able to to not press a riskier bet? Because we are we are in fact at a hightraic area right here and a pullback to retest some of these areas and where these magnet SMAs are. Look, that's actually even a little bit better. Um discount area. Is there anything that's telling me that that's going to happen right now? No, that's also true. But it's it is just a hightraic, higher risk area for a new money long. Stay the course long. Small small little hedges are fine. Hopefully, they go to zero, but there's no reason to take any large downside bets. There's no reason to sell anything here. I'm staying the course. I'm long. I'm cautiously optimistic. Slightly more optimistic than cautious. And I think what you said at 650 on Tuesday last or two weeks ago was there was also no reason to sell there or or panic sell.
>> No. No. I mean, quite frankly, I'm in the position right now where I'm like uh I'm I'm I'm kind of drooling for another dip by. I would love I would love I don't know about you guys, but I would love me another nice little dip by to to really get situated here. Uh, I do think it's a a decent place to have some cash, but um I can press upside bets if we do get higher. And again, I it's it's it if I if I get a lower lower entry, it's it's it's even better. Now, we don't usually do the Q's, but I just pulled this up. I clicked the timer one more time. QQQ does the same kind of thing. Um, oops, I don't have an NP level. Sorry. here what I'm looking for we want to see uh we want to see an even trend against across the indices across the whole and so ADP levels remain on the Q's unlike SPY QQQ has not all the way has not hit it all the way has not gone and traversed the entire way so Q's are actually lagging just a little bit I have a small session gap around 6:30 here but remember these these SMAs act like magnets so we were far away far from the smoothing moving averages got the polarity kind of pulled us up. If we go a little too far, I'm I'm just saying I wouldn't be surprised to see that that magnet pull us back and get stuck here for a little bit to make another move in one direction or another. I'm open to this as an opportunity to see where we go from there. Um, am I am I really trading for this? Absolutely not. I think I think this was a this was an amazing dip buy across the board for a lot of assets. Uh, so congrats to anybody who was able to take advantage of that. Um, and I think we've had a we've had a great bounce. Uh, and and now I'm now we kind of look for the next opportunity. And so Q's has more catch-up room. Uh, which makes this a little bit more interesting here. So if this can hold um this trend count right again, here's that last lower high right over here at that 626. if it can get through this this area, this will be the same same kind of thing. And um one thing I'll tell you guys that I haven't said anywhere, not even to my private group yet, you know, even even if we get there, I think you can press these bets. But if we look back in history, we had a very similar situation right over here. This is spy now where very similar I I I just don't want to completely let my guard go in its entirety. I'll just drop this to a daily and we're not in this fundamental situation at all. But but all this to say, there's not going to be a even if we do get to all-time highs, there's still not going to be a situation where I'm completely like off like where I'm turning my back to the bears. Like I'm a trader, so I always want to be on guard to an extent. And and this should look very familiar to you guys right now. where we're where all all of the the indices Q's the same, losing all major significant moving averages. Then we start to go up. We actually got to new all-time highs. This is 2025 and and chopped around for a while. Went sideways for a while, made new all-time highs, hung out, and I don't remember what happened. Maybe Mitt remembers what happened, but at a certain point, we couldn't really hold over those all-time highs. and that that polarity of those those SMAs eventually actually did bring it down a little bit. So, even if we do get to all-time highs, I'm not I'm not going to rest on my laurels, if you will, at that area. I I want to I want to still be somewhat on guard um at this level because I don't want to get faked out either. So, it's important to kind of be attentive to what's going on in sentiment and under the hood as well. Deep Seek. Got it. Yeah. Which came out of what? nowhere. Sentiment, sentiment is a killer sometimes and it just, you know,
>> so speaking of Deep Seek, let's just do Nvidia as the first stock. I mean, the price action on this one has been kind of weird to me. I wonder how you're thinking about this holding 180.
>> Um, so I I thought it would go down a little bit deeper. I mean, it did retest this lower end. I think it could be good. I think it could be okay. But it's it's a similar situation where like if if this can't get through this major traffic zone here right now, this is and has been resistance in the past. So for all intents and purposes, I actually have to assume that this is resistance. It it looks constructive. But new money long here as a trader this is the definition of high risk low reward. Um down here it's better. So so we like to buy at support. We don't like to buy at resistance as a trader typically speaking. Um I I mean it's just a good rule of thumb to operate by to buy at support not buy at resistance in general for life. Um, but sorry, but but you know, we're so used to to breakout markets. You know, I I saw this one coming here. It didn't really get through the I needed to get over 200. This is actually a this is actually a good defensive hold right here. So, I think that this has a strong possibility of being it right now. Um, and if it can get a little bit higher and get through this resistance zone, then I think it's a it at that point it's a lower risk um, situation to go along higher, which sounds weird, but again, I want to get through this traffic area first. And then I want to see this current resistance turn into support. And in that situation, I would be buying at support and not at resistance. which is what that means. But, you know, this looks good. I if if it doesn't hold, I mean, there's there's some lower levels, but this is holding for now. Nvidia's acting kind of weird. Like, it's almost like I think it's dumb. Like, this is just dumb. Like, how it gets sold off. I'm correct. I mean, if you guys have thoughts on this or not, how Nvidia gets sold off over like A6 or TPUs or or whatever. Next, it'll probably be Amazon's version of of whatever and then somebody else's. But it's it's almost like the semi sector specifically is well not semi but like this that money is rotating like a zero sums game almost where it's not it's not coming out of the index level but it's just rotating within the LM players or hyperscalers if you will
>> do you
>> just getting spread around which is not not really bearish. Do you have a target for end of year? Could you see this back to 200 or you think that's going to be a little tough
>> again? So I could easily see this back over 200, but TA is is if this then that, right? So if if it's over the levels are here. So this little area right here
>> 187 roundabout.
>> Yeah. And it's 184 very explicitly. So we can kind of see it. I'll just turn this red. So see this here. All of this selling selling. This is August and again here. And again here. And actually right here. It really it really kind of jumps out at you where you can start to see it. Oops. You can start to see like if I if I zoom in a little bit more. I don't want to take up too much time, but this is sorry July, late July, all of August. That's the orange box here. 184 spot 15. Uh I'll make this a little bit darker for you guys here. 184 spot 15. It's It's pretty apparent on the chart where this was. Is this a market cap level? At what market cap is this?
>> Well, 123 is three trillion. I think it's guys, 4 trillion is one
>> 4.5 maybe.
>> Yeah, 4 trillion was 164. So, yeah. Yeah, 44 round about.
>> I mean, sometimes it does this weird stuff, but um but there's a bit of a a explosion here and and this was support here. So it's it's very minuscule, but you can see where there's a lot of buying selling that happens right at that exact level. So I So if it can turn that current resistance, which is what this is, into support, meaning if it can get over it and hold above it and then you see something like that in this case, for sure like it's it's it's a no-brainer. This is definitively going in in short order, by the way. So, I just ran out of time to 195. 195 200 is a very specific round number. It's not usually the best um it's not usually the best thing to use a round number as your target because they're always going to they're always going to short change you, man. Uh they'll be like, "Oh, 1983." And they rug rug right before uh point case in point right here. 19860. Boom. 1987. So if if you 1986 so if you're if you're looking for a very explicit route number don't um you'll get you'll get yourself in trouble. Um but 1955 56 is that is that spot again. And we have I I I would go as far as to say is you are probably no matter what this chart says right now, something here on this chart tells me that at some point in time in the in the notsodistant future, there's probably going to be a headline. I don't know what it is, but in the notsodistant future, high probability that Nvidia does make this track. No matter what this says, I'm just telling you right now because there is there is there is an extremely low low liquidity pocket right in here. That's a hard imbalance in the market from that earnings move. And that that probably gets filled in whether it's on a a random headline or or not. I don't know. Probably a random headline. But just like it did over here, the question is going to be at that point in time, does it hold? Right.
>> And my my gut is that no, it won't hold.
>> And I it also maybe depends on how good the headline's going to be.
>> Yeah.
>> You know,
>> uh guys, we're going to do all the main stocks, so about 10 15 of them, and then we will get into the audience requests. Uh next one, another big one a lot of people are curious about is Meta.
>> That's not the right ticker.
>> Ma, I was you put a meta. No. Whoa. You ever put the wrong ticker sometimes and you come?
>> I know. Yeah. What is it? ME. What is that?
>> Yeah.
>> So 585 to
>> This is the secret how you find really good tickers. By the way,
>> there you go. There you go.
>> Yeah. I mean, this is a nice reversal. A lot of people getting excited about it. I wonder if you have a contrarian opinion here or you think this one's doing
>> No. So, so um so this this white line is Chris's trade. Shout out Chris wherever he is if he's in here. Is Chris here? I don't know.
>> He's probably not, but he's probably happy that Meta is going higher.
>> So, it what it needed to see is we needed to see it hold over that 634 level. And so far, it actually it it is um you know, just like we wanted to see this base get created over here. That's good. at this point where what's happening is that your your 20-day SMA is is um is leveling out, if you will. Um, you know, I made a a snarky comment the other day. I was like, when I when I get a death cross on Meta, it'll probably be a buy. If we get a a little bit of a blip down on Meta, that 50-day, which is the blue line here, is probably going to cross down below um what is this? is probably going to cross down below the 200 and and it'll be a death cross and it will probably be a buy. So, if I get if I get that dip, I'll probably buy again. Uh and definitely if if it holds that 630ish level. Um but so far this looks constructive. Um this was a very like heavy bounce. So, I think we're looking more like the K style recovery than like the straight up V, but the trajectory here is to 68860. Uh, and and that that is what it is. So, 68860. As long as we hold 633, um, you're going there. That's the trajectory, which is going to which is going to line up to that 50-day and the 20-day or and the 200. And that's going to be resistance for now. That's that's where the bears are hibernating from all of this. Um, and depending on how long it takes to get there, I don't know that the bears are really going to be hanging out that much anymore because they they had a pretty good ride already at this point and they pretty much disappeared down towards the lows over here. And I don't know if you're a bear, like you'd have to be a real greedy bear to be hanging out still on Meta.
>> Also, Meta Meta is not going to 500 without the market going down. I mean, Meta's a pretty big company, right?
>> Well, okay. So, Meta has done stuff like that in the past. It really has. Um,
>> no, but when it went to 88 in a in 2020, I mean, that was the market crap, right? When has met Meta independently gone down meaningfully if the market hasn't I mean I'm sure it has
>> I mean Meta did that well before the market to be fair
>> 88 was the bottom in October market bottomed in October. Yeah, but but that's over here, but Meta was 400 almost before then in January or in August,
>> you know, like everything fell in like I don't I don't recall a situation where Meta has actually fallen significantly and the S&P 500 hasn't given Meta is like what 2% of the S&P 500.
>> Yeah. I mean, so it's it's just historically super whipsaw. So even over here in this area these are very large swings like from here to here that's actually 50%. And and at the same time um from here to here that is this is 220 to 122 that's 45% in 2020 in 2018. Uh, I don't know if that's cover or not, but but it it likes to it likes to do some wild stuff. Um, and then this is this is the metaverse and this is um the year of efficiency if you will.
>> Can you also kind of
>> can you explain the death crush you were talking about? Some people have questions on what exactly is it that
>> oh it's like the most lagging indicator that you should like to throw directly in the garbage. Uh it's
>> the 50 and the 200 day converge. Correct.
>> Correct. So like all all all drawings off. Um so on my screen right now you see three lines. The red line is a 200 day simple moving average. The white line is a 20-day simple moving average. And the blue line is a 50-day simple moving average. And just to make this cleaner, I'll remove the 20. A death cross is uh defined by when the when the 50-day crosses below the 200 day simple moving average. And right here is an example of a death cross. But what hap so when I say ex insanely lagging indicator like first of all it started going down here. The death cross happened here and the stock did nothing but go up from here. So
>> no, this is not this is a very lagging indicator. Crosses in terms of simple moving averages were never really intended to be used for these like okay so crosses on on SMAs and stuff were an adaptation from stochcastics which are which were started being used really in like 1950s. SMAs were being used since like 1800s plus. Uh, and nobody used crosses as as trading signals until stochcastics came and and they just they just adapted into it, but it wasn't what they were intended to be used for. They're super lagging. Um, and maybe this is a bad example, but how I've taught you guys to use them, how we've talked about it is is the correct way. Um, and yeah, so again, another death cross here, uh, followed immediately by what's called a golden cross, which is the 50. Sorry, let me take the purple is a 200 week uh followed immediately by by a golden cross which is the blue line crossing above the red line. Um but again if you short at the death cross at least for meta um here you maybe got a handful of days that went red but immediately followed by nothing but up and to the right after that. So, just be aware this is an incredibly lagging indicator and and a lot of times they'll use it on SPY, which here this is a death cross to the downside on SPY 2022. It's okay, but again, the day that it crossed is here. Immediately, the thing went straight up uh right into your face and and eventually ended up going down.
>> Um, but it's lagging and this is a golden cross here. It's just it's it's it's a lagging thing. Uh meaning it's it's it's it's going to tell you something that happened way after the fact. Here, death cross. Here, death cross. Not ultra reliable. Here, death cross. Usually,
>> let me ask this question as well before we move on to the next one. Why do you use SMAs and not EMAs?
>> So, I use SMAs for these longer time frames because they show you the broader trend. They help filter out a lot of noise. I'm not on the timer, right? Can we call this we can call this uh technical Tuesday training? But uh um but two different things. So when we're looking at trends, you want to use SMAs. And EMAs are like SMAs versus EMAs are like tortoise versus the hair. They're they have different different use cases. SMAs are to filter out a lot of the sharp noises, things like that. Um the idea be behind EMAs which are exponential moving averages versus simple moving averages. That's what the S stands for. Um I show you the broader slower moving trends, right? And and we look at the slope the slope of the of the of the line. We look at the distance between these lines, things like that. EMAs are are most are made for quicker reaction time, which when we're talking about broad trends, you don't want to be super fast. You're going to be too quick and too too in and out. The use case for EMAs is is more specifically for day trading or for shorter time frame trading, shorter time horizons. If you have a shorter time horizon, there's a there's there's a very good use case to use something like a 9 and 21 EMA for a day trading system. But for for broader trend reads and and general momentum, 20-day, 50-day, 200 day simple moving averages, that's what you want to do. Not the EMAs, not 365day EMA, not the 65day EMA, not this that, not the 100 day, not the 150day SMA. Like, it's these three specific SMAs for a very simple reason, and that is that the large institutional funds use these as their broader indications of whether or not this trend is intact. And if I'm smart, I want to know what the big money is thinking and what they're looking at to make their larger determinations. And and that is is why you do want to do it because if if technical analysis is largely a self-fulfilling prophecy, I want to know what the what the most amount of people are really using. And I don't want to use some obscure random SMA or EMA um to to do that. I wanted to use the tools that the the most amount of people have their eyes on and that is the 20-day, the 50-day, and the 200 day SMA. So hopefully that that sums it all up.
>> Great. And it's important we have moments like that throughout the segment because that stuff definitely is is helpful. Um Tessy, you think this one has a shot to get to 460 by end of year?
>> Oh my goodness, she's trying so hard, dude. She's trying. Um, so, um, again, what do we look for on these SMA? We look for them really tight and then when they're about to expand together, that's that's your cue. So, Tessy lines back on right back into resistance, she's trapped. So, if they're magnets, they're not dynamic support and resistance. We don't use them for that. Um, she's stuck. We use there's a term called like moving average ping pong. uh where you just like pingpong in between these these like whatever moving averages. That's literally ping pong ping pong ping pong in between these. Boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. Oh man, is she stuck. She got me today. I'm not going to lie. She got me. I was like, "All right, 50. We're coming down. We're going to breach this and she's going to come back in." Cuz 420, by the way, is is brought resistance up here, high traffic zone, right? And that's what I'm thinking. But it's a squeeze. We call squeeze area too. We're like if it gets over like this is heavy resistance. I don't think you're going to break through resistance. Not in the market at at the moment. There's no reason. No catalyst, no none of that. Um, so I should expect this to come down. And then it it just like boom gets sucked right back into the 50 and actually breaches it again. I'm like, oh my goodness. What was today's range? It was like 4:15 to 4:30 something. Dude, what a whipssaw day on Tessy. But she's trying. I think what I've been saying on Tesla holds true is that she's stuck. Uh, and that's the truth. So, so nothing has changed on Tesla the chart. Um, I think that this still remains to be your entire consolidation range. That could be I think she's primed for people that are into selling premium. I think this is a great spot for Tesla. I think if you sell premium around this general area or if you want to be like a little bit safer in that in this area, but I think in this general area, premium generation Tesla all day long. I don't mean yield max. Let me just I don't mean yield max. I mean selling your own cover calls weekly, that kind of stuff. not not not something with a uh deteriorating uh nav by design that's different unless you're hopping from dividend to dividend which is like I think buy on Wednesday but on Tuesday would you you'd have to buy today at the close if you're doing yield max
>> um Google do you think this one can hold 300 till the end of the year
>> because I think a lot of questions I'm getting on this one is there there's either breakout to 35 or there's a retrace back to the 290s.
>> She's trying so hard. I mean, you're on it, right? So, so when we were locked over here, first of all, Google has like kind of defied a lot of stuff in terms of general rule sets with with headlines, new headline, new headline, new headline. And it's it's it's been pretty stuck on that. around this area. I actually said Google was in premium generation mode similar to Tesla and like selling upside calls around like 320 310 area about 45 days to expiration would would technically be ideal because because at the time it had not broken out. It it tried to get over that that power that earnings gap and it did not. And then this day at 300 headline breaks, I'm thinking this is fine. Headline breaks and then poof, she goes, "Actually, I'm going to keep that stance and I still think that 320 310 cover call don't I'm not touching that." Um I I actually don't think this is ready to go. Uh, I think that you have this what we call like pretty clean inefficiency here that the market wants to fill around 302. To your question, do I think it holds 300? I do. Do I think that it can have a little dip into that sub 300 for for a blip that gets bought? Very possible. At that point, I would absolutely buy back those covered calls. But um that is the worst case I would see on on on Lagoos right now. Um she is she is holding up incredibly strong. I I keep waiting for this thing to fall. 318 here was the first kind of well 330 was the first. Okay, you're fully extended. If 314 is the level and it was teetering today below 314, all right, this is very likely happening. And so tomorrow, this actually becomes uh an extremely high watch for that 300 level being tested in very short order after today. Um if this doesn't get back over 319. So, if if Google can get over 319, it's it's going to continue and try to try to do this and it's probably going to try to do another consolidation and and that pullback is probably just not happening. And we're probably going into that 345 level next. But right here, right now, GooGs loses 314 in very short order, probably single session, you're you're probably going to fill this gap. which is likely going to be a buy somewhere in this area.
>> Yeah, that's the funny thing. If if if the googs actually gets the 295 people
>> it's a buy. That's the thing. It's a buy. So So broadly speaking, there's nothing wrong with this chart. It's it's extended. Yes. Uh it's very far away from those SMAs. Yes. Uh steep and uncorrected. steep, but but in truth, it actually has some pretty like decent areas of of consolidation right now. Even like my Netflix, you know, you you look zoom out, look left, it's got a lot of this, so it can still go, but remember, we look at these SMAs, like the broader trend, this is this is crazy healthy. I mean, it's it's it's it's very wide. Um, like the distance between these SMAs, but but even up here between the 2050 It's just getting wider. Um, so a pullback like this, I mean, what is it? Doesn't it's it's not going to do anything to the trend. Um, and it probably does get bought up, quite frankly. So, yeah, I think it holds. I And I still think it's the premiums on this are juicy now. Like, they're very they're very they're very ripe for harvesting. premiums were dead at 150 and now they are they are coming.
>> Yeah, this and Apple too now. Like I don't know if you've seen Apple. This thing's alltime high is like just throw the chart up here. Like my goodness. Um Oops. We're We're I don't know. This thing is like it's the two the two the two dip buys down here on the two nearly most hated stocks that we were trading not that long in July you and I. And I was like all right the million-dollar month. You remember this million dollar month that we were trading for?
>> It was it was the the high value my highv value targets Google and Apple similar setups. Here we are. And I'm like, I mean, both of them are similar setups, different reasons. Um, both steep and uncorrected still, but nothing wrong with either of these charts yet. Uh, I I I will say that when these two uh, I'm going to call them, the last generals fall, I put us a post out there, Apple tends to get detached very very typically. So, we we'll call this the Apple transition. Uh Apple tends to detach itself from the market in in times like this. And when it does, it will just continue on. And that's exactly what Google's doing right now. Um in in moments of like general volatility, things like that. And um it does its own thing. Eventually, it does come back down to earth. And and when it does, well, that that tends to be number one, it tends to be a buy anyways, and number two, it's it's usually the the last. It's they're just the last generals to fall. So, when that does happen, it's all probably over and everything's already up and to the right,
>> right? And and it's only a it's only a it's only a um like a factor of well these are just no longer on sale and everything else was on sale so I'm just going to use these as ATM for a short while and then I'm going to come right back to them.
>> Right. By the way, Marll making a move after hours up 5%. Either they started the earnings and said something about their acquisition or
>> Oh, let's go.
>> This thing was down almost 10%. Full reversal to the upside. still going for.
>> Dude, I'm smiling.
>> You want to do So, you want to do this one real quick? Any
>> my Marll?
>> Yeah. Oh, you like this one, right? You You've liked this one FOR A WHILE.
>> YEAH, DUDE. But I've always I've always said this has got this got to be a for you got to love this one long time, not short time. Like, because the the turnaround story here is is is long time, not not not a little time. Um so it's it's been so it's the liberation day lows tested multiple times 73 even recently. Um structure is intact had a little blip in the radar here to 62. This entire thing is a is nothing but a series of higher highs and higher lows actually all of this. So, the channel is here and wow, if this can hold a 100 tomorrow, I don't know what they're saying, dude, but this is looking like a bigger move. And if this can hold that 100 level, I mean, it's 110 is what it is and has always been. So it just it just so happens to h to be happening during earnings, which is sometimes how it goes. But from the swing like inception highs of 127 to recent lows, let's say 44. that 50% mark and we've done this exercise many times is 86. If she bounces at 86, the the rule set says that we should go here. And we've done that already multiple times. One, two, three times, give or take. Now, if if you cannot actually hold this, here's the concern, right? That concern just kind of takes you back down to this this prevailing uptrend though. Not anything major. Prevailing uptrend being here. We'll call this green. If I really wanted to get in the weeds with it. Uh see if I can stick this landing. So that that would be 77s again. Um, but for all intents and purposes, no, it looks good. So, what I'm going to do right now is I'm going to drop down and how we would get like super granular with it is just do similar exercise. I I know what I'm going to do right now. So, similar exercise here.
>> Looks like I'm looking at a rainbow, bro.
>> Yeah. 93 is key. And this is going to be just like we did with Nvidia. So, we have a little bit of an after hours. um on a prior pump. So, Marll is very pumpy and very dumpy. I will say it's it's very illquid after hours. It's nothing but lies and deceit for us in the aftermarket, not the pre-market different. This can get to 101 91 and mean nothing. Um this is what's true and unfortunate. uh it can get to 10191 and and and open up here just like it has in the past on Thursday, November 6th and never see the light of day in the New York session at the at these levels. So caution, not saying to sell, but we don't want to see it do this in the pre-market. This is why after hours don't count, but pre-market does. So how this opens and how this acts in the morning is more important than what's happening right now. This is pre-market. That is not what I want to see tomorrow. And I don't want to see it stop hard dead in its tracks tracks at 101 91.
>> Wow. Triple digits after hours.
>> Yeah. Which it hasn't gotten to yet. So, um,
>> dude, the stock market is so cool. Like, literally at freaking 425, everyone was upset. If you were short, you were happy. If you bought the dip, you were like, "Screw it. We'll see what happens." And then less than an hour later.
>> Yeah.
>> Crazy, dude.
>> Yeah. So, but so all of this I don't I mean, that's a wild swing. Geez. Just after hours. Look at this.
>> What did they say? Does anyone know what they said?
>> 17% after hours is a is that's a wild swing. So, this is a big turnaround story. I don't I don't think you own Marll for a 17%. I mean, maybe you do, maybe you don't, but here's what you own Marll for. You own it for the the full You own it for the full gamut to 170 multi-years out. And you own it for like a big you just don't you don't want it caught in like a double top or anything, but you own it for a big multi-year reversal into these 170s.
>> People are saying it's pumping on the acquisition from the but the acquisition was announced in the morning. So it is kind of weird that maybe they gave some more details on the acquisition but oh Celestial AI will contribute a billion in revenue. Really? They're buying it for three and a half. So they're paying three times sales which is not that crazy. During the conference call, Marvel Technology says any revenue from the pending acquisition of Celestial AI and for communications on their end market. We continue to expect 10% revenue growth next. Yeah, that'll that'll do it.
>> Increasing growth on the acquisition.
>> So this is this is the last traffic zone. So moving forward, let's say more let's assume Marll let's just play the tape forward. If Marll can be really bullish and we get to hold through 110, which would be amazing. We have this little blip up here, and this is real life. So, if you don't mind, cuz I cuz I own the stock. Um, I'm going to I'm going to look at this this area from here, 122, 110 to 122. So, this is what I'm going to assume is the next traffic zone or area of congestion, if you will. It's like if if the car is priced and I'm and I'm and I'm leaving what the market deemed as fair value down here. We made a little pit stop up here. The next vacation spot is in the 115s. And um I'd like it to stay up here for a while and then eventually move on its merry way up to the 170s by, you know, late late next year, if not later. But yeah, I don't have any plans on leaving this one. It's a slow roll, quite frankly. It's been choppy, but
>> okay. Uh, Amazon,
>> I I didn't buy anymore. I like I like Amazon. Um, today AWS keynote. Was there anything notable? I didn't listen.
>> Yeah, basically Tranium 3 more updates on how their chips are becoming more cost- effective than Nvidia. I mean, it was all really good stuff. Imagine that's bad.
>> So maybe maybe Amazon gets uh they're not going to maybe Amazon gets gets a uh a Google like pump on custom silicon. Um they really could though, but there's no LLM. Um, not that it matters, but that's so custom silicon is always like a um a a free call option, if you will, on Amazon right now. It's not baked into the price. And so that's what has not been talked about on this show. It should be somewhat understood that Amazon coming out with their own A6 custom silicon whatever is a free call option that you get on the on owning the stock here. It's not priced in. I don't believe it's it's just there's I don't think Could you even consider that priced in even somewhat here? No.
>> What tranium?
>> Yeah. like real success of of custom silicon uh or
>> but I think the reason it's not pricing is because we don't know what the margins look like. It's hard to get a margin. So
>> So my point is not unlike prediction markets on hood.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm I'm just saying now that it it becomes a successful thing later and boom, you're off to the races. Um today though is typical hit your head on the ceiling. uh sell the news event, reinvent. Um and of this this last swing high to swing low. This is that first bare zone from a technical perspective. This is the bearish retracement and I'm a good bull, so I need to know where the bears are at all times. Um, and 237 when when Emit and I were buying down here and we did this on the last technical Tuesday, which you'll be able to see on the playlist when AIT um gets around to doing the things that he says he's going to do. Um, which which he did say he would do it. I think
>> definitely forgot to do that.
>> It's okay. I did say Amazon from 210 should be an easy layup at least to 235 236 and that's where I think we should go. Now this to me this is the definition of a lowrisk highreward setup. Anything from here is not. So from here this becomes the higher that this goes this goes this becomes higher risk. Um do I think this is over? not a chance. Um but but what we've done is we've just moved from one area of fair value, which is down here, right, to the upper area right here. And so I I think it's fair to assume that we continue to chop a little bit and we pull a we pull a bit of a of a Tesla and we could easily pull back to the 228s. I think that should be more than warranted at this point. uh little bit of a pullback. And does that have to happen? No, I don't think so. Uh I don't think that has to happen at all. But roughly to that 50-day simple moving average, see a nice little consolidation down in here and then be on our merry way one more time. That would be amazing. If we c if that doesn't happen or even if it does at some point any point in the future, Amazon gets over 237. All right. Well, then boom, we go straight to 243, but not before then. So this is a hard uh this becomes a very easy statistical trade small albeit $5 poof right through here and then if we can get over if Amazon can get over this area we have another one and then all of this I think you have to be patient on Amazon all of this becomes a giant consolidation one more whatever right this whole thing and this is the real setup that you really want to be patient for because this is not a small one, but this is what it's all about right here into next year coming into 300 plus possibly significantly higher. I was going to ask is that is that your kind of 2026 target if you had to pick right now? 300 you think is on
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Well remember this was actually 2025 300 target um which got derailed by Bezos and and wife which is neither here nor there but but that's what that's what it is.
>> Okay. I love it. Uh that is Amazon. Let's do Palanteer. What are you thinking about this one? I think I said last time I think it's got a date with uh very close to this 180s and it got nearly there. So, um solid pickup still at the lows. Did you pick this up? I don't remember if you said you did or didn't.
>> Very little bit at 153.
>> Dude, it's it's amazing to me how you're still buying this stock.
>> Well, I was buying at 180 before earning. I bought actually bought a lot before it ran to 200. I was like, "Yo, that's
>> we're going too funny."
>> But I also knew buying I knew averaging up at 180 like this is probably an overextended price. But I really did feel we were going to hit 200 and we did.
>> Yeah.
>> Then the entire market
>> the worst the worst where it's like it never shows up during like real trading. It's like you actually 222 mind you. I know
>> like all targets achieved everything right. This is like uh uh gut-wrench. Um but anyways, that's how she goes. Um but see this? This is that prevailing downtrend downward channel. I know there's a lot of lines, but I'll just kind of like fill it in if I'm coloring in the lines. She's out. She's out. She's out, my dude. Right there. Um does that mean that they go up? It doesn't. Common misconception yet again. Um but what is important here stabilizes around here I would be very happy.
>> Yes, that's what you want to see.
>> Bingo.
>> Right. So that is exactly correct and that is that is exactly what you do want to see. Um so here just we're going to reference this area right here. So over 165 holding. Very good. This 170 in change level. Uh this is still in play. I'm going to make this white. 173 06. See, so this comes from that 190 area and this giant I don't remember if it was earnings or what, but exhaustion. Um, and and this is the still it actually was and remains. This was resistance for a bit over here. So this was resistance here. And then it was support here. It was still support here. And then it turned into resistance here. And it's still being resistance right now. Can you guys see that?
>> I think you should be able to see that. Um, and so what what we want to see is we want to see it at least hug in this area. And my gut here is that this ends up acting like a bit of a magnet. And it's probably as long as it holds, it can back and fill, back, that's just a trading term, like back and fill, back and fill, back and fill. And that's fine. And I want to see this try to bang its head up against this a couple times. Uh I don't want to press this bet, but I want to I want to let that momentum try to build. And if that momentum builds, what this is essentially going to look like is is a bit of a consolidation, maybe a little bit of flag. We call it a flag here. And um as long as this general trend line holds and these lows end up being higher and higher and higher and higher, then this is going to tell me actually that support is building. So a pull back into that 165. Try again. Try again. try again until it's really tight like this. And then eventually, boom. And by that time, where's this 20-day SMA going to be? It's going to be right there. This only gets you to about 180 where that 50-day is going to be, just so we're clear. Um, Oops. So, this is where that 50-day is going to be. um right around here, which is the next which is which is also still it's still going to be good. That's still constructive. Um and then you kind of just make your trajectory back to back to whence you came. And this is that next traffic zone. And you you basically just do it again right over here. And that's that's that's how I see it playing out um so far. That's that's what's happening right now. as long as it doesn't just get absolutely shellacked uh and lose really that 165. If she loses that 165, then well, you got to get retest that 160 area one more or 150 150 area one more time. But that was a pretty heavy pretty deep um pullback. If you do revisit something like that again, I don't think it'll be as deep, but you could be in this general area around 160. Maybe not 140. Not maybe not 147, but probably around 150s, 157. Maybe not as deep as before. All right, next.
>> All right, we got like five more main ones and then we will get into the audience requests. Uh, hood. Dude, what's the best stock in the market right now? That's the question. It's
>> the number one S&P 500 performing stock that's 240%.
>> It's incredible.
>> Is it Hood though? That's not Hood,
>> is it?
>> The number one. It might not be.
>> No, that's SanDisk or Western Digital, isn't it?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's top five, but yeah, it's not.
>> It's top five. It's top five.
>> He's number one in our hearts.
>> It's number one. Number one. It's number three. SanDisk is 469. Western is 256. Robin at 238. And then Micron's at 184. Seagate's at 210. Oh, see I haven't looked at Seagate in a long time. Um, so these lines are where I was. And like a month ago, I was my logic was that Hoodie would do this and eventually we would get up and out and we would be looking at 175. What's going on with the screen here? Um, and and when we lost this, we were like, well, that's off the table because TA is very if this, then that. And uh, and then I texted a MIT over here and I was like, dude, I'm looking at a $20 pullback. I'm I texted him like this day and I was like, "Oh, dude, I'm looking at a $20 drop on Hoodie. Why am I looking at a $20 drop?" and uh and and and it it only dropped like $7 and it instantly got back bought back up and eventually my $20 drop happened. Thankfully, I got my dip by and we're we're back on the mend. But again, we've we've we're we are back on the mend, but look at this. We are right back to a very difficult level. So, I don't want to rest on my laurels. I don't want to be the guy that's like blind to everything that's happening here. Uh I am back over the 20-day SMA. I'm under the 50. I am retesting the prior broken downtrend or uptrend. So, if that was the trend line, that was what I wanted to see happen. Well, I'm testing it from from the bottom, from underneath, it's good. It's not quite good enough yet. That is my my biggest thing. So, here we are on this loss. Actually, let's just go from here. 12786. That's the number. 127.86. If this bad boy holds, that's where the bears are living. I mean, they're they're they're living right in here. And they give up right here. So, right now, they've taken a couple shots at me and my my cohorts. Uh, and you know what? Fine. They they've won a battle or two, but look, we came back with a vengeance. So, that's all I know. And I'm really happy about that, dude. That's all I can tell you. Um, but where we are, one, two, I think we can test it again. It might even feel really good. I don't think the third one's going to hold. Probably gets a big pullback. If we see if I see sub120, dude, I feel like I just need to buy this thing. Um, I don't know if you've gone and released your subtock yet. I feel like I need to buy this somewhere in here if I see it again on a pullback because um I would see something like this and then then I'm thinking then I'm thinking this bad boy
>> uh straight up and that
>> that would be that would be my jam right there. Right there would be my jam. um you know is it is it I don't think there's any chart system that's going to tell you that that's a that's a thing but um I I did not buy at all during this draw down just because I I didn't touch it at all because at the end of the day I still believe it's incredibly volatile going into next year but as you said the prediction market stuff it's starting to get some of the cyclicality out of there and then they probably have more products coming next year so I haven't added yet, but if we see that again, maybe low hundreds you add.
>> Maybe. Yeah. So, I'm just doing a couple things. So, one,
>> by the way, Marll 15% after hours.
>> Oh my god. Nice.
>> All right. So, so because this dip actually went deeper. Now, by the way, um that 175 changes also. So, that 175 goes higher into 185. So, adjust that target. if we can get back over here. So, um that needs to adjust for this more recent dip. So, it's Hood has been able to attract more buyers if that does get through, which means that it can go actually higher in this instance, but 128 key level. Um not out of the woods yet. Then it gets to 135s. Over 135, she's up and out. over 135s, you can get a little bit of this. That's that's that's how she goes. Otherwise, be on your toes. More cautious. Cautiously optimistic. More optimistic than cautious on this one. When's Substack?
>> I'll probably be I've been it's like 50%. Probably be out on Saturday. But these prediction markets again, I was telling Jason last night when they came out, Jason was like this because you started using the product when it came out and you were like, "This is the future." And I was like, "It's cool, but like now I'm just like, no, no, no. This is the freaking future, bro. This is a big deal."
>> I mean, it's it's a tool to get to the future. I mean, the future is world domination. future is every every every human being on in the in the United States has a Robin Hood account and you're born and you get a Robin Hood account as your as your gift at the at the hospital. Um, so that's the future, but it's it's one step towards that that goal and and and a billion dollar thousand stock price, billion dollar market cap, thousand dollar stock price, which you know 10 year goal
>> trillion
>> trillion, sorry, my bad. billion trillion dollars, but you know, it's a long time out. It's it's a it's a stepping stone.
>> Uh, all right, we got four more main ones, then we'll get into audience ones. Uh, AMD, by the way, if you have not followed Jason on Twitter, putting it here in the chat, please make sure. Oh, real quick, this is also what Jason and I are going to be doing. Uh, if hoodie gets anywhere near below 100, Really?
>> We're going to be running
>> running be running to buy that dip. Future is coming, bro. The f Tesla just posted this. The future is indeed coming.
>> The future is I still have my orders resting. I have not touched those, bro. Hoodie just just because. I'm like, they're resting. They're sitting there. Uh I'm not changing those. I maybe I added a few. I don't know. Um, but yeah, I think cash is nice to have. I'm still I'm Dude, before I even start on AMD, I'm still stuck on this. Do I I don't if it if it gets to the point where like I might have to be like look around the stock market again and be like, is there a better stock? I don't know. But, um, yeah, I'm just happy. I'm just happy with that one. All right, so AMD didn't quite get to 185. Oo, she got close, though, huh?
>> Got very close.
>> Real close. She got into the box. And so, so this this gray box was the box. This guy right here that is actually the head and shoulders pattern whatever completed meaning if this is the head and the shoulders it's that um 50% 50% of that extended that's target acquired. So that pattern complete. You don't really have to worry about that anymore unless it um and worst case it the worst case it was 182 which at 190 I guess you really don't worry about it. You just kind of close your eyes and buy a little double bottom amidst amidst uh what is that? There it is. Double bottom. Um but 227 is well shoot is was and remains the like the critical like pivot and power shift pivot. Um we'll just zoom out just so you guys see it. So 227 is from here. That's 2024 all-time high. So it it really you'd really want it to be over that. Um there's still a real like there's still a real possibility that this gets to 185s. Um so it's still on watch. I would I would still be more comfortable. Um this is what you would call a bare flag. It's not a bullish setup. It's actually pretty bearish setup here. Uh just checking. Yeah. So, right at that 50%. So, it's it's where the bears jump in right here. Uh uh it would have been really weak had it been higher, but right here, that's technically where they would have jumped in at that. I don't use this, but it's 382 on paper. That's where they definitely jump in. Um, so if it if it holds below 218, which is where it kind of rejected today, it's probably going to retest that general area again. But to me, this is more sideways chop than anything else. Could it still get lower? It could. Um, yeah, it's not out of the weeds until it's firmly over 227. So, no change to this chart. Quite frankly, the dip buys are lower. Um, that was a good dip by kind of similar to Ethereum where the dip buy recently was good, but if we can't get up and out, it's not it's not like the best. But, um, here's what you want to do since we don't really care about this. what you guys care about. You guys care about I mean, you need to I'm just going to request that you fix me sometimes when I get broken like that. And I forget what they what they
>> what what they care about is
>> that that was an interesting choice of words.
>> Well, I'm broken sometimes because I'm I'm trying to get into the weeds of all this stuff, but they care about
>> I can fix you if you need to be fixed. They care about is it done going down and if so where do I buy it and then where is it going to go next? Right? That's what you guys care about, right? So it's very possible that it's done going down actually and and if it is, you want to buy it right here, just underneath 210. Just a sliver beneath 210 right here. If you want to get very explicit, this is for the editing crew. You want to screen cap this when you see AMD at whatever this is. I'm gonna get nasty in the weeds here. At 205 spot 07. Uh let's go 206009. Just throw a resting order. It'll fill and then it's going to reverse up immediately and it's probably going to go to 231 and then Okay, go ahead. I was going to say, do you think that 250 range that it was at before is in play? by end of year.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So you want to you want to lock this double bottom. Then you want to lock a higher low. Then you want to get up and you want to start see this and this is the beginnings of structure after that uh head and shoulders is was completed. It's still a long road. Then you want to see that. That's what good's going to look like. What you don't want to see is you don't want to see this. M
>> but where this inflection point is going to be boom right in here in be just underneath 210. It's not going to be here. You don't want to chase this up there. You don't want to be buying this dip down here. You want to be looking at it right here inside of 210. Just just a hair underneath. If you had to pick which way you think that plays out by end of year, I think it's closer to the 250. I mean, cuz to me, this one's weird. This is not an Nvidia story that the market's afraid about AI bubble. I mean, I guess AMD gets caught up in that.
>> This is this is where options become your friend, right? And I think that you can use options as optionality and you could take some shortterm bets to pay for longerterm positions if they work out in the short term. And if you if you don't pay a lot for short-term bets, then those profits will will will pay tfold than the longer bets in terms of uh percentage gains. Uh and and also the same dollar amount as as longer expensive bets, but the losses in terms of dollar losses, net dollar losses, not percentage losses. So position sizing is size matters. Uh but the dollar losses will be significantly smaller than if you take Don't smile this guy. Uh but but the dollar losses if managed appropriately um will be mitigated versus taking large large sums of money and putting them into massive amounts of equity or or other things.
>> Yeah. But so I think you could nibble essentially um and stick your toe in the water here and if it goes well then in this instance if it goes well you can press the gas as it goes.
>> Yep. Um all right last couple uh SoFi
>> looking better by the way. Marll still going 14.
>> Do you guys like that? Like you can like tickle him.
>> That was the thing you've actually That's gonna get clipped, bro. That is
>> um I It actually looks good. So, this is doing what I was hoping that some others would do. So, it's actually whole thing.
>> Dude, we have a
>> none of your other guests are this. None of your other guests would do that.
>> That's true. They wouldn't.
>> Um,
>> that's that's why you're special. So,
>> all right. So, this 20 2875 big deal um to hold this level was resistance right here, here, here, right? um had been support for a time in here, resistance here, support recently. So what was resistance, sorry, has turned near-term
>> real quick.
>> Let me just read Trump post. We just got it right now. Trump, we had a very productive call with President Lula of Brazil. Among the things we discussed were trade, how our countries could work together to stop organized crime, sanctions, etc. President Lula and I established a relationship at a meeting which took place at the United Nations, and I believe it set the stage for very good dialogue and agreement long into the future. I look forward to seeing and speaking with him soon. Much good will come out of this newly formed partnership. Um, this is bullish because we just put 50% tariffs on Brazil for coffee. So, it looks like maybe that's going down and then if we have better trade with them, you know, that could be definitely bullish for inflation expectations. I like that we still have the yen stuff that's kind of looming. That's the one the yen and the whatever happened Chinese real estate is kind of looming. Um, so he here now this is so so 24s low 24s last TT two TTS ago dude. I mean people that don't like technicals or thought it was just astrology. I I swear like if there was a TT like chat like they could just like this is how much I made just by like low 24s dip by kabam. I mean that's money TT pays again here we are right up in here actually holding this I think this does another consolidation don't need to press the bet but when it does get over um which it's really going to try this is this is very much going to come down to rates uh and we're we're very likely priced in so not actual rate cuts but rhetoric around the the velocity of rate cuts to come more notably who the next Fed chair will be as well. Heavy heavy low like low liquidity zone here to fill into the 32s when we get there. Again, I'm just going to say this. I don't think it holds um here, but I think you can get have a very big shot boom quick to this area. Don't expect it to hold. Expect some like quick pullback to test this area one more time. Then I want to see that act as support and pull like all this up and turn this entire thing into that trajectory which by the way at that point we are not talking about 35s at that point. If that's the case we're talking about something a lot bigger um because that was from a different range and now just like hood because we've pulled back a lot we can actually go higher since we've been able to track attract more buyers. There it is. So then we're talking about 40s right there if that happens. Cuz if that does happen, remember this is going to be very bearish near-term. And you guys, you guys know those pattern traders, the pattern traders are going to get all up in arms. They're going to see this. They're, oh, big head and shoulders. What do I say about the patterns? The most bullish patterns is is the failed bearish patterns. That is insanely bullish if that happens. So, let them get all up in arms here. Don't press this bet here. Don't do that. Wait for this to come and then consolidate a little bit. And when when this starts to make the move just a little bit as it's making the move, then you press this bet. And that's going to be the big one.
>> Okay, last one and then we'll get into audience requests is Rocket Lab.
>> Still hanging. Haven't moved. Dude, another TT pair. Could you believe that happened? Like, anyways, I don't know if it holds, but here now. Look, I would love I would love to see this. I have fun doing this show. Actually, I look forward to the show. Like,
>> dude, everyone Well, like, well, not everyone, but the people that love TA,
>> they are constantly asking. Like the amount of messages I got in the morning like, "Hey, it's Tuesday. We're definitely doing technical Tuesday." I'm like, "Yes."
>> Right? Are we doing it? Are we doing it? Right. So, patience is a virtue here. It's spelled P A Y. Patience. Patience. And um this requires patience. So, we want to see this kind of thing happen here. Uh we want to see this kind of thing happen over here. We're not seeing it yet. We're seeing the beginnings of So, just like we were talking about with meta, we want to see structure form. Look, we're we're starting to see a little bit of structure, but we are definitively not out of the weeds yet. It's constructive. Uh I'm not giving up at all. I I like this. This is going to be very sentiment driven. So, this blue line here where it was support. My caution here is that it is it is now oops still not now. It's still it's still resistance. So deflected deflection deflection deflection. What I want to see is I want to see this get up and over and then have that act as support. Right? So plus by by that is in this general area over 42. So this is good that the lower end here has held. I'm going to turn this green just like it has over here. And I want to see essentially something like this. Can it have a big Can it have a big moonshot like that and then get retested? For sure. But again, this after the breaking upside and then coming back downside to retest it, that's what I would like to see. Right now, it's still acting as resistance. So, it's there. Support is in that 40 area. the the the stronghold of 38's held has held remains to hold hasn't even been tested yet. Um they step what's constructive here is like dude we we knew 38 was going to be a big deal and then they stepped in higher like they stepped in higher than 38. They didn't wait for 38.
>> Yeah.
>> That's that's constructive. So I like that. Before we move on to the audience ones, can we uh do as given it's in the space name space?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So we can blend this. Uh but this is so I just want to be super clear. This is not out of the weeds um by any stretch of the imagination. So it it's possible. I just don't want to see that 40 area get shellacked and definitely not that 38. Um
>> if it does, it's it's in the 28s I believe just to cap this off. Yeah, it's this area over here, which I don't know if that's going to be a screaming buy or not. I'd still have to wait and see because we're fair value to fair value. So, this mountain range, we need to get through STS super similar. So broad downtrend broken. Does it need to go up? No. They call this like a not a wedge but just a wedge. And it's out. Sometimes you get trapped in these patterns. Again, you want to know the patterns, but why you know them. Sometimes they just go sideways. I wish I had this annotation tool. Doesn't have white. Um but sometimes they go sideways. And so what we do is we wait for that that setup and that setup is going to be over 6056 and we use lots of tools for confirmation. This is kind of like that uh if price was the car that we're driving from city center to city center. This is that congestion area here. So that's that's good um support if you will. It's a big support range from all of this and that's holding. So that support range is holding. If it gets any higher, like over 60 spot, whatever that is, 56, which looks like that's going to line up with your 20-day, then you're going to have a straight shot for a couple bucks right to the next one. Um, and your next little city center is going to be here. And that that range is going to be from 55 to that's actually a big percentage. But you get over I think it's trying. That's 26%. I think it's trying right now actually by the looks of this. Let me just zoom in a little bit. Yeah. I mean over 55 and a half. This is trying. I can see it having tried here. Little explosion here. prior resistance support resistance kind of push off today. So I actually would watch this tomorrow if this can hold and push through this this this area. If it can push through this area, it's definitely happening like that. That would happen in short order.
>> All right.
>> Because like the whole market's like we're on the edge. We're on the edge.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I I think a lot of the high beta names that got flushed that haven't recovered, it's good because if they did recover, it would be a little too weird. But um
>> yeah, also when we talk about this, we're talking about trading. Sorry to interrupt. Um but trading is like we're here. I don't mean to say it's going to hold and just continue on. That's not I didn't say that. So, what I'm saying is like it could do this and then a little simple moving average pingpong and eventually get up and over that
>> but like but as didn't I mean did it deserve to be $102, right? Like I'm from a fundamental. Did Rocket Lab deserve to be 70? So I yeah it maybe doesn't need to go back to 30 but I don't know if it's going to 100 anytime soon. And that's okay. Like if you're a long-term sh you should be happy that it's not just shooting to the moon unsustainably.
>> Well, yeah. I I mean, yep. So, I got confluence here to 73. I 73s is what I have. Okay.
>> You see that? I mean, it was chilling out there for a while, but the moonshot to 100 or the moonshot to from Oak to, you know, 92 to 193, like that stuff, that stuff we all knew at the like we were all trying to convince ourselves it's not toppy, but we all knew it felt incredibly toppy and then it topped out. And now the fact that we're even recovering is so nice, but that doesn't mean we can expect these massive alltime highs again. Yeah. Yeah. Which brings me to the other, you know, 10 10x and 10-year stocks. It was aside from Palunteer and and Robin Hood, which which have essentially done it already. So then we go to the B players. The B team is the B team. The B team was Rocket. My my two picks were Rocket Lab and Rivian, which which I kind of poo pooed on. Um mostly Rivian. Definitely think Rivian's a 10x, but I mean, who knows?
>> What did you say?
>> Said I definitely don't think Rivian was going to be a 10x, but maybe it is. I think they got to get profitable first, you know.
>> I mean, Rivian's going to be a 10x.
>> So, it's going to be $150 stock.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> People aren't really buying EVs. So, unless it's Tesla, and even then Tesla's margins aren't that good. So, Well, it could be $120 stock if you bought a 121 1250 $128 stock from the 1280 lows, but um is that on inflation, too? Inflation, not infl is that counting inflation? Well, count for inflation. Um but yeah, it it totally could be. Um but in 10 years, yeah. Yeah. So, we're we're here. It just kind of brings me to that same same concept of like there's not a lot of levers that have to be pulled for something like a Rivian to actually get there. It's doing everything it needs to do. Rivian here is Palunteer 8 between that Palunteer and Robin Hood between that eight and $10. You remember when both these two stocks Palanteer and Robin Hood were traversing eight between eight and $12 for how long? like two three years they made that trek that 50% up down up down up down this is like just almost infuriating that's like Rivian um to me and it's it's doing that trek now and if it can get a couple things going flip one switch it's profitable then all of a sudden you know things things start to happen you get a couple backers you know RJ changes his tune becomes a fan he visits RJ at at the headquarters in Silicon Valley he he becomes
>> think I'm gonna be the one to pump Rivian to attend.
>> No, I'm not saying that. But, you know, maybe maybe R.J. changes a little bit and and and and people come around to him. Uh isn't so much a underpromise, overd deliver, turns into a Sundar uh and and starts delivering on a lot of things uh in his in his in his later years in life. Just saying. But for all intents and purposes, this is showing a lot of good strength and R2 is coming. So yeah, I I don't I think this is like D-risk, but again, I don't think you are in this for a short short time.
>> It's squeezy, but this looks
>> as long as they don't dilute. That's the thing. they cannot dilute the shareholder base and and that over here I think he made a mistake for sure and I think he learned his lesson. Um and I think as long as they can build IP from here and and monetize their technology it's got a shot.
>> Speaking of speaking of dilution, let's get into rapid fire. Um, so this is 2:30 on the clock. We'll take audience requests. Um, Irene, let's start off with that one given
>> Oh, I I went to MSTR because you said dilution.
>> Well, that one too. But IN is the one that's really upsetting people on a day like this.
>> Why?
>> Well, they diluted by Well, I don't know if they diluted the convertible notes of two billion. Uh, stocks down from 80 bucks to 40. So, it's cut in half. I mean, this is my, you know, it's 50 60.
>> Rewind TT, right? when when when when we went and said this like okay over here whatever it was like I'm pretty sure it was like here this this drop and and and this and this and this were like by the way this I didn't draw that just now that was drawn from our session um but it was like you're in trouble
>> yeah and not only that like this like maybe sometimes you don't buy a stock that's up 8x year to date like maybe you just wait
>> it was no so this was act so this was act so here's a perfect example this stock was acting perfect it was acting super clean technically speaking until it wasn't every one of these pullbacks was incredibly orderly and perfectly measured to the extension to the penny and we were calling this thing every one of these little I mean you guys they they remember right every one of these little pullbacks to extension to pullback to extension to pull back to extension. All each one of these was totally orderly until it wasn't which was like Yeah. It was right here. And
>> and I remember this. This is when people started screaming to buy the dip.
>> Yeah.
>> And then it was not about the but and it went higher after that which is why people thought they were right.
>> Right here. That's when it stopped being orderly,
>> right?
>> And we're like, "Oh, okay. You have a lower high, right? and you have a lower low. This is your structure. Then you have a higher high. Okay, fine. But you have a double top here. And now you have now you have a lower low. So is it over? Look, it's not it's it's up to you. Like here's the thing. It's going to be over. Oops. If that gets lost, the 39, right? And so this is just an overlay of that. Right. So this is that. So it's it's it's simple. These are hard lines on the chart 42. But it's got to get it's got to get back over 50 to be back again. If it pops up and you get this rejection, I'm going to call it here at 40. Let me just make sure that this doesn't have I hate how it says overlapping. Let them overlap. Dang it. 4283. So if it can't like that's where this becomes real ugly and this is now your resistance area. So this is resistance. But this chart has changed changed characteristics already. Um and quite frankly it it changed characteristics up here. uh and now you're just what we call breaking structure continuously to the downside. So um it is it is at risk. You'd have to get all the way back up over you can bounce but you'd have to get back over this 4882. And so in order for me to get bullish on this, I'd have to see all of that clear and I'd have to definitively see
>> and and there there could be any fundamental catalyst like this is not a broken company by it's just the stock was up 8x
>> and and it's I ran the thing the thing has an average daily range of like 15%. So like like it it can do this in a in a single session for for gez it could do that for in a single session. So let's say you like the stock um and and and let's be bullish here for a second. So from inception not inception from super lows to mega highs 33 is your 50 is your is your right here right now. 42. That's your halfway point from all the way down here. If you cannot get over 42, look, you're you're you're basically going down to 33s, but not before then. Before then, it's very possible that you chop and you just go sideways. So, it's not it's still it's still not one that I would want to press. You can let this go sideways. Stocks go three directions. It can easily go sideways. Now after the sideways like after this goes sideways does it go up that's got to look like this or does it go down right both options can can happen and down looks like that that's it and if you like this well it's very simple it's very simple that the moral of this story is that this is not a buy spot this can be a buy spot And if you like it, if you really like it, then you wait for it to go higher. So either you wait for it to go higher over 50 and hold or you wait for it to be lower in the 30s. But you don't ddle in the middle, which is what this is. It's come down a lot, too. So I don't want to I don't want to press this short either.
>> Yeah. I mean, like I I don't think this is the time to go short here by any sense.
>> No. No. No.
>> Okay. So, let's get a let's get 2:30 on the clock and uh let's try to
>> Okay.
>> Get through the rapid fires. Let's just do Nebus next. Given a
>> Oh, I thought Nebius. Nebus. Say it right.
>> Nebulous as per.
>> This is looking good today. Almost. Almost.
>> Dude, my charts have got so much color going on here. Okay, so what did we say? We need the timer.
>> The important thing to hold was 76 and that as long as it was in there, you did want to be a buyer. And that came from over here and that is held. Cool. So if but if it lost 7675, then it would it would definitively pull lower. So and and not to not to ddle in this middle, right? We don't we don't play in there. So that's good. Hopefully, we haven't dealt with that yet. Um, so that's all that's all well and good. So, here we are back to the bear. Dude, what this mouse back to the bare zone of where we kind of breached before. So, this was that power earnings gap um from here. So, remember this earnings? I believe this was earnings. Something's wrong with my charts where I have I don't have I gotta make sure uh events. Oh, bingo. Hello. Thank you. Earnings. Oh, earnings was over here. This was must be an announcement. Some kind of announcement. Microsoft announcement. Earnings was over here. All right.
>> Yeah,
>> I got something to work with now. Okay. So, this is earnings. Let's go from that swing low to here. All right. So your this is the bear zone from earnings, not the Microsoft announcement. Let's zoom into that. Take some of these other lines down. That may not be as useful. 20 days is white. 50 days is blue. We know what that is. Not as important anymore. Oops. And we're zooming in on this smaller time frame. I'm dropping down time frame like one to the next. So 9839 this is important smaller smaller view but that these are those ranges tradable ranges. Uh but not until you get over 104 does this become a big a big thing. So 10443 hopefully you guys can see it a little bit better now. Let me make it slightly larger. 10443. Then you go to the to this next kind of resistance area, but I would actually say that that goes a little bit higher to here. Until then, expect a little bit of chop. Um, ideally you get in there, but you want to see this hold over that 9839 moving forward. This guy, uh, 9839. I'd like to see it get pulled up and at least hang out in this general range just over a hundred. Um otherwise it can be in this in this range for a while and do this and the C new structure and eventually do that eventually. But um all that said that 76 area holds that logic remains that if it ever loses just let it let it let it go and buy at that 50 sub60. Uh this is a buy right here as it was. I don't think you get that again. I think the closest that you can get to that if you're really sneaky is probably this 88 in reality, which I think you already had that happen. So, uh I'm out of time, but yeah, I think that is about 88 is where I would expect that to possibly come out and hold here. So that would be the next dip by spot if I wanted to stay constructive here, which was the old level that I used to text admit on 848. Anyways, do you want me to text you again?
>> Yes.
>> Oh, really? Okay, he's good now.
>> All right, next.
>> Can we do BMR? But do do we have to do ETH to do BMR?
>> No.
>> Okay, let's just do BMR itself.
>> I mean, like people like to
>> we should do ETH, you know. I'm I'm I gotta say though, I'm disappoint Did you uh Did you watch that video I sent you that we're working on for Thanksgiving?
>> Yes.
>> It was like a two-minute Oh, you did?
>> Yeah.
>> So, I I got to say I am I'm slightly disappointed with everybody and the effort over the Thanksgiving break. ETH shows its true colors. Crypto shows its true colors over Thanksgiving. If it didn't come up as a topic, well, was up to you guys to bring it up. and we didn't get the pump and that was kind of what happened.
>> We had a little bit on Sunday and then it dumped,
>> right? But um but we needed to we needed to get over 3150 uh and hold for the bears just to be completely off sides. But that said, I'm holding on for dear life on BMR. Higher low, that's good. Higher high on a very small structure count. These are fine. Um this is this is my little dipper. um by and I think as long well I don't think I as long as this general area is holding I I'm pretty positive I'm good. I will say that the DATs as a whole digital asset treasuries the sentiment around those is important. Luckily I don't think uh BMR is one of those um I don't see any reason to think that it's a Ponzi per se. I hate to say hate to use that word, but it it may come up. Um, but it's not like they're I don't I don't see it that way. Um, structure is good. We're building structure here. This is super constructive. That's exactly what you want to see. Um, th this looks good. It actually looks constructive. Um, so as long as I hold these relative lows just over 28, it can even pull back a little bit, but it's it's 26 that remains. Um, we have a little bit of upside here to 34s. I don't want to I don't this this should take us up to at least this area 40s low 40s and where that prior support was that's where this bounce should take us. So right right in this blue line um on a typical bounce. So we should be able to get on this general track of trajectory to here if not here and retest this prevailing downtrend and then we'll see and where that where that prior breakdown was. So this lines up to about 3500 on ETH. That could be a few months out. Um, we can look at ETH now if you want to, but BMR is going to be here. But this 20 28s 2872 right here, I want this line to hold.
>> Great. I I think we'll do ETH and Bitcoin at the end because I know we'll we'll take more time on those. Yeah, but I I think this should this this general trajectory should for any normal chart take you to just under 40, which by the way is is a good from a 26 bounce or from a whatever bounce in TT whenever day I said, "Hey, look, we're buying or I that's 40%, dude, on equity." That's that's a hell of a lot of percent.
>> Um agree
>> if we can get there.
>> All right, next. of lift.
>> I can't believe you didn't want to do MSTR.
>> We can do that after.
>> Oh, I might have been bullish on for a second. I mean, you can only be bearish for so long, right? He goes, man. Um, yeah. Again, if we had that TT playlist, this is exactly what um what we had in the
>> when you say playlist, you mean like clip each individual
>> No, no, no. Just the Do you know how just you could go back just like you do for all the other playlists?
>> But wouldn't you just pull up last week's episode? Why does there need to be a playlist?
>> No, because if we didn't do Lyft last week, you would just scan through the ones and just click on the hashtag.
>> Okay, I see what you're saying. I see.
>> Yeah. And so the last time we talked about Lyft, it was exactly this. And for our our crew that was watching Lyft, it was it was look, we're going to hold this low. We're going to come in. We're probably going to hold this low here. It got bought up pretty heavily and literally said um that we should would should see this back into this 22 area and that would be it. That's exactly what's happened. Um that's exactly where we are. I think you have a little bit left. Um, but just like everything else, solid bounce. Uh, lower risk here, taking this long 20% in a few days. Congrats. Pressing this higher here now. Higher risk um at this point because you got to be just, you know, we want to be good bulls and a good bull knows where the bears are hiding out. So, we're not out of the weeds until we're over 20 23 and change. And you've excuse me, even then you have a little bit more, but this this looks generally constructive. Zoom out. I don't know that you're in lift for a for a little while. Um, you probably if you're if you're in lift, you're in it for potentially more like a more like a Rivian um type thing. And that whole hold was more constructive than not. All of this SMAs are are building for a potential next level squeeze, but holding that 2134 is important. Getting over 2575 is more important. Um, and that at that point, yeah. No, then there's no more bears left and you go to 3152. You do not pass. Go do not collect $200. you just go straight to whatever this is. Did I say that right? I don't think I did. But anyways, um not before then. No, before then we have we have a lot to deal with. Um namely it's just this it's this this little blip on the radar and we've got some we've got some like small presses here. But again, this is one where like if you like this, you you you you like it probably for other reasons that are not so technical and you probably want to like be close to the um to D like DAR DAR sentiment and whatever they're doing between Uber Freight and and and what have you a lot of other things.
>> Okay. Micro strategy.
>> Oh, we are going there. Okay. So, you know, not not the biggest bull on the street for a long time. Um, but again, I think I think this is uh and I and I'm not a I'm not a Sailor fan to be crystal clear. I'm not a fan of Sailor like at all. And I do think that what he's done with Micro Strategy um has completely confused the crap out of a lot of people with all these different uh tickers and different things paying and and I do think that it's a potential Ponzi at the end of the day. Um so none of that's changed, but this is extreme and leverage leverage to the upside, leverage to the downside. bit Bittycoin, Ethereum, all of that I think are very close to the lows, if not the lows. Um, this bad boy actually hits all the boxes in terms of the full pullback. Uh, and even like from way down here, actually, where was it? We were doing this not that long ago. Uh, I don't remember where it was. Don't remember where it was. Oh, maybe it was this one. one of these. Anyways, um you're right in here. You're right into I'm just going to grab this profile from this consolidation. All right, 130 is the absolute lows of this box here. I don't think that you get there. Just going to extend that point of control here. There here. And I have a what I think I was going to call a fair value right over here. So just getting some levels in. And so this box here is that major congestion area. So, it's it's going to be 185 is what it is. So, if it's over 185, there it is. There's the one I was looking for. Boom. This is a key order block 165. And if it if this can hold over this 185 area and let's go to the weekly. I'm running out of time. But from a weekly perspective, we have a setup one, two, three candlestick, weekly candlestick setup. Uh, and this actually gets pretty interesting. 18150 here. Break of structure out of time from this consolidation area. Zoom over. Boom. So 187. This takes me to pull in a monthly 50% of this range. So I didn't have this ready. This takes me over 18729 clean ranges 218 potentially 225. That's very tradable. So I'm going to zoom back in for just a minute. That does not look like much on the chart, but um that is 25%. On a chart, and if it can get that trajectory over, which is it's not there yet. We need 180 1872. Um then this becomes like a foregone conclusion. And then if that can get higher than 230s, then we're talking about a bigger kind of recovery that can actually hit you to 270s, which could be just a basic run-of-the-mill blip um deadcat bounce, but that is 40% also. So, it's worth watching.
>> So, did you did you take this or no?
>> Uh I might have nibbled, but we're watching. It's it's a watch for sure. It's a heavy watch. just uh be careful of this area. 230 230s. So, I mean, even if it's just this. Okay, I bought some. I bought some uh but not options. I took a couple shots at options. Did I take one or two shots, guys? My crew will know if they're here. Have not taken a big swing here yet. But yes, I did nibblelet.
>> Okay.
>> And I like where we are. So, it's it's something that's brewing. Uh, I'm telling you guys because this is one of those times where I'm letting you know before I pull the trigger that it might be coming, which is better than I've already done it. Okay, core. Same old same old. So TT lines um nothing changes. Everything stays the same. It's made the trajectory exactly as the weatherman has. It's what it is. It's it's it's it's acting right. The the lines are here. So 66 was the lows. Um that's a good balance. I mean, that's a 23% bounce in very short order. Got there. Don't press this. It's a high-risk press. Just the same at this point. 75 actually should hold. Um, let me give you one more just to I mean, it's going to be the same level. SE 72 75 72 tomato tomato. Um, it's this general area. You want to see this general area hold on corewave and let it go sideways. If I zoom out, I mean, that's that's an important price that bounce off 65 right here. That's the IPO press high. Um, it's not out of the weeds. 84 and change is out of the weeds. So, I think you let this go sideways for a while and essentially it's close to 70. Uh, as long as this is holding relatively around 70, low 70s, you're building a base. You just don't want to see it lose 65s. Then then you're not building a base and then you're coming back to these lows. It's pretty straightforward on coreweave.
>> You need to let that that data center trade. So, you know, fant has a nasty data obviously that can be nasty as well.
>> Yeah. Just credit market too. Private credit.
>> Yeah, 100%. Uh, Weeble,
>> this is getting a lot of attention, but
>> it's just never going to be Robin Hood, guys.
>> It's not, but I think a lot of people at 15 took this trade heavily
>> and that's why it's
>> people at 15 took the trade heavily and that's why it's been upsetting for most. Well, I think they took an investment then or a trade that turned into an investment. I mean, it said at 760 it was fine. I did say that. Um, but I also It's over. It's done.
>> You think you think it's bottomed or
>> No. I think it's done going up now.
>> It's done going up.
>> Yeah, it's done going up, man. It's done going up, my friend. It's It's definitely done going up. And now it's going to commence the pain train.
>> Dude, there's like
>> What do you want me to say? Do you guys see this? Like, it's very It's right there. That's the IPO price of 955. Look, if it cannot get over its f, this is a hard line in the sand. This is again simple, maybe not easy, but the low the low the low initial trade 955. Look, this is like a a dumpster dive I think is fine. But uh and and and by the way, you know, also like everything else, 26% bounce like in 4 days, like round of applause. Congrats.
>> That's a huge move on a penny stock.
>> So, you know, it's a it's a huge move. Um when I say it's over just for today like okay so 871 is the session gap I'm not 872 if this is below 872 it's just not it's not worth playing around well it's not even that if it's below this it is continuously going lower you have not made a new uh structural high, you're sitting on the 20-day simple moving average. This has no chance of becoming even close to to to Robin Hood just fundamentally. Um, so I I think that's a big misnomer, but it has to at least get over 10 bucks, man. And it has to hold 10 bucks comfortably for a
>> also management is shady, bro. Like
>> that's what I'm saying. It's a Chinese company. This is not an American company.
>> This is this is not an American stock like or this is not an American company.
>> Yeah.
>> Just look maybe it gets sympathy and bounces, but as you said, there's been a 30% move. So if it doesn't clear 10, which was the IPO price,
>> and that would be very weird.
>> I mean, I think that's that's a that's an easy it's easy line in the sand to say, "Okay, I I I could feel a little bit better about that." Um, but right here, this little green box, it's just like that's that's uh you would want to see it get over 955. Let's let's move on.
>> Celsius.
>> Okay. I haven't looked at it since I bought it. I promised them I would buy it though. I knew it. Um, okay. So, it's good dip by. Solid good dip by. So, this is perfect example. um lowrisk, highreward boom to here trading. So, do we press it though? No. Do we hold it? Yeah. I think that was a good dip by and I think that it makes its general trajectory here. I'm not selling this. I think that was the dip. Uh I think this holds. I think I can get close to it again. Um but actually, I like where it stopped today. not going to tinker with this. I bought it. I own it. I'm not buying the drinks. Um but I'm going to put this one in the drawer and see what happens. Cuz as long as this is holding 3859, I'm sorry, 3871. This is in fact very constructive. That's 37. This here is what is this? 3871. I'm trying to make this bigger so you guys can see this. As long as it's holding that general box. So 37 was like, okay, that's where I said I'd buy it. Um, but as long as it's holding inside this box, honestly, I'm I'm I'm good with this. And next time it gets near that box, it should make that press one more time anyways. Uh, and then if it can get up and over 44, then that's the bigger move. But I need to give it time to digest this and create that little what do you call where the other pattern people see the little smiley face and then it goes. So I got to get give it time to to create that. Um, and here I need to take it from here to here. That should take me to 52 on this one. So, even on this guy, from here to here, I'm going to hold out for my 40%, possibly 50% on that small little bounce. I think I can get that. Uh, and if it can really get back over 60s, I mean, I I think the trajectory is is really like this, quite frankly. Like that. And um that is not necessarily a shortterm thing, but check this out. If that goes,
>> that'd be 70, right? Oh, I mean 70 would be just the start. That's the thing. I mean the whole thesis would still be there, but you're talking many year thing. Um the the the original thesis I I Rockstar might change this a little bit, but I don't know that this is a 10 bagger in 10 years. I don't think I could say that. But could you get back to those $100 levels in a few years? That's possible. And this brings it to 170. If that if that ends up being like a big consolidation break, push and one more that that that's that's a little that's a little that's pushing it. One step at a time, one foot in front of the other would look like this.
>> Okay. Uh, Reddit. Well, first day of the squeeze ended. What a squeeze.
>> Good god.
>> I really thought I was going to get lower, too,
>> dude. So did I. I thought this this is a high beta quality name that is actually recovering from the flush out.
>> Well, I mean it's it's right back to the high. So, recovered um not not all the way here, but made a big a big move for sure
>> and stopped right at the bare zone. That's So, this is the bear zone
>> right here. This is so everything's acting right, like acting very well and um everything's stopping exactly where it should stop, which tells me that we're in for a bit of a pause at the index level. So, as we've gone through these charts, just as a side note, everything is stopping. Boom. Dead penny penny penny precision um like exactly where they should at their upside targets, which doesn't necessarily mean that we're going to go backwards, but it means that we should at least expect some kind of digestion at the index level. And and maybe we can have a little bit of a pullback, but those those would generally be dip buys. um assuming that we don't have any massive like yen carry trade unwind 2.0 which emit we'll we'll walk you guys through at a later date. Um, but this still does put you in that $200 price point. Specifically here, $1 193.84 for the next breath thrust squeeze if it if it consolidates. Uh, let me do one more just to be sure. Yeah. And I'll have I'll have some confluence there. So around that same level, if this pulls back, that would be a retest of that same broken downtrend, which would actually be a pretty solid dip to consider buying. And this one, I think even I would have to change my style slightly because this one is just such a squeezy stock. I think you have to use some kind of other volatility tools on this guy a in addition to price action. So I I'll update my tool set for this guy.
>> Any thoughts on ALAB? Big reversal today. Up 13 then down 10. That's AAB for you. Um I I I think uh ALAB is one of those stocks where um so we're going to release School of Gains Foundations like in the next couple weeks for you guys for you guys. Uh and so everybody here will get a chance to see like an entire series. Um so I'm going to make sure that you guys get all of that. um, Gratus to a to an extent and then um, we'll go through a lot of these things about stock picking and things like that and and transitioning to um, trading from investing. But ALAB is one of those stocks where it has the potential to grow into like a massive win. But um, but that bet can't be massive either. There are some bets in the market that like as they grow they become more like conviction long term, but this is a bet for Astera Labs that has to be a controlled bet. But if if if stock picking was like gardening, like you're planting seeds and the stocks that you pick are like money seeds and you're trying to grow money trees, if you will, you're not always going to have like the best crops. But this the skill that a MIT is honing is picking the best seeds to plant. That's actually one and knowing which seeds will grow into the tallest biggest money trees over time. This is one that can h that has the potential to grow into a very big money tree, but it's it's sporadic at times. So, you have to that comes with heavy volatility, right? And so, this is to be expected. Um, and and I think that this kind of custom silicon stuff, next time you're over here, by the way, we should probably just go over to their headquarters. Um, but yeah, I I do like this. Uh, and I I don't think that you should be jumpy with with a chart like this either. I think that this is one where you can kind of nibble at, chip away at. Um, but again, if we do if we if you do get this area, I mean, yeah, do it. But um uh over in this in this general vicinity here 122. Yeah, she's a dipper dip by um for sure. I don't This is This is a standard pullback right on that 200 day SMA. If I turn this green, boom. Again, to the editing team, throw it. Throw it down. 122, whatever that is. I don't know. 12265 limit. Slap it in this box. Generally speaking, you don't have to be exact, but just watch for it. Throw a little alert if they get in there. Like, just right click, uh, add alert. Boom. Cool. when they gets there it's it'll yell at me and uh it's time to really look because right here that's support and I have some congestion here. It's also I got a lot of confluence around 122s 120 area as close to 130 as you can like it.
>> Okay. Um Microsoft what are you thinking about this one as it's been stuck below 500. What? Dude, do you guys did we we did cover this last week, right?
>> Yippee. Did we cover? I don't think
>> See, again, if he had all that stuff and I was like, Microsoft is uh is golden for like a a bounce. That was like, dude, that's such an epic picture. Um,
>> but this thing has been since it's 540, it's been kind of stuck, but yes, it did bounce from 460. You're right about that.
>> 2023.
>> They got to fix Twitter search, bro. It's not good.
>> Wow, this is really bad.
>> Bad, bro. It's like
>> that. Okay, this is messing up my time. Crap. I literally just did it. But last week, Microsoft, it was a big deal. A lot of confluence that we don't usually get. I'm talking and multitasking at the same time. Um, we don't usually get the type of setup that we got on Microsoft. Update update update. Boom. So, uh, Microsoft bearish pattern resolved at a rare confluence point. Um, technical setup was a double top extension resolved exactly at the 200 day SMA and 2024 all-time high. Breach point. It's super rare to get double confluence like this. Um, and ultra precise. So, super compelling for a quick bounce, which has happened. Um, right there. So, if you if you had it 468, your boy bought it. Uh, again, it's there. And then, uh, the updates are here, right? Potential upside just under 490. So 500, but that was from 468. Anticipated pullback. Watching for some structure from here. So the pullback is I mean we just got that was at 480s. We're at 490. So now let's go to the charts. I got 30 seconds left. Look at dude. 493. I mean I'm just saying I like it. Uh I think you can give this some breathing room here. here. So there's your double topish was resolved right here. You're coming into this general resistance first level resistance right now. So, the pullback um if it can't get through this first level, sorry on the timer, guys, but again, you probably don't care about that kind of stuff, but uh as long as you can hold four, we got a barely a pullback. What is it? 484. That's where I was thinking it'd pull back possibly to 483. Um, I think this is buyable as low as 475s if it comes back. And I would I would like to see even if it pulls back, I'd like to see that structure. But this dip, I would not be trimming. I would just be holding potentially looking for some kind of ads. Um, little little ads here. Realistically, if that if that fails, just so everybody else knows, there's there's bigger dips available in this in this area. I really don't think that's going to happen. I do not think that's going to happen at all. I think what does happen is that this ends up consolidating right here. And look, it looks looks a little bit like that and ends up breaking through 496. Microsoft is an extremely resilient stock. It usually gives you about $150. Uh, I I posted how much it usually gives you. It usually gives you um $150. I forgot what this percentage was. 25 to 30% a year every year over the last 10 years on average. But it really depends on when you buy. So the buy zone has to be around that kind of area. So that the target here is legit. um for this to to slow and steadily break out and into next year. Show me 600s and and this anything in here. That's what we're looking for. And that is the setup to DCA. There's your 30% from now to next year on average that Microsoft gives you $150 roughly 30% every single year for the last 10 years on average. That's next year's target. Done.
>> Okay. Um, this one has earnings tomorrow. So, I don't know if you
>> Yeah, that's it.
>> Salesforce, what do you think of this one?
>> Oh, man. I should have known you were going to say something like that. How are we on time overall? Are you so sorry
>> minutes left, but we're good.
>> Okay. Sorry about the flow and stuff. We've been Are you Are we okay? Like kind of bouncing around today. Little
>> No, we're good. And a lot of this stuff is like names that are starting to recover. So, the question on people's minds is, is it real or not? You know,
>> Han Solo, maybe I should phone one to Microsoft. No, but you should you should know what the statistics are. So, if you're going to play in the stock market, know what the averages are. If if trading, investing is all a numbers game. Nobody there's what the saying is, it's better to be lucky than good. It's just a saying. Nobody is actually just lucky. It's all a skill. But the skill is having this repeatable process and being able to actually define statistics and averages and put put an edge to the things that you do. And it's as simple as this kind of stuff. If you can't just do this basic things with with strong fundamentals behind you, then you don't really have an edge and you are in that fact just guessing and everything does become male astrology or female astrology just and and Mercury's in retrograde and that's the best thing that you have to go on. But but uh but unless you have something else but if you have something else then you have something else and it's it's not a guess. Um, did you like how I how I snuck in the Merc Mercury and retrograde,
>> dude? It's the best thing ever. Best thing ever. Um, Salesforce. So, what are you thinking about this one?
>> I'm pulling up this seasonality. All right. So, June, January is their best 80 83% up on average 6.7%. So January is their best month. Um but the last week of the year, 100% of the last wow six years it's up 2 and a half%. This week not so much. Okay. Interesting. I just think they need something to change the narrative tomorrow.
>> So maybe you wait. So So CRM is uh so it's usually their biggest quarter.
>> Yeah.
>> Chart looks like sky. Um I don't know that you have to rush in front of this uh because the downside here is in the 200s. But we talked about this before. The upside is this is an important stock. So just from this it's important because of its weight in the Dow. By the way, Dow is not a it's not it's a it's a price weighted index. It's 23 $235 stock. Um it I guess it's cheaper. I guess it's a smaller part of the Dow now. Um Oh god, that's bad. Um but it's got to get over 250 in the meantime. This is the support area generally speaking. um at 211. So this 21120 area here that is that is your general as a general support for CRM and you can kind of see that the high volume node traffic node right over here. It didn't quite get there. So I that's what I say like your your downside is immediate. I don't think that something like this would just completely flush out. I just don't think so. I mean if it does it's 150 after that. Like if it can't if it can't hold the 200s post earnings than it is here. And in that instance, then this whole this whole whatever does play out. And if that's the case, it's it's not yet is the problem. It hasn't even it hasn't broken this head and shoulders. Yeah, but but that that head and shoulders target would also be acquired. Downside target would be acquired right here at 150. But this line and and really where it's sitting right now is that that power shift line from this head and shoulders. Because like if this is the head and this is your left shoulder, this little blip on the radar here, left head, right shoulder. It's it's it's it's a it's a super wonky head and shoulders. I don't like it. Um, but this is the neck, so to speak, right here. And so it's sitting on it. It hasn't broken. So it's not like a It's not like this is happening. It's It's not that you've It's a It's a general range in between here and here. And this is your this is your traffic area here. So, it's got to if it can get back up and over 24750 and through this hightraic area, it's on it's on the up and up. So, to this end, I don't know that you want you I don't think you have to step in on CRM here and now. I think you can wait to see because the upside for something like CRM is actually pretty substantial if it does like do well. So let's say from 247 it does well. I think realistically you're looking at the 200 at the 300s again and and just in this instance. All right. Well that's 25%. Um that's not bad, right? And it was just there like not that long ago anyways. So, like I I don't know that you have to jump out and wait or uh and front run this necessarily. Does it show up at 300 tomorrow? You know, CRM it it does it does do some really weird stuff. So, I I will say that
>> we got to move on. We got some more tickers.
>> Yeah. So, it's it's a guess. You just got to look at how much it moves. So like sometimes 5%. Um downside's 200 upside at most you're 20% is the biggest move it's had. That's it.
>> Yeah. I mean this one also I mean earnings are tomorrow right? So realistically like until we get those earnings we're not going to know.
>> I don't think we have to jump in front of it.
>> Yeah. Um, Oracle, which just had their credit default swaps close at their highest level.
>> Oh, I mean, people don't like this 40 billion in debt. They're not happy about it.
>> Well, also stopped going down,
>> which was good.
>> They have earnings coming up also. So, okay. So just so CRM see how like this is in regards to Oracle. So see how CRM has earnings like today or tomorrow right like right here here and about how long ago from here to here that's about 6 days or 11 days sorry. So 11 days before earnings you tend to get this pre-earnings runup. That's just typical. So Oracle earnings the 15th, which is about 2 weeks from now. For now, I think you can see a similar move on Oracle into that 230 area ahead of earnings just as in as that anticipation. key levels here is as long as it's over oops 205 here it can get to that 230 for a dead cat bounce uh and then it's just then it's a show me story I say deadc cat bounce sorry then it's a show me story so after that it's going to it's going to be up to earnings but can you get an anticipation move into that general area over the 200 day SMA I think you can um and I think it can get into that high 220 bounce in the next week or two. It might look good, but it's going to it's going to come down to earnings.
>> I also think the credit markets are freaked out for no reason. I mean, unless Oracle completely messes up the data center buildout, like
>> credit markets are way freaked out.
>> Yeah. like really the highest level since 2009. I mean, again, that's assuming because if Oracle messes up on AI workloads, the other guys are not going to be that much better. I mean, they'll be better, but not that much. Like, if there's a fundamental issue with
>> Look at what Jack Nikke average futures, this is this is this is the deal right now. So, this is the is the yen carry trade 2.0 and the new prime minister Yeah. And I I mean I think that's also why Bitcoin got hit a couple days ago.
>> I I I wholeheartedly agree. I think that is actually playing out a lot in uh in crypto more so than the stock market.
>> Japanese people so deep into crypto, man.
>> Can we can we do open door real quick?
>> Oo, I have not looked at this in forever. Dude, do you see my rocket?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Uh, open.
>> The hype kind of died on this one, but the stock's still up 7x. So,
>> yeah. I mean, it definitely died, but it's not, to your point, it is not it's going sideways. It's consolidation. Consolidating. This is healthy.
>> Yeah. Um, best case scenario, this goes sideways for another six months. Um,
>> agreed.
>> Yeah, actually that that is that is that is pretty healthy. But after that kind of a move, you don't want to see it like massive um like just completely keep going, keep going. That's unsustainable. So, this is what you want to see. You tag that 569 area. Um, I'm going to take this from here. Oh, yeah. I I I like 628. And it's held that a couple times. So, I just took that I just took my pivot point from here, this more recent low. And so that $ five dollar dip actually looks good. And then the next thing you want to see is it hold that 6 628 which is exactly what it's doing. Um and then if it can break through there it is. So now if it can get through the bare zone again everything's acting right. This is the bare zone, but not until it gets over nine. And when it does get over nine, then um that's a that's a that's a big move. It is like so. So for now, you're like this. These are your These are your moves like that. That's a big move, but it it's got to get free and clear of this $9 range. Right now, you're in the bare zone. Again, rate dependent. Next. Sorry about
>> or CRM or NDS on well looks like some old drawings. Very wonky squiggles. It hit close to let's see if it made it. So 3 73731 are prior levels. Just trying to make them so you guys can see them a little bit better. This was the bull zone to hold which it did dip by. Now we're in the bare zone. God. And she's stuck. So, when she's stuck like this, this is the box. You kind of just got to be a little bit patient and expect it to pingpong like this. The magnet. Big magnet. 820s. Oh, wow. I got double magnets. That Oh, that is Oh, so okay. Clearly, that's 50%. All right, that's the 50% range. So this would basically be pingpong in here until eventually you're out up and out on one of these two a little fair value if that's the trajectory. This is drones even tall. What is this one?
>> Drones. drones drone platform.
>> What What was the drone company that you were pitching the other day on the on the tweeter?
>> Uh Kratos.
>> No, I think it was a a different different one. I'd never heard of another another uh it was one of the sponsored spaces.
>> Oh, I wasn't on that one. I don't know who was there. Yeah, you and all.
>> No, but the one we did where someone pitched it was Kratos. Whatever. I don't I don't know.
>> Okay. So, on DOSs, if she can get through 9 and a quarter, 9:30, really um obviously then you got to get through 10, but your up upside trajectory is here. In the meantime, $7 ends up being your low sevens, very low sevens. Specifically, 723, which is what it just held, is your um support, near-term support. It's it's it's stuck. Uh I would I would let it be for right now. Yeah, I I I think this stays stuck for a little while. I think that whole traversing those ranges actually takes a little bit, but um probably plays out next year. Just by the looks of this, it could take a while.
>> If you like it, you like it.
>> Um some of the news.
>> Judge Bros. Anthony again saying if you like it,
>> what do we do? What do we do? I didn't do it. He made the move so fast. Okay, Anthony, what do you think? I was waiting for my buddy to release his substack.
>> Yeah, I I I have not I don't think this will probably be a 2026 deep dive for me, but I just haven't looked at it enough to even have an opinion. Okay.
>> Like if I'm going to buy a food and beverage name, I have to really believe the product has a chance to succeed heavily.
>> Yeah.
>> I know you're looking at technicals, but
>> that's what I care about.
>> Like are these guys do they have a shot to be the next Starbucks? Not literally, but is that their ambition? Because if it is, that's more exciting. I don't know.
>> I mean, I think that is, but they are not No, not Starbucks. I don't No, they're too They're too niche. Like, they I don't think they want to be Starbucks. They're They're more niche. Um, but fast growth for sure. So 55 I think if if this can pull back disappointing pullback say 53s and retest this lower end and start to bounce that's what I want to see and then depending on the market sentiment and where we are then I think that that would be that would be ideal this the reason I'm so hesitant to really do anything on on on this is because like I I kind of I guess similar to what AIT's saying is that look,
>> if I'm going to do something on a stock like this, I'm really not trying to think so short term.
>> Yeah.
>> On this guy. Like if I'm going to do something here, it's really not about the very near term. Here's the here's the sense inception chart. And so think back to the charts that you like, right? Like think back to your hoodie, think back to your palunteer, think back to your sofi. What's this look like? I mean, is it one of those? Possibly. Do you have to rush into any of those in this situation? No. You I don't I really don't think you do. And like what this was is from this low to that high. That tag 47. That's a good deal. And and if this does end up and what I said was 55. What's 55? 55 is right in here. and I start to see that that's what I'm talking about if I see that. So that's what I'm that's what I mean. And if that is the case, well, what do I really care about here? Like what what what do we what are we talking about? So what we're talking about is 20 27 hundreds. And so for me to get into this stock, I must be looking at this kind of trajectory. I a $50 stock investment trade, whatever that moves like this, I have to I have to have a good riskreward profile, which it for this profile, I need to have a a longer time horizon and I need to have a story that can actually take me to here. And can it take me to here? I think it can. Um, and then I just kind of weigh the pros and cons. Is this worth it? Uh, compared to my other options, and it's not a bad one, but uh, I don't I want to be I want to be sure and I don't want to get um, what's the word? I don't want to get uh, impatient waiting for this to happen and sell the lows either. So, if I want if I get in, I want to do it slow, steady, methodical, maybe buy these dips. But for this trajectory like you guys have done with Selfi,
>> right?
>> All right, we got time for one more. Jason, again, thank you for being here. This is Jason's Twitter. I'll put it in the chat. Please make sure to follow him. Um, you want to real quick talk about your School of Gains that's launching as well.
>> Well, we're finalizing some some last things. It's going to be released in um phases, if you will. So, I mean, we'll we'll put out a list essentially um what we're going to do. I mean, there's not much to talk about right now. Um for you guys since you know the community that you built emit and like everybody here has been a big part of our story for sure. Uh and and and um this this has probably been like culmination of so much uh a year maybe in the making. Um, but it's uh it's it's the cradle to the grave logic of like taking everyone that that knows nothing about stocks or trading, literally nothing, and all the way through to being able to trade like a like a legitimate professional. You'll be able to to sit down like my son should be able to sit down next to a mitt and these two should be able to take this. We're we call it the apprenticeship. Um and and go from knowing nothing about the stock market, you give it to your parents, to your children, whatever, and um by the end of it, actually be able to build a custom system catered to you guys specifically. I'm not selling my system, not talking about that. We're talking about building the actual core skills, developing people strategically so that they can build a system designed specifically for them based on their schedule, based on how they look at stocks and the market. And uh it become your own traders. This is this is a totally different thing. Nobody's done anything like it. Um but it's a massive it's a massive piece of work. And um the first um module if you will is going to be like 10 episodes or something. Uh and and for sure it's it's going to be called the foundation track of the apprenticeship. And for sure I want you guys to to absolutely be part of it and then you'll have a decision to decide if you want to continue on from there. But that is cradle to the grave. You know nothing all the way to professional trader. Um, and yeah, it's it's uh I figured it's the best thing we can do for the community.
>> Initial 10 episodes for free and then if people want to move forward, they can. But
>> this is the first time I've actually said that that's what we're going to do. But that that is that is actually what the plan is. Um, and and because it's it's very much about this foundational component because over the years, look, we have uh we are the best of the best at taking very good traders and making them world class. I don't think I've ever come across anyone that's better at doing exactly that than than us. But we have we had we had a decision to make. Do we were just too advanced for a lot of people and and at the end of the day it was just like do we continue to do that and and become this this this organization that's o overly specialized and and only cater to advanced traders. Well, no. That's not why we That's not why we built the company. And so take it a step back, pull pull it back quite a bit and start from ground zero from the cradle and you know nothing and bring everybody up with a solid foundation. So whether you know nothing or you're probably semi-pro now, it doesn't matter. Both of these two people are going to be able to sit down, take these courses next to each other and everyone's going to get something. and it's either going to fill gaps that have held people behind for many years or it's going to give them the best foundation they possibly can have when starting out from from nothing. So, in either case, this is it. Um, and I've never seen anything like it. But, uh, but yeah, I'm excited. I'm excited to see what uh what people think of it and and yeah, it'll come with the community. You guys will get access to all of us and it's a huge thing. I'm very excited. I'm sure everybody's going to like it.
>> I love it. Last one for the day. Bitcoin
>> Biddy Biddy screen share
>> and again Jason's Twitter I'll put in the chat so people can get more details on that as well.
>> All right. Is this going to 100k by the end of December or what do you think?
>> I mean why why you always got okay why you got Tom Lee this and be like slap solid round number and a very specific date on Well, no. Tom Lee, if I said join at 200k, that would be a Tom Lee, but I'm asking for just give me a 100, coach. That's all I all I'm asking.
>> So, I I I did say wait for 70s. Um I don't know if I if I get 70s. Um but a lot of these things. So, the crypto bounce has actually held. I was worried there for a little bit, but 2,700 on Ethereum and this 8,400 on Bitcoin actually a big deal. Um quite a quite a big deal to to hold. So very constructive here. Um this is that most recent base. Is it over? I think this has a lot to do with that that yen carry trade. Um, it's building a base if this gets over 90s like or not 90s like this is going to head into that 95 area right there. So, it's got to get over this. And so, from here, remember uh a couple weeks back we were talking about what is a what is a a bearish to bullish reversal look like? Step one. Step one, 20-day SMA. That's step one. That's this white line. And we're kind of coming over. So, I think you could chop around this. And then you get to the 50-day. That's going to land you right at that at that at that 95 area. Step two is to get over that and you're going to traverse into 106. So, is it 100? No. Is it 106 or so? Yes. Uh, is it December? It's probably January. How's that?
>> So, if it's not December, then we're ending the year below 100 basically. I mean, I asked my the chat this morning and 70% of people said we'll get to 100 by the end of December.
>> So, I I don't I don't know. I'm just curious on where you think
>> it's 29 days. It's very possible. Um,
>> it's possible, right? Like, it's not crazy to imagine it.
>> Oh, not at all. Like it's like one or two little switches that have to get flipped and poof, we're there in a weekend. Like really like in a single weekend. It's it's not it's not going to take that much. Again, crypto is like the rawest form of supply and demand in like it it's just it's it's exactly that. So it's if you can get there. So 87, this was that that kind of like bullish hold.
>> Yeah.
>> And here's where we are. This is the bear zone. So I think that you for sure, not for sure, I think you have an extremely high probability probability of at least getting to 10344. Is it 100? No. And then and then and then the next question is do you hold that? I don't think so. I think you are more like this and then that.
>> Okay.
>> And then and then you have to then you have to deal with whatever that is. Um, and and if you do get that, I think I mean that's even still it's not that bad cuz I would rather see this later and and a little and then and then you're good to go and you're still on your way. Nothing's actually changed to whatever that is. What was this? 140s. Yeah, I don't think this has Let's just update this. No, 150s.
>> Okay.
>> But one step at a time. Yeah. One foot in front of the other. It's going to be up to everybody else. like if they can if they can convince look you guys you guys didn't happen on Thanksgiving.
>> So they got you got two more opportunities. You blew it on Thanksgiving. It's all I can say. You got Christmas then you're going to have New Year's. You got two more chances. That's it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I mean, look, I I think 100K was not crazy, but I feel like it's psychological now. And if it pumps to that level, then we're going super risk on. And maybe we don't do that end of year, even with the rate cut. So yeah, maybe. I like it though. I mean, all of this to say like, dude, I I I you know, Ethereum dip by here. I'm shocked that it held all of that. 37 2750 super bullish hold. 3166 is going to be that key level. That's equivalent to um let me know on time. I took the timer down a while ago by the way. Um
>> that was the last one anyway. So
>> no, we're good. We're good on we're good on on biddy. Um 3166 on ETH is the the inverse I corumba triggering. That takes us to about 35 also from a 2600 to 3500 that's 35%. That's that's BMR 40s right there. But 3166 bears are covering near-term. We should see that and then we have another cohort of people to deal with. And that was remember we were looking at that chart super long-term. I mean you have the makings of a potential weekly squeeze happening just so you know in route on a weekly time frame. I don't know about a monthly not a monthly. So it's it's on a weekly only. I don't have it on all time frames, but it's that 3166 level. If it gets over, it's going to look good. We should have 35 right right behind it. And then we're right back where we were 3562, which is a month ago where I said we would be talking about it one more time of here. Here's here's the deal, right? whether or not we're actually out of the out of the weeds or not.
>> It's not a bad Yeah, it would just it would just be something like that, right? And that's that's it. All right, that's all we got. There's Jason's Twitter in the chat. We'll be back or I'll be back tomorrow morning. Um, yeah, it it I I agree with a lot of what you said around the market conditions. Like it feels like we're setting up for an uptrend towards the end of the year, but it's it's like it's towing the line because we're we just came through all the red. So, I think all of us are just like, you know, do we really trust net new long money is a good risk board here?
>> Yeah, that's a good it's a good way to say it. Like new money long, it's high risk new money long here. Do I sell stuff? No. Right. Yeah,
>> but you know, it's better to wait a little bit to see if we can clear some hurdles. Um, and then I can I can say, "Oh, we're we're good." Um, and and be happy. Plus, I don't want to ruin Christmas cuz hey, this has been a hell of a rally from the lows, man. I mean, do you guys remember,
>> dude? Amit didn't even buy any hood, you guys. Everybody else in the chat. Okay, give me a one if you bought the hood dip. Literally half of your community here is going to throw down some ones and aid's going to be the only one that didn't.
>> Okay, but then then ask how many people are buy buying 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 121 2 3 4 Like
>> that's fair.
>> Well, I was buying every single day.
>> I also would throw a one down for that. There was a point I think three months in a row every day I bought some hood.
>> So it's like
>> well
>> it's hard for me to buy the dip not because I don't love it but because how much more you know like at some point you have to manage a portfolio right like
>> not going to lie even today I was like do I buy some more hood? I think I think about that all the times in the 120s, but then I'm like,
>> we get a whipsaw, hood gets destroyed.
>> Like it it's like nothing protects Hood from that. Like at least SAS companies have reoccurring revenue. Like nothing.
>> It's done for that time, you know?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Takes it on the chin. I you know they did come out with those 2x leverage the the 2x inverse uh the 2x inverse palunteer BMR and hood tickers now which I don't know those are top
>> yeah I don't know
>> but I I I do agree like it's it's proving more and more this is a generational company and the dip should be bought so makes sense all right thank you everybody appreciate it we'll see You guys,
>> you rock. Adios.
>> Bye. Bye.
>> Bye.