When you own your own business, you own every decision. Now own the card that rewards you for it. Chase Sapphire Reserve for Business is a painful card that elevates your travel experience and offers premium benefits that can take your business to the next level. Sapphire Reserve for Business offers 8x points on all purchases through Chase Travel, 3x points on social media and search engine advertising, airport lounge access, and more. With over $2,500 in annual value, it's the card that gives back all you put in. Learn more at chase.com/reserve business. Chase for business. Make more of what's yours. Accounts subject to credit approval. Restrictions and limitations apply. Cards are issued by JP Morgan Chase Bank NA member FDIC. Fall is the time to plan ahead and ensure your brand shows up in ways that matter. For Imprint offers promotional products built for real business impact. From premium apparel and drinkware to bags and high-tech, you'll find thousands of options to fit your strategy and budget. With quality options at every price point, and with their 360° guarantee, you can be for imprint certain your order will be done right on time. Explore more at forimprint.com. Your imprint for certain Hisco Small Business Insurance knows there is no business like your business across America. Over 600,000 small businesses from accountants and architects to photographers and yoga instructors look to his insurance for protection. Find flexible coverage that adapts to the needs of your small business with a fast, easy online quote at hisox.com. That's his cooox.com. There's no business like small business. Hiscocock's small business insurance. [Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. This is Bloomberg Daybreak Weekend. Our global look at the top stories in the coming week from our Daybreak anchors all around the world. Straight ahead on the program, a look at earnings from the biggest banks on Wall Street. What they'll tell us about the health of the US economy. I'm Nathan Hager in Washington. I'm Caroline Hetka where we're considering how climate change is hitting Europe the hardest. Plus, this week's fresh record for gold. What's ahead for everyone's favorite metal in the final months of the year. That's all straight ahead on Bloomberg Daybreak Weekend on Bloomberg 1130 New York. Bloomberg 991 Washington DC, Bloomberg 929 Boston, DAB Digital Radio London, SiriusXM121 and around the world on bloombergradio.com and the Bloomberg Business app. Good day to you. I'm Nathan Hager and we begin today's program with earnings from the biggest banks on Wall Street. JP Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Cityroup, and Wells Fargo kick off big bank earning season with Bank of America, and Morgan Stanley not too far behind. For more on what to expect, we're joined by Allison Williams, senior analyst for Global Banks and Asset Managers at Bloomberg Intelligence. Allison, thanks for being with us. Uh, let's just get into it. What to expect, especially now that we've uh heard some comments from JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Diamond himself. What are you looking for from the big banks? Thanks for having me. Three key things that we're looking for for the big banks this week. First, the strength in markets is going to translate into further revenue and profit momentum both for the third quarter and the outlook. We expect this could be a record year for capital markets revenue and that benefits all of the banks especially uh Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Uh but JP Morgan the leader um in absolute revenue. Second, uh we have the add a tailwind of improving core net interest income as rate expectations are moving lower while loan growth and in particular commercial loan growth is picking up. Third, credit remains solid and we will see some provisioning uh we expect for normalization and loan growth but not much change to economic assumptions underlying uh reserves. So um based on these three core trends uh putting them together we think that earnings could beat with upward revisions to estimates for 2025 and 2026. We are seeing some estimate increases for the quarter. Uh some positive revisions going into results but notably when it comes to trading which we think is going to be very strong. Analyst estimates do tend to be conservative so we think there is room for upside there. Are you looking for any big shifts in market share when it comes to trading? Because it seems like all of these banks are really going after each other on that front and we have seen this torid rally in the stock market from the April low. We do think that uh the big are going to continue to get bigger. So the shift that we've seen over time is that um you know banks like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan have gained share. Um we've also uh seen Bank America and Cityroup uh gain over the very long term. But we think that uh this is going to be a quarter where we see outperformance especially in the equity trading business from uh Goldman Sachs who is the leader in that business and absolute revenue. Um Goldman is also the leader in M&A and we also expect them to have a quarter in that business. One of the key uh businesses that that has been helping the banks is prime brokerage and some of the larger hedge funds um and the asset levels. You know, when we look at some of the largest hedge funds and we look at uh things like record equity prices around the globe um we do think that uh that there's going to be some help to that business. We also saw record trading volume. You know when we look at the underlying trends to trading uh the equities trading business should be supported by continued strength in prime brokerage. We saw some record bounces last quarter. We think we're going to see new records this quarter. We also saw a record in US exchange trading volume. So um that's a big business for the banks. But we're also going to see strength on the fixed income side of things both within rates and spread trading. a really broad brace strength um at the banks and we think that um it it that's really going to help uh all the competitors. And what are you looking for when it comes to commentary from these banks on the resilience of the consumer that has been the driver for this economy even when we're starting to see you know cracks in the labor market. When you think about banks like Bank of America and Croup that have, you know, more of a focus on households, what could they tell us when it comes to uh credit quality, you know, to to your point, we always do get an eye into the consumer for these banks. Uh the one interesting thing that we're seeing at the industry level is uh the commercial side of loan growth picking up. It really has been the credit card business that's been driving growth, especially at these large uh banks in recent years. But we are seeing a little bit of a shift to that on the commercial side and we do think that that's healthy. On the credit quality side of things, as I said, I do think that we see some normalization, but we don't expect to see big changes in economic assumptions. So, we think that um the reserve building should be relatively modest. And when it comes to banks with a sort of a big wealth management focus, I'm thinking of you know Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, uh those kind of firms, is the bar high for them? The bar is high, but we think that they are going to deliver on that bar because um as I mentioned, we've seen uh global equity prices and global equity market capitalization hit a new record towards the end of September. We've seen new highs already in this fourth quarter and that is very good for uh wealth and banking fees both for the third quarter and the outlook going into this quarter. All right. Well, we'll see as that big bank earning season kicks off early next week. That's Allison Williams with us, senior analyst for global banks and asset managers at Bloomberg Intelligence. Allison, thank you. We move next to earnings from some of the regional banks. Citizens Financial, First Horizon, PNC Financial Services. They are among the flood of lenders opening their books this week. Let's bring in Herman Chan to preview those results. Herman's a senior analyst for US regional banks at Bloomberg Intelligence. These banks have been in the spotlight. Herman, of course, these results are coming off the heels of the uh fifth bank deal for Co-America that we all remember so much about. So, should we be looking for more consolidation chatter when the banks report this week? I think that's going to be the top question uh within the analyst community is is which banks are going to be acquisitive and which banks potentially are thinking about selling themselves. We've seen, as you mentioned, the the Fifth Third Com, and that comes on the heels of PNC buying a bank in Colorado called First Bank, uh, which really boosts their Denver presence, and also Huntington, which is a Ohio based lender that's, uh, going into Texas with its Veritex deal. So, there is definitely some consolidation that's brewing, and we'd expect that uh, continue going forward. And of course, uh, Fifth Third and Com are both going to be among those banks opening their books. Uh, what are you expecting specifically from those results? Yeah, so Fifth Third specifically H has talked about um some strong lending trends. So that's great to see and and we'd expect some further improvement in their top line. What um was the surprise for a lot of the investment community is that Fifth Third mentioned that they're in snared in this uh bankruptcy. So that's going to create a a fairly large credit loss for them which will hit the third quarter numbers. We view that as more of a one-off issue that that shouldn't reverberate throughout the entire loan book and throughout the industry, but it is something that'll uh affect their their 3Q reporting. In terms of Kamemeric, Kame's been um one of the banks that has taken a bit longer to recover from the SVB issues a couple years back. And so they're they're along the way of trying to, you know, shore up their balance sheet in terms of their deposits and deposit repricing and growing uh loans, but uh that that'll be more steadier going forward. and we and given the fact that they're going to do this deal for a fifth, I think that's going to be less of a priority for a lot of the uh analysts and investors. Are there some other banks reporting this week that uh could be in a similar situation as commeric and potentially be acquisition targets themselves? Yeah, that's that's a good question. That's one of the things that we'll try to sus out. Um there are banks that in in our coverage that we think are probably better uh buyers than sellers at this point. So, uh, banks like Regent, which operates in the southeast, um, and has a really strong valuation multiple that has the currency to really do deals. Uh, another bank, um, based in Buffalo, New York, Mnt Bank, also has a track record of doing deals and has a strong currency to do deals. So, those are the ones that I think the market's going to focus on in terms of, you know, they're going to be the next to to potentially be acquisitive. Uh you mentioned uh one earlier, PNC Financial, talking about their expansion plans in the Southwest in particular. Do you expect that to to show up in the results and bolster the balance sheet? At this point, uh that deal needs to be closed, but I think uh the next question for PNC in particular, um is what's next for them? They've been vocal about potentially doubling their balance sheet to over a trillion dollars in assets. And this deal, while helpful, it's not going to get them there anytime soon. So, there's going to be some organic growth, but really there's going to be more consolidation over the next several years. Where do they go next? They they've done the deal with First Bank. They've acquired BBVA USA, which really is the jump start for their South uh West and and and Sunb Belt expansion into California as well. And now it's a a coast to coast lender. So where do they grow from here? That's going to be the next question. Interesting. Now uh one other bank I mentioned earlier has been coming off uh its own deals as well. What are you looking for from Citizens? Yeah, Citizens H has done a string of deals over the past few years. they they really um filled in their market footprint which was missing in the New York City metro area with investors bank corp in New Jersey and then they acquired uh the branches from HSBC in the New York City metro area. So that really fills out their their traditional northeast u uh New England footprint w with the mid-Atlantic footprint. So they're comfortably in Wisconsin in the northeast and and do they expand more outside where a lot of the its large competitors have moved into the into the southeast as well. So that that's going to be top of mind and a good question for them. There's some scuttlebutt in the investor community if citizens is going to be a seller or a buyer. So that that's an ongoing question um particularly as larger banks try to get bigger to compete with the likes of JP Morgan and BFA. All right. Well looking forward to regional bank earnings season. Thank you for this Herman. Thank you. That's Herman Chan, senior analyst for US regional banks at Bloomberg Intelligence. Coming up on Bloomberg Daybreak Weekend, we look at how climate change is hitting Europe the hardest. I'm Nathan Hager and this is Bloomberg. [Music] How many vendors does it take to meet all your organization's food needs? Just one. Easy Cater, the workplace food platform that lets teams order from a huge variety of restaurants, over a 100,000 nationwide, all through a single vendor. In addition to all that variety, Easy Cater also gives you full visibility of your organization's food spend with invoicing, centralized reporting, and seamless integration with expense management systems, all on one platform. Easyater, your business tool for food. To learn more, visit easycater.com/mpodcast. There are two kinds of people in the world. People who think about climate change and people who are doing something about it. On the Zero Podcast, we talk to both kinds of people. people you've heard of like Bill Gates. I'm looking at what the world has to do to get to zero, not using climate as a moral crusade. And the creative minds you haven't heard of yet. It is serious stuff, but never doom and gloom. I am Akshhati. Listen to Zero every Thursday from Bloomberg podcast on Apple, Spotify, or anywhere else you get your podcast. This is Bloomberg Daybreak Week and our global look ahead at the top stories for investors in the coming week. I'm Nathan Hager in Washington. Up later in our program, after a fresh record for gold, what's ahead for bullion heading into November. But first, in the coming days, global climate bankers, forecasters, and government ministers will gather in London for the annual new energy finance summit. The number of extreme weather events keeps rising, and the economic damage they cause is going up, too. With the US pushing the EU to stop buying Russian gas and to cut back on green regulation, many are asking if the continent's green plans for the future are still intact. For more, let's go to London and bring in Bloomberg Daybreak Europe anchor Caroline Heepker. Nathan, Europe is getting hotter, 2.4° C hotter than before the industrial revolution. That's 4 and a half degrees Fahrenheit for our US listeners. That means the continent is warming faster than any other region on Earth, which in turn is disrupting the continent's weather. It's also getting harder to predict when power grids need more energy to cope. That hasn't stopped some European politicians from calling for the roll back of green pledges as they grapple with high costs of living. Greg Jackson is chief executive officer of the UK's largest energy retailer, Octopus Energy. He told us that's a knock-on effect of the shift in America. You can't ignore what happened in the US. you know, you went from an administration that passed the IRA, you know, one of the biggest commitments to to government support uh for a specific set of industries in history, you know, world changing to an administration that use the phrase drill baby drill. I think that has really set the tone in a bunch of European countries, including the UK, where there is now an intense debate about our future of energy. That was Octopus Energy CEO Greg Jackson there on this week's Zero podcast. So, what does the future of power look like? Well, in the next few days, the European Union's energy commissioner and Portugal's energy minister will be joining executives right here in London for the annual BNEF summit. Joining me now is Ben Vickers, who is our chief editor of Bloomberg NEF, and Joe Wartz, our weather and climate reporter here in London. Welcome to both of you. All right, Joe, can I start with you? Firstly, we're thinking about climate change. Summers in Europe have seen record-breaking heat waves with really serious consequences. I wonder when you think about your work, your job as a weather and climate reporter. How has that changed? Well, I mean, isn't that the joke, right? That the the weather is always always changing. Uh, you know, my job has changed quite a bit. you know, uh, really as I started as a climate and environment reporter and increasingly that became more and more about extreme weather and, you know, extreme weather really shapes how people, businesses, you know, power, energy move across the world. It dictates trade um, economy and in people's lives and and and that's increasingly, you know, the story that that that we're focusing on. Ben, how are Bloomberg's NEF teams looking at this changing world, the impact of climate change? A kind of big big thought. Yeah, I was going to say that's a very very big question. So I mean basically what we do um we're a data supplier and we do analysis from the back of that and we're looking at the shift um in the economies worldwide to a basically a lower carbon economy for everyone. Now, climate adaptation and climate risk have come to the four. Um, so we're adding new areas of research to help companies and and policy makers sort of navigate um not just the the climate risk and and the need for climate adaptation, but also how to keep businesses going, keep them profitable um as as we as we um go down the the route. Energy transition really energy transition. Yeah. Exactly. So, it's a very it's very much a changing picture as well. It's not as bad as the weather, but um yeah, the shifting. Well, thinking about that weather element, Joe, in the winter months, Europe has had in the past fears that a sudden cold snap would cause gas prices to spike. This in amidst all of the other kind of energy challenges that we have. Is there also a similar concern about that this year? Yes, absolutely. We've already seen uh you know a early season coal snap. We we had a had a big one in Eastern uh Europe already. And you know, traders and governments are really locked in right now. This is basically like yeah cold snap hunting season uh for governments and traders. They're their eyes are on the forecast. They're they're they're they're watching for any sign um that a drop in temperatures could really throw off balance the sort of fragile state of the uh energy markets right now. You know, increased competition for for for for gas. And so, you know, any any any deviation there, any any cold snap can really raise demand and create ripple effects. And gas storage has also been an issue. It's been an issue in the UK and across Europe in past winters. Is it equally bad this time round? So, you know, uh Europe did a did a good job stockpiling gas over the summer. Uh it's still that stockpiling was below uh what is is historically the summer, you know, norm for stockpiling, but it it it did beat some expectations for that stockpiling. So, they you know, we started the natural gas winter essentially, which starts in October. So started that season with about 83% of the stock piles full. Um, which was better than a lot of people expected, but still not as good as it as it as it could be. But we've already seen with that that first cold snap we had uh recently in Eastern Europe that uh some European countries are already having to tap into that into that gas supply. Absolutely. Now, of course, there have been incidents of blackouts in Europe, and I think this is going to be quite crucial. When you speak to Portugal's energy minister, who is speaking actually at the Bloomberg NEF summit just in the next few days, I'm sure there'll be a lot of interest in understanding what she has to say about how the country dealt with that blackout. It has been blamed both on the power grid and also on renewable energy. And Ben, you're going to be interviewing her. What are you going to try to ask and find out? So, well, there's a couple of things. There's obviously the human side to this because being an energy minister and waking up one morning with the lights off, not just in your house or down the street, but across the country is is probably a nightmare. So, there's that personal experience of finding yourself in the hot seat. Um, and and um well, three 3 months after that April 28th blackout, the minister presented 31 measures to basically address all the all the problems they've been able to identify. And some of those are obviously within her remitt. Those are the ones she's she's trying to address. But there's a bigger bigger issue of inter interconnections basically between European power markets. And for a long time, Spain and Portugal have been asking France um to improve the the connections between those countries. And there's a sort of a a little bit of a tiff between them and and and allegations that their interest for the nuclear power plants to be able to sell their power um rather than allowing solar from Spain to come in really cheaply and so on. So there's a little bit of EU negotiation to go on there as well. But they're investing 137 million in their grid to upgrade that. Um they're putting in a couple of um new power stations that are going to um light up in January which are what they call they call them black start stations which is basically when everything goes off these switch on automatically and and sort of a first line of defense but there's actually quite a you know 31 of these measures. So we're going to be talking to her a lot about what the plans are what the plans are and what what she's delivering and how quickly and so on. Yes, I think that will be really fascinating. Um in terms of though the other major theme surely is about the backlash against green energy. I mean a little bit of that comes through in the discussion around Portugal and the spending required Joe for climate adaptation. This is a significant issue in the US. It has also rippled across Europe. Is it gaining traction in particular parts of Europe or for particular areas in the energy space? You know, it really seems to be gaining traction in in all sorts of different corners across Europe. The context here is that Europe's energy grid, energy markets are increasingly uh renewable, increasingly rely on on the weather. They're dependent on how much sun is shining, how much uh wind is blowing and also uh comes with all the you know international competition for gas and other factors. Geopolitics can influence the supply side of that equation. Uh so you know increased pressure on all those markets um are are are definitely uh you know raising the stakes and in each of these countries you know these ambitious uh climate targets that they set up uh uh have have really been challenged. You know last month was supposed to be a big milestone right? Europe was supposed to get together and uh come to uh this big agreement this final agreement on on their long-term 2040 targets and and and they kicked that can down the road um and and now those countries are are fighting about that. there's more domestic spending demands on each of these countries. Um, in some cases, these countries are wanting to siphon off more money for defense spending and and things like that and and and and more political uh uh unease with uh some of the ambitious spending targets that go along with these these green goals. And if that wasn't enough, you just have to throw in artificial intelligence, which we have spent months thinking about, you know, the big buildout of artificial intelligence, the energy demand, Ben, that is going to also um really underline some of the difficulties in the energy space. How um do you think that the impact of AI is going to affect your forecast when it comes to power demand? How are you thinking about this oncoming technology? So there's there's a massive amount of interest in in the impact that AI is going to have on on power demand on on prices more generally as well for consumers. Yeah, we we've been looking at what the likely development of AI data centers basically the the hyperscalers. But um we're looking at out to 2035 um the power demand from data centers expected to have quadrupled from where it is right now. That's only actually 4.4% of all the electricity demand worldwide. So it's a small proportion of the electricity worldwide but it's where it happens and when it happens I suppose which is really important. Now if in 2035 you put all the data centers together they would be and and look at them as if they were a country they would be the fourth largest country in the world behind the US, China, India then there's data centers as a sort of a a demand center. So it is it is going to be very big. That said, as as one of the one of the senior executives in one of the AI companies was saying this week, you know, if there's only one thing you really need need to know about AI, which is it's changing so fast and we don't quite know what's going to happen. So, so the forecasting here is going to be is obviously going to be quite tricky. Um yeah, uh shortterm we expect the demand to be demand for power to be supplied by rather traditional sources. So, it is going to be coal and gas coming in. Um that's in the short term because the the buildout is so rapid. Um so places in the US like Virginia and Oregon, Texas and Ohio which have classically been able to be able to supply this are going to benefit from the immediate demand but longer term then renewables have an opportunity to move in here. Yeah. And that's that's a trend that we see uh you know generally in in such a tight market like Europe is that u not just with data centers but just traditional sources of demand for for for electricity. um when the demand gets high and the prices uh spike or maybe the supply is con you know constrained um they they switch on the traditional sources of of of of power to to supplement that grid. That means you know switching on a gas plant and uh using what can be switched on more reliably than than maybe the wind or the solar which uh you know might not be coming in the middle of a of a cold dark day. BNEF's Ben Vickers and Bloomberg's Jay WZ thank you so much. We'll have full coverage of the upcoming BNEF Summit on the 14th to 15th of October across Bloomberg platforms. I'm Caroline Hepka here in London and you can catch us every weekday morning for Bloomberg Daybreak Europe beginning at 6:00 a.m. in London. That's 1:00 a.m. on Wall Street. Nathan, thanks Caroline. Then coming up on Bloomberg Daybreak weekend, gold retreats from a fresh record. We speak to one of Wall Street's biggest names about the future for everyone's favorite metal. I'm Nathan Hagar and this is Bloomberg. [Music] How many vendors does it take to meet all your organization's food needs? Just one. Easy Cater, the workplace food platform that lets teams order from a huge variety of restaurants, over a 100,000 nationwide, all through a single vendor. In addition to all that variety, Easy Cater also gives you full visibility of your organization's food spend with invoicing, centralized reporting, and seamless integration with expense management systems, all on one platform. Easyater, your business tool for food. To learn more, visit easycater.com/mpodcast. This is Bloomberg Daybreak Weekend, our global look ahead at the top stories for investors in the coming week. I'm Nathan Hager in Washington. This week, gold prices topped 4,000 for the first time ever. This year has seen a meteoric rise for the precious metal. Year to date, it's up a whopping 50%. And that gain is catching the eye of one of Wall Street's biggest names. Ken Griffin, the CEO of Citadel, says the surge in gold could point to a move away from the dollar, and he says that's concerning. Ken Griffin sat down for a wide-ranging interview with Bloomberg's Francine Lacqua to weigh in on gold's future and the prospects for a US recession on the horizon. Let's listen into that conversation. Now, let's just cut to the chase. Inflation is substantially above target and substantially above target in all forecast for next year. I mean, it's part of the reason the dollar has depreciated by about 10% in the first half of this year. It's the single biggest decline in the US dollar in 6 months in 50 years. Gold is is at record highs. And the appreciation in other dollar substitutes um to use that word loosely in in items like crypto, for example, is is is unbelievable. So, we're seeing substantial asset inflation away from the dollar as as people are looking for ways to effectively dd dollararize or derisk their portfolios visa v sovereign risk. Are you really seeing that? No, just check the price of gold. Well, I mean, I don't have to look very hard. Life of its own. Yeah. What? It's a life of its own. Gold. No, but it's a life of its own. as as you see sovereigns around the world, as you see central banks around the world, as you see individual investors around the world go, you know what, I now view gold as a safe harbor asset in a way that the dollar used to be viewed. That's that's what's really concerning to me. And there's been plenty of published research in in recent weeks, months about foreign investors now when they buy US equities hedging the returns back to their local currency. So that again is a bifurcation of I I'm going to bet on American business, but I want to immunize some of my sovereign exposure to the United States. Can the previous panel was talking about the shutdown? Given where we are in the shutdown, can the Fed properly do its job at the end of the month in these circumstances where we we may not have enough data? I I I don't think the data over a few weeks should really be that determinative to the Fed. I mean, that that sort of over over grandizes what the impact or importance of that data is, particularly with the sampling errors that's intrinsic in how that data is is produced and compiled for the Fed. Like I I just think that's that's a bit of a a misplaced warrior concern. Do you worry about the shutdown full stop? Look, the the the shutdown is symbolic of a different problem which is the dysfunction between the Republican and Democratic party on on resolving issues with respect to the budget of the United States of America. And and to be clear, both parties today are are guilty of just proflegate spending. You know, as I said at the start, the US fiscal situation is that of of a nation that's trying to work its way out of a recession. Except the reality is is we're multiple years into into a very high period of growth. This is where we should be running a deficit of of, you know, in the Clinton days, we ran a surplus at this point in the business cycle. We're now running a deficit of close to six six to 7% depending upon on where a number of things land. that is just completely irresponsible. And so what's amazing is is we're having a shutdown debate over in the scheme of things a relatively small amount of money. And neither party is stepping up the plate to to deal with or grapple with the reality that the United States needs to endure a fair amount of fiscal reform to be on a path for long-term sustainability. Why is it not being talked about? it it's politically unpopular and and unfortunately politics had gotten shorter and shorter and shorter in horizon. You know, can you imagine that like I said in the Clinton days they signed a budget with a surplus and yet that was in our lifetime. It's been a long time since we've seen that level of discipline in Washington around managing the affairs of the US economy. You worry a lot about debt or you worry about debt. What's the way out? Well, I mean, you must also like we all have to worry about the level of debt we have in the United States. And the market is pretty cool about it. The the market is is we'll we'll look past it for a few years, but if you go out with with anybody to talk about what they worry about with respect to the US economy, the fiscal situation is almost always top of list. So, you know, I I think there's one thing to keep in mind, which is which is asset prices reflect a level of exuberance that we see today. But I got to tell you, if you're out with with anybody who's in the asset management business, top of list concerns, the level of spending in Washington is is always top three, if not number one on the list. What's the way out? Well, the the way out is we need I mean, first and foremost, growth is an important part of the way out. And this is where the Trump's administration focus on deregulation is so important. It's so important in terms of of creating an environment in which growth can exist. Like really important. Unleash unleash the animal spirits in America. And the one thing about this country different than most countries is the entrepreneurial class in this country is incredibly ambitious and it's really able to make profound changes happen. I mean if you look at if you look across our investment portfolios a substantial portion of all the money we invest is in businesses started in the last 50 years. I mean, it's it's remarkable the wealth created in this country by newly formed businesses. It's just stunning. It's the envy of the world. And the Trump administration is is is certainly taking steps to help encourage that continued American success story, but we also need to give real consideration to tax policy and to spending policies. And I think that the the How are they rebanding rebranding the big beautiful bill at this point? Do you know what the rebranding is going to be yet? How would you rebrand it? Well, I mean, I I don't think there's a nice way to put lipstick lipstick on that pig. I mean, it's it's a it's a proyical tax cut late in the in the economic cycle. And you know, everybody in this room, like, let's be clear, no one wants to pay more in taxes, but if you're not on a sustainable set of tax policies in the best of times, what policies will that unleash in the worst of times? You know, for example, will the United States head towards a wealth tax when the in inevitable bills come due? Will we head towards tax rates that we last saw in Europe, 60, 70, 80% as the inevitable bills come due? like what is the long-term consequence of these policies right here right now? And I think people are very concerned about what that might be in 10 or 15 or 20 years. How do inheritance taxes have to change in light of the tremendous amount of wealth held by the baby boomers and the tremendous amount of debt that their generation was was a part of. So I think these are going to be really interesting policy debates that will emerge 7 years, 10 years, 15 years down the road which could have some pretty adverse consequences. I mean particularly for American entrepreneurialism. You know today as an entrepreneur you're like if I build a great business I will get to keep a substantial amount of the wealth I create. If you go back to a world of you know 70% tax rates that we had in this country in this last century maybe throw in a wealth tax for good measure. you may really impact that zeitgeist that is so powerful in terms of our economic prosperity. Can where do you see the animal spirits in the US? Because a lot of chief executives say look they're they like some of the policies but there also a lot of policies. It could be visas or others and and because they're uncertain where the next one comes from. They're they're a little bit reluctant to spend right now. Well, I mean let's be clear that the Trump administration's been able to give us a lot that we love and a lot that we hate. like they're an equal opportunity giver and you on the on the pro side is is clearly the push for deregulation is clearly a message to American whether it's small business owners or entrepreneurs that this country wants to see our commercial class succeed. That that's like a foreign language to the Biden administration. I mean they they had no connectivity with American business. The Trump administration is is very connected in a very different and profound way. But having said that, the tariff policy has had incredibly uneven impacts across the commercial landscape. I mean, I I really do feel sorry for the small and medium-sized businesses that that are single source in terms of their goods from from Asia who are now seeing tariffs that are at levels that are unimaginable in the context of their business model. they're really going to be in in a world of hurt over the months ahead and they're not going to have the flexibility that a you know a large conglomerate will have in being able to rearchitect supply chains and navigate around these these issues. So that that's an area that's that's quite painful to watch the impact on farmers. I mean that the Chinese have voted very clearly to buy their food products from other countries and it's really hitting the American farming community quite hard. That's that's painful to watch play out. The immigration policies I I must say I I scratched my head over, we we as a nation are facing a birth rate that's that's below that required to maintain our population. So unless the United States actually wants to shrink in size over the next 50 years, we're going to have to permit immigration. And I would think that our policies would be around trying to encourage the best and brightest from around the world coming to the United States and building careers and building families and building roots in our country. You know, I've I've long said every single student in the United States with a STEM degree should get a green card staple that diploma and a path to citizenship. You know, roughly 50% of all the Silicon Valley startups are started by immigrants. I mean, it's just remarkable how this country has won in the global war for talent and we should continue to pursue that aggressively. And then on the on on the millions of people who came across the borders in the last several years, you know, I applaud the president for for controlling our borders. It was really important to stop that flow of of illegal immigration. And unfortunately, as you and I both know, a number of countries in South and Central America didn't send us their best and brightest. They did empty their prisons and send people to the United States that we really should not have welcomed warmly. So, I I applaud the president for shutting the borders. But those who've come to this country who have who have placed roots here, who are working and contributing to our economy, we should find a path for them to be able to stay here and continue to contribute. They're important in agriculture. They're important in construction. They're important in the in the leisure industries. They do a lot of jobs that'll be damn near impossible for us to fill with with American Americanborn laborers. That's just going to be really tough. And and what gets lost in some of the debate is they're they're they're not taking jobs from Americans by and large. They're actually playing critical roles that help American businesses thrive and succeed that allow us to employ more people at higher wages across the broader economy. So, I think when it comes to immigration at large, I think we've we've come off the rails and we really do need to rethink our policies. That's Citadel CEO Ken Griffin speaking with Bloomberg's Francine Lacqua. The conversation was part of this week's Citadel Securities Conference in Manhattan. And for more, you can catch the full interview on the Bloomberg podcast's YouTube channel. And that does it for this edition of Bloomberg Daybreak Weekend. Join us again Monday morning at 5:00 a.m. Wall Street time for the latest on markets overseas and the news you need to start your day. I'm Nathan Hager. Stay with us. Top stories and global business headlines are coming up right now. For enterprise organizations, managing all your food needs is a tall order. But with Easy Cater, you get a single workplace food vendor with the tools and resources to make it easy, giving teams across your organization an easy way to order from a huge variety of restaurants, all on one platform. All while consolidating your corporate food spend so you can control costs, streamline billing and payment, and simplify reporting. Easy Cater, your business tool for food. To learn more, visit easycater.com/mpodcast. Wells Fargo has awarded $138 million in grants to nonprofits, supporting military and veterans with housing, small business, career transition, and more over the last 10 years. It's one of the many ways Wells Fargo seeks broad impact in communities. Wells Fargo, the bank of doing. Learn more at wellsfargo.com/saydo. Support includes contributions from Wells Fargo and Company and the Wells Fargo Foundation.