Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
I want to talk to you today
Anxiety about children being brainwashed
The reason why I want to discuss this issue
It's also because I recently met a few parents
They are concerned about their children's
Anxiety about being brainwashed by political propaganda and ideology
Trying to correct your child's thinking
But it backfired
I think this phenomenon is very common.
Very representative
It can actually be abstracted into such a question:
How do you view political differences in intimate relationships?
Or
Should intimate relationships also be politicized?
so
We have been discussing this topic quite often recently.
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
The first parent I met
It is an official history
Political propaganda and education system
A father with deep rejection and distrust
His son is in primary school in China
However, he does not have much emotional communication with his son.
In more cases
He is used to pointing out children's problems with a serious face.
One day
My son is back from school
He enthusiastically repeated a famous quote by Mao Zedong
I forgot what it was.
Maybe it means to express self-confidence.
My father felt nervous
Then in a stern tone
I told my son some of the dark history of the Cultural Revolution
There are many more exchanges like this.
The father believes that he just doesn't want his son to be brainwashed
It is to enlighten children and educate them.
But he found that his son didn't seem to listen seriously.
One day
My son is back from school
Suddenly began to criticize him for not being patriotic enough
Criticized him for saying a lot of things that are not correct.
This made him more aroused
Horrible memories of the Cultural Revolution and the Red Guards
He lamented that the child's mind seemed to be taken away
It turned into a little pink
The government's ideological propaganda is truly pervasive.
Deep into the bone marrow
Therefore, I feel more fearful and powerless
Another parent is quite knowledgeable.
His home
Filled with classics of Western philosophy and political science
He pays close attention to the growth of his children.
Pay special attention to the independence of children's thinking
Freedom of speech and independent thinking are often emphasized
When he heard his son express
Speech that slightly agrees with official or mainstream views
For example, once my son talked about the progress of the country's economy.
Expressed approval for certain government policies
The father immediately pulled the child to sit down
A debate that lasted for hours began
His citations
From Locke to Kant to Hayek
Point out the logical holes in your child’s ideas
and ethical issues
It's a debate
In fact, it is more like a one-way output
but
The father believes that this exchange is equal
because
He also welcomes children to put forward their own opinions for debate.
He just asks children to be responsible for their own opinions
However
The child gradually learns to be silent
Stop expressing opinions casually
Becoming more nervous and introverted
Even suppressing real emotions
When a father decides to take his child out of the formal school system
When studying at an innovative school
The child hesitated because he couldn't bear to leave his friends.
He said to his father: "School isn't that bad after all."
But his father told him firmly
"You need to stay away from places where there is mental pollution"
The child finally accepted the decision reluctantly.
The above two cases are actually very typical.
The problem it reflects
This can also be extended to general interpersonal relationships.
As the parent of the party
In fact, subjectively, I am against
Political despotism
Inclined to values ​​of freedom, equality and independence
But in practice
Their actions have created the opposite situation.
It even aroused the child's rebellious psychology
This kind of reversal
This has aggravated their political depression and panic.
Makes them more dependent on the framework of political discourse
To understand interpersonal relationships
result
They live in a state of isolation and loneliness
Unable to establish a real connection with the people around you
Although our channel
Often from a theoretical perspective
Criticizing China's ideology
I agree very much
In the public domain
The importance of debate and speaking out
However, in the private sector
Especially important friends, children
In intimate relationships with partners
I don't think that through theoretical debate
To persuade and change other people's minds
It is a good practice
This is not a helpless compromise.
Not because I find it too difficult to convince others
But I don't think
Conflicts between people in political views
It is the most fundamental
is insurmountable
In fact, between people
There is an ability to connect with each other
It transcends ideological opposition and differences.
From a neuroscience perspective
That is, everyone has social biofeedback mechanism
That is social biofeedback
Ability to connect your own emotions with the emotions of others
and see your own emotions in the emotions of others
This linking capability
Personal subjectivity
and the biological basis of free will
Why do you say that?
I believe everyone still remembers
In this video on February 16th,
Implicit relational knowledge
that is
The way a person interacts and relates to others
They are often not educated by language and theory.
Rather, it is through non-verbal situations in interpersonal relationships
Emotional interaction, to influence and shape
So we say
In an ideal situation
A child expressing his emotions
Can from parents
Get positive feedback and responses
So children can implicitly know
First
Expressing your feelings can lead to positive outcomes
then
He developed a kind of love and trust in himself
That is original self-confidence
Second, children implicitly know
Your emotions can affect others
This makes children sprout
On agency and subjectivity
A preliminary feeling
More importantly,
Children only through their parents
Feedback and mirroring of one's own emotions
To be able to identify and name your own emotions
This can be said
It is a melting pot of a person's rationality and reflective ability.
That is to say
So-called rationality actually originates from emotion.
The rationalist philosophical tradition
Human mental subjectivity is innate
Emotion and rationality are two different things.
But as
Damasio pointed out in his book Descartes' Error
From a neuroscience perspective
Emotion and rationality are inseparable
A person has strong rational thinking ability
I mean the real rationality.
Rather than the kind of rationality that is cold and avoids emotions
This true rationality
It's just one person's emotions
Highly complex and delicate expression
When a person's emotions are rich, developed and refined
When there is not too much repression and avoidance
He naturally has the ability to think rationally
When emotions are curtailed and suppressed
The brain's rational ability will also be damaged
therefore
We usually say that someone is very emotional and irrational.
The bottom line
It's not because he has too many emotions.
He couldn't accurately identify
Naming and regulating your emotions
His emotions are too raw
Uncontrolled or incorrect response to reality
therefore
Things like human subjectivity, self-esteem, and the ability to think
It's not innate.
It is nurtured in good interpersonal relationships.
As Hegel said in The Phenomenology of Spirit
"Self-consciousness exists only in another self-consciousness
To get its satisfaction"
"Self-consciousness is self-sufficient...
It exists only as a recognized entity.”
This is actually highly consistent with modern psychology.
Although Hegel certainly didn't know
Social biofeedback
But he did point out
Human Subjectivity
It depends on the recognition and interaction of others
Rather than being completely autonomous and independent
Or only in this kind of independence
To achieve true independence
One cannot rely on what Descartes said
Introspection
You can directly conclude that "I am an independent self"
It is through the interaction between others and oneself
Gradually building up self-awareness
Speaking of which
We can also understand
Why do parents debate
Correct your child's attempts
Often fails
Even if they subjectively believe
I encourage my children to think independently.
This is because
They don't connect to the child's emotions in the first place
They can't accommodate children's impromptu
Fragmented feelings and intentions
Failure to help children integrate their emotions
Instead, all the children's language
First of all, we should give abstraction and regularization
As a philosophical proposition
Then refute this proposition
This seems to be a neutral and objective theoretical discussion.
But this discussion itself
It was completely driven by the father's authority.
Because it is based on an unequal status.
and involuntary
Of course, this goes against the spirit of freedom of speech.
Even if parents say
Kant, Voltaire, Locke, Rawls
However, the words of the parents themselves
It conveys an unconscious anxiety and fear
And this fear
This is the biggest obstacle to free thinking.
They are depressed because of their own politics
and the fear of being brainwashed
View your child as a potential debater
Or someone who is easily brainwashed.
So I felt the need to enlighten my children.
But the child is confused
Why are parents so scared about this issue?
then
Children either think their parents are ridiculous
Or feel great pressure
So they tend to develop a rebellious mentality
for example
The first child criticized his father for being unpatriotic
But do children really agree with the official point of view?
actually
This is just the child citing the school
or the authority of the state
To rebel against my own father
When we pay attention to the emotions behind children's language
You will find
He doesn't really care about official ideology.
He probably doesn't understand this at all.
He was just trying to express his aggression.
And dissatisfaction
But this resistance
But my father gave a political interpretation
My father thinks
This is a sign that children have been brainwashed by the government.
The result was an increase in hostility between them.
This child
perhaps
I really took the path that my father didn't want me to take.
But this is not
Because political propaganda is too powerful to brainwash people
Many people place too much emphasis on language and opinions
Impact on a person's mind
I think that as long as it is logical
Criticize those wrong ideas
You can enlighten others and educate others
But this often leads to
They ignore the living experience behind the language
and unconscious interaction patterns
As we said in this video on November 30th
Any information has huge potential for mining and
Explainable Depth
The key is not whether the information itself is deep or not.
It's the ability to dig and connect
That is, the parties
Can
In a stage of free thinking and association
If a person
Living long in the sincerity that Rogers calls
In transparent communication
Even if he reads Mao Zedong and Lenin's books
Even if he really believed what they said.
But he will naturally find the problem
and deny them
And if a person
In an educational environment that suppresses emotions
Even if you let this child read Kant's
Critique of Practical Reason
or The Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals
Or other enlightenment ideas
He can still read a kind of despotism
Harsh and authoritarian colors
He could have put his heart in
Authoritarian parent image
Projecting onto Kant
For example, Kant's famous
Categorical Imperative
You should follow
Make your code of conduct
It can become a universal law to act
This sentence seems very harsh.
There seems to be a clear sense of obligation and compulsion
But this kind of coercion is the individual's obedience to his own law
It is self-discipline
However, the living environment of many people
It is precisely the lack of sensory experience of freedom
Therefore, his understanding of self-discipline
It is still essentially external oppression and coercion.
He could easily have regarded Kant as
A moral authority who constantly preaches to himself
The implicit relational knowledge underlying this language
and understanding framework
More than superficial words and political views
More important things
In fact, if a person is obsessed with a certain conservative
Rigid political views
I would be more inclined to think
This is due to the damage to mental function caused by trauma
He was not brainwashed by some ideology.
So we say
In parent-child relationships
Good parents are not always perfect.
An almighty being who only says the right things
But although there are flaws and imperfections
But we can allow children to deny themselves
Can facilitate the smooth separation of children and themselves
And create a new life
The same applies to other intimate relationships.
Although many people feel
Discussing politics is dangerous and scary
But there are actually things more terrifying than talking about politics
That is to close people
Be sincere and show your true emotions
Including fragility, anxiety and depression
When we are used to using politics
To avoid your true feelings
It is also easy to change your mental state
Make a political interpretation
So we feel
Own
Living in a more politicized world
Feeling more lonely and miserable
That's all for today's video
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article with me
A certain paragraph, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!