Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live and folks, we've got some job data. Uh, I actually didn't know we had private ADP payrolls coming out today, but we do. And it's a little ugly. It's a little ugly. The pre-markets are green, and I think we can sustain this type of green. Got a lot of headlines to talk about, a lot of different news going on in regards to different earnings, macro updates, Trump saying some things about AI and robotics, uh, new energy fuel emission standards that he's probably going to be announcing today. But the November private payrolls are -32,000 versus 40,000 expected. Here's some coverage on this. But once again, the conclusion uh is that we probably got to cut rates
>> 349.
>> ADP private payroll company saying private payroll shed 32,000 workers in November. That's the fourth negative number in the past six months for this series. Uh take a look here. The estimate was for 40,000. So, the street was off on this one. Uh, and how did you get there? Well, goods producing shed 19,000 workers. Service producing shedding 13,000 workers. But the big story here, and I'll show you more detail on this, is what's happening with small business down 120,000. Medium and large business doing okay, up 51 and 39,000, respectively. But take a look at this chart here. Virtually all of the job losses have come from small business which has been negative in six of seven months since April. Without those losses, ADP numbers would actually be positive. But you can't get rid of or you can't exclude small business. And then you look at it by sector. Well, we've seen those two sectors do it. Education, health services, legion, hospitality leading the way, but manufacturing down, information down, and professional business services down by 26,000. Also another sign of weakness in the job market. Job stayers their their wages up 4.4 that's down a tenth from the prior month and job changers that was a big number or had been that's down 4/10en of a point to 6.3%. So Joe um at least according to ADP additional weakness in the job market um and small business getting hammered and there is some information that some of this may be coming from being hammered by the tariffs. Okay. So, uh, yeah, we, um, we're getting this rate cut. Um, I mean, it seems kind of inevitable, right? It seems kind of inevitable. If we look at the Fed watch tool, we are at the highest probability we have been at ever. 80. Well, not ever, but in the past couple weeks, we were at like 95% at one point. Then we had the whole November debacle with the draw down. Uh, got to 30%, now we're at 88.8. So, seems likely that we are going to get this rate cut. We got some people now questioning is it 25 or 50? I don't think we're going to get to 50. Uh 25 would be enough to at least get the market excited. Uh the the nuance here is that now that the rate cut is baked into the market. So So let let's put on the perspective of what an investor would be looking at here in regards to the good news bad news type of narrative when it comes to interest rates. We needed bad news that was bad enough to be good but not bad enough to be horrible to get to this point where we would get the rate cut because two weeks ago it was like 30% and all of us were like goodness gracious why can't the Fed understand that we need to cut rates. We've gotten plenty of that. Now bad news might actually end up being bad news, right? Like we don't need more and more bad news because we we have enough bad news. So now if we keep getting data that the labor market is weak, well that's not the best thing, right? because the market already knows that, the Fed already knows that and now it would be nice to just see the labor market stable, not necessarily deteriorating because then it ends up affecting the market's perception of like, hey, are we getting into a recession? So, it is a fun little puzzle of how to navigate good news and bad news. But we had enough bad news that needed to be baked in to get these rate cuts and the probabilities of the rate cuts to go higher. I think that has happened. More fuel on the fire only confirms it. But the more and more the worse data we get, the more people start thinking, hey, can a rate cut even solve this issue. And you don't want that happening because then it's like, well, maybe the market's not going to necessarily be in the best position. But S&P 500 right here up 228%. It does look like we're going to get that rate cut. Take a look at Biddycoin. This thing was at 83,000 on uh Monday. And you're getting a nice little reversal here to uh 93,000. The 10ear by the way, just below that 4.0 zero 4.1 level it was at a week ago now 4.061 061, but 93 on Bitcoin, which is very nice to see. Again, the Fed did end quantitative tightening a couple weeks ago. Uh, and or not a couple weeks, a couple days ago, and that's important. And then Ethereum as well, 3,91. BMR is up in the pre-market. You're up about 5.7%. Micro Strategy is up in the pre-market, up 4%. I guess the question is, did we bottom on crypto? Was Bitcoin 83,000, Ethereum 2640 the bottom? Obviously, it's hard to say that it definitely was bottom or not, but uh if this rebound is baked into something and I don't even know what the headline is on this. I mean, you had a lot of shorts that got liquidated yesterday, which is the opposite of what was happening to the longs on Sunday, but uh maybe it's the rate cut narrative. Maybe it's the liquidity narrative. I mean, I'm not sure exactly what that core narrative is. Maybe it's a little bit more presidential legislation coming in on crypto, but it is helping the crypto derivative stocks. Hood is also benefiting from that. Robin, they're right. They're up 1.62% in the pre-markets as well. So, Poly Market 94% chance of a 24 basis point rate cut. Yeah, it seems like it is going to happen. So, that's what we got for the jobs data. We had a ton of earnings yesterday. We'll talk about that and uh we'll get into Marll, which had a massive rebound. We had Macy's earnings this morning. How did Macy's do? I actually didn't see. I know they beat on the top and bottom. Is the stock up or down? Macy's, let's just take a look at that real quick. That's another consumer company or retailer company. Uh, don't see their earnings right here, but Macy's, are we up? Macy's is down. Okay, looks like they didn't have the best earnings. You know, I said that I thought Macy's would be bad yesterday. And the reason for that is because they sent me a notification. I don't know what type of AI they have, but it says, "Hey, emit these women's clothing finds might interest you." And I'm looking at this notification like I'm not a woman, so like why are you why are you telling me this? But regardless, so we'll take a look at what's going on with Macy's numbers and see see what they've got going on. Yes, this Fusaka upgrade is happening today. Dude, I need to read about this and understand it. I know it has something to do with the Ethereum network. I really couldn't explain what the hell the Fusaka upgrade is on ETH if someone asked me. Like I I I have no clue. I just have not spent the time to look into it, but I will. And so that also could potentially be a catalyst that could be important for the entire Ethereum network as we as we go forward. Okay, before we get into the earnings and everything else that we got to talk about, I want to play this quick video right here by Jack Mers. Now, I don't agree with Jack Mers on everything. Uh he is one of the people that is very vocal on Bitcoin. And so this video has primarily to do with kind of his argument about Bitcoin, but it makes the broader point. It's a minute and 39 seconds. I thought it was pretty interesting yesterday about something we've been talking about for a while, which is that this administration is not going to let the stock market take that bad of a dip by every dip. The United States cannot afford to have assets go down over a persistent time frame. The US stock market is a Ponzi retirement account for the United States. They need it to both store wealth for Americans and for Americans to monetize wealth where they earn tax receipts. If the US doesn't have a stock market that's up 10 to 15% a year, it is insolvent because it cannot afford the interest payments on its debt. So, all dips should be bought. None of these dips scream Bitcoin's going to 10K. None of these dips are talking about cats. I'm allergic to cats. Literally, I am. You learn something new about me every single week. I am physically allergic to cats. I can't be around cats. So, I know nothing about a cat, a dead cat bouncing. I know nothing about it. This is all to do with global liquidity. The point is we're in the middle of a liquidity crunch. Again, that's kind of been my consistent theme is that today QT ended. So, first of all, for all of you, QT ended today. Quantitative easing QE is very likely to resume in the near term. We're very likely to get rate cuts going forward. Trump he said in communicated I know exactly who I want as my Fed chair.
>> I know who I've got to pay.
>> They're going to be allowed to use unlimited leverage for treasuries. Create a lot of credit. Create a lot of new money. We have 50-year mortgage. We have stimulus checks. We have midterms. I know I take a lot of for it. I think this cycle is 250k to a million. Okay, I don't know if it's 250K to a million, but he's right. The first 30 seconds of the video, he's right. And and the cat thing got me. Like when I watched last night, I was like, why is he talking about a cat and the dead cat? I was like, that was good. That was good. You got me there. That was good. But um look, he's right. At the end of the day, the Trump administration understands that they are levered up on debt. The only way to monetize that debt or to be able to continue financing that debt is if they grow. And the only ability to grow is to make sure that there is an incentive for investors aka you and I to want to grow or want to grow into our capital and believe in the story of America of this market and what are the two stories that you can believe in that the Fed is going to ease that's a really big story and that AI is real and so we got a lot of different initiatives by Trump this morning that we'll talk about especially that have to do with robotics that actually kind of reinfor for the reason Tesla's up in the pre-market is because you got some rumors about what the Trump administration is going to be doing with robotics. Tesla, they're up 1.1%. Tesla likely going to be a big player in robotics. But I think the Trump administration knows the next four years they've got to get that GDP growth of 3.5 to 4% if they have any chance of making sure that the debt is sustainable and that the deficit is sustainable. So, you know, Steve and I were talking about this last night. Every dip is viable. Now, that doesn't mean if we have like a 5% dip, you just go out and start buying. It it means that if you have capital that needs to be allocated and it needs to be allocated into something that you think can grow when the market does present opportunities like extreme fear that we had two weeks ago and you know a lot of stocks were on sale. It's like where else are you going to put your money? You know, obviously you could leave it in cash, you could put it into gold, silver, real estate, but there's something that has to let it grow. And the administration is uniquely tied to making sure that the stock market grows, which is the broader argument around why every dip is viable. And so far, that has done well for people that took advantage of it over the past month. Tesla right there 434, BMR, that's up 5.6%. Robin up 1.4. Micro Strategy up three. And then where's Nvidia? This one was moving overnight. Wow. Nvidia 18338. All right, so that's up another 1%. It did hit 18560 yesterday. If we can get that moving back up to 190, I think that would be very exciting as well. By the way, December 3rd, which is today, tends to be the local bottom for December. Uh, historically since 1950, December tends to be uh December 3rd tends to be the worst day of the month. So, maybe we're getting set up for a little bit of a rug pull from the pre-markets and things are going to be uglier throughout the day. But if it is historically, that's how it has always been over the past 75 years. Okay, let's get into earnings and then we'll get into some of the other headlines we've got. So, uh, Marll crushed earnings. They beat on the top of the bottom. Their guidance for some of their margins were a little bit lower than expected. This stock was down 10%. It reversed up 15% now up 9% in the pre-markets. Uh, they said on their earnings that the AI acquisition that they did, they paid $3.2 billion for it is going to add a billion dollars in revenue. They also made some comments about competing with Nvidia and certain types of chip design. And it's it's it's not exactly clear what the market loved about it, but I think if you had to put your finger on it, it would be that they're adding a billion dollars in revenue and they paid 3.2 billion for a company to uh get that billion in revenue. So that I think is just like adding more growth and the street didn't expect that even when the acquis um acquisition news came out earlier in the morning. So if you have Marll took you through a bunch of emotions yesterday, but that one did very well. Today after the bell, we have Snowflake and Path that I know a lot of people are interested in. Snowflake up 1.5% in the pre-markets and then you got PATH right here also up about 2%. Uh and then after Marll you add American Eagle Outfitters which once again crushed expectations. They increased their guidance by 4x which is kind of crazy and they beat EPS by 20%. Uh you can call it Sydney Sweeney or you can say the American retailer has disposable income. American Eagle, uh, Burlington Co-actory, Best Buy, Abbercrombie, Urban Outfitters. These are not companies that should be having these massive, massive beats on earnings, and they are. And either it's AI making them more efficient, so their margins are going up or the consumer spending. And in this case, it seems that the consumer is spending 15% of the pre-market for American Eagle. Now, the two bare cases to that is that the consumer is spending on credit and that uh so so that's bad because that means there's a lot of money that they might not pay back. The second bare case is that it's a wealthy consumer that's spending all this money to make the earnings look good, but it's just it's been like eight or nine companies that have put up these really good numbers from the retailer space. So, I don't know if the wealthiest consumer is the one that's doing all of that spending. There were some reports going around last night that said 95% of the spending in Black Friday was finance. None of that has been confirmed. Like the only source I have is this guy who wrote it and went viral on Twitter. It's like I don't know where he got those numbers from. So, I'm sure a ton of it was finance. I'm sure a ton of it was credit cards, buy now pay later, etc. You also have to look at the nuance of all the companies that were giving 5% cash back if you use buy now pay later and all the incentives they had and different things. But 95% of it being financed. I mean, until I see a source for exactly that being the case, then that might not be what happened. So, we're going to kind of see in the future what these retailer earnings look like and what it means for all these Black Friday sales that we also had. J, thank you for the super chat. got to admit, please buy one Bitcoin and forget about it. You know, I was telling Steve about this last night. The two things I want to DCA into next year that I have really no I've not started a DCA into for the past couple years is the good old S&P 500. Should probably start buying that thing. Um, and Bittycoin. So, I think I think we'll do that next year. We'll open two separate Robin Hood accounts and just throw some money every month at the S&P and Bitcoin and uh we'll make sure we start that DCA. S&P is more the safe one. One could argue Bitcoin is the more safe one if we keep printing as much money as we print. But yes, I I I do plan to just throw some money in there. Regardless of what the price is, you know, 20 years from now, I'm sure I'll be happy that I did that. Robin right here up about 1% then Tesla up.9%. All right, so let's transition to the Tesla news. What's going to happen with Tesla in terms of robotics? And that was all the earnings updates that we had from last night. We only had two earnings. Today after the bell, we'll have a lot more earnings. Um, this was pretty interesting. So, the Trump administration is planning to accelerate US robotics development. Politico says Commerce Secretary Lutnik has been meeting with robotic CEOs and made back an executive order next year. The initiative follows the administration's AI acceleration plan with a federal robotics working group reportedly in the works and new legislation under construction. I thought this was really interesting because at its core, you had a Department of Commerce spokesperson said, "We are committed to robotics and advanced manufacturing because they are essential to bringing critical production back to the United States." And they're going to be announcing a robotics working group. This is essentially what they did for AI. And they had like an AISAR, which is David Saxs, who had to deal with some controversy with the New York Times the uh over the weekend in terms of what he was saying, but and they just did like a massive hit piece on him. Um, but the the AI robotics ecosystem is how things are going to grow. If you had a robotic ZAR, that would also be really important. And in order to get that type of robotic ZAR, well, you would need to incentivize companies to feel that robotics is a big deal. And so maybe we're going to get that, maybe we don't, but that would be very important for Tesla, Figure, Google, which by the way, Google has a stake in a robotics company called Atronic. So there's a lot of companies that are going after this humanoid robotics ecosystem. Amazon. Obviously, that would be a massive deal for them, but we're gonna need to see if that plays out. Why are you guys saying it's dumping? Okay. Yeah, Bitcoin's down like 700 bucks. That's a $700 candle. I I don't know if that's a market thing or that's just a Bitcoin thing. Oh, she keeps falling. Is she going to break 92? S&P. Oh, no. S&P. Okay, that's everything. Nope, that's everything. That's not just Bitcoin. Okay, what's the news? It's not necessarily a dump, but I am curious why everything went red. S&P officially just went red. Hood, look at that red candle. BMR just lost 2%. Wow, that's weird. That's If it was just Bitcoin, I would Wow, Bitcoin just lost a,000 bucks. Huh. Iran continues to fall. We'll talk about Iran in a second. That's down 15% from yesterday, down another 1% right here. Nvidia is about to go red. Huh? December 3rd. Dude, I love these little macro stats when you guys are blaming me for the market being down. I be like, "Guys, like, look at the data from 74 years. It says December 3rd is our bottom. So, you don't you don't need to get mad at me. Like, I'm just the messenger of the data." That's weird, though. That's not just Bitcoin. That's everything. I wonder if that just is a like a algo glitch and that comes right back. But it's been a while since in the pre-market we've seen literally everything just take a dump after being up almost 3 to 4%. Look at Microsoft. Why is Microsoft down 2%. Look at that. Just look at that chart in seconds. Literally at 490 to 480. And it's less about the 2% or 1%. It's more about the the everything following in that same way. The ADP jobs report was an hour ago. Microsoft lowers AI software sales quotas. Oh boy. Of course it's the information. Well, why? Of course it would be the information. Microsoft lowers AI sales quota. Okay, let's see. Microsoft better not ruin Christmas, bro. Nadella better not ruin Christmas. All right, here's the headline, guys. Microsoft lowers AI software sales quotas as customers resist newer products. Wow, some bearish AI news on December 3rd. Um, everything getting hit right here. Obviously, it's Microsoft. Microsoft's a very big AI company. My goodness, everything getting hit. So, the reason this is happening just as I'm reacting to it in real time, if there is even a hint of the market thinking AI is not real, and if you have a hyperscaler come out and saying we have to lower our forecast because we don't see customers adopting these AI tools, whether it's true or not, that market's going to react. Market's going to react. Now the question is the quality of this report because Microsoft just got done having a big conference um a week ago where they were talking about how their agentic ecosystem and workflows are uh integrating with their user base yada yada right like they're basically saying demand is good also Microsoft is going to spend $120 billion next year on capex you don't do that if customers are resisting AI products so I'm struggling to I'm not saying the report is fake but I am struggling to conclude that the report is necessarily fully accurate given the things that Microsoft has said. Uh, and again, that's the only thing I have. I'm seeing if I can get the article. The only thing I have is this headline. I don't see much more than that. If the report is true, then Nadella's got some explaining to do. And Nadella might have to come out and say, "Yeah, all that great demand stuff we were talking about, we were lying about it." Which I don't think Nadella is gonna say he lied about it. uh especially because he said it two weeks ago unless I misinterpreted what he said. And the other question is how the hell did the information get this report? Also, is it just like one product category and one vertical like in finance if not everyone is adopting co-pilot? Is that the argument? But like when you say lower AI software sales quota, you're talking about like a a public earnings type of uh comment which they got leaked from someone who is close to Microsoft because when you say when you say a company lowers their sales quota that that's like a legit like it's like a legit like some something that investors need to know, right? That's not some random one-off piece of headline, especially if you're lowering guidance or something like that's like very serious type of economic data for a company. Nvidia still going down. S&P going down even further. There you go. 02 S&P was flat and now it's actually dumping. Bitcoin continuing to go down. Uh Hoodie just lost all of its gains. Marll just went from 10% to 6%. Nvidia down two. Nebas down one. Meta down one. Wow. This just became the story of the day. This just became the story of the day. If it's not related to Azure, it's a nothing burger. Yeah. I mean, if it's related to co-pilot and like, you know, I agree. It sounds like the It absolutely sounds like the MIT report, but then again, they're attaching Microsoft to it. Microsoft's a big deal. Microsoft cuts AI sales code after Teams misargets customers back at 30 bulk at $30 user per month. Copilot add-on, sticking with plain Office 365. Okay. So, so some more nuance of the headline from Cactus right there is co-pilot rejection from customers again. How did the information get this in this information? That that is the the broader question like who at Microsoft told them this because here's the thing. If the information talked to some customers and and they were like yeah we're not using Copilot because we don't get any value out of it. That's fine. But then for the report to be Microsoft lowers their sales quota because some customers that we've uh anonymously talked to say that they don't they don't like copilot. I mean that's just I don't know. I don't know if that's enough to make the argument. You can extrapolate whatever you want as an investor from that headline. say Microsoft lowers sales quotas, especially when they just had a an event where the chief business officer talked about how strong their co-pilot Agentic enterprise has been. I don't know. That's weird. We're not getting any coverage on it yet. I don't see anyone talking about it, but obviously the stock market is reacting to it. I I think we got to give the market a second to see how they think of this. Uh, and definitely when the market opens, you're going to probably get more details on this piece of news. Iran right there. Look at that. Down 2.5%. Either this news is taken seriously and everything is a falling knife right now or this news is an absolute nothing burger and we are quickly going to rebound to where we were in the pre-market. Like I think it's one or the other. I think it's going to be a violent reaction up or down. But you're just going to have to give the Amazon down 045. You're going to have to give the market some time, I think, which that time might be at, you know, maybe an hour or two to just get more data on this news. Nebas right there down6%. Oaklo down46. If you are a sellside analyst on Microsoft right now, you are probably calling as many people as you can probably emailing investor relations and asking, hey, like, is this true? Is this legit? Because we need to know if that's the case. Um, okay. Here's the summary of the article. I got the summary of the article. Shout out to our boy Cactus. Making sure we're updated on everything. Let me pull this up. Okay, so this is the summary of the article. Let's see what it is. So, again, we don't have the source for how the information got this, but this is the summary of the article. Despite aggressive promotion, adoption has been slow. Companies like Informatica, a cloud software firm with 5,000 employees, exemplify the reluctance despite fitting the ideal profile for co-pilot, they have not committed to the widespread rollout. Customers often stick with core Office 360 tools, viewing AI add-ons as a non-essential amid budget constraints. Quote a reduction and restructuring. This marks a rare downward revision in sales goals following 2025 layoffs and sales teams and internal criticisms. It's part of a broader effort to streamline AI sales pitches, consolidating solution areas to reduce confusion and and improve efficiency. It seems like they're getting these sources from like disgruntled Microsoft employees just based on how that's sounding. Uh strategic response to boost uptake. Microsoft is accelerating co-pilot rollouts and bu bundling vertical AI tools. The company's also diversifying AI providers. We knew about that. The move reflects industrywide AI monetization hurdles with competitors like salesforce echoing similar difficulties. Analysts know potential for growth in 2025 via cheaper hardware and refined features, but warn of the ongoing resistance if the ROI is unclear. All right, so whatever source the information got, it sounds like Microsoft employees that are getting annoyed of having to sell this if it's not actually being sold. Yeah, it sounds like enterprises not necessarily hitting their target. A lot of you guys saying co-pilot is [ __ ] I've heard that many times from people, so I I've never used it. Um, but I I've heard it plenty of times, so I wouldn't doubt that you're wrong there. The question is what Microsoft is saying. And I remember driving to the dentist two weeks ago. I was playing the Microsoft chief business officer in my car, listening to him talk about how important Co-Pilot is and how well it's doing, yada yada. So, like, from what I heard, he's pretty excited about it. Now, maybe he was just BSing the whole time. Or maybe this report is fake. It's one or the other. But it's hurting the market as we're seeing right now. Dude's constantly at the dentist. No, I legit, you guys know I went to the dentist two weeks ago to get my checkup. And that's the I was listening to that's when the that's the I forget the name of Microsoft's event, but that's the two-day event they had. Amazon had their event yesterday where they introduced the tranium trip chips and uh you know that was bullish for what they're doing with AI. Amazon right here down.36% but the S&P down.24. Bitcoin got nuked off of that, dude. That just goes to show you how intercorrelated crypto and AI are. Or rather, I should say the NASDAQ and Bitcoin are because the NASDAQ is AI and you can say Bitcoin is crypto. Any bad AI news, boom, another risk on asset is going to get hit. Less than a fifth of the Azure sales teams reached the targets for Microsoft 365 copilot and foundry. In July, the microsoft reduced the growth targets for the current fiscal year to about 25%. Oh, hold on. We just had Q3 earnings. Q3 is July, September, and August. I I if Microsoft reduced the growth targets for the current fiscal year to about 25% in July, either they didn't say that on the earnings call that they're reducing the growth targets or they reduced the growth targets in July for the fiscal year internally. and it wasn't meant to be shown to the public um because they're going to like they're going to overall grow their revenue but they're going to find other ways to grow. If they can't grow co-pilot, right? That's what companies do. If this part is not growing, they're going to find another thing to make up for that. Or you've got a bunch of employees that are link leaking this information that could be accurate or or not accurate talking about internal growth KPIs that aren't supposed to be revealed to revealed to the public and that's how the information is getting this analysis. I mean, there's a lot of different arguments that are here. Rail says, "What did they used to reach usually sales percentages are low in cloud products?" Well, here's the thing. I I don't know. I mean, correct me if I'm wrong. I don't think we've ever had a very explicit co-pilot percentage penetration in the enterprise number by Microsoft, which is why this report is so surprising because like, how does the information even know what these metrics should be or what they should be compared to? because the stock market usually has a perception versus reality on expectations of numbers and then it is able to then determine you know what should happen to the company if they meet or b miss those numbers um but in this case I don't think we've ever gotten that number from Microsoft in fact they're not that transparent about co-pilot to be honest not in terms of like raw numbers so whatever information that this report has a has to be questioned but b if They got it from a credible source. That's an employee at the company. Then that's a different argument. Will Microsoft respond if it's Microsoft has to respond. There's no will Microsoft Microsoft has no choice. I mean Jensen had to Microsoft now down 2%. Jensen had to respond for this whole TPU thing. He probably didn't care about responding, but he absolutely had to. Uh the fate of the world doesn't rest on Microsoft, but if this report is serious, then Microsoft and maybe the report is true. Like maybe it's true, but maybe it's not that big of a deal because maybe co-pilot is not the thesis for Microsoft. The thesis for Microsoft from my understanding in AI and I don't understand the company as well as other people do because I I've never bought Microsoft, but it's Azure and cloud and AI workloads and co-pilot has always been that thing that like it's part of how they monetize it, but like that's not the like they're buying Microsoft for the cloud. You're buying Google for a lot of other things. You're buying Amazon for robotics and the cloud, but you're buying Microsoft for the cloud. So I I I don't know how they cannot respond to it but their response probably will be something along the lines of uh our internal metrics show different results and we are working through navigating the process of monetizing AI. we are very excited about co-pilot and our revenue continues to you know surprise to the upside and we will continue spending on capex like if nothing's changing for that overall story and the reason they're spending on capex is again because cloud is growing so fast it's at 40% for Azure that it's not going to disincentivize them because co-pilot's not growing to stop spending on GPUs seeing a little bit of recovery very slight recovery there is that green candle on the S&P but nonetheless You do have the red in the pre-market based on this news. Yes, for those that are here, the Microsoft news is the reason. Um, let me see if I can get any coverage on this. I don't see too many people talking about it. We got the market open in about 12 minutes. Wow, that just completely shaked up the day. Completely shaked up the day. Weird move. co-pilot bad market crash makes no sense. Yeah, the jobs data also in the morning was not good, but the jobs data not being good means we're going to get a rate cut. So, I don't think that would be the reason for this. For those that are just joining, private payrolls, 32,000 versus 40,000 expected, negative 32,000, which is why that was there. Dude, what is going on with the information? What hedge fund is paying them to put out all this [ __ ] Because we know there's some hedge fund that's giving them millions of dollars to save their short position. Like this is becoming stupid at this point. I mean like multiple hit pieces in a week. It's very very very weird. Neil, thanks for the $10 super chat. Worked for a tech company. Only certain staff were allowed to use Copilot because of price. Was also told to stop using it because they were scared of legal issues. Reporting clients without signed permission to. Yeah, I'm sure there's tons of qualitative arguments for why C-pilot is not the best AI product. And I'm sure plenty of you that work in corporate that have used it or not used it can can speak to that. Um, but co-pilot monetization not being the best is the reason for why AI is fake is not the story. That just means Microsoft needs better AI products. But cloud is the reason you buy Microsoft. It's not because of coil. Wow. 2.5% of Microsoft. Yeah, they're gonna have to respond to this somehow. They probably got a bunch of lawyers in a room right now trying to figure out what the appropriate response is. All right. Well, that just shaked up the markets. Again, it's ironic because December 3rd tends to be the local bottom in November and something somehow always happens on December 3rd, I guess. And in this case today, it's Microsoft News. Speaking of AI, let's uh take a look at a couple of other different things. So, you had two clips that I wanted to show everybody right here uh from Mark Chen. Mark Chen works at Open AI, which Microsoft owns a stake in. He is um the chief research officer. Here's a couple of clips in a podcast he said that I thought were pretty interesting. First clip is uh what Zucks has been doing to get talent away from OpenAI.
>> You know, Meta, they've gone after a lot of people quite unsuccessfully. So just to give you context, right, within my staff, within my direct reports, uh before they hired anyone from open, I think they went after half of my direct reports and they all declined. Um and of course, you know, if they have something like $10 billion of capital per year to deploy towards talent, um they're going to get someone. So I actually feel like we've been fairly good about protecting our top talent. And you know it it's been kind of interesting and fun to see it escalate over time. Um you know uh some interesting stories here are Isak actually went and yeah handd delivered soup to people that he was trying to recruit from us
>> like a just a just to show how far he would
>> Yeah. I think he he handcooked the soup and and you know it was it was shocking to me at the time but you know over time it kind of update towards these things can be effective in their own way right
>> so for those that are heavy meta you've got someone who's in the words of Mark Chen handd delivering soup to some of the best research uh scientists at opening eye to get them to leave to meta and some of them he was successful I mean a lot of them did leave back in the summer and then here was the next clip that I thought was interesting uh this Is Mark Chen responding to Gemini 3?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, um to speak to Gemini 3 specifically, you know, it's a pretty good model. Um and I think one thing we do is try to build consensus, you know, um the benchmarks only tell you so much. Um and just looking purely at the benchmarks, you know, we actually felt quite confident. um you know we have models internally that uh perform at the level of Gemini 3 and we're pretty confident that we will release them soon and we can release successor models that are even better. Um but yeah again kind of the benchmarks only tell you so much and I you know I I think everyone probes uh the models in their own way there there is this math problem I like to give the models uh
>> I I think so far none of them has quite cracked it even the thinking models um so yeah I'll wait for that
>> is this is this like a secret math problem
>> oh no no um well if I announce it here maybe it gets trained on but yeah yeah so um to speak to Gemini So, I thought those clips were rather interesting because OpenAI has had this sort of code three about Gemini 3 uh or sorry, code red based on Gemini 3 based on the reports that we've seen. Microsoft still down 2.5 right here. S&P still down .022 and they're going to have to come out with a new model pretty soon. In fact, they might be delaying some of their business applications of OpenAI in terms of advertising in order to come out with a model that's better. So, you can tell internally they are scared. I mean, even the way the guy that was talking about it, he was uh nice to Gemini 3, but he's also like, "Hey, don't count us out. Like, we still have models that are very sufficient and probably better." Uh, the problem is Google just has hundreds of billions of dollars they can use to keep doing. Now, OpenAI has a war chest, but they don't have a war chest as big as Google, and they don't have as many employees as Google. So, it really comes down to the talent at this point. And that's why that clip about the talent and Zux taking town talent was super important because if Zux is taking your best talent, maybe Zux is not going to come out with a better model than Gemini 3. But if he's taking the best talent from OpenAI, maybe they're not going to do it either because they don't have the money to pay for that talent. So there's a massive AI war going on right now. The consumer ultimately wins. I think at the end of the day, Nvidia, AMD, these guys win as well. But the foundation models are competing at a pretty high level to see which one is going to win. By the way, I sub I subscribed to Chatbt yesterday. Uh, I talked about this on the close, but the reason for that is because memory. I I like I've been using Grock and Claude for the past couple weeks, and I think they're good in different use cases, but they don't have memory. That's sophisticated. They don't really know the context of who I am and questions that I've asked in the past. And and I'm I just got so tired of having to reexplain a query. Like, it should already know. This should be stored in the memory. OpenAI even on the free version was just so good at it that they ended up getting me again after 5 months of of not subscribing. So uh back with chat and again they are doing some things right on their model. Now I haven't used Gemini that much but a lot of people are saying Gemini has really good sense of memory as well. So you know that could be another place where they where they compete. If you're just joining the news of the day we got five minutes until the market opens is that Microsoft apparently Microsoft now down 2.7 in the pre-market. Microsoft, there's a report from the information that Microsoft is lowering their AI sales quota specifically for co-pilot and that news is taking the entire market down. Not aggressively down, but nonetheless down. We were pretty green in the pre-markets. S&P is down 0.2. Bitcoin's down a thousand bucks. Bitcoin starting to recover a little bit. Nvidia down half a percent. And then Amazon down almost 1%. And I guess we'll see when the market opens where this goes from here. Wow, that's kind of crazy. That's kind of crazy. Randomly, this piece of news comes out right before the market opens and boom, change it. Well, that's also the cool thing about the markets, right? Things narratives can change within seconds and you just got to be ready to deal and understand how to navigate these narratives. Such and says, "Anyone using Copilot already knew that it's clear that it's a clear loser among all LM. Microsoft in sales is excellent and made good money on it, but eventually it has to be a product which unfortunately is a piece of garbage. Yeah, I mean all of you guys in the chat are saying the same thing such and said, which is that copilot sucks. Um, so look, maybe Microsoft doesn't make money off C-Pilot. Does that mean the entire AI thesis is done? No. I mean, like I again, you're buying Microsoft for cloud. You're not buying it for I don't know anyone who says the Microsoft thesis is co-pilot. So from that perspective, yeah, I don't think that's a AI thesis breaker. However, to give the bears some credit here, one thing I think they they have a they have a point on and we just got to be completely honest about this is the lack of consumer use cases in AI. So, the big uses cases of AI, I think there's three big ones. Enterprise adoption and workflows. A lot of the stuff that Palanter is doing. Uh then you have self-driving, Whimo, Tesla. I mean, just the TAM of travel and being able to automate that is a massive deal. And then robotics obviously those three are going to be just so massive in my opinion over the next decade. it will more than justify Nvidia's valuation and it will be a lot of the components of this AI revolution we're talking about on the consumer side we have chat bots and so far that's it right like like realistically what else is there besides a chatbot now the chatbot is really important enough for me to pay for three different chat bots and the chatbot fundamentally should be able to turn into personal agents that you can talk to and they do anything and that's the whole you know argument for why Siri should be this like super intelligent assistant in your pocket But outside of that, I haven't seen a consumer application of AI pop up in a meaningful way. Now, does that mean you go bearish AI? No. But it does mean that you healthfully ask broader questions of where else are the applications going to be. And by the way, when the internet was created, you had a couple of dinky little websites. No one really knew what the use cases were. No one saw that there would be YouTube in 2005 when the internet was getting started during, you know, 1995. people people didn't really see that Amazon was not just going to be a bookstore but Amazon was going to be everything like there were there were so many use cases that took time before Facebook was 2006 2007 you know that was not 1999 so I think we got to give it time for it to play out but that doesn't mean you sell off the entire AI narrative uh because co-pilot is one of the use cases that's not necessarily working and so we're going to see if the market actually takes this seriously in the next two minutes when it opens up Robin Hood right there is flat S&P recovering a little bit there's your green candle Nvidia also trying to recover. Microsoft is not recovering. Microsoft almost now down 3%. So what should be happening is Microsoft should go down 3%. Everything else should be fine. Now granted Microsoft is so intertwined in the AI trade. Everything is not going to be fine if Microsoft's down 3%. But if this is a co-pilot issue, I mean this is not hurting Google if co-pilot sucks. It's not hurting Amazon if co-pilot. So, it's it's one of those things that might be more Microsoft specific than not at this point. Where is Google in the pre-market? Google. Wow, Google's green. There you go. Google just went green. Lost a little bit. Does feel like this might be more Microsoft than not. All right, we got the market open in about 40 seconds. I know my INE bulls are struggling heavily about this. Down 15% again. I think the dilution was necessary. We talked about it yesterday from the stuff that I read. I did a little bit more research on it. The hardware cost for IEN for the Nvidia GB200's is 6 billion. The headline on the Microsoft deal they got was 9.7 billion. So after reading through it a little bit yesterday, they inevitably needed to dilute. Like they need to find the money because Microsoft only prepaid for about 20% of the six billion of the GPUs that they had to buy for this deal. So I think if you're an Iran, you shouldn't be too worried. Obviously, if you if you bought high, then you know ultimately you're gonna have to see how the company continues to execute. But this is an execution question, not oh my god, they diluted and like completely surprised me because no, they had to dilute. They needed to raise billions of dollars to buy these GPUs. And so I think I will be okay. But obviously on a day like this where you have some AI headlines going bad, that could be a little tricky for them. All right, 9:30. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Microsoft down 2.3% on the day. Down 2.3% on the day as it comes down trying to get a recovery. It was down three. Let's see if that one gets any momentum to the upside. S&P was at 683, now down to 679. It is trying to get back above to 680 off of that red candle from the pre-market. Amazon still down 1%. Nvidia loses 180. She was pushing 185 in the pre-markets. The Microsoft deal immediately the Microsoft news immediately took it back down. Tesla holding up. There is a robotics executive order potentially that is coming uh for not Tesla but for the entire robotics industry. That's what Lutnik said yesterday political report this morning. I think that's why Tesla's getting a bit of a pump, but we'll see if that can hold. Tesla with their 431. Micro Strategy that was up 4%. Then Bitcoin came down. Now that's down half a percent. Robin just went down 1%. Macy's is down 53%. Cipher down two. Uh Cororee down two. Nabius down three. Oaklo down two. GM's up a little bit. Walmart's up a little bit. Meta is down one. Microsoft is still down 2.3. Micron down 1.82. Google's green. Markets sticking with Google right here. Nvidia continues to go down. S&P still red. Snowflake's down 62%. Marll was down yesterday, then it recovered. Now it's up 9.2%. Looks like the street really did like the earnings and that one is holding on. Tesla trying to go for 2% on the day. Rivian, that's down about 75%. Whereas Rocket Lab, that's basically flat. ESTs, that is flat. The Quantum names have not necessarily had the best week. DW right there, that's up 65. Those stocks are still down from last week. Nvidia right there 17972. And then the S&P 500 at 680.55. Apple hit an all-time high yesterday. Apple continues to hit an all-time high today. Hit 287 yesterday, 288 today. I mean, it feels like Apple is getting rewarded for not being caught up in the capex spend that the hyperskillers are in. And also Apple uh iPhone 17 demand is really good. Q4 is going to be one of their best quarters in the past five years. So, it seems like the street is just piling into that as a form of safety. And they're definitely getting out of Microsoft right here. 478 on Microsoft. I think we'll get a official response from them. I don't know, probably within the next couple hours. I mean, you would think we get a response. Now, maybe the stock recovers and they think that we don't need to respond, but the stock stays down. They might end up responding to that. Bitcoin right here, 92.5 as that one uh continues to try to hold on to a little bit more of its momentum. Google right there 317, Amazon at 232, and then Marll that's holding on at 9% up. A hoodie fighting for some of that green on the day. Netflix, yes, Netflix is legitimately trying to buy HBO Max. Stocks down 3.4%. I think they're going to have to shill out 30, 40 billion bucks to be able to acquire HBO Max, if not more. I think it's actually bullish because if you just look at the content that HBO Max has, that coming to Netflix would be of I just think it would be a really big deal getting some of these shows, but they're gonna have to spend for that. Um, now if they don't get it, you know, maybe the street is happy they don't have to spend that money, but they still need to increase subscribers. They already have 300 million subscribers, and to increase subscribers, you have to get better content. So maybe that's something that they have to do. Warner Brothers again up 130% this year on the idea that they're going to get bought out. I ran trying to hold 40. She touched 39 for a second. IN's really going to have to hold 40 if we don't want to see this one going lower. Nabia's right there 9244. That one's also getting hit with the data center plays. Nvidia back to 180. S&P almost going green. Very close. Yeah, Microsoft about to test the 200 day moving average for the second time in the last couple weeks. I mean, Microsoft was literally at 468 on Monday and then it recovered. Uh, and now it's, you know, right back down closer to those levels at 477. GM is up. Walmart's up. Coreweave still down 1.72. Netflix getting Friends back is the winner of the century. I agree. I think I first started watching Friends because of it was on Netflix at like I don't know how old was I? I was probably like 15, 16 years old. So, a lot of that came from from it being on Netflix. Uh, do we get Jolt's data today? I don't think we are getting jolts. Let me make sure. Today's what? Today's Wednesday. Yeah, I don't see any jolts. We will get uh services PMI and then uh global composite PMI in about 10 minutes, but we're not getting jolts. I think Jolt is actually going to be next week. Amcor, that one continues to be strong. $40.88 broke through 40 yesterday, which was nice to see for Amcore. Oracle 203. That's see why is Oracle green but Microsoft's down. A lot of their cloud computing is intertwined with Microsoft and the company that they own 33% of which is OpenAI. So you would think Microsoft going down if it was that bad would take down a lot of their derivative plays. And that's not happening which is good. It should be localized to Microsoft. If this is literally a co-pilot thing which is the report that caused all this then that should be a Microsoft thing. Meta right there. 643. Guys, you know Chris showed up in my dream last night and said to buy Meta. I'm not even kidding. I woke up thinking of Chris. I told him I was like, "Bro, like I don't know what you're doing, but you showed up in my dream and said to buy Meta, which is kind of crazy." Uh Crowd Strike, that's down 2.3%. Crowd Strike also had earnings. They beat on the top and the bottom increased guidance. Crowd Strike is up 50% this year though. So, uh it was priced for perfection and you're just seeing the market react as the earnings were good but maybe not great. Down 2.6% on Crowd Strike as that one is down. Why you guys think that's weird? You never had friends show up in your dream. That happens all the time. Right. Right. Right. Anyway, Amcor 4121, that's up 1.3. AMC just continuing to surprise to the upside, dude. Even with Nvidia down, it's nice to see Amcor getting some of that momentum. Broadcom 375. By the way, the person who um uh found MCO, which is how I brought it to you guys, Stock Talk, he's going to be on the stream at 10:45, so in about an hour. So he will be on and uh he he is like honestly he is one of like five people that I deeply deeply respect when he says take a look at a ticker. So uh I think his stock picking philosophy is something that is very very important. So we'll he'll dive into kind of how he found Amcore and some of the other names that he's looking at. UPath that one has earnings today 1436 that's up a little bit. American Eagle 16% on beating earnings on an incredible level. My goodness. Whatever they paid Sydney Sweeney, it had to be worth it. I mean, how much is the stock up year to date? The stock is up 40%, so it's up about 1.3 billion. Okay, so they didn't pay Sydney Sweeney 1.3 billion, but even if they paid her 20 million, I mean, it's a pretty good ROI. Pretty good ROI. That one continues to do very well. Bit mine right here, 33. That's up 4%. It was up more for that Microsoft news, but that is still green. D-Wave, that's now up 2.4. Amazon getting hit 1.3 down. I guess the streets potentially thinking if Microsoft can't sell Copilot, maybe Amazon can't sell some of their offerings on AWS. And you know, maybe that's the argument for why Google can't sell certain things. But from my understanding, micro do does anyone know if Amazon and Google have a co-pilot competitor like a explicit co-pilot competitor because I think they sell things that are adjacent to like the concept of co-pilot but it's not like they're marketing their co-pilot thing and as a result not sure if the street gets upset about that. Uh, And on this one, are we moving? Premarkets is down 2%. It was up in the pre-market. It hit 880. Unfortunately, that Microsoft news again took a hit. Yeah, they won a national autonomous border protection program securing prime contractor status over major defense primes. Uh, a lot more updates since the earnings, and they had a really good earnings. It was up 30% last week, but that Microsoft news just wiped out the 6%. Will Microsoft give any update? We're going to see. We're going to see how serious Nadella thinks this is. I mean, look, every time you respond, it ends up being, "Wow, crowd strike below 500." It ends up being like a catch22 because it's like, "Oh, they're responding. They care so much about it. See, it's a big deal." Or they're not responding because they don't have any response because they know it's a big deal and so they don't know what to say. So, I would like a response versus not like a response, but I could understand them saying that this report is stupid. We're not going to legitimize it by responding to it. Microsoft 476 down 2.75%. Wow. Why is ELF up 8%. Again, these retailer stocks, guys, something is happening where either the market's rotating into them and it's you don't see a rotation into retailer stocks. you see a rotation into defensives, health care, utilities, stuff that is not contingent on the consumer, like you always going to need energy. You know, Verizon, you're always going to need your cell phone service. Even McDonald's, that's contingent on the consumer. But at the end of the day, if things get bad, consumers are probably still going to eat at McDonald's. People don't have to buy makeup, so they don't have to buy clothes from abroad. So, it's very weird that a lot of these uh retailer stocks are moving. I'll see if there's an ELF headline, but that one up 8% on the day. ELF did take a nasty 40% haircut after their earnings 3 weeks ago. I see no headlines on ELF. I see nothing on ELF. This might just be technical or it might be uh a little bit of a short squeeze. Micron, that one's still getting hit. Micron down 4%. Yeah, no one's rotating into Amazon unfort. Well, I rotated into Amazon a little bit at 219 two weeks ago, but I still think Amazon's just one of the easiest spies in the I really do. I think over the next five years, AWS robotics increases their margins. It's a very simple story, but you know, Amazon's not a type of stock to move 10% every other month. Like, it really does take its time, but it's one of those stocks that can sleep well at night if you own it. Crowd Strike, that's back above 500, down 3%. Netflix down 5%. Apple holding on to its momentum. Uh IN finally going green after the 15% draw down yesterday. And then Google 316. Nvidia still trying to get back. S&P is very close to going green. It's like 13 cents away. Maybe that one ends up getting there. AMD, how's that one doing? AMD is down 1%. It was at 219 in the pre-markets and then the Nvidia news or the Microsoft news came out. By the way, uh, Colette, the CFO of Nvidia, she was at the UBS conference yesterday and she said a lot of bullish things. The the the number one thing that I took away is that the $500 billion in revenue for the next five quarters that uh, Jensen outlined in GTC does not include China or the OpenAI agreement that they signed back in September, which is actually there's some nuance to this. It's actually kind of bearish OpenAI. Now, they didn't she didn't talk like Nvidia was bearish OpenAI. She said, "We're very excited." yada yada, but you can tell more and more companies are starting to like just give themselves a little space between OpenAI and them. And the fact that it's been four months and Nvidia has not signed a definitive agreement. All it is is an LOI that yes, we will invest in you in the future, yada. Like, it's not real the agreement. And I think maybe Nvidia is thinking these guys don't really have the money and we don't know if they're going to have the money and we don't know if we want to give them the money to be able to give us the money. So, but if they if an open does end up buying a ton of chips from Nvidia, then that 500 billion doesn't include that and it doesn't include China, which could be very bullish for the overall earnings that they have. Rocket Lab right there, 4239, that goes up 1%. Nvidia is back below 180. Market's not letting it sustain uh above those levels. ETH is moving. Okay, so you're getting a little bit of a pump there. Wow. A little bit more than just a little of a pump. 3145. That's up 3%. Bitcoin is that moving with it. Are we back to 93? We are. Yeah, we're back to 93. 934. Okay. So, whenever ETH moves or Bitcoin moves, they're likely moving together. It's hard to see these guys separating. BMR 34, Micro Strategy up 4%. Um, that is actually really squares up 4%. XYZ. We'll see if there's a headline there. That's actually really interesting because you would think the AI co-pilot news shouldn't take Bitcoin down $2,000 like it did 20 minutes ago. And it's almost like now the markets are saying, "All right, if that's an issue, that's a Microsoft issue. That's not a crypto issue. We're going higher." And you got Bitcoin and 93.4 when 100K doesn't look that crazy to say. It's not that far out of the uh the distance. Tesla's still pumping. Again, that robotics update this morning. Wow. 438. I mean, that is a big deal. If we were to have essentially the update this morning was like the administration is thinking of having a robotics zar like they have an AI and cryptozar. So, if we were to have something like that, um, I mean, it definitely would be benefiting a company like like Tesla. By the way, they put out an update on Optimus yesterday as well. It's not a crazy update, but I mean, the robots are coming. Eventually, this thing is going to be running through your house. Like, we're going to see the progress continue to compound. And it seems like Elon is just getting more and more bullish about how big this product can become. He's really on this kick about money is not going to exist. like he's really on this idea that the cost of goods and by the way he's not the only one. Brett from Figure talks about this a lot as well that like the cost of goods and services is going to go to near zero because of how much abundance there's going to be. And you know obviously if you have more products than demand the product more supply than demand the supply cost has to come down and if you just have abundant supply of goods and services because you have all these robots doing everything and creating everything then yeah prices should come down. That could be the deflation narrative potentially of the of the 2030s. Okay, PMI, we should be getting that any second. Let's see what we got. Uh, okay. S&P Global Composite PMI 54.2 versus 54.8. That's a slight miss. And then global services PMI, we'll get ISM at 11 or at at 10 in 15 minutes. 54.1 versus 55. That is another miss. S&P, do we have more of a red candle? kind of not really still flat. We have two misses on PMI. I'm not sure if the market's going to care that much about it, but those are two mes misses. I think ISM is going to be a little bit more important given that we missed on it yesterday. So, that one the market might care a little bit more about. S&P is actually going a bit like not green, but it's definitely getting a move right there. very close to going green. Octa also getting some low. They had earnings yesterday. That's up 1.55%. They did beat on the top and the bottom. They dumped yesterday, but now they're going green. So 2924. Kratos's down 7%. This one was up 20% after earnings. So that one reversing a little bit from there. Ford's up another 1%. Ford is up 35% for the year. So that's had a good year. Oracle's at 2011. Celsius at 4129. And then Galaxy also at 1.8%. rate cut probabilities are nearing 88%. The other thing that happened yesterday is that Trump basically said that Kevin Hassid is going to be the Fed chair. Effectively, Trump said at a um big meeting they had yesterday at 2 p.m. By the way, he's making another announcement today at like 4 PM. I don't know what the announcement is, but um yesterday he was introducing everybody and he introduced Kevin Hasset as the potential next Fed chair essentially. And that's also what got the market thinking, okay, it's definitely going to be Hasset. If it's definitely going to be Hasset, then that's probably going to be bullish. This is the clip of uh Trump saying that it might be a potential Fed chair.
>> Co-founder Joe Gibia. I want to thank you all for being here. It's a great group. And I guess a potential Fed chair is here too. I don't know who's allowed to say that. Potential. He's a respected person that I can tell you. Thank you, Kevin. It feels like it could be Kevin Hasset. Here's the PMI update.
>> Global services composite PMIs ISM at the top of the hour. So the midmon read to 55 gets downgraded on the services to 54.1. That's the lowest since June and sequentially lower than last month's final read which was 54.8. And if we look at the composite 54.2 replaces 54.8. 8 another downgrade and uh it's sequentially lower than its final read for uh October which was 54.6. So the only positives here are we're in expansion territory over 50. But the reads are deteriorating and that's not only from a midmon read but from a read from last month. We see that interest rates are hovering right now right around that 406 level in a tenure. That's down three basis points. much of a parallel shift on the curve. Most maturities are down roughly three basis points.
>> So, two misses on PMI. We'll see what happens with ISM. By the way, ticker symbol CAPR is up 400% right now. Uh Capricore Therapeutical uh therapeutics. Uh Capricorn, it's up 440%. Did anyone own this? Uh, not sure what drugs they create, but goodness, that's a big move. Looks like they did something today that got the market excited. Was Scryley long this? He was short. Was he actually short? He was short. Capri, that would be kind of wild. Oh [ __ ] he was Oh crap. Well, short's not going well today. Yeah, I'm seeing his tweets right now. He's trying to post why the results whatever results they posted are actually not correct. Okay. Well, I I think you got to give it time because whenever these biotechs pump like this, they theoretically could get dumped just as quick. Unless the data is that legit, and maybe it is. is we're going to see S&P at 680. But if you're short short, not just you have puts, but if you're actually short and the stock goes up 4x, that could be a little ugly in terms of you having to cover that short. Micron right there, that's down 4%. Amazon, that's down two. Bit mine's up six. Uh Amcor still up 1%. Snowflake up a little bit. Apple up a little bit. And then Tesla still holding on. Tesla 437 on the day. Uh it seems like the Ethereum run is coinciding with Bitcoin, but it also seems like there's just a little bit more money entering into the crypto ecosystem. Maybe that deleveraging stuff is not as aggressive. Uh you did have again Tom Lee add about 70,000 ETH last week. I think there were some reports yesterday saying that he added another 40 million of ETH just yesterday alone. So they continue to hold on. 3372 on BMR S&P still holding the 680 levels. Oh yeah, the Fusaka upgrade is also I I still don't know what that is to really have to read into this. I know it has to do with Ethereum's network and like that's important. I don't know if it's important enough to pump this thing back up to 4,000. And I'm like, okay, I I'm seeing it as like a network update, which is relevant and uh necessary. Is that enough to pump this thing? I don't know. But everyone keeps talking about that being important. Netflix still dumping. Not sure why this one's getting hit as bad. I mean, they're not even buying Warner Brothers yet, but this one's still dumping. Down 6% on the day. Goodness. This is basically the street saying we don't want you to buy Warner Brothers. Which I don't know if the street can easily say that because Netflix needs content, dude. Every time you try to watch a show on Netflix, it says leaving in two months or leaving next week. It's like they need IP that they own and their studios can't produce shows fast enough to deal with the content demand that's out there. So, I wouldn't be that bearish if they buy War. In fact, if they dip badly after buying Warner Brothers, I'd probably get way more interested because they have a monopoly at that point. Like like there there what who's their competitor? Paramount. Like YouTube's obviously competitor, but in terms of streaming, it's for like the actual studio quality, I think it's going to be Netflix. Tesla right there trying to go for 440. She's trying to go and push to 440. Uh, someone just bought a million dollars of IBIT $60 calls for January 30th, 2026. IBIT right there, that's up 1.84%. By the way, last week, even with the ugliness in crypto, Bitcoin ETF still had a net inflow. So, you had tons of people getting out of crypto, but Bitcoin ETF still held up a net inflow, which is good for the overall sentiment around crypto. um search for the effect of the Petrika update on ETH price in May of 2025. Well, from my understanding, I I've read a little bit about that. That's when ETH like really did well, right? Like after that update, that was May 7th. I mean, theoretically, ETH price on May 7th was a lot lower than what it was. Yeah, May 7th it was at 20 it was at 1,800 and a week after that upgrade or a month after that upgrade it was at 2,700 and then obviously it ran up to 4,000. The the the the only nuance here though is I don't know if we can just blame the upgrade for that because that was when we had we were just recovering from liberation day, right? So like a lot of these stocks were still were just kind of recovering in general. But if ETH, you know, benefited uniquely from that type of upgrade and it fundamentally shifted the the burn dynamics as well, then maybe this upgrade could attribute to that being important. Crowd Strike right there, still below 500 down 3.7%. Yeah, if we could get the Clarity and Genius Act after and then, you know, you're going to get a lot more staking capabilities. I mean regulatory approval is going to be better. There there are obviously tailwinds for 2026 on Ethereum if crypto is not topped which we've yet to see. But I think those tailwinds could manifest themselves in in something real. I mean the real use case for Ethereum gets exciting when companies, banks, institutions start announcing explicit partnerships on the Ethereum network. That's when sort of Tom Lee's argument about Wall Street tokenizing the world and that converging on Ethereum. That's when it starts to manifest itself. That's a, you know, multi-year thesis. Seeing more evidence of that in 2026, I think is going to be important. Joby's up 1.4%. Open Door's up 1.6. Mistiy's up 2.6. New bank, that's up a little bit. New Bank 1762. And you got Celsius holding up 2%. Pure Storage. I don't know why they took as bad of a hit as they did. Uh, I don't know enough about this company. It is a software company. Some people thought it was a uh like an actual storage company. But wow, 27%. Okay, they didn't have that bad. We looked at the earnings yesterday. It was not that bad. Like, yeah, their guidance wasn't amazing, but 26%. Goodness. I have no update on ELF. I don't see any headline for why that thing is up 8%. Maybe it's just the holidays are coming up. Retail stocks are doing well. People think makeup is going to be high in demand. That could be a reason. Uh, Pure Storage down 27% now. Elves still holding on 9% on the day. 9% on the day. Yeah, we talked about Japan raising rates. They're definitely going to raise rates on December 19. I mean, I shouldn't say definitely, but the widely accepted view is that Japan will be raising rates. I know a lot of people are confused because they're like, why is Japan raising rates and printing stimulus at the same time? And I was confused as well, and I'm still trying to do research on it, but Japan has had a deflation problem for a long time. They finally started over really the past like eight years having an inflation problem. And so they also have a labor problem and they also have a growth problem, but they also have an inflation problem. So like you you have to address the labor and and growth problem with stimulus, but you have to address the inflation problem with something that's more restrictive like uh raising rates, which yes is weird, but Japan has been no stranger to doing two contradictory things at once. In fact, I think that's the reason over the past 30 years, Japan got into the mess that they've been in um is that they they experiment a lot with monetary policy. And so I don't know if this experiment is going to work, but obviously could have implications on the the yen carry trade and US assets at large. Crowd strike right there still below 500 and Microsoft still down 2.8%. I think I have the full text of the Microsoft report. Let me see if I can pull this up. We looked at the summary of it already. No, I don't. I thought I did. No, I don't. Okay. So, don't have the full text of it yet. I'll see if I can get the full text soon and see exactly what uh the information said. Yeah, Broadcom 443 Morgan Stanley price target. They got a 450 target yesterday as well. Um, look, Broadcom's cool. I think they are going to win decisively over the coming years. I don't know if it's a buy at this moment just given how much it's run throughout the year up 61%. And also, you know, they're going to have to if Nvidia is under all this pressure to keep showing earnings growth, so will Broadcom and both of them are going to execute. Both of them are going to show the earnings growth. But the question is, you know, who gets held to a higher standard when it comes to this stuff. Also, the other the other thing about Broadcom is that like a lot of people are now thinking Broadcom's a buy because of Google TPUs. There is still not confirmation that Google is going to be shipping tens and tens of millions of these TPUs over the next couple years. There's some reports that that are saying Google's thinking of doing that, but there, you know, that has to be more confirmation than not for Broadcom to get an even higher bid. I mean, Broadcom doesn't really need the TPUs to scale, but it would be nice if, you know, Google was going to ship 15 million TPUs, that's a big deal. But right now, a lot of estimates are at 7 million. So you have analysts projecting it might be more than 7 million but I think that is the bigger question for brocom Tesla right there 437 S&P 500 680 as that is on the day uh the cruise lines are up a little bit as well Robin Hood's up 2% again Robin Hood was up 2% in the pre-markets it got hit with the Microsoft news so you're starting to see a bit of a reversal from a lot of names on that Microsoft Tough news. Palunteer also 171. That is up that is up half a percent. Um we should be getting ISM in about a minute and we'll see what they get here. Kramer did say to sell INEN so I mean that might be the signal to be honest. Wow, dude. This guy. Buy Crowd Strike. Sell Iran. The only way you know, The only way you would know that we were going back up is if you watch this show. Go buy some crowd. Go sell some irre. All right. I think that means you should go sell some Crowd Strike and buy some Iron. You can't make this up, bro. Crowd Strike's down 4%. I rents up 2%. Every time. Every freaking time. Crowd strike down four. I rent up 2.5. You might be doing this on purpose. I think so. I think so. Okay. ISM services. We got a lot of numbers. Let's look through them. Uh then we'll see the market reaction. ISM services PMI 52.6 versus 52.1. That's a beat. Business activity 54.5 versus 54.5. That's in line. Services employment 48.9 versus 48. That's a beat. New orders 52.9 versus 56.4. That's a miss. And then services prices 65.4 versus 70. That's a beat to the downside, which could be interpreted as bullish or bearish, but that's not necessarily the worst. Definitely more bullish from a deflationary perspective. Pounder right there up a little bit. Robin Hood getting a move. I think the S&P likes it. We're at 40 cents away from going green on the S&P. She's trying. Bitmine, that's up 5.6. Ethereum still moving. Google going green. Uh and then I Ren still holding that 3% 3% move. Okay. You're seeing you're seeing some momentum here. Let's again get the update and see some more coverage on ISM. But it's not as bad as it was last week. Last week we had some nasty numbers. These are relatively okay.
>> Look at 52.4 and it's the best number since Feb of this year. And if you look at prices paid and we'd rather have this go down. Well, it is less than expectations. We're looking for 68 plus. comes in at 65.4, much lower than 70 in the rearview mirror. That's the lightest on prices paid since April of this year. New orders 52.9. Now, here's a bit of mixed bag. Yes, it's above 50, but it's definitely below last month at 56.2. This would be the weakest since se of this year. And finally, on the employment front, on a week we're supposed to get the big jobs report, but we're not going to get it. 48.9. Once again, it's under 50. That's not good. But it is sequentially higher than our last look at 48.2. It's the best since May of this year. If you sum it all up, basically it really is kind of a mixed bag in services. Some good news. The good news here maybe is prices paid moving a bit down. Uh we're hovering right now right around 406 and a half in a 10-year. That's down about three basis points. Same for a two-year down about three basis points. Watch the yield curve. It's hovering at 58 plus near threemonwide. Sarah, back to you. Okay, Rick. Thank you, Rick Santelli. Number of big headlines on the trade front this week. The US and the UK announcing a deal to secure zero tariffs on British pharma products. Meanwhile, the general tariff rate on imports from South Korea, including auto.
>> S&P just went green. 682 S&P, Google's green, Robin Hood 130, AMD 216, Amazon trying to go green, Robin Hood 4% move, Palanteer 173 as that goes green as well. Here's Lutnik uh on CNBC right now.
>> These trade negotiations and deals. I I do want to ask you about the the recent economic data because today we learned that the private sector is losing jobs. Small business getting hit really hard, negative number in front of of ADP. And one of the reasons that they cite is tariffs. So, so do you worry about some of the economic fallout here as these tariffs really take hold?
>> No, no, it's not tariffs. Remember, you had the democratic shutdown, right? And what do you think happens to small business? The people who do business with the US government, they they know they're not getting paid, so they sort of slow down their projects. So, you you saw a little bit even of construction of small business down. So the democratic shutdown hurt the numbers and then remember as you deport people that's going to suppress uh private job numbers of small businesses but they'll rebalance and they'll regrow. So I think this is just a nearterm event and uh you'll see as the numbers come through over the next couple of months you'll see that all pass and next year the numbers are going to be fantastic. I think because the jobs of building in America, you know, as Donald Trump talks about the huge President Trump talks about the huge construction projects coming to America, I think you're going to see GDP next year superb over 4%.
>> I mean, you can definitely point to the shutdown, but we we hear all the time that businesses do struggle with tariffs and the the higher costs and the uncertainty that that comes around that and and even if you you you don't think that that's happening. I mean, factory activity shrinking in November by the most in four months. We got a a manufacturing report this week, and in that survey, they did cite tariffs as a as a reason. I mean, this was a sector that was supposed to be helped the most by what you're doing on the trade front.
>> Look, tariffs, you know, you're overstating. The fact is, we know because we've studied it that prices don't move unless tariffs are above 15%. They just they just don't move at all because the suppliers and and the distributors eat the numbers and that's why prices stay the same. You got inflation at the same levels, you know, cut to below 3%. I mean, these are key numbers. You heard prices coming down, energy coming down. It's it's not tariffs. It's simply a matter of there's idiosyncrasies in no in in October with the shutdown. I think you'll see that pass and things will go incredibly well next year. I think the huge amount of growth in factories construction coming next year are going to be impressive. AI building is going to be amazing. We're going to roll out huge amounts of power. We're going to cut the price of power in America and that's going to also drive the economy.
>> Yeah. I mean those higher electricity costs certainly a big deal. So let's talk about what where you are on these trade negotiations. Out of the UK this week, zero tariffs on pharma products. They're going to pay more for drugs. um how did how did that come together and and what's the fine print that investors need to know?
>> Well, you know, remember the UK was the first deal and and we set out and the first deal is always the best deal uh because they're the leader and they came first. So the idea is they're big companies, right? Right. The as Aztec Zenica for example and GSK they all they agreed to build in America number one and number two to cut their prices of drugs to Medicaid and Medicare in America. So they did the two key things. So the big companies did the two key things and then we took that deal and made that deal available generally for the UK. They raise their prices they're going to pay for drugs. So that that makes it easier for our companies to lower the prices here and then they're building in America. So this is a three-year term while they build in America and uh and that's that's how it's going to work. That that is the sort of the driven model of of the Trump administration for pharmaceuticals. Build in America, cut your prices here and we'll give you a break on tariffs while you do.
>> Do you think that that could work for Europe which also I mean they manufacture a lot of drugs in in places like Ireland. Could you could we see zero tariffs there as part of those discussions?
>> Well, I think I think that's a different, you know, that's a giant deal. Remember, Europe has got 350 million people in a 20 trillion dollar economy. So, they've just got to get uh all of the trade deal that we did in place before we roll on to the next thing. And I was just in Brussels uh last week and I was talking to them. you know, they they very much want to steal deal with us. And I said, "Look, you got to lay off our tech companies." You know, there's a balance. These are trade deals. You got to trade
>> for the best outcomes for America.
>> Is there any indication that they'll that they'll do that? They've been pretty dug in on that on those on those technology rules.
>> Well, I think their technology rules are costing them big time. I mean, you have the investment dollars available for these giant tech companies to build AI in their locations would be amazing if they laid off these rules. And what I tried to tell them is if you come up if you follow Donald Trump's rules, then you're going to get investment the way Donald Trump gets investment, right? $18 trillion committed to America. You know, if you have ridiculous rules, you're going to get ridiculous outcomes. So rethink your outcomes and so you'll get much more AI development. I mean that's what I I pointed out to the UK.$4 billion dollars of tech investment in the UK. While that sounds nice, it could have been 24 billion if they just had the same kind of rules that President Trump has put in place in America. Encouraging development, encouraging building, encouraging growth of AI instead of attacking it like these uh like these European economies.
>> I mean keep us posted on that. The Europeans love love regulation, especially on on tech, which we've been covering over over recent years. So, what so what's the plan with all of these sort of deals and frameworks, Mr. Secretary, if the if the Supreme Court does knock down the legality of the reciprocal tariffs?
>> Well, we're going to win the case. I I think I'm confident. I was there. I sat there. I listened to the whole case. I think we win 54 or 63 because I think the president's absolutely right. You know, he's allowed to regulate importation. That's the rules. He can do it with a a fee.
>> Wow. So, Lutnik saying the Supreme Court's going to go in his direction. Uh, a lot of reports said the opposite. But if Lutnick saying 54 63 they inch out the victory, that would also be pretty big for the administration right here.
>> And the tariff, I think that is perfectly reasonable. However, we have other tools as well, right? We have tons of different rules like this building has 232 tariffs which already went through the Supreme Court and we won 9 nothing. So that's autos, that's semiconductors, that's steel and aluminum, that's lumber. So all those stay. So all these big trade deals I think are durable and they will stay. And I think if if uh the unfortunate thing happens, the crazy thing happens where the Supreme Court didn't side with the president, which I think they will, then we have other tools and we'll put them right in place. Tariffs are here to stay. The deals are here to stay. Everyone should expect this is the way it's going to be. America is going to be richer. If it would it be a pain in the tail? Of course it would. But will it change the outcome for America? You know, I think I think our ability to replace them is okay. I prefer and I expect that the AIP tariffs will stay.
>> I mean, I do wonder if businesses are hedging. I'm sure you noted that Costco became the largest and most high-profile company to sue the administration to get in line for tariff refunds if the Supreme Court doesn't go your way. What's your reaction to that?
>> Well, look, it's someone getting in line saying if if if if I'd like some money, um I I get it, but it's not going to happen. I I really I am confident it's not going to happen and we will have tariffs no matter what going forward.
>> What about Taiwan? I know you've been in in the middle of negotiating this one too and we're watching of course it's important with chips and not all the chip makers pay the tariffs of course because they're they're building plants here. But there is talk about them training US workers to build advanced semiconductors as part of the the trade deal. Is that is that true? And and where are you on this? Well, I'm not going to discuss where we are with the Taiwan deal because we're we're in the midst of discussions, but the fact is uh the this administration's goal is to bring semiconductor manufacturing to America, right? We when we walked in the door, all there was was the chips act and and that really was just a disaster. It wasn't working. So, we re, you know, we reshuffled the deck. We changed the way we did anything. You remember TSMC announced a hundred billion dollar increase in their project in their build in Arizona up to 165 billion. Micron invested more. Texas Instruments invested more. So we're up to like 300 billion in investment in America. I think when we do a deal with Taiwan, that's even going to be bigger. And of course, they're going to train American workers. The whole objective is to bring the supply chains to America, build semiconductors in America, build pharmaceuticals in America, train Americans to do it, and let's have that supply chain right here in America. That's the entire objective. Uh piece and political this morning, Mr. Secretary, about a potential maybe executive order next year regarding robotics. Can you give viewers a sense as to how far down the runway you're looking on on AI? Well, I think look robotics and edge computing what you think about it is you've all seen like a modern auto plant, right? When you think about robotics, it's really the arms that do the welding and the arms that do the screwing and those kind of things like you have an auto plant. This is why America can reshore advanced manufacturing, right? We don't have millions and millions of people to work and do little screwing in things. But we can bring advanced manufacturing here and have three and 5,000 Americans, you know, doing the technician, you know, doing the air conditioning systems. You know, these are high techch, incredible technical jobs that pay incredibly well. We're going to train Americans to do this. This is the workforce that's coming. And I think robotics, drone manufacturing, chip manufacturing, pharmaceutical manufacturing, these are going to be the lynch pin of American advanced manufacturing going forward.
>> Yeah, we we keep having this conversation uh with you at this desk. Uh this notion of resoring manufacturing, driving employment, but also driving automation, where's the balance? Uh you know, how many workers can legitimately repair or maintain these machines? You you understand that tension, right? I do you know like uh look a semiconductor plant is a 20 billion dollar automated plant right it's a clean room but there's 4,000 people per 20 billion plant and they're building 10 of them TSNC right so that's a 30 to 40 person jobs and these are great jobs but they're technical jobs right they're fixing robotics they're they're working on air conditioning systems because the the room has to be cold and it has to be pristine, right? I met I met a a a pipe fitter and I said, "How is it?" He goes, "This is the greatest game of Tetris ever." I mean, you have to get the pipes in perfect location in perfect position. And the guy said, "This is the greatest job ever that you could ever have." And so the people love their jobs and these are great American jobs and we have to train five million Americans for these jobs because Donald Trump has brought the investment of $18 trillion. Now we have to train the workforce to do it.
>> Speaking of of advanced manufacturing XLite, the this is Pat Gellzinger's next act. It's the latest investment from the US from the administration, from the US government, $150 million. H how do these how do these come across your desk, Secretary Lton, because I'm sure there are a lot of startups that are working on gamechanging technologies that would like the investment of the US government. So, how do you pick the winners here? Well, you know, the the Chips Act set a a structure of of some money to go for advanced manufacturing of semiconductors and some for R&D and the Biden administration had literally sent out $7.4 billion into some fraudulent company called Natcast and was trying to steal the money. We recaptured all the money and now we can use that money to invest in companies that will advance manufacturing in America. So Xite as an example is trying to augment the way semiconductors are made, right? And move to the next level that right now it's called extreme ultraviolet. That's how you paint sort of the chips, the electronic chips, right? silicon comes in and then they paint it with extreme ultraviolet light and that's how you create a a chip that goes in your iPhone or an AI chip. So the Xlite is trying to design the next generation of it
>> and do it with uh do it with other technologies and we are always open for that but we do lots of diligence. We have lots of experts and we sort of help if it's going to help America and companies are backing it and behind it then then we're interested in being involved because we need to make sure America stays at the forefront of technology and chip production.
>> Yeah. I mean I I know you mentioned at the cabinet meeting yesterday that how much we're up on the Intel investment which is something that we we have covered and that's good for American taxpayers. But what are what's the exit strategy with some of these investments? Public or private?
>> Well, generally speaking, the government just wants to make sure they're a winner. They've got the tools necessary. Remember, this is for chip production, right? You know, you have the greatest companies in the world like Google with their TPU and Nvidia with their GPU. We're not giving money to those companies. That those are design companies. We're talking about manufacturing in America. We're interested in manufacturing in America. And we're interested in the next generation of power in America, fusion technology, vision technology, right? Nuclear technology. These are the places where we want to make sure America's got the power here. And the exit will be simple. If these companies are successful, they'll go public or, you know, they'll have a round and and we'll exit. It's the exit is going to be easy if they're successful. And our because we see everything, we can be very choosy. and the American taxpayers. Remember, this money was already allocated. We're just doing so much of a better job when we put out money. We get equity that pays America back. We don't love giving out grants. We love giving out money to companies and getting repaid for the American taxpayer. That's what happens when you put a businessman in the Oval Office. He understands fair balance and making sure the American taxpayer gets the benefit of the bargain.
>> All right. All right. Well, speaking of the market, before we let you go, you know, I always have to ask you for an update on Fanny and Freddy. So, so when can we expect that IPO? Is it something you can get done by first quarter because I think last time you were on a few months ago, you said that it was a sooner rather than later story.
>> It is. It is a sooner rather than later story. I think that's exactly right. I mean, I would like to see that, but you know, this is a full administration discussing it, working it through, but we are well down the road on on getting a deal done with Fanny and Freddy and uh and I am excited about its prospects going forward. I think these are great American companies that produce great uh cash flow, but the key is we want to keep the mortgage rates low for America. The fundamental first driver is let's keep mortgage rates as low as possible. We've got a lot of ideas in the offing and that's bringing them all together to drive mortgage rates down. Remember, you've got firsttime mortgage buyers because of the Biden inflation 40 years old. That is just broken. When Donald Trump left office, they were 33 years old, the average home buyer. And then because of Biden's inflation, it went up to 40. Donald Trump is on it. And we're going to, you know, focus on that kind of opportunity.
>> All right. That's what you got from Mr. Lutnik. markets held up while he was talking. S&P is indeed green. Microsoft um bouncing from the lows, still down two and a half percent. We do not have an official response from Microsoft yet. And so we'll see if they end up responding. I mean, what do we think in the chat? Put in the chat. Do you think they'll respond? Let's do a poll on that. Yes or no. Do you think they actually respond? I feel like if the stock just stays stable even down 2%, maybe they don't. But also the question is how big of a deal is this report? Um again the report is summed up as co-pilot is bad. So do they really need to respond to that? Is that the thesis that the market cares that much about on AI? Doesn't seem like it might be as big of a deal. Netflix getting hammered, dude. Down 6%. I see a couple people in the chat saying Netflix looks interesting. I mean ne Netflix is not a mag seven but remember the whole fang era of stocks the n in fang was Netflix like this was one of the most important still is one of the most important companies it just uh didn't really have an AI narrative towards it so it started to not be as important for most investors it's a very high quality business uh obviously I'm I'm not always watching Netflix as much as people that love it more of a YouTube guy but you can't deny their growth. I don't know if it deserves to be down 7% on the rumor that they might buy a a competitor. If anything, I think that competitor is going to bolster them. S&P just goes red slightly. AMD at 215. Amazon still down 230 was at 235 overnight. Yeah. Netflix and chill. I mean that literally like it became a verb 10 years ago because of how important Netflix was. 53% of you say no. Microsoft will not respond. All right. So let's do another poll right here about oh simple question. Would you buy the Netflix dip? I guess the bare case on Netflix and I've not done a massive deep dive on them but the bare case is they stopped growing subscribers because of something. Now the two somethings could be on us right here down 7%. Uh lack of content which means lack of a need for people to subscribe or the consumer gets hit in 2026 for whatever reason and just people don't feel like shilling 15 20 bucks a month for for Netflix. Time and time again those narratives have not held up. In fact, the reason Netflix was up 40% at one point in 2025 was the the the the countercyclical trend towards the recession narrative was that people are actually going to subscribe to Netflix because if they're not going to Disney theme parks because people don't have the money during a recession to afford a vacation, they at least have 20 bucks a month to to buy some content and and watch premium Netflix shows. Netflix ads are growing very well. That's a good point. Um, I also just think again there's Netflix, Paramount, and HBO Max, and then Peacock. Like, that's it. I'm sure there's some smaller ones, but those are the big four. If Netflix gets rid of HBO Max, which has way better content than the other two. I I just I think that's net bullish, even though they're going to be taking on a lot of debt to buy those studios, but I still think that's net bullish. Reddit right there, 224. That goes green. Yeah, Hulu's there. That's part of Disney. I forgot about Hulu. I I Disney Plus, obviously, that's what I should be saying. But, you know, there's never a chance Netflix going to be buying Disney Plus. But if it's Peacock, Disney Plus, Netflix, HBO Max, and Paramount, and Netflix gets rid of HBO Max, I don't I think that's a big deal. I think that's a very, very big deal. And by the way, this is the these are the brands that they're not going to be buying the uh the crappy TV stations like TNT, TBS. So this is what they would be buying. Netflix would be going after these brands right here. Um Warner Brothers, HBO, HBO Max, Warner Bros. games, DC Studios, all the Batman movie. I mean, imagine all the Batman movies being on freaking Netflix. That'd be amazing. They're not going to have to deal with Cartoon Network and CNN and all that stuff. The question is, how much is that worth? How much is the studio itself worth? Yeah, Apple TV. I forgot to mention Apple TV. I I don't see them as like a massive massive competitor, but they are out there as well. Amazon still down 1%. Amcor holding on trying to get to 42. All right, we got some coverage on this Microsoft news. Let me pull it up and let's see if we can get some more details on this information report. DC and HBO is huge. That's what I'm thinking. Like even if Netflix has to pay a premium for that, when else are they going to have an opportunity to get those types of intellectual property uh studios and have them forever? Once you buy them forever, they are going to be on Netflix. There's no renting. like that that seems like a big deal for the stock even if it sells off on that news.
>> The S&P 500 and holding back the NASDAQ after a bearish report around the company's AI software sales. Steve Kovac's here with the details. Hi, Steve.
>> There Mike. Yeah, there's some nuance here. So, let me explain what's going on. So, the information reporting that Microsoft cut sales quotas by about half for this one specific AI product called Foundry. Now that's a tool businesses can buy from Microsoft so they can kind of build their own artificial intelligence agents and then deploy them across their network. Uh this is saying uh customers have found that it just doesn't work as right. It they can't really get a good return on their investment and so on. So that is why you're seeing the pressure under here. But I would also point out and this is also pointed out in the piece and we've heard this from Microsoft uh just about every earnings report there. While the consumerfacing part of AI isn't really growing like gang busters over at Microsoft, it's the cloud side that they're seeing the real benefit from. That's in large part due to the relationship with OpenAI which spends billions and billions and billions on Azure for cloud compute. You can see the growth rate right here. You might remember during the pandemic that growth rate really decelerated and it started resell accelerating again after this AI moment and all that capital investments on data centers and the like. But this report also hits something that I've been reporting on for like the last 18 months or so. I talked to CTO's, Microsoft customers, all of these people. And the story they keep coming back at me with is it's just better to kind of build your own AI tools yourself as opposed to use these so-called offtheshelf.
>> Okay, so this report is an absolute nothing burger at this point. I mean, C-pilot sucks. They're not selling as many subscriptions to Copilot. That's it. That's the head. This is not Azure revenue targets being decreased because OpenAI or Anthropic don't want to pay for cloud because then that would be a problem with OpenAI's demand. Anthropic's demand and that would obviously bleed up to the hyperscalers. That's not happening. And that's why you buy Microsoft for 40% cloud growth. You're not buying it for co-pilot. I don't I I haven't heard a single person say the Microsoft thesis is copilot. So yeah, the stock's getting hit today, but this should not be something that really affects the market at scale
>> from Microsoft and and others. Now, this report isn't talking about C-pilot specifically, but I do hear a lot of complaints about C-Pilot and things like that as well. So, this also kind of carries forward, guys, uh, to Salesforce earnings after the bell today. They talk a lot about their agent force product, but they are also struggling to sell it to you. Carl, I'll send it over to you.
>> That's a great point. Uh, Steve Kramer's been all over whether or not Salesforce should change their name to agent force to emphasize the agents. Steve Kovac, thanks. All right. So, I think the other question, the more interesting question than Microsoft is S&P back to green. I'll put a poll in the chat on this one. Uh, 61% of you say you would not buy the Netflix dip. So, 6040 on the no. What do we think about Salesforce today? What do we think about Salesforce? I'm gonna be ah, Dude, I want to say it's going to dump so bad. I really because I really think that agent force is not a thing and that they're not really seeing growth and this and that. Like I think there's so many ways to make a bare case. However, stocks down 30% this year and I think this is a classic scenario where any little piece of good news is enough to at least get a seven to eight% bump, especially as we're going into the end of the year. uh unless they just just like completely crap the bed. And I think they're going to crap the bed. I don't think it's going to be a good quarter. Like it'll be a good conventional quarter because Q3 tends to be good for a lot of software companies. That's fair. But in terms of the narrative around Salesforce actually being a growth plane AI, I don't think it's going to be a phenomenal quarter. However, it's hard for me to say it's going to dump down 30%. Like it's still at the end of the day a very quality company doing 40 billion in revenue. It's just the AI narrative on the stock is is ugly. I know a lot of people are interested for path. I I you know robot robotic processing automation has been very interesting in the age of AI. You would think it has even more value because of AI which I would imagine if you're a path bull you think it does. I don't know if it's going to be enough to get this one to pump. This one was in the gutter all of 2024. It's up 11% year to date. Kind of broke out from that $10 range. Got to 17 in October. I don't know. I wouldn't I wouldn't even take a earnings flyer on this. You you just don't know if RPA and AI growth is strong enough to to impress the street. But if it is, then that's just another vertical where AI is continuing to add use cases for, which is important. Speaking of AI use cases, Crowd Strike, this is what they said on their earnings yesterday, which I thought was really important around AI. So, George Kurt said that AI represents our largest opportunity and demand driver yet. We're using AI to revolutionize cyber security and even larger, we're securing the world's uses of AI so businesses of all size can adopt more AI faster, securely, and with confidence. The transformative work we're doing with Nvidia is representative of how we're securing AI at its very source all the way down to its human and non-human users and its outcome. I see this as a generational opportunity for the company. So, you do have the uh cyber security names making the argument that AI should be a massive tailwind. Jeremy is selling PayPal actually. Did he announce he's selling PayPal or is he just trimming it? Jeremy's been on the PayPal bandwagon for a long time. Look, I haven't bought PayPal, but I I do think that is it safe because I don't think it's going to go down as much from here. Yeah. Do I think it's going to go up a ton from here? probably not just given the other opportunities, but I don't think it's necessarily going to like what they're taking it back to 50. Like I just I I find it hard to believe that. Someone says, "My company just started using Salesforce. It's the worst." You know, people say the same thing about Salesforce and they say the same thing about Copilot, which is that they hate using it, but they end up always having to to pay for it. Um, PayPal still red on the day. Is Netflix down because they increased their bid? Yes, I think so. Yes, I think so. Netflix is down likely because of that. UNH, that one's still moving. Unh. Wow. UNH up 2.3. Okay, so that's up. Uh Oscar, I think that might be up as well. Oscar, we're getting some green. That's up a little bit. Salesforce still flat. Robin just below 130. And then pound here at 171. Nike, there is an update on Nike. That's up 1.2. You did have a seuite buy a million dollars worth of stock. Let's get some coverage on the Nike announcement today. Let's pull this up right here. hadn't existed at Nike since back in 2023, while also eliminating their chief commercial officer and chief technology officer roles. Guys, what I can tell you is that this is just the latest leg in Elliot Hill, the CEO, who's been there for a little over a year's turnaround plan. It's a it's a turnaround that he said would not be overnight and would take potentially several years. Clearly, they're they're not slowing down. They're moving forward. some of these moves that they're making just try to flatten the organization. And that's what Elliot Hill said in a memo to his team overall.
>> All right, we'll get back to Nike, but Microsoft has a response. Microsoft has a response. Let's pull this up. Here we go. Microsoft officially responds
>> and Hill has sort of been transparent about the fact that this is going to take a little while.
>> All right, we do want to get to more breaking news on that Microsoft that we just told you about. Let's get back to Steve Kovac. Steve,
>> hey there, Mike. Yeah, literally as I was on air with you guys, Microsoft a few minutes ago, Microsoft emailed me. Uh they are kind of knocking back on this information report saying they cut sales quotas for some AI products. Uh let me just read you what they told me. They say now the company has not lowered quotas targets or for its salespeople. Uh and they also mentioned or pointed out that the information just changed its headline on the story that said they lowered quotas. Now the headline reads Microsoft lowers AI software growth targets. That is way different than sales quota. So uh a little bit of nuance here uh going on but the information did correct their headline or change their headline rather uh based on uh this new information. Microsoft is saying Microsoft now saying they have not reduced the sales quotas. I'm also expecting Microsoft to come out with some more information of this. But you can see now shares are reacting here a little bit. Uh they were down as much as 2 and a half% last they looked. Now down at more like one and a half% guys.
>> Yo the information some someone needs to do something about this this quote unquote news source because how does this little blog which it's not necessarily a little blog but it's not the Wall Street Journal. How do these guys have the scoops that can move literally tens of billions of dollars if not hundreds of billions that moved today when everything fell and then the TPU Meta news that's not confirmed either. No one actually knows if Meta is buying those TPUs, but that moved Google and Meta a ton last week. Took Nvidia down to 169. Microsoft, as you can see right here, starting to recover a little bit now only down 1.3%. This is getting kind of ridiculous. I don't know how they keep getting these scoops, but this is starting to get ridiculous. Microsoft responding by saying, "No, we have not lowered any sales quotas or targets for our salespeople."
>> I mean, Steve, obviously, it's a substantive difference, but also shows you how sensitive the market is to just any slight change of the anticipated pace of of growth in these areas and who's relatively in and out and whether we have to downscale our expectations for how quick this stuff pays off.
>> Precisely. And keep in mind, this was just one little product within the whole suite and portfolio of AI products that sent the shares down 2 and a half%. It's not even their main product. And again, like I said when I was on a few minutes ago, the cloud business is doing great and growing like crazy. It's over a hundred billion dollar a year business now in large part due to all this AI spending happening in the cloud. So yes, the market is incredibly sensitive to these kind of headlines. Uh but just this clarification from Microsoft uh really does seem to be easing some of those fears. Mike
>> does though the the thesis that there is frustration on some of the leading edge products within the enterprise Stephen that that remains intact.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That that's absolutely there's some questions about that and again I'll go back to what I told you last time Carl which was I talk to CTO's all the time and they keep telling me yeah co-pilot's good for some things or maybe not but they also say the outputs are not that great. uh basically the promise doesn't necessarily live up to uh what these kind of products can deliver and they're seeing much more success building it themselves and these kind of bespoke AI chat bots or agents or or what have you. But by the way, when they do that, that is still to Microsoft's benefit because they can choose Azure to run all this stuff on Microsoft's cloud. So even if they're not going out there necessarily and buying these products, it doesn't necessarily matter because Microsoft still sees an upside on the cloud side. It's interesting to see the the underperformance of Microsoft. I mean, it's still it's still up almost 15% this year, but underperforming some of the other competitors certainly in Alphabet.
>> Thank you, Steve.
>> Steve Kobach clarifying uh that Microsoft report.
>> Okay, so Microsoft saying chill out. We're okay. Well, that's getting Hoodie to do well. Nvidia back to 182. Robin Hood 130.5. I think that's the highest we've been in a couple weeks on hoodie. Is it? Yeah. Well, we touched 130.6 before Thanksgiving, but we're right back to those levels. Nike right there still 1%. Oscar is up and then Microsoft getting a little bit more momentum. Pounder at 172. Yeah. So, okay. So, basically Microsoft came out and said that these sources are wrong. We have not like because because the thing about the information headline is that once they reported the company is lowering sales quotas that sounds like lowering guidance. That's the problem because they could have easily wrote that article and said Microsoft's co-pilot is not doing as well. That's fine. But once you say a company is lowering expectations that becomes financial news that everyone needs to pay attention to. So even the way they framed the headline triggered the market and Microsoft completely denying it saying we have not lowered. Now, Microsoft did not come out and say co-pilot's like the best thing in the world, even though, you know, they they try to make people think that. But in terms of the actual financial piece of the headline, which makes people think, oh, I need to sell the stock because the earnings are going lower, which is lowering sales estimates, Microsoft said, no, we're not doing that. And that's why you're seeing a bit of recovery right here. Tesla, wow, 443. Look at that. Look at that. Again, the reason Tesla is up is because of uh is because of uh the robotics update that Lutnik was talking about. If they come out with a robotic ZAR, then obviously that would be very very bullish for a company like Tesla. I mean, theoretically that would be great for Amazon, too. But Amazon not getting as much love. Amazon right there at 232 right here on the day. Jacob, thanks for the super chat. the SEC needs to work about these headlines and stop worrying about pattern day trading. Yeah. I mean, look, the problem is it comes down to free speech as well, right? That's the issue. And in this country, like free speech is what we hold very very sacred. So, a lot of news publications get away with a lot of things. salacious headlines, tabloids, you know, because like at the end of the day, the information can say, "Hey, well, we had a source and our source said this and we have the freedom to publish this information based on our source." The problem is people take the information seriously. Like, if it's some random blogger tweeting about this stuff, no one's going to take it seriously. So, you're held to a journalistic standard if you have that much influence. I don't know how the hell the information got this much influence. Like, who actually pays for a subscription to read their [ __ ] like I don't but apparently they do and they're just not holding themselves to a high standard because a lot of these rep reports do not have real sources here. Uh Microsoft starting to get a little recovery right here and then Nvidia 181 Robin Hood at 130.4 stock talk should be on in about four minutes. We'll get him on to the show. excited for you guys to meet him. Um, and I think it should be fun to get some analysis on how he thinks about his stock picking philosophy as well. Iran going up a bit on the day, 2.5, and then PayPal, that's down 2.8. Um, going back to Iran, I think there was, yeah, this right here, this was a good post by this guy Austin Lieberman. I think this one made a lot of sense around what's going on with Iran, but this is what I was reading off a little bit more in the morning. So, again, you have a headline for 9.7 billion. Cost them six billion to buy the GPUs to secure the cloud compute. Uh, the outflow for the hardware bill is 5.8 billion. Microsoft paid 2 billion of it on the prepaid. So they have 4 billion that they need to make up. The 1.9 billion prepayment wasn't enough to buy the chips. IN had to raise capital to bridge that gap. They raised 2 billion which effectively covers the harbor deposit and infrastructure buildout. So I don't think the IN draw down is that scary like they had to pay or raise capital to buy the GPUs. The bare case is they are betting the entire company on this execution. If they have any delays, that's an issue. The bull case is they just financed a five-year cash machine and they're buying productive assets with guaranteed revenue attached. So I I it just I don't know now look buying I rent at 70 80 bucks I think the fear that I had at the time was the stock was up to why is PayPal dumping right here? Did PayPal say co-pilot's not selling? What's but I I the stock was up like 800%. Which is why I think I was more fearful of buying at those levels. Now the stock's still at 400%. But I think a lot of it is resting on their their execution. PayPal CFO, we have continues to see the macro pressure on the consumer throughout November. Well, uh, you know, I'm not saying PayPal's wrong about that. However, you're getting tons of companies come out and beat earnings in the retailer space. So, there's some nuance here. Number one, you can't deny they PayPal has hundreds of millions of users. So obviously, if they're seeing consumer weakening, then that's real data. However, they could also be saying that because they're preempting a bad earnings for PayPal because PayPal it's maybe people are just not using PayPal to buy a lot of products. I mean, that is the existential debate, right? Like when PayPal says the consumer is weak, you can't ignore that. But it's also like maybe the consumer is using CLA or SoFi's buy now pay later or something else and people or Apple Pay and they just don't care about using PayPal and as a result you know PayPal PayPal's consumer is weak but maybe the overall consumer is not as weak even though obviously it's hard to deny that the consumer isn't weak. So looks like that CFO comment taking PayPal down 3%. Uh, Google 318, that's up. And then ELF is up 9%. I use Apple Pay more than anything. I mean, I I use PayPal for like one or two things sometimes when I'm like signing up to something and it says pay with PayPal. It's just like easier, but I use Apple Pay a lot and I use the Robin Hood credit card because I get that 3% cash back. So, my use of PayPal has declined. Now, for sending money, PayPal is still the kink. like sending money especially if it's international PayPal is still like a very venmo still very important but transaction is where they make a lot of their money and you know that that's started to decline at least for my use cases yeah the exact quote right here is PayPal says um let's pull it up right here we have seen some macro pressure in September that has persisted into October and we are continuing to see that persist in our performance performance in November. Okay, so September sucked, October sucked, and because those two months sucked, November sucks as well. Yeah, this stock is going to be stuck at 60 for the end of time, bro. Goodness gracious. Then again, I feel like if everyone hates it here, maybe this is where it bottoms. Nvidia 181, Robin Hood 130.3 pounds here on Oh, yeah. Zel, I forgot about Zel. That is a massive other product that people use. Why is that's another product? I mean, there's just so many competing elements to to PayPal. Uh I did just get an email from Robin. Some of you guys might have got this email to sign up for banking. So, uh I'm not on banking yet, but they said banking is starting to roll out and you can sign up on the wait list. So, we should be hopefully seeing more adoption of banking soon. That could be a big tailwind for 2026. Uh Bit Mine right there. That's up 4%. Octa's up 1%. S&P 682. And then you got Netflix still down 5%. Hoodie at 130. Pounder at 173 on the day. Arie is not a big PayPal bull. Arie is actually been bearish PayPal for like the past two years. Amir, who is a friend of Arie and myself, he is more big on PayPal. Um, he thinks it's a double in two months. So I don't know 140 by the middle of next year is a bit of a tall ask. Pounder 173, hood 130 then Tesla 443. That's down. That's up 3.3. Tesla's still making a nice move right here. Yeah, we got the Microsoft news said they do not need lower AI sales quot. Didn't he say that two months ago? Yeah, he said that in September. He was saying two quarters. So theoretically by March. Arie was we were walking down to get some food and he said this [ __ ] Arie was recording us the whole time. I was like they're not going to double in two months or in two quarters. He's like they are. I was like you know what a double means, right? At the time PayPal was 70. I was like, 70 * 2 is 140. And I was like, I don't think that's easy. He's like, dude, it's cheap. I was like, I get it. It's cheap, but that's a tall ask. Um, okay. I'm trying to get Stock Talk on. Give it a second. He's just getting on. to the show right here. Yes, Microsoft said they did not lower AI sales quota that is uh that is changing a lot of the the narrative right here on Microsoft Google Pay. That's another thing that's like something people use all the time. Google right here again 319 on the day. Microsoft still down about 1.68%. Dude, why is Streamyard saying he has to sign into YouTube to join the stream? That makes no sense. No one's ever had to sign into YouTube to join the stream. What is Streamyard doing, bro? That is so freaking weird. That makes no sense. All right. Well, he should be on soon. There was a headline about the Anthropic IPO for next year. Uh that is not confirmed. You had some sources from Anthropic say that, you know, 2026 is not on our radar, but then you had other sources. This is from the Financial Times yesterday saying that uh they are absolutely getting ready for an IPO in 2026. You know, I think that's very possible because they need the money and so does OpenAI and the best way to get the money is to go public. The other thing is you want to IPO when the market's hot. like you don't want to IPO when the market is on the downturn of whatever narrative is going on. So 2026 AI narrative is strong. You have plenty of people that want to own a piece of one of the most important LLMs that is out there and you know that could end up being uh that could end up being anthropic. All right folks, we got him onto the show. So we're let's bring on a very special guest. Now this has been a person who I've been doing a uh audio show on Twitter. We'll be live, by the way, at 12:30 Eastern. If you want to pitch a ticker, you can DM me. We have a couple people already set up in the queue. Uh, but we're we started a show called Equity Edge. And essentially, we talk about stocks and we talk about undervalued gems that are in the market. Gems that it's hard to find and I, as a stock picker, I'm trying to get better at finding those gems. And Stock Talk, whose name is Vashall, is someone that has had a decade of finding a lot of these names. And this year has been a really good year for them. He is the person who brought us Amcor at 30 bucks and kind of sold me on it within five minutes when you looked at the multiple and looked at kind of the onshoring narrative for re-industrialization for semiconductors and stocks at 42. Not too bad. And so definitely excited to have him on the show and talk about his stock picking philosophy. Ladies and gentlemen, Stock Talk. What's up?
>> What's going on? What's going on guys? Good to see a lot of you. I'm sure many of you have probably heard me on audio before um on spaces or you know either with Amit on on the new space that we're starting with Equity Edge, but it's good to be with you guys. I was excited to come on these streams. I've watched these streams with it many times. So, it's good to be on um and and to chat. So, yeah, let's get into it.
>> Well, you made a lot of people a lot of money on this Amcore name. So, very
>> included.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And you know, one of the one of the reasons I I wanted to do the the show with you is because I've respected you a lot as a stock picker. And I think there's a literal handful of people, like I can count on one hand the amount of people I really respect when they say, "Look at this ticker." Because everyone has an idea of a ticker, but not everyone does enough research to say this ticker deserves to take a look at. You do, and you found some really undervalued gems throughout the year, uh, that have obviously done very well. So, I guess let's start off with that first question. First of all, how long have you been investing for? And then the second part to that is what is your general philosophy when it comes to actually picking a stock in the market.
>> Yeah. So I mean a lot it's funny because a lot of people hear me on Twitter and they think I'm a lot older than I am. Maybe because of my voice, but um I'm 32. I'm I'm not I'm not old, but I've been investing since I was 18. Trading and investing since I was 18. So, you know, it's been 14 years. In terms of doing it seriously, it's really been a little over a decade. Um I was in medical school. Uh I was actually in my third year in medical school like you know typical uh Indian kid you know no nothing different there. That's what
>> you you actually went to the medical school though. I I didn't even
>> I went yeah I went to Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas which has nothing to do with Baylor University which is what a lot of people associated with just the same namesake. But um back then it was like a top five med school. It was like a competitive institution and I wanted to do it more so for my parents than anything. But I found myself trading in the back of my classrooms and like really caring a lot more about markets than I did about uh about medicine. And I did well in my classes. But in my third year, I decided to leave and my dad to the disappointment of my father um decided to trade stocks and it worked out. I mean obviously
>> what what was that what was that like real quick when you said, "Dad, I'm dropping out of med school to trade." It was a terrible conversation. It was it was I mean you could I mean you know you know how it is. It's uh it's something that you kind of grow up with culturally you know like you either become a doctor or an engineer and and it's it was astonishing to him because he was like I thought you wanted to do it. He's like you were you know and all of your school was oriented around it. But um yeah, I just it was something you know what it might have been is one of my earliest rotations was in oncology and it was for children's oncology and it was just like brutal and I'm not taking anything away from the profession but I was like dude do I want to spend the rest of my life doing this and I just couldn't put like my actual energy behind it. Another factor that played a role is both my parents passed away when I was young and the main reason I was there was because of them and so it felt like that motivation was kind of fleeting but I loved market since I was a kid. I loved like you know I had an uncle um who worked for TD in Canada for many years and then RBC for many years um and was very involved with their equities uh divisions of both banks. So he kind of not inspired me but exposed me in a way to that industry and so maybe piqu my interest a little bit. But um yeah it it was it was years of just me thinking I was good and then having to prove it to myself to make a living and then eventually in 2020 um when COVID came I was like you know what I'm going to uh start a page. I saw all these kids starting these pages and like pumping penny stocks and like you know and I was like what are these guys doing? Who are they following? So I was like you know what I'm going to start a page and see if it takes off. And um you know it did pretty well. We got 350 whatever we're at thousand followers in a couple of years. And I've never really like I don't post a ton. I don't post every day. I'm not like these guys that are like out there to grow their accounts. I just really did it more so through sharing good ideas. But um yeah, it's been a hell of a ride. It's been well over a decade now of serious trading for me. Uh, seven plus years consecutive beating the market. Um,
>> and this year is just I mean I don't I haven't seen a someone
>> My best year ever.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's your best year ever. I haven't seen anyone else on FinTeit who has a real uh public following as transparent as you. And I mean 520% this year versus 13%. You had to find some gems to be able to make that happen. So let's get into that discussion.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's start. How did you find Amcor? And then can you segue into how do you think philosophically about finding stocks?
>> So I would describe my strategy like this. I focus on the midcap niche. There are occasionally small caps around my portfolio. There's one right now. I'll go over all my portfolio holdings with you guys later. I don't typically do that publicly but you know from its audience. It's my boy so I'll do it. Um and we'll chat about all those stocks. But um I typically don't do small cap. It's typically midcap. So 2 to 10 billion market cap range. And what I'm looking for is I'm looking for a story that's about to inflect, right? And that can be an inflection that's happening fundamentally, technically, or thematically. And for me, my high conviction picks, Amcore being one of them, you know, Nurses Systems, ENS. Actually, three of the three stocks that I covered on Equity Edge with it were are actually my three biggest positions.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I'm not talking to you guys about names that I don't have my money where my mouth is. Those are my three biggest positions. Ampor, ENS, and Vav. Um,
>> and by the way, I'm sure a lot of people haven't even heard of ENS and VV, right? And this is what I mean by just things that people have not heard about at all.
>> Yeah, exactly. And and that's to me where you can get a lot of early alpha, where you can get a great entry early, and then, you know, by the time the crowd finds it, you're so deep in the money on your position, and you can just, you know, manage it much more comfortably. But yeah, in a nutshell, what I try to do is I try to find midcaps that are at an inflection point. And my high conviction picks are when they check all those boxes. They're thematically relevant. They have a fundamental inflection and they also have a technical inflection. So, you know, Stanley Ducken Miller talks about this. He's like, I never take an idea where it's not fundamentally a good idea and also technically a good idea. And I'm the same way. I need both the chart and the story to be telling me the same thing. And like there are there's this thought process on Twitter from a lot of people I think that you have to be encamped. You have to be a balance sheet guy or a chart guy and that's it. That's how you pick stocks. And all the chart guys, you'll see them say, "Well, I don't need to worry about the news or the catalysts or the themes. It's all noise to me." And then you'll see the balance sheet guys say, "Well, I've never used a chart in my life and I've made great money." In my view, both camps are wrong. like be using them both as objective data sets and trying to get the most probability in your favor I think is the objective of investing. You want the price and the story to be telling you the same thing in my view. So um that's what I try to do. That's my stock picking in a nutshell. Midcap's at an inflection point. Um yeah do do you care about the so this like Microsoft headline this morning like when you see a headline like that do you care? Does it affect your psychology portfolio management or how do you navigate these types of breaking news headlines? It was funny because this morning when it came out, I like put in our Discord chat. I was like, for what it's worth, the information is a terrible, terrible publication. And I just like put that in the chat. I was like, for what it's worth, I'm not going to say how the market's going to do today. And you know, obviously we got a big reversal off that when Microsoft came out and said that was fake news, but they've published so much fake news at this point. I'm like surprised the market's still reacting to their stories. But right,
>> um, yeah. No, look, I don't I don't I don't pay much attention. Look, on Stocks on Spaces and some of the other shows I do, I talk about macro. Why? Because the public wants it. You know, we've even had this in in some of our shows that we've done together where we're like, we're not going to talk about macro and then we end up having to touch on it because something big happens, you know, and it's like everyone wants to know. And
>> it it just I have never needed to really worry about it as a stock picker, you know? And the reality is is most of you out there are stock pickers. Even if you're not like doing it, spending your whole day doing it like me and Amit are or you're not isn't like your full-time thing. Many of you are still stock pickers. Your your portfolio is mostly individual stocks. Even if your time horizon is whatever 10 years, your portfolio is most individual stocks. By virtue of that, you're a stock picker. And in my view, what you should worry a lot more about is the micro than the macro. You should be worrying about what's happening with the companies that you own, not what might be happening in the bigger economy. Cuz like is there always risk of some sort of credit event happening or some sort of slowdown in the consumer happening? This risk always exists perpetually. And if you plan your portfolio around it, you're just going to be stuck in the mud. You're going to be sitting on the sidelines stuck in the mud waiting for this perfect Goldilocks macro backdrop where there's rainbows and pots of gold and you're like, "Now I'm going to buy stocks." And I'm gonna be like, well,
>> everything's gonna be trading at a 50p of information. I mean, I I'm serious. If Trump's going to issue an executive order, that should be the next one.
>> So much.
>> Okay. So, let's let's get into a little bit of uh your thoughts on the current state of the market and then we'll get into his portfolio deep dive and we can talk about some of the names that he's in. All right. So, let's start off with this one. AI, fake, real, bubble. How are you thinking of it right now?
>> Definitely not fake. Bubble. I mean, it's really hard to assess that. Yeah, sure. There's parts of the AI market that are in a bubble. Absolutely. There are some valuations that are insane. I mean, you know, we can wrap our minds around that and be okay with that. Valuations can stay insane for a long time. Is it is it fake? Absolutely not. This is going to be the most revolutionary technology of our lives, probably of all time. I mean there's going to be a hump at some point where we have a supply gut and chips you know the the the improvement of the technology tapers off or or or plateaus that's going to happen at some point I don't know whether it's 5 years from now next year two years from now when that happens there will be a lot of doubt because valuations will compress right multiples will compress and people will be like oh is the AI thing all over but this happens with most technologies there's some sort of point where people are like how much better can it get and then it gets a lot better and sometimes it takes a decade or two decades, but technolog is undefeated. You know, efficiency is undefeated. Like anything that promises efficiency always wins. And AI promises efficiency more than like anything I can think of, you know, any any any technology recently that I can think of. And are there bubbles along the way? Yeah. Like, okay, did the internet fail? No. But the.com bubble burst still happened. But born out of that era were some of the greatest companies in the world, the biggest companies in the world today. So the internet didn't fail, but yeah, there was still a bubble and then that bubble eventually reversed. Are there valuations that'll come down back to earth? Yeah, for sure. You know, and and some of those stocks that have gotten destroyed and obliterated these last several weeks won't go back to the highs. Some of them won't, you know,
>> do you do you think the data center buildout is real or are we overbuilding on capacity? Because I think that is the biggest question.
>> It's hard. It's hard to It's hard to answer that because there's a couple factors when I think about that. The first thing is is that
>> the buildouts that were happening this year, the biggest buildouts haven't even really gone online yet, you know, and the ones that haven't gone online haven't been integrated into training or inferencing yet. So it's like we don't yet know the actual impact of this first huge trunch of data center spend right this first year of hundreds of billions of dollars have been poured into it like you know XAI's biggest data center I don't even know if it's fully online yet or neither is Meta's the one that Meta's building is that fully online I mean I'm I'm sort of asking generally because I don't know if they are or aren't but even if they are I don't I think they probably came online recently if they are um and to the extent of my knowledge most of them aren't even online. Most of the commitments that have been made. So, it's like how can we judge the impact of the first stage of investment and then say, "Hey, stage two and stage three of the investment are overkill if we don't even know what the the results of this are going to be, right?" Like, what if next year after all these data centers go online, AI just takes a step change?
>> Yeah.
>> Like, what if that happens? Then you're like, "Oh my god, it was worth it." Put more money in. and then you'll see the capex numbers go up again. So, we don't know I if if this gets so good that three years from now you have humanoid robots everywhere and autonomous vehicles in every city in America, yes, you're going to you're going to build out more data centers. If if the incremental benefit to the technology is just that incremental that's the risk I think where hey the LLM's got a little better but we put $800 billion into it like you know that that will be an issue. So I don't know the I I'll reserve that answer that is I don't know. We'll have to see how much better the models get when these data centers go online.
>> Macro question for you. So rate cut probabilities look like they're going to happen. labor market looks like it's weakening. Feds uh shadow Fed probably being announced soon by Trump. How are you thinking about the state of inflation, the labor market rate cuts, and do you think quantitative easing is 50% of the thesis for 2026? The other 50% likely being the AI trade.
>> Uh yeah, I think look, I think the end of QT is a a tailwind for equities. QE is tailwind for for equities. Rate cuts are tailwind for equities. I mean these things are pretty historically true. Usually what matters in terms of equity performance is the context, right? The context of those cuts and like are you cutting into a recession? Are you cutting into, you know, economic weakness? And I don't think the economy is caving just yet. Like we still have, you know, enough things to hang our hat on to say there isn't a need to panic about the economy yet. I mean, you could say that by this stage in the cycle with rates where they have been, you should expect some sort of economic crack at some point. Yes, that's a fair thing to say. Okay. But I also don't know if it's smart to speculate on that, you know, or to say, "Oh, when is it going to happen?" Like, I was talking about this yesterday. I was like, "Anything can happen at any time. There's always economic risk that's floating in the background that no one knows about or or that people do know about. But it's really hard to predict when it's going to culminate and when markets are going to react to it. And so to me, to an extent, it's a fool's errand to sit around and say, you know, when is that event or when could that event happen? And so, yeah, I would just perceive everything as a data point. Is QE conducive for equities? Yeah. Is the end of QT conducive for equities? Yeah. Are cuts, which we're heading into, conducive for equities? Yeah. generally speaking, barring some sort of big economic catastrophe in the background, which may or may not happen, but I'm certainly not going to try to guess when it will.
>> Yeah, I would agree. And that's the other thing I' I've really learned from you is just like you cannot really predict when these things happen, but you can react. And the question is, you know, two weeks ago, did you react to the downside? Did you panic sell? Or did you react in a way that was more holding steady because you knew eventually how things would play out. Um 520% for the year. Uh let's get into the juicy stuff. Your portfolio that got you these returns before people ask if you used if he used a margin or leverage or options. Like obviously it's hard to get a 500.
>> So dude, see
>> obviously
>> it's like when I got my 270% return last year, there's some hood options that really So options are really important to beat the market in that respect. What are the
>> If you want to beat the market by that that by that margin, yeah, you need that. you need to use options to some extent. So,
>> um, couple things. So, first of all, my portfolio is mostly common stock at any given time. Um, I share my portfolio updates in our community um, every week. I also share everything I do live in there if you guys are ever interested in that. But when I post them, what I do is I share what percentage of the portfolios in options and which percentage is in stocks. And generally,
>> it's 85 to 90% and that means of the dollar amount in the portfolio is in equity. common stock and then 10 to 15% depending on how aggressive I want to be. Sometimes it maybe can be a little over 15% maybe 16 17% of the portfolio can be in options. Now I'm not a big spread guy and a lot of people that use spreads I'm young. I'm risky. I have high conviction in my positions and so I'm generally using naked options um which means you know just directional options, naked calls. And really what I'm doing is I'm adding leverage to high conviction equity positions that I want more upside on where I'm like, yeah, I'm long the stock, but if this thing rips, I want to make more money than I'm going to make from just the equity. And that that's really where I add options into my position. So I generally run a book of 10 to up to 25 positions on really really aggressive peels. Like there were points in this year where I had 24 25 positions, but currently I'm at 14. And so I generally hover 10 to 15 if if things are going how I want them to and like I'm not having to reach out for opportunities. 10 to 15. Um the more aggressive market,
>> that's a sweet spot. 10 to 15 is a sweet spot for you.
>> Yeah, for a sweet it's a sweet spot for me. But there are moments where we're in like a raging bull market like the middle of this year where I got up to 24 25 positions and that's because I see a lot of areas of the market working and I want exposure, you know, and so I'll go out and grab trades, for example. I'm more of a long-term oriented guy, you know, I have core positions that I build through cycles and hold, but I trade around those core positions based on what's thematically relevant, right? What's happening in the markets, what news is conducive in the markets. You know, if I'm seeing PRs come out every week about a sector, I want to be involved. You know, I want to benefit from the six or seven% pops that those equities are going to see on a week-toeek basis from a catalyst rich environment. So 10 to 15 ideally in aggressive environments that can be higher. Um, and the same thing goes for my options exposure. 10 to 15% ideally in in aggressive environments it can be higher. So yeah, this Yeah, these are the seven out of those 10.
>> Yeah. So the bottom. So Robin Hood I've owned since the beginning of last year. The beginning of last year I bought 10, 15, and $20 calls going out into January or this year. And then end of last year, beginning of this year, I exercised the 15 and 20 calls and took the stock. So Robin Hood, I've been long for a while, but obviously, as you guys know, it did great again this year. So it was another big contributor this year. Kratos I've also owned since last year. Added to that position this year um in the low 20s, mid 20s and low30s. So that's was a huge winner for me too. Went up to 100. Obviously it's corrected since then, but that was a big winner. Centress we've I used to own at 48, got out in the 80s last year, got back in at 96 in May of this year. That ended up running to 400. I still own it. It's sitting at like 260 now. Um, VAVI, VIAV, this I got in at 1358 prior to their last earnings. Um, I think when I touched on it with you guys, it was after the earnings, unfortunately. It was just the way we had it scheduled. But, um, I got in at 1358 prior to last earnings with a big position. Um, and then it was mostly in options, which is why it really accelerated in waiting in my portfolio. You know, for three, I think I had three and a half or 4% waiting. I can't remember exactly what it was, but in just options going into that earnings report and it went up 20% on the earnings and so those options were up like 400%. So, um, that was a monster move. And then, um, Iners, I got in, uh, 11280, I believe, I think, when I touched on it with you guys, maybe in the 120s. That's 145 now. That has a ton of leverage on it, too. I own a ton of the March and December calls. Amcor, I touched on it with you guys, I think, at 28, 29, 30, something like that. But I got in at 24 um in September, beginning of September, and it's been either my first or second biggest position since September uh the whole way through. So, it's been a high conviction position since the beginning, and I still have Amcore in full size. It's my largest position. Again, ENS overtook it briefly during the pullback and then Amcore this week took back the number one waiting. So, those were the seven biggest contributors on a dollar perspective. I
>> Nebus is a bit
>> I forgot about Nebius. Nebius we got in May uh at 23. Actually, let me check my cost basis. Hold on. I have my phone right here.
>> The thing about your Nebia story is that I mean
>> Nebius is a big stock now, but yeah, you were on this thing very early.
>> Yeah. So, when I got a Nebus was way before the Microsoft deal, obviously it was back in May. And the reason I got in was I felt that they were a um they were different from the other data center guys in the sense that they had other businesses. They had their robotics business AV ride which they had back then. They had a stake uh in click house which is a peer to data bricks and snowflake and they also had a stake in well not a stake their full subsidiary Toka which Jeff Bezos had invested in which is their AI data venture. So they had these real businesses surrounding the speculative data center business that could ground the valuation. And so back then at 23 I was like this is a handover fist buy. That was actually my I think one of my largest buys of the year back at 23. And that was huge for us obviously because it ran all the way to 140. It's come back now down to 90 or whatever. But this is the beauty of buying at the right times. I talk about cost basis is king a lot. Like you know um I'll touch on my positions later and my cost basis for them. But you'll see how deep my cost base advantage is on basically everything I own. And what that allows me to do is during these moments of market volatility where where some of my stocks might be down 20 or 30%. It doesn't bother me because my my conviction remains the same. I know the company well and I'm like, dude, I bought it at 23. If Nebius comes back to 40, I would love to double down.
>> You know, if the market crashes, it might like. And the beauty of that is is people don't understand this because they think they're like, "Well, it doesn't matter if you have 100k in profits or if you have 200k in profits and the stock goes down and you lose 100k underrealized, you still lost 100k. It doesn't matter. Stock talk." And I'm like, "No, it does because you're a human operator." Okay? You are a human operator. You're not none of you are I imagine most of you in the audience are not running your portfolios on an AI bot yet. In a few years you might be, but right now you're not right. You're human operator. And so for now your your your psychology absolutely does matter. The people that pretend that it doesn't end up making really really bad mistakes like selling at the lows, panic selling, chasing. Those are the mistakes that are made when you think cost basis doesn't matter. And when you have a deep cost base advantage, moments of volatility, you can stomach them better. You know, Peter Lynch said this too. He's like the market is much better much more about your stomach than your brains. You don't have to be a smart person to make money in the markets. You really don't. But you do need to have a stomach. You do need to have some balls. Like that is important. And if your cost basises are if you chase everything at the highs and your cost basis are 150 bucks on everything and then the stocks come back down during a market correction, it's really hard to look at your portfolio where everything you own, you're at a $250,000 loss on every single position like, "Oh my god, dude. I should probably cut some losses before this gets worse." You know, that's what you think as a regular human being, as a regular human operator. So you shouldn't discard the fact that psychology is important to protect and investing as well. It's not just about the numbers.
>> Do you do you think position size matters more than cost basis or you would put them equally up there in terms of how you think about them?
>> Um I think they both matter. I think I think they can be counterbalances to each other. So I think if you are less sensitive to cost basis, you can size your position modestly as a counterbalance to say, "Hey, I may be buying at the wrong price, but I'm going to buy a little bit."
>> Right? Because that's another way to endure volatility. You're like, "Oh, well, I don't have too much in there. It's fine." Like I I can I can tolerate a minus 10. If you if you go into a stock right away with five million bucks and you're like, "Oh, wow. It went down 10% like I'm already," you know, I mean, you're going to that's that's different. If you go to a stock with 5,000 bucks, you know, and you're like, "Oh, well, this I can do this draw down. I can do this minus 10% plus 10% game." You know, so it's a it's a different it's a different perspective that you you you take on because you have different sizing and so you can balance you can counterbalance them. And and conversely, if you are going to take big size, right, if you are g you better make sure it's a good entry.
>> You see what I'm saying? versus not caring about the cost bases and having small size. So, it's one or the other really, but yeah, you can use either one to control risk.
>> So, let's do this real quick. By the way, uh the chat is loving you and they also love your laugh. So, because
>> I laugh like Seth Rogan. Yeah.
>> They say I laugh like a hyena and they say you laugh like a seal. So,
>> a seal. Okay, I'll take that. All right. All right. I'm not that.
>> Um guys, we're gonna be live at 12:30 as well. This is Stock Talks Twitter. So, please make sure you're following here. If you're not, they say they want you in the rotation, so we might have to have you on every month at least. Stock Talk,
>> get me in there. Get me in there. I'll be in the rotation.
>> All right. Let's All right. So, we got it. He just He will be on the show. We'll have him as a as a contributor every month. And hopefully more often. All right. So, Stock Talk Portfolio. So, you can name the position and then the average or the cost basis. And I'll just write this down. And
>> Sure. Um, let me run through this. I'll just show the cost basis on commons because um if I go through all the options and stuff, it's going to get complicated. But I'll show I'll show the cost base on the common stock for all of these.
>> Make you laugh like a turkey.
>> A turkey. Okay, I'll take that.
>> Turkey even laugh.
>> I don't know.
>> Okay. All right. So the first theme I have these separated by thematic. So the first one is power grid and batteries. Um inus ENS is my biggest position. Um in the whole portfolio currently but obviously also in that basket. Um I'll give you the relative weightings too. Why not? Just because you know
>> Oh, they're gonna love you, dude. They're they're really gonna love it. Transparency is important.
>> That one's at a 15. just put that one at 15 to 16% because it's going to bounce between that and then next one in the that basket is PLPC that's at 8 to 9%. That is just all common stock. Uh okay, the cost base on ENS is 11287. PLPC is 19216. Uh okay then the next basket is US semiconductor supply chain. This used to be two socks. It used to be Amcore and Pab. Now it's just Amcore. Um that is 13 well actually nope. Ampcore is not 13 to 14% anymore. If you include the options it is 16 to 17%. Um so Amcore has now overtaken ENS. Um, and there is a 2435 cost basis on the shares
>> on on Amcore. A lot of people have been asking me when when would you sell? Uh, do you have like a long-term target for the commons?
>> I will take off a good portion of the options around 60 bucks. I want the stock to trade a lot closer to 2x sales considering the type of partnerships they have. And I also think that running into the 2028 completion, you may see another boost in this name. So I may end up holding a portion of this position through 2028, frankly, a large portion of it.
>> Um because I don't know. I I think there may be a po there's clearly a part of the market that is seeing the thesis for what I saw it as which is that this is a deep set packaging partner and a winner agnostic play on the entire US semiconductor supply chain that's the way I see it but um I think the market's recognizing that that's why the stock's done so well but what I will say is is that I don't know if the market fully recognizes the revenue growth opportunity from PIA itself and that isn't going online till 2028 so we'll see I mean if the stock goes the 60s or 70s I will take a lot off period you know just because of where I own it but um I will probably hold a portion of it through 28
>> I think it makes sense if we're onshoring that much manufacturing in the states then
>> I I'm betting on it happening I'm betting on more of it happening I I you know I I was thinking about so much about TSM and Taiwan like last couple of weeks and I was just like dude I just don't see another out for them like I just don't see another out for them and and I think the United States is going to pressure them. I mean, we are their entire customer base. The United States can quite literally force TSM to come here. Force them. We make up 60% of their revenue. People don't understand this. Like, for all intents and purposes, Taiwan Semiconductor is an American company. For all intents and purposes,
>> you know, and now they're becoming even more so of one because they're because of TSM Arizona. So, I think it's not even a choice really.
>> It's like a national security imperative. TSM Arizona needs to happen. Um, and however much money needs to be poured into that will be poured into that. That's what I believe and that's really
>> and by the way
>> for for people to get a context of how much research this guy does. He translated Taiwanese news articles on chat GPT to try to find you tell the story. What were you trying to find to figure out?
>> I was trying to find So there's Taiwanese news is a great thing to read by the I know it sounds silly, but it's a great thing to read if you want to follow the semiconductor news because all the news that's important for semiconductors comes from Taiwan because TSM is the semiconductor industry, frankly. Um, and so cutting edge news is what I should say because there's other non- cutting edge leaders, but t cutting edge chips, it's like TSM is the only show in town. They make chips not just for Nvidia, for Apple, for everyone in their mother. TSM is making them. Um, and so yeah, if you read Yeah, Taipei Times to see Chris. Uh, if you read Taiwanese news, there's a lot of sources um that cover it, it will give you insights into what is happening in the industry before the American media picks up on it. And the American media is what moves the stocks. before the Bloomberg articles come out or sometimes you'll see like Financial Times articles come out talking about something happening in Taiwan. Those guys are reading Taiwanese news and forwarding to that's what they're doing um you know or they have a correspondent or whatever. But my point is it comes out later. The American news always come semiconductor news always comes out later. So if you want to stay ahead of the semiconductor industry just you you should read it. But yeah, that's where I first found Inklings of Amcor was in Taiwanese news. Um, was they were talking about how TSM was focused on fabs in Arizona and needed a partner for packaging because they could not focus on erecting a packaging facility at the same time they were focusing on these highly intensive fab erecting operations. Putting a fab up is like insanely complicated and requires an insane amount of talent and very very specific. There's a reason why it's such a monopolistic industry like semiconductor fabrication at the cutting edge. Again, I'm not referring to the fabs downstream that are making, you know, widely uh produced chips. I'm referring to the cutting edge. Cutting edge fabrication is an extremely complicated process. So TSM was effectively admitting according to these Taiwanese articles that they needed a packaging partner. And so immediately I was like, "Okay, who does packaging?" And so I started to do research and I was like, "Dude, there's only one packaging player in the United States that has any capability." And it was Amcore. And that was back when it was 24 bucks. And I remember when I shared the thesis, the first people think people were saying to me was, "Well, what about the margins? Packaging is not a high gross margin business." And I was like, "Dude, if the revenue doubles, it doesn't matter. If if a company is valued at X with 20 15 or 20% margins with a billion of dollars in revenue and the revenue goes to two billion, what happens to the stock?
>> Yeah.
>> Does it stay still? No. The stock doubles. So people often overthink things and they're like, well, you know, packaging isn't a high margin business. Well, if Apple and Taiwan Semi and Broadcom all go to MCO for packaging, will it matter? Yes, it will matter. And their margins will go up too in that in that situation. Even though they go up by 250 bips, who cares? I mean, it's about whether the stock should trade at a premium or not. And in September, the stock was not trading at a premium. It's to, in my opinion, still not trading at the premium it should in light of the growth that will come. And you know, another thing that people look at is they look at the TTM growth and they go, "Well, it's not growing." It doesn't matter. That's not the point. The TTM growth is not what matters. People are forward-looking. The market is forward looking. They know Poria is coming online. They know Broadcom. Who's Broadcom's packaging partner in the United States? Anyone know? It's MCOR. And they won the top supplier award six times. And they won it as most recently as 2024.
>> So who's TSM's partner? Apple's partner, Broadcom's partner, the now10 billion company that was a $6 billion company in September. I mean, my point is is that there's a reason it's still I still own it, you know, and I haven't sold it because
>> and what what I love about this story is, as you said, you don't need to be a genius. Like, everyone anyone can look at Taiwanese news. Anyone can use AI to translate. Anyone can take the time to read and say, "Oh, this stock's undervalued."
>> It's not an intelligence game. Stockpicking is really not
>> it's a it's a research game, but anyone can do research,
>> right? you know, and oh, and by the way, guess who Intel's packaging partner is?
>> There you go.
>> So,
>> it was a big find, dude. It was a big
>> Yeah. So, um, anyway, back to this, uh, where we at? MCore. Okay. Yeah, that's the semi basket. Yeah, I got shaken out of Pab, unfortunately, when I was doing some portfolio magic, but I still really, really, really, really, really, really, really like that name for what it's worth, and may buy it back prior to their earnings, which are coming up in a few weeks. Anyway, um uh okay, the other one's my small cap name. Um which, uh you know, be cautious. It's the only small cap name in my portfolio, but it's going to be volatile, yada yada yada. Uh which is OSS, Onetop Systems. Uh my cost base on that is 471. That is at a 5 to 6% waiting. Okay. So this one is in so this basket this small cap fits in um oh so for that theme uh put not don't put small caps for that theme put uh data center because this is the data center basket um I'll explain what oss does to uh for those that don't know but um so the other one in that is nebus um that is at see if this has changed that's at 6 to 7% waiting has gone down on that obviously since it's dipped. 2392 is the cost basis on that.
>> What would you consider a small cap market cap wise?
>> Um I just go by the dictionary definition. So midcap is 2 to 10 billion. Uh small cap is sub 2 billion.
>> Got it.
>> So this would be technically a really small cap but anything under two billion is considered a small cap. And then micro I think is sub 200 million. So that might fit into micro. I don't know. Um but um hold on. What's the third one? Oh yeah, the third one in that is Vav. That's 9 to 10%. Um that's 1358 cost basis.
>> Okay.
>> All right. That's the data center. Oh, sorry. We also have digital ocean and path and that which are these are more so options plays, but I do have some digital ocean shares. Um I have path 14 calls. That's 4% that earnings is today. Um but that's 4%. And then dockend that's 2 to 3%.
>> These are mainly options for you.
>> Yeah, these are mainly options positions. Docend I do have some shares. Those are at 3630 the shares that I do have on that.
>> Okay.
>> Yep. And then
>> path are are you doing the an earnings trade on path today or there's something? Well, so this is the thing with Path. I think Path to me used to be a meme stock and I think now it's not a meme stock anymore. I think it's a real company now. And I think frankly speaking, they're probably the global leader in RPA, which is robotic process automation, which is like a little bit simpler than full automation or the type of AI automation that that people think of. It's it's more so process very specific process driven automation. I think there's a niche opportunity here. And like look, they're generating free cash flow. The valuation's pretty reasonable. I mean, they're trading like a 20 trailing PE. Uh the chart looks good, bouncing off the 200 day, in flecting off the lows. I mean, I don't know. I if it wasn't so close to earnings, I would have taken a much bigger position. That's what I'll say.
>> But because it's right before the earnings, I don't want to go in with a 5% position and then get dumped on 20%, you know? So, I put 04% into some January calls. If it works, cool. I'll try to size into some shares on the next pullback, you know, but I'll at least I'll have some exposure with the option. So, you know, we'll see. But yeah, I I like the story there a lot and I think it's actually becoming a real company and not a meme stock anymore. So, I want to own it. But I it does bother me that a lot of people are talking about it. That bothers me because I don't like to own names that everyone's talking about. Like I I hate it when people on Twitter are like, "Oh, bro, I'm buying calls on this. Buying more calls." That always turns me off because I don't want my stocks to be popular. And unfortunately, some of the stocks I buy become popular over time, but um I don't like them to be popular when I buy them. Um next basket is nuclear. That's just one stock in that uh LEU that is at 9 to 10%. Just shares uh cost bases on that is 96.94.
>> Okay. Uh, aerospace and defense Kratos. Um, I have some 35 and 40 calls expiring January 27, but the cost base on the shares is 2234. Um, and then HIi, that's 21930 is the cost basis on that. That's Huntington Engles. It's the only ship builder in the United States.
>> Do you uh do you like the Andes of the world or Red Cats or
>> I think they're all just crazy overvalued.
>> And I think if somebody's going to win in drones, it's going to be Kratos or Aervironment, not those guys in my opinion. But I mean, I don't know. They're they're going to go up a lot. and the charts look good on all of them because they're the memes of the of of the category. Um, on has a legitimate technology, but people have gotten carried away with the idea that legacy primes can't compete in counter drone technology. They think it's some sort of unique niche. People often get mistaken about this like with um small caps. They think like small cap has a technology and so that bigger players can't compete. It's usually misleading, but yeah, I'm not interested in those at the valuations they are currently. I think a year ago they probably were really interesting longs at at multi-billion dollar valuations. I'm not interested in the smaller drone players. Um I do think there's one Canadian one that's that's potentially interesting at at the current valuation. I used to own it DRO. I don't own it anymore. I bought it at like five, sold at 10. Um it was just a trade, but that one I think the valuation is potentially a little bit more interesting because they're one contract away from a rerating. for the rest of these guys who are trading at multi-billion dollar valuations. The problem is is you'd need a really big contract to justify the valuations. I don't know if they'll get it. So, we'll see. Um, but I yeah, I love aerospace and defense. I used to have like seven positions deep in this basket. It's only two now. Start of the year. I had like Mercury Systems, so many others um that I like in that space. But, uh, yeah, I like aerospace and defense a lot. Okay. Okay, then the last B.
>> What's the waiting on these if if you have those?
>> Oh, sorry. The waiting Oh, yeah. Did I even give you the waitings? Yeah, I give you everything else. Uh, waiting on Kratos is 3 to 4%. Waiting on hi is 2 to 3%.
>> Okay,
>> these are mostly low weightings, not because they weren't positions that I like, but because my portfolio has 5x this year, so they got left behind in in the dust in terms of waiting. That's honestly like it's funny because like people are like, "Dude, why are your waitings for your old like your old positions so low?" And I was like, "Dude, I just the portfolio grew so much." So the last category is legacy positions and these are all going to be small waitings, too. These used to be huge waitings, but the portfolio grew a lot. So Robin Hood 4 to 5%. That's 1974 cost basis. Um Tesla 3 to 4% that is a 1938 cost basis. 1930. I didn't know. Wow. I knew you were early. I didn't know you were that early.
>> I was 2015 early. Yeah.
>> Um, Amazon 3 to 4% 88.93 cost basis.
>> So, and that's all the portfolios or that's all the positions, right?
>> That's all the position 6.8% cash.
>> So, let's let's I want to talk about these legacy positions for a bit. just Tesla and Amazon. Uh do you still remain bullish on those two names? And if you if you had to pick one for the next decade, which one are you going with
>> in terms of like return on equity, right?
>> Yeah. Literally, if gun to your head, someone says you got to sell Tesla or Amazon for the next decade, which one?
>> [ __ ] I think I know which one you're going to pick, but I know you love Elon. So, I think you're gonna pick Amazon, though. But I know you love Elon.
>> Yeah. At the current valuation, I'd pick Amazon. At the current valuation,
>> Elon, if you're listening, do not unfollow me, Elon. Don't unfollow me. If you're listening, I love you. You know, I love you. I defend you all the time. Don't unfollow me.
>> Don't do that.
>> Um, why do you continue to hold on to Tesla from that cost base? Um, I love Elon, that's why. And I think he's the greatest innovator of our time, and I just won't don't want to bet against him.
>> Um, sometimes I feel like I don't own enough of either of those, honestly. I actually just added some leaps to Amazon like yesterday. Um,
>> some 2028 250s. Um, I like to go close to the money. One thing you'll find with a lot of my options, um, and maybe on the next show I'll talk a little bit about how I trade options. We'll talk a little bit about that. Um, one thing you'll find with a lot of my options, I go, no matter how far I'm going out, I do not go far out of the money ever. And there are people that don't like approve of this. I again, I value psychological fitness a lot as a manager. I look at my portfolio every day. I value I value being in the money and I value like costbased advantages. So, you know, even with the Amazon leaps, like people were like, "Why are you not buying 300 leaps for 2028?" And it's like, "Dude, the break even on those 250 LEAPS is 300 bucks. Like, I don't know where the stock's going to be. I don't know what I don't know what's going to happen, you know, to the market, right?" So, like one thing about very important for new traders to understand is don't anchor yourself to relative valuations. And all valuations are relative. When you're in a raging bull market, something that seems like a good buy, it it is a good buy in a raging bull market or it may it may be a great buy in a raging bull market. It may go way higher, right? But that buy may not be a great buy if the market's correct, right? Because then all the valuations come down and then this anchor that you've kept yourself to like, oh well, all of the peers were trading at multi-billion market caps, right? Like how many industries has that changed for in the last month? How many industries have you seen where the average PE was 60 a month ago and the average PE is 30 now? A lot. And that's that multiple compression can happen so fast. And then you anchor yourself to the price and go this was such a good buy when I bought it. It must be a good buy. Even goes lower lower. And you that's portfolio blow up stuff. You know, averaging into weakness on a stock that you bought at an unanchored valuation. And this is a mistake that a lot of new traders make a lot. In fact, it's probably the most common mistake that I see is I like the stock. I like the company, but I don't understand the valuation. That's what that's a product of. And you need that to do that third part of the work. It's not just about saying, well, they're a great company. They'll be fine. Well, you know, think about how many stocks have been flat for a decade. Some of the people's favorite stocks, right? Intel, which people have talked about for years, was flat for a decade, 15 years, was flat, which means your money just burnt itself to inflation over that period if you were invested in that stock, right? And you could say it's a great company. It's going to survive, right? Like it's down. It's down over the past five years. Yeah. Like I mean, and very few tech stocks are down over the past five years. And my point is is that you can love a company. the company can still be fit enough to exist, but those two like realities are not enough to lean on and say, you know what, I'm going to invest in this company for with my eyes closed in perpetuity because it's a good company.
>> Yeah.
>> Be willing to make the distinctions along the way.
>> So, the chat loves you and uh I I can tell
>> I can tell when the chat loves or hates it. We've had some guests that the chat was Who the [ __ ] is this guy?
>> Yeah, they absolutely love you. I I'll leave it on this last question and again guys, if you want to get more from Stock Talk, please make sure to follow him on Twitter. Uh it will not be a follow that you regret and we will have him on the show more often. Um I'll leave you with this question. I see this question coming on a lot in the chat, which is how did you get so good at this? the way you're talking, the way you're explaining it, the lessons you're kind of uh comparing to to to situations that we could all relate to that ended up being bad for our portfolios. What what led to this level of awareness about how to navigate the markets for you?
>> Um well, I appreciate that first of all. That's a that's a comment. I appreciate that. But um uh experience mo mostly um when I started I blew up two accounts my first couple of years. when I started when I was a kid, you know, when I was eight, 19, I had like saved up I think I was trading I don't remember what I was trading with back then, but I I had had an EMT job when I was 17. I had saved up money and I was trading with, you know, 10 $12,000, whatever I had saved up and I remember I had like doubled it and I was like felt on top of the world and I just started taking a bunch of risk, you know, and buying things I didn't understand and I blew up that first account. Then I got another account. I got that up to six figures and I blew up that account. And then I was like, "Okay, you know what? Like I'm I'm doing something wrong." And that was like when I was under 22. That was like over a decade ago, you know. And that's when I first started out and I was like, "All right, I'm clearly doing something wrong." And so I picked up some good mentors along the way. Um, I won't say his last name, but one of my mentors, Rob, was a hedge fun manager in New York for 40 years. And uh, he taught me a lot. You taught me a lot about research and like really the philosophy of know what you own which I am a huge proponent of and I know it sounds like rudimentary and sounds like a bumper sticker but it there's really a lot of nuance behind the idea of knowing what you own. It means to understand the valuation to truly understand it to understand the industry that the stock is in to understand the peers of that stock who the competitors are what products they have why the their products are better than their peers products. These are like really really simple principles of basic research that most people don't know the answers to these questions like about if I were to walk to the average retail investor in the street go through their portfolio of 10 stocks and ask these basic questions they wouldn't be able to answer them.
>> What's the debt profile on the company? What's their ability to service that debt? What's their cash flow? What are their competitors do? What are their margins? What are their competitor's margins? Are they better than their competitor's margins? Why why do they have pricing power? Do you know why they have pricing power? you know what is what what's the mode that they have that is allowing them to do that how long have their margins been this high why are they able to defend that margin what's their net margin versus their gross margin why
>> and all all of this is public info you don't have to be a genius
>> it takes five minutes of research with an AI it takes 10 minutes to answer all these questions maybe less with an LLM you know go to Gemini or GPT5 they'll answer all these questions for you and then go double check if you're doubtful about a piece of information but do the basic research to understand the company. When I say understand the company, people think they read they read the Robin Hood description and they're good to go. That's not understanding the company, you know. Um, know what the like look, I'll just run down. Know what the total debt is. Know what the total cash is. Know what the financing obligations are. Um, know what the margins are, gross, net, operating, know what the peer margins are, the direct competitors in those same categories. Know what the industry average margins are. What's the trailing PE of the company? What's the forward P of the company? What's the trailing and forward P's of all their peers? This is how you put stuff in context and really actually understand what you own. You're like, "Oh, this is the thing I own. These are the attributes of the company that are financially favorable. I know why they're financially favorable." You know, and on the product side, you ask yourself the same basic questions. What are the bestselling products? Where is most of the product growth? Or or if it's a services company, same thing. services. Where's the services growth? Um why is it in that category? Why is that category growing faster? What percentage revenue comes from each of those segments? Okay, out of those segments, which segment is most likely to grow? Which segment is most likely to shrink? Is the shrinking segment a danger to the business? You know, are the margins higher on the shrinking segment or are they higher on the growing segment? This sounds like rudimentary stuff. It is not. Once you answer all of these questions and look at them on a one sheeter, then you understand the company
>> right
>> to the basic level, then you add all the nuance of like uh product penetration and market fit and like why the company might succeed and talent on the management team and experience on the management team. There's levels to it, you know, but going through that information is what puts you in the position to be knowledgeable and to be able to like speak on a company. Like if you were to ask me about any company in my portfolio, I could talk to you about it for 45 minutes straight with no interruption. Any company. And usually any stock I buy, I can do that same thing. And I'm not bragging. What I'm saying is is I do the work before I buy it. So that when the stock is going up or down 10% and everyone's like, "Stock talk, why is it down 10%? Oh my god." Like, and I'm like, "Dude, don't worry about it. I'm adding some calls. Like, it's not a big deal." Like,
>> you you can only get to the level of confidence from doing the research. The the process in being an an elite stock picker is research, which leads to conviction, which leads to your ability to handle volatility. That's it.
>> That's the whole game. It's three steps.
>> Yeah. And and it's something I'm learning as well. And you know, I just I'm so appreciative to have people like you in my life because it's it's it's really a skill set that is not hard to develop. It is do you have the ambition number one and then the consistency
>> to actually go through the pure gross margins to be able to have the conviction that when it falls 10% you're like, "Oh, well that's not that big of a deal because XYZ."
>> And that's hard. That's hard for the average person, but it's
>> it's so worth it, dude. It's so worth it. There's stocks that like if I didn't hold through the volatility, I would, you know, my net worth would be a fifth of what it is today. And it's like there's because I understood the story and I was willing to sit down and say, you know what, this part makes sense. This part makes sense. This part makes sense. Oh, I get it. I get it. I I'm going to own this thing and I'm going to let it mature and penetrate the market and see where it goes because I know I understand the story. I understand the product fit. I understand the competitiveness of the company. I understand where their modes are, why they'll defend those modes. That's a really really important thing to be cognizant of uh for everything you own. And people say like, "Oh, Stock Talk, they look at my return." And I get this question all the time. They're like, "Oh, you must have traded meme stocks. You must be trading, you know, these um robotics and quantum stocks." No. No. Even the nuclear stock I own is maybe one of the only non-nuclear meme stocks out of all the nuclear stocks. It's the only uranium enricher in the whole country. So no, I don't buy meme stocks, but I still put up return like that because I have conviction in my positions. I size them aggressively with options. You see how if you saw how many Amir contracts were on my portfolio, you would laugh. People like some people were like, "Dude, you own I own the entire strike on some of the strikes." Like and like there's that's conviction though. It's like Oh,
>> you I knew I knew that the stock was going to like not new but you never know for sure but I was so confident that the stock would be rerated that I just burrowed myself into it and that's what makes performance. If you have a huge position that goes up 100%. Or you have this tiny meme stock position that goes up 500% what are you going to make more more money on? most likely the huge position that's a 15% waiting in your portfolio, right, that you have layered options, naked options contracts on, that's a lot of conviction. And if if you're right, you're going to make a lot of money. That's how you make money in markets. It's conviction, you know, not like lolly ganging around. Oh, I'll buy this because someone mentioned it on my Twitter feed. That's not the strategy to like really make real wealth.
>> I agree. I love it. Stock talk, thank you for coming on. We will definitely have them in the rotation. This is his Twitter. Please make sure
>> to check it out there. Yeah, dude. You were awesome. People loved it. And
>> um I think I think having someone just break down the the basics of
>> conviction leads to outperformance, which means the things you have to do to get to the conviction to get to the out performance.
>> That's the hard part
>> is the cycle.
>> It's the hard part, but it's the cycle of becoming good at this thing. Something I'm in the process of learning and you know, it's obviously something you've done very well. You did a great job at it, brother. Your your stock picks have been amazing so far. So, I'm I'm proud of you and you're doing a great job of it and happy to be on the show. Happy to come on anytime. Glad the audience liked me. I'm glad I won their approval.
>> All right, we will get uh we will get him on uh in the rotation. Thank you, Stock Talk. Appreciate it, guys. We'll be live at 12:30 on X and uh we'll keep talking later, man.
>> Take it easy. Peace.
>> All right. Cool stuff. I had a feeling you guys would like them. I had a feeling you guys would like them. Um, dude, but goodness gracious, the glazing in the chat. Like, this is I don't think we've ever had a guest get this much glaze. Last time I saw a guest get this much glaze was a year and a half ago when Steve hopped on for the first time. Like, that makes me happy though because I like having good guests because then you guys enjoy the show. But the glaze is real. You guys were worse than freaking Lutnik and Bent and all the cabinet officials yesterday with Trump. I love it. Rick, thank you for being here. Thanks for the super chat. One of the best guests on the show. I have 30 years of investing experience and this guy just summarized it all. Thanks for introducing him, although I followed him already. It's nice to know him better. Yeah, a lot of people know him on X. A lot of people don't know what he looked like. Like Chris has done so many Twitter spaces with him and Chris today in the chat found out what he looked like for the first time. So he's not a YouTube guy. He's not like, you know, he's not a content creator in that respect. Uh, but he is on X and, you know, that's where a lot of you guys know him on the Twitter spaces. So, I'm happy he was he was on today. 68307 on the S&P 500, we are green. Amcor continuing to move higher 43, Nvidia 180, AMD 215, Nebius 95, Pounder 173, Hoodie 131, Tesla 440. Tesla having a pretty decent day. And then that Microsoft news that kind of messed up the morning is not that big of a deal anymore. Microsoft still down 2% but they did come out with a response. By the way, the information these freaking journalists, do you want to call it reporters? How do you want to frame this? I mean, look what they did. They had to replace the headline. Look at this. Microsoft lowers AI software sales quotas to Microsoft lowers AI software growth targets right after Microsoft responds because they don't want to be sued for defamation instead. Like it is incredible what's going on with these AI headlines. But this is not journalism. This is just nar and narrative creations that quite frankly might be financially incentivized for a variety of reasons, but it does not seem like it's trying to get to the the uh the truth claim of what's going on here. All right, so that's what we got. Thank you everybody for being here. Again, Stock Talk, this is Twitter. We'll be live in about 30 minutes on X. We're doing another pitch here ticker. If anyone wants to be there, just DM me on X and we'll get you in the queue. Uh, but this is where people are going to pitch their ticker for like two to three minutes. We'll ask them some questions and then that'll allow you to kind of get a better understanding. I put my Twitter in there for those that want to see the spaces because it'll be on my it'll be on my profile. And then this is Stock Talks Twitter for those that want to follow it. That's what we got. That is what we've got. I'm happy you guys liked them. I had a feeling. I had a feeling you guys would like him. I mean, I've known him for a year. We used to do a Twitter spaces in 2024, but we got so busy and that was more like news that wasn't really like finding undervalued names. And so, three months ago, he came to me with the idea of like, what if we just like try to focus on very specific names? And yeah, that's why we're doing it. So, pretty good stuff. Pretty pretty good stuff. And I'll be back for the close. We have a bunch of earnings today on the close. Snowflake and CRM I think are the big ones. But that's it today. It's Snowflake and CRM and and then Path. So we have three big names after that. There's nothing else that should be too crazy. That's pretty much the end of the earnings for Q3. I mean you have Oracle next week and Costco. Oh, and then we have Broadcom. All right. So next week's the act. Oracle, Costco, Broadcom, and Adobe. I guess those are four pretty big names next week and then that'll be the end of of uh of Q3 earnings. This is the equivalent of bringing your girlfriend home to meet your your parents. Oh my gosh. I'm happy you guys liked him and and and as he and I I'm happy he shared in the beginning that he blew up an account. Someone asked him, "Have you blew blew up an account?" Yes. My first account that I blew up was about 25K and it sucked because you know you work two years to save up that money. But like it happens, right? Like to to get to the level that he is at, you got to go through a lot of [ __ ] because everyone thinks they're on top of the world when they make a little bit of money and then everyone thinks that it's repeatable and then you face the harsh reality and it forces you to just, you know, make some fundamental changes to how you how you think of being an investor. All right, word of the day. Let's do word of the day and then we'll be done and we'll be back on um on the mark close. His name is Vashall. His name is Vashall. Bro, when he started laughing like I've heard his laugh a million times. So like his laugh isn't funny to me. But I forgot that his laugh is one of those laughs. So when he started laughing and you guys I was like, "Oh no." Oh, I was like I I don't even want to look at the chat. And everyone was like, "Amit? You can let it out. You can keep laughing. I'm not laughing at his laugh. I'm laughing because you guys are going crazy. LMFAO. Oh my good. This guy sounds like a seal. So, I forgot how funny he sounds, but it was good. It was a fun one. All right, word of the day. What is this one? I've never heard of this. Another finance word. A turkey. An economic system or nation that is completely self-sufficient and does not rely on trade with others. When supply chains broke down in 2020, some countries flirted with Atari, but the cost made it impossible to sustain. Feel like I'm definitely saying this wrong. At
>> Okay. All right. That's what you got. economic system or nation that is completely self-sufficient and does not rely on trades with other I I guess North Korea is an otterarchy or otterarchy even though there's not many otter that can theoretically exist. Every country has to trade with each other but that is today's word of the day. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. Glad you guys enjoyed the guest. Again, his Twitter I'll put in the chat right here. Stock Talk Weekly is his ex. I will see you guys for the close and then we'll be live in 30 minutes on Twitter spaces and uh we'll keep going from there. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the mark close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.