[music] morning. How's everyone doing?
>> Good.
>> I'm going to need a lot of energy for this talk, so please back me up. I'm very nervous. Uh but we'll get through this. I'm declaring war on slop today. Let's talk about this. Every AIE has a secret. I I've told this to uh some folks that are personal friends and I'll just show show the secret. Now the first summit we had the secret which was we knew that the AI engineer was going to be a thing. Second summit we extended it to leadership. Third summit we realized that basically we always needed to concentrate on model labs and that's why you see um all all the all the top tier labs here today um world's fair we started expanding the TAM of of what AI engineering uh is is affiliated with with AIPMs and AI designers and with the code summit as Jed just talked about we really started focus on curation and focusing in on a theme and if there's one theme that's really matters this year is it's coding but I'm not here to talk about coding the rest of the day you're going to hear about coding. So just just indulge me 5 minutes to talk about slop. Um we we've done really well, right? Like so so like I think like slop is sort of associated with quantity and quality. And I think like that's something that I'm really trying to think about as well like how do we grow this community, grow this industry and grow this event uh with the the same kind of taste and high quality that you've come to expect. And this is something that, you know, I hope hopefully you guys can see that we care a lot about uh in curating all of you coming here and all of the speakers that you're about to see. Um we're in a war against slop. Um this is actually uh the Oxford English dictionary. Uh this is a a candidate for the 2024 word of the year. It lost to brain rot. [laughter] But um but slop is slop is pretty good. And I think it's it's probably gone even more of an issue this year than last year. Maybe it will win this year. I have an issue with Oxford though because they did us dirty by saying slop is is generated using artificial intelligence. The other part I I agree with. It's lowquality, inauthentic or inaccurate. But it doesn't take AI to be lowquality, inauthentic or inaccurate. Any human or AI can be an agent of slop, right? You've seen this yourself. I'm going to indulge me over a few examples. By the way, I got this uh if you're not familiar with like sort of internet slang, the opposite of slop is kino. Um and I got this idea from Paul Rambles who uh like you know when I do Sora videos, I do really boring Sora videos with me and Sam Holman. When other people who are actually creative and good at their job do Sora videos, they do cats playing digs. Uh slot can be produced by the same studio. There's K-pop demon hunters by Netflix and there's electric st by Netflix. Slav can be produced in terms of different models. No comment. Slav can be SLO can something that's keyno can degenerate into SLO, right? If you're early on the trend and you're and you you're starting that and it's and it's fresh and new and that's great. U if you're if you recognize the other image, you're too online. [clears throat] Okay, not enough people recognize that image. Um go do your homework. Um yeah, and obviously I'm just going to throw in a dig at Game of Thrones because this is the same same thing, right? Like slop is everywhere. It's generated by humans and AI. You get it? [clears throat] Okay. Um the same startup idea can be keen versus slop. When I first presented the my first keynote at AI engineer summit, we actually used to uh which is sort of like an AI slides company. Uh I loaded I loaded up the same slide deck and it was gone uh recently because uh it was it was actually uh sort of uh closed as a company. Um there's there's you know different takes on vibe coding and I think one of them uh is much better than the other and I think like this these are just like the tensions that we have to navigate. um one of our speakers later on as well meter. Um I think it's really interesting that both of them are exponential charts but one of them feels more keeno and the other is more slops and I think like I would really like to have people investigate why um so let let me let me just skip through basically we're in an asymmetric war and slop um I think u the closest law that I found that matches this is Brandolini's law which actually states the amount of energy needed to refuel is an order of magnitude bigger than needed to produce it. Right. So we need to co coin an appropriate law as well. Um because you know like the the the cost of generating tokens is is dropping by 100 to a thousand times every single year. Um so this is I guess Fix's law of anti-slav the amount of taste needed to fight SLO is in order manually bigger than that needed to produce it. Right? There's so much low taste out there. We need to elevate uh what's out there in the world because that's what we stand for as humans. Um, I think there's there's a positive message. You can use AI to fight slop. Um, I'm proud I'm proud to run as a side project AI news, which is the only newsletter that tells you not to read it when there's nothing going on. Thank [laughter] you. Oh, appreciate that. Um, you can also prompt SLO. The next speaker is um Mahash and Barry. Um I found this in the in the sort of prompt in the in the skill set that they that they put they put where they actually acknowledge slop and tell cloud not to produce slop and it actually improves significantly from left to right. Um what about code slop right we hear about code um creating tech where you can sort of two engineers can create a tech debt of 50 engineers or you know on a more serious note you can start exposing private data of millions of users and this this all happened this year. Everything I'm mentioning all happened this year. I'm kind of using this keynote as a as a way of recapping. Um, and it, you know, just to be spicy a little bit, even people who are saying things like, "Oh, my model can go up to 30 to 60 hours uh autonomously." Well, it feels a bit sloppy because you're also not saying, "Well, was the code good or not?" You're just saying how long it went. So, in the same way that you have no taxation without representation, you don't want autonomy without accountability. Um something I've been working on more recently is that using AI to fight code slop as well. So uh this is from the a bunch of people quoted this yesterday of the semi-ync value of death where you can sort of keep human attention and mind meld with the machine in order to work on the hardest problems whereas the stuff that's commoditized you can make it more async. So you can check out more on that details. What seems to be less appreciated is my is the other work on code maps uh which I which I more recently done where we actually use AI to scale codebased understanding which is also a a way to fight slop and you can uh talk to the cognition folks uh downstairs uh um who who can who can show you more in detail. Um the the last thing I always want to shout out as well is is this trend of uh computer use. I think computer use kind of debuted it this time last year uh with Enthropic. But uh it's it's getting really really good now guys. It can really autonomously operate the most complex apps including an ID. So I think that's really uh exciting and you should probably use that to fight slot. We use it for the website and here's an example of us using Devon to automate the the sort of website up website updates. Um and finally something I learned from this conference yesterday is that you can also use sub agents to fight context rot. Um and I think that is one of the biggest themes of of uh that I'm observing as well. If you want to take away something from this conference um and I also one of the biggest highlights of the year for us as AIE and myself personally was chatting with Greg Brockman who always uh preaches the concept of modularity where you can sort of keep clear boundaries on what is human designed and let the AI code everything in between. Um, so these are all ideas, but I just have this one message that I want to comp compress down to you today that I want you to say with me. No more slop. Yeah. Your boss tells you, "I want more lines of code in by the end of the quarter." What do you say to that? Say it with me. No more slop.
>> You're fighting an asymmetric war. This is how bad it is, right? You have an insufficiently tested release that that is potentially embarrassing to your company. What do you say to people who really want to push it?
>> No more slop. Exactly. [laughter] Uh your your Twitter algorithm wants engagement bait uh and is sort of you know forced and telling you to to to lie basically to the to the broad public. What do you say to that?
>> Exactly. That's it. Uh I hope you have a great conference and let's let's hear it for uh not having any more stuff. Thank you. Heat. Heat. [applause] [music]