I'm Gilbert Cruz and this is the book review from the New York Times. Today on the show, we've got some book recommendations for you. We're going to get into those a bit later, but first it's author Matt Hey. Matt, you live in Brighton?
>> Yes, Brighton.
>> He's most known in the United States for his smash hit, The Midnight Library. That's the story of a woman who has reached a breaking point. She ends up in a library filled with books that each hold a different version of her life. if she opens one, she can step into the life she would have lived if she had made different decisions. That book was published in 2020 and it became hugely [snorts] popular, selling more than 10 million copies worldwide. Matt is now out with a new book, something he sees as kind of a sibling to the Midnight Library. It's called The Midnight Train. I'd love to start before we talk about The Midnight Train with The Midnight Library since they are connected. This is a book that really took you to another level in your career, at least in terms of your notability. How many people are reading her books? It's a story about a woman named Norah Seed. She has experienced, as have we all, many regrets in her life. And on one particular night, she decides that she doesn't want to live anymore. She finds herself, however, in quote, "The Midnight Library, where each book, this is such a great concept, each book transports Nora into a life that she could have lived had she made different decisions. The little decision trees that branch off from everything we choose." Where did that idea come from? This idea that you can open a book and maybe enter a different version of your own life.
>> Well, it was an idea that was bubbling away in various forms in my head for ages and ages and ages. I mean obviously the sort of literary influences. You've got the Sylvia Pla idea of the fig tree branching off. You've got Bartz's idea of Labyrin Fine Libraries and I always love that sort of stuff. With me I was really struggling until I got the title until I got the midnight library. I think it was the library of lost lives for quite a while. And I think, you know, unconsciously perhaps it came around from me spending too much time on social media and on the internet and that feeling that there's a life elsewhere or that we're constantly comparing ourselves
>> to something else. So, it was a precoid book. I mean, it's often seen as a COVID novel because of when it arrived, but it was pre- pandemic. So, it wasn't quite that existential moment. It was more this idea that we weren't living our best life. And I was doing a lot of uh wishful thinking, a lot of regretting, a lot of uh feeling like time was passing by. And um in the UK, I was already a bit known for writing about mental health. and I'd done so in non-fiction. I'd written a uh memoir slash slight self-helpy territory book called Reasons to Stay Alive. And that felt quite cathartic to write because that was kind of a release, but at the same time, non-fiction confines you in certain ways. You know, you were writing about real people. You're writing about your own parents. And so to take a story with mental health, mental illness themes and to fictionalize it again, that was another thing I wanted to do with it.
>> I do want to go back a few years because you made reference to a non-fiction book that you had written that had received good notices and a claim in the United Kingdom. It was a book about your younger years and I was wondering if you could talk about how that book in particular came to be. So many of those themes are connected to so many of the themes and the fiction that you've been writing over the past few years,
>> right? Yes, absolutely. Of all the books I've written, it was the most accidental. It was called Reasons to Stay Alive, which is a very a typical me sort of two on the nose kind of title. [laughter] A little bit um ambitious, but uh yeah, it was accidental in the sense that I was a novelist. I saw myself as a novelist. Then there was a charity in the UK, a very good charity called Book Trust. And I was there writer and residence for a while, which basically meant I had to write a blog once a week. And so I started with your basic blogs about being a writer, writing tips, and I was I was starting to bore myself about 3 months in, uh, repeating myself over and over. So, and I'd had a recent u mental health wobble. And so, I sort of like publicly came out in a small way on the internet as this person who had been suicidal, who had depression. I'd never really publicly talked about my mental health, but I wrote a single blog called Reasons to Stay Alive at one point, and it was a sort of bulletointed list of uh little sort of apheristic advice. and it went sort of semiviral. Certainly in the UK book world it sort of took off a bit and was shared around and I had a lot a lot of feedback about it and a woman who worked in publishing got in touch with me and um she said I should write a book about it. Ben, one summer feeling very happy in about uh 2014, feeling very different to my younger suicidal self. I mean, I I literally nearly, you know, ended my life um at the age of 24. Um and it was a long way out of that. So, I I needed to be in a very different place and I was in a very different place uh physically and emotionally. And I just poured it all out without ever having had therapy at this point in my life, without knowing I was neurodeiverse, which you know I've since been diagnosed with autism and ADHD. Without knowing that much really about my mind, I wrote this very raw, quite clumsy at times, choppy book that was working out what it was as I was going. I was like, is this a book of advice or is this a book about memory and what I remember? And the only straight line through it was me remembering myself at 24 wanting to die, not out of any sort of pre-planned death wish, but being suddenly thrown into this state of panic and depression and physic really physical feelings. Even the brain stuff felt physical a lot of the time. And the line between mental and physical was so sort of blurred and I didn't know what was happening to me. So it was like being in a burning building. You don't plan to throw yourself out of a window, but suddenly the situation had massively changed. So, it was that it was a desperate thing that had come on the back of years, I think, of low-level depression, undiagnosed, masked mental health issues, masked by alcohol and drugs. It was very sort of cathartic to write all that stuff and to speak to that person. That was what I was sort of trying to do. I was trying to write a sort of message in a bottle back through time to this person to see if there are words that could keep someone in that state or someone next to someone who's been in that state to see if anything could get through. A lot of the people who responded to it, obviously yes, there's a lot who had gone through something similar, but what really sort of uh touched me was um people who had been struggling in relationships with like their children or parents or partner understanding what had gone on in their sort of darkest moments. And I think that was another incentive of mine to provide a kind of window because I can remember being unable to articulate what I was feeling. Often it was like a a physical heavy like I could hardly speak because of a sort of weight. And so I think to visualize it and to use a lot of simileies and metaphors to take this very invisible thing
>> which doesn't come with crutches. It doesn't come with a wheelchair. it you you you kind of have to describe it for people to empathize with it and often in the state of depression you're unable to describe it. So hence stigma rises and you know that inability to see someone. So I was trying to make the invisible visible in that sense and I genuinely wrote it thinking it was going to be a very niche book that only a few people. So the thing that took me back and it's obviously what you want. You want a you want a lot of people to read your book. But because it was that book and not a fictional book, it was suddenly me out there. It was suddenly me being reviewed. It was suddenly me having to sort of
>> offer my life story, everything. So that I think I had a bit of time adjusting it and to sort of claim myself back as a novelist. [snorts] at a point after having a breakdown when you were in your early 20s, you moved back home as you write. Uh, and I'm particularly curious about this. You say that you moved into your your childhood bedroom and you started rereading books that you had loved as a teenager. There's a book podcast. We have to talk about books. and and I'm curious what you were rereading, how it was making you feel, what you were getting out of it, and then how that sort of led to you continuing to realize that you wanted to be a writer or that this is what you were meant to do.
>> Well, I love now looking back that it was just children's books because I don't think I could have been reading I mean, it wasn't just children's books. There was some classics on there as well, but it was basically books like proper childhood books like Winnie the Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner and um teenage books like The Outsiders and things like that. And why I could read them was because everything else in terms of television magazines, I found it so over visually over stimulating and I was in such a it sounds pathetic, but I was in such a sort of fragile state that books were the sort of like calm place and the fact that they were all books I'd read before meant that I could retreat into a sort of time before I could retreat into that space before mental illness
>> and also it was it was kind of training as well. I was training my mind to concentrate um to read was like you know it was like strength training of the mind in terms of trying to build up attention
>> and children's books are great for that because they kind of lead you in you know they're not they're not asking you to come to it they sort of like meeting you where you are. It was like building myself up again. It was like sort of like going back and um there's something pure about the way you read a book as a child. And even now, even in the sort of midnight books, I try and have that voice. I want the sort of best of both worlds where you have the freedom to write about whatever subject you want as you would do in a novel for adults but also to have the freedom that comes with children's fiction which is a sort of imaginative freedom where you can have fantasy trains and fantasy libraries and things children's books for adults.
>> What were your early writing years like? When did you say you know I'm going to I'm really going to try actually to make a go of this? Um, well, I I'd always written and my mom's one of those embarrassingly proud moms who's got the shoe box.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Full of uh self-illustrated attempts. My early writing when I was a kid, it was always heavily heavily Americanized. It was more American than American. You know, it was like westerns and it was always a cowboy called Jake in Arizona. And, you know, it was just like as American because everything I watched on TV was American. Every book I was reading was American. I had zero confidence in myself growing up into as teenager. I wasn't the most academic teenager at school. You know, some of the teachers said I was special needs for certain subjects because I'd be staring into space or chatting and just not concentrating on anything. So, you know, when I sort of spoke to a careers advisor about wanting to be a writer, it was just, you know, I wasn't from the sort of school where people went to the sort of universities where you'd imagine you'd go to be a writer. So, it happened in the moment really when after I was ill, I don't want to turn turn this into a therapy session, but I was still in a sort of agriphobic state. And although I'd had quite short-lived jobs previously, I was at a point now where I genuinely felt I couldn't go out to work at that point. This was very early in the sort of working from home revolution. There wasn't social media. The internet was very new. There weren't many options of what you did from home. And so I thought, you know, ridiculously I thought I'm going to make my money writing novels, which obviously didn't go down well with the parents or anything else of that time. And to be fair, it took a long while before I saw any uh money from it. But the one thing I felt comfortable doing was writing. So I suppose it's 22 23 years ago I started writing a very strange novel which in America is called the Labrador pact. My title for it was the last family in England which is what it's called here. Very strange quite pretentious young man's first novel about a well it's told from the perspective of a dog.
>> Good start.
>> Um and but it's not but it's not a children's story. Mhm.
>> H and it's about a dysfunctional family of humans falling apart. And it's to up the pretentiousness a little bit further. It's a retelling of Shakespeare's Henry the fourth part one [laughter]
>> with Labradors at all. I agree with you.
>> Um and yeah, but I had fun writing it. I started to realize I like writing short chapters, which I still do. I still write short chapters. And I wasn't consciously thinking about depression or anxiety or worrying about the sky falling in. I was in the world that I was writing. I wouldn't necessarily recommend anyone to go and read that word world I was writing. But at that at that time it was what I kind of needed to do. Mhm. You um in the Midnight Library, you know, Nora, the main character, has all these interests and and one of them is philosophy. The book is studded with all these quotes from famous thinkers and one of course that keeps popping up is the American philosopher thinker [snorts] Henry David Throw. Um what was it about him in particular that was important to have as the focus for this character and why even put all these philosophical musings in the Midnight Library? Well, I think Theorough is like a very attractive figure for a 21st century mind that feels overwhelmed by modernity and contemporary society, capitalism, everything else. just not necessarily the real man who he was, but the idea of Walden, the idea of going into the woods, building a cabin, retreating from society and then enriching yourself more. And I suppose the theme of the Midnight Library without being too spoilerish is essentially about valuing the minimalism of your own existence and and seeing that as you know the things that look shiny like the Olympic medals or the high-flying careers or the infinite riches, you know, they might not be the answer. Maybe the answer is sort of already inside you and retreating. And I I feel like Walden in particular, it's about the practicalities of nature and living in nature, but it's also on that spiritual level about stripping everything else away and seeing what's [music] there. [music] We're going to take a short break and then Matt Hey talks about his new novel, The Midnight Train, in which an 81-year-old man boards a magical train that allows him to relive the most significant moments of his life.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back. A phrase and a term that has become very popular in the past couple decades of course is world building. What was the impetus to take your Midnight Library world for lack of a better description and extend it or you know complicate it in some way and present a different perspective to the way that someone might reexperience their life or experience their life in a different way?
>> Oh yeah, good question. All I can say to answer that is it happened very organically.
>> It didn't happen in a I'm going to write a sequel sense. And it's not a sequel. It's a companion at best or a sibling. I like to call it a sibling. The Midnight Train started as a very very different novel. I mean, all my books sort of end up with different titles and uh different things. The Midnight Train originally started as a novel called The Memory Thief, and it was quite dystopian science fiction about AI. The only thing that's been sort of preserved from that first draft is the fact that there's a character called Agnes and also there's a honeymoon in Venice. Everything else was new and sort of reddrafted and along the way it became something else. It became this, you know, about your life flashing before your eyes. And then it there was a vehicle for that, a train, and that came in a minute. It was the yesterday train. And then I was starting to talk about the science of your life flashing before your eyes. And I was starting to realize I was actually having an argument a little bit with the Midnight Library. I feel like it's coming to a different conclusion about life and it has slightly different lesson.
>> I feel like The Midnight Library is very much just about acceptance. And I I agree with I agree we shouldn't always imagine the grass is greener and stuff like that, but I feel like this book represents a desire to act or to change things. So it's a different approach to regrets. It's about how you would live if you had that future perspective of your last day.
>> How would that change the course of your life? What point of the train would you want to get off and change things? So, this one is saying something different. It's saying, "Let's try and step off the train. Let's try and uh change things." So, in its own subtle, gentle way, it's having a little falling out with the uh Midnight Library. Uh I have to imagine this is a question that you will get a bunch but I have to ask because the the idea of the book demands it which is um have you given thought to the moments you would like to look at again in your life. You don't need to change them. You don't need to intervene. Just observe.
>> Well yeah I'm going to be boring and go quite recent history. I would go back to the sort of early parenting years
>> because it was just the era before everyone videoed everything. So, we don't have much sort of video content of that and I don't have much memory like career was just getting off the ground. Um, I'd just been dropped by a publisher and then I'd found a new publisher and I was just focused on providing and doing all that stuff and so I sort of regret not being there. the I did an event recently with a a British poet you may not be aware of called Harry Baker and he's just written a lovely sweet poetry collection and each page each poem is a different day in the first 100 days of his baby son I think life and so just to remember and record and I was thinking oh I wish I'd written something down that had happened every single one of those days because those early times just go down like they not just fast, but it's kind of this impressionistic blur and you can't and it's very hard to sort of remember back. So, I wouldn't mind looking back at that. I think if I went right back to childhood, I'd find that quite uh quite distressing.
>> Sure.
>> I wasn't a happy teenager particularly. I think before that I've been quite happy. I'd been at quite a small village school and stuff, but when I went to big school, I struggled fitting in. I was, you know, in Britain there's a lot of sort of class dynamics and I was at this very quite tough school and I was seen as quite posh because my mom was a teacher, my dad was an architect and I sort of struggled fitting in there and I was often uh quite sort of like downwardly mobile and I got into shoplifting and I ended up getting arrested for shoplifting at the age of 16. And so I was a bit of delinquent for a while at the same time as retreating to the library and being bookish. there was this strange uh combination. So not happy times at that point in time and not you know giving my parents quite a lot of uh grief as well. So um I would yeah but but the thing is about having a uh sort of like difficult teen years. I think Graeme Green said that childhood is like a miserable childhood is the bank you keep on pulling. My childhood wasn't that miserable all the time, but I had enough of it in my teenage years to sort of like, okay, I can write forever can process.
>> Yeah, that quote is the only thing that makes me feel good about certain years in my childhood uh as well. So, thank you for bringing that up. We're approaching the end of our conversation here, uh, Matt. It's been a wonderful conversation. Uh, I want to turn to our weekly segment. The New [snorts] York Times Book Review for more than a decade has asked authors new and old a recurring set of questions about their reading. It's a series we call By the Book. And Matt Hey, I have some extremely specific questions for you. Are you prepared to answer them?
>> I am prepared to answer them.
>> Okay, first question. What book might people be surprised to find on your shelves? I think if you looked at my shelves, you'd be surprised. I've got a lot of very strange history books. Like I've got the history of the amusement park and I've got the history of Las Vegas architecture and I've got lots of sort of like pop culture history kind of books is a niche of mine that I'm very interested in. It's probably less surprising. I've got lots of music biographies and things like that, but my dad was an architect, so I'm kind of interested in architectural history, so I've got a bit of that. I've also got quite a lot of um manga because my son's got me into manga. Very cool.
>> So, that might be surprising.
>> Matt, what is your favorite book that you think no one else has heard of?
>> I'm going to choose one called Paris Trance by uh Jeff Dyier. Not much happens apart from four young people. I think Americans and British and French are in Paris hanging out together, going clubbing together, chatting together. It's very 90s. It absolutely summed up my sort of life at that point in time. It just captures Paris. It captur There's a lot of talk about jazz in it and there's lots of conversations. It's if someone wanted to capture that sort of youth era ' 90s and get a flavor for it,
>> there's a lot of places to go, but I think Paris Trance would be it. So that was a novel I read at a time when I was hardly reading anything and it got through and not many people I don't think know of it even if they've heard of Jeff Dyier. So I'd say Paris Trance.
>> That is a great recommendation. Jeff Dyer is just one of the most diverse authors there is. Uh he's written so many books that are sort of all different. Okay. Matt, what is the best book that you have ever received as a gift?
>> Best book I've ever received as a gift. I've got it here. For those who can actually see this, I am holding up a uh Alice's Adventures in Wonderland from the 19th century, but not a first edition. Alas, it is possibly a third or fourth or fifth edition, but it's from like 1890. Um, so it's probably near over two decades after it was published. Um, and but this is from um my grandmother on my dad's side and um it was from her grandmother. So, it's the closest thing I've got to a family heirloom and it is through the looking glass and his adventures.
>> Okay. Make sure you don't lose that one. Matt, what books do you find yourself returning to time and again?
>> I would say two different ones. I would say Invisible Cities by Italo Calvino, which is basically every page is a different city and it's an imagined city. They're fantastical cities. Um, the actual setup is Marco Polo talking to Kubla Khan about his travels, but essentially he's just talking about Venice and they're all imaginary fantastical versions of Venice. So you can sort of open it up on any page and disappear into a fantastical city. So it's like a travel book for the imagination. I love that. And it's very rereadable because it's not really a book with a story. You can sort of pick it up anywhere. I'd also say, you know, lots of children's books, but I'll go with um Winnie the Pooh or the House of Pooh Corner because I think you read it as a child and you're just enjoying the adventures and then you read it as an adult and you see all these hidden depths and I'm fascinated by a mil and the fact that he had a very sort of troubled life. He probably had what we would call PTSD, you know, shell shock from the war and he'd created the world of 100 Acre Wood to sort of retreat into that. So, it's incred. And it's got a lot of wisdom. And I also like the fact that each character is a kind of now looking at a 21st century lens is this kind of mental health archetype. You've got anxiety with Piglet. You've got depression with Eeyore. You've got the sort of neurodeiversity coming in with like Kanger and um Tigers ADHD. So you you you can see in so many different lights and in in philosophical terms as well. So I'd say Winnie the Poo is a good one to go back to as well.
>> I believe it's celebrating its 100th there's a 100th anniversary this year.
>> Yes, it is. There's been lots of sort of uh celebrations on BBC radio and things, but yes, I think so. But I think the original bear, isn't the original bear in New York?
>> Yeah. The the Queen of England is visiting New York next week, I believe, and it's possibly going to pass by the New York Public Library.
>> Oh. And put it in a handbag and take it back.
>> Maybe going to steal it. This is going to be an Oceans 11 type heist.
>> [music]
>> It turns out the queen did not steal the bear. Instead, she brought with her a replica [music] of the original Little Rue, Pooh Bear's smallest friend, and put to rest the question of whether a Milan's original stuffed animals [music] would return to their homeland. Pooh, Piglet, Tiger, Eeyore, KGA, and now Ru [music] are on permanent display at the New York Public Library. Coming up next, my colleague Jen Harland has some recommendations [music] for your reading list, especially if you like books by Matt Hey. [music] Okay. Jen Harland. Hello.
>> Hello.
>> Hi. I asked you to come on the show because you're one of the editors at the book review who is particularly good at recommending books to people. We tell you what we're looking for, what we've liked, what we've read recently, and then you say, "How about these?"
>> It is my favorite game both at work and outside of work.
>> Uh, you're perfectly matched here. I'd love to hear your thoughts on some books to read that are similar to the work of Matt Hey.
>> So, I think when people talk about Matt Hag's books, there are few things that really draw the fans of those books to them. They are lifeaffirming. They're heartwarming. They have some sort of like inherent tenderness at their core and also maybe have a little bit of a speculative element. Not full-blown fantasy, but there's something funky going on with time or space or portals into other parts of your life. Um, and so those are sort of the things that I'm thinking about with these uh books that I'm going to talk to you about today. The first of which is The Invisible Life of Addie Laroo by VE Schwab, who is predominantly a fantasy writer. She's also written some sci-fi. She had a book about vampires last year. She's written about superheroes. She's written about wizards. Addy Laroo is, I would say, probably the least heavy fantasy of her books. So again, if you like that sort of like light touch of magic that a Matt Hey book brings, but you don't want to learn any 10 syllable names or encounter any dragons, don't worry, there's not going to be any of that here.
>> Noted.
>> Um, so Addie is a young woman living in the early 1700s in France. Very unhappy with her circumstances. She's being forced into a marriage she doesn't want to be in. and she essentially makes a deal with the devil, who in this case is a god of the night, who she names Luke. And the bargain, you know, a classic god demon name.
>> I don't know why that name strikes me as so funny in this context, but it does.
>> Um, and so Luke offers her a deal. She can live forever. She can live all of the different lives she wants to live. She doesn't have to be confined to her circumstances, but everyone she meets will immediately forget her. So, she agrees to this and essentially spends centuries moving through the world like a ghost. She has these little touches of influence on people's lives. She inspires art. She inspires music, but isn't able to make any sort of lasting human connection. And then one day in the 21st century, she stumbles into this used bookstore in New York City owned by this guy named Henry who sees her and remembers her. Um, she's not really sure what is going on there. This has never happened to her in centuries of life.
>> And it turns out that he has made his own bargain with Luke. um he had gone through some disappointments including a proposal that did not go well. It was been in was in a very dark place. Didn't feel like he had a reason to go on living. And so he made this deal with Luke that whenever people see him, they see what they desire most, which in Add's case is to be recognized and remembered. They're sort of this like perfect these two perfect puzzle pieces who fit together.
>> There's a a lot of the Midnight Library in here.
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. you're again that sort of like touch of something supernatural but not really in this idea of like finding your your puzzle piece and also about like what are the things that make life worth living. The other catch with Henry is that he turns out he has a very short amount of time left to live. And so he and Addie end up in this race sort of to try and
>> save his life to maybe try and get freedom for themselves out of this bargain. It's this magical story about human connection and what you would do for someone who you love. Tell us about another book that you feel like you would recommend to people who are looking for those those sweet sweet Hague vibes.
>> Yes. Uh another very hesque uh book which is a term
>> a haggarfic novel.
>> Maybe we'll we'll stick we'll keep workshopping it. [laughter] This is one of my all-time favorite books and one of the books I recommend to everyone I know which is the history of love by Nicole Krauss. Um this book came out in 2005. Um, I think some of the hardest characters to get right in literature are often children and old people. They can be very one note. And this book has two unforgettable narrators, one of whom is 14, one of whom is in his 80s, I believe, uh, an older man, and both of whom are so memorable and so lively and wonderful. You have Leo Gerski, who is a Holocaust survivor. He was a locksmith for most of his life and has lived in New York. um and is also a writer who wrote this amazing book called The History of Love. Um which was inspired by this woman Elma who was the love of his life. And though they both survived the war, they lost each other in that process. And he's basically spent his whole life having lost the love of his life and tried to figure out how does he move forward? How does he build a meaningful life um even despite that loss? So something that uh I think has a shares some parallels with the the midnight train especially. Um he is kind of a hoarder. He lives in this apartment that like that's full of piles and stuff and has this big fear of
>> dying one of those horrible New York deaths where uh it'll take several days before the smell brings people to the apartment. He's afraid of being forgotten and disappearing. So he takes a job as a nude model for a figure drawing class so that at least for an hour a week he will be seen by people.
>> I did not expect that. maybe an extreme reaction to that scenario. Um, and he also has this really beautiful friendship with Bruno, who was his neighbor back in Poland, um, who he thought died in the war. They didn't see each other. And then there's this amazing moment where they run into each other outside a grocery store in New York and rekindle their friendship. Bruno moves into this building and they've developed this kind of Morse code where they tap on the radiator to check in on the other person, make sure that they're alive. So, that's one story. And then you have Alma who is 14. Her dad has died of pancreatic cancer and she is a very precocious, very smart girl, but trying to sort of hold her family together. Her mom is a translator who has never really moved on from this loss and Elma decides that she's going to make it her mission to try and find her mom love again. Um there's a mystery at the heart of this book about the a novel called the history of love that kind of pops up in different places but it's really um about again about like loss and grief but also the different kinds of love um that can fill our lives not just romantic love but also love between parents and children and friends um and all those again those little wonderful little things that make life worth living. We talked about V E Schwab. Now I think we should move to another recommendation by TJ Cloon.
>> Another one of my my favorites from the fantasy sci-fi world.
>> Yeah. What's up with the initials here? Tell me about TJ Cloon.
>> Um so TJ Cloon whenever if someone asks me like I want a comfort read. I want a book that's going to like make my give me that like warm, happy heart feeling. TJ Cloon is one of the first people I think of. Um, and I love a lot of his books, but I'm actually going to talk about his newest one, which just came out in April. It's called We Burned So Bright. It is a little bit more sci-fi than his typical books. It's basically an apocalypse road trip novel, which may not sound terribly heartwarming um, off the jump, but basically uh, the premise of the book is there's a black hole that's headed towards Earth. We've tried everything. There's no solution, and so in 30 days, the world is going to end. we're all going to get sucked into a black hole and burn up into and go into the ether wherever people go after the heat death of the universe. Um, and you have Don and Rodney who are two men in their 70s who've been married for several decades living on the East Coast and they decide to pack up their lives in their RV and drive across the country because there's some sort of important promise or thing that they feel like they have to do um before the world ends and they and everyone they know dies. And so you spend the book traveling across the country with them as they're reflecting on their life and relationships and the sort of big loss that's at the heart of their story. You're trying to figure out as the book goes along what it's about. And they also meet people on their journey who all have very different reactions to knowing that their time is limited. Some people go full hedenism and are like, I'm going to do all of the drugs and have all of the sex and go skinny dipping in a lake every night and who cares? There's no point to anything because the world is ending. Uh some people uh go in a really dark direction and um there may or may not be a uh serial killer who is convinced that she's doing people a favor by killing them early so they don't have to experience death by black hole.
>> Oh my god. [laughter]
>> Um some people really lean into tribalism. Some people are looting. And some people react with incredible kindness and decide that they want to use whatever time they have left to uh enjoy all of the the things that have made humanity what it is. Um it is a sad book but also really tender about how all the ways that humans can be both selfish and horrible but also unexpectedly generous and kind.
>> Yeah. Which um path would you take?
>> [laughter]
>> Um, I think there would maybe be like a a temptation to go in the like, well, the world's ending. There's no consequences. Let's do whatever for a little bit. But then I think ultimately, I don't know. I mean, not to like bring the pandemic into the conversation again in 2026. But I feel like if that is any guide, it would be like I'd want to be with the people that I love and make the most of of that time. Ideally, somewhere beautiful.
>> Probably not. As much as I love New York, I think I would want to get away from the millions here if the world is ending. That's very nice. Uh tell me about uh your next recommendation for people who are looking for you know something a little Matt Hegy uh a novel love story.
>> Yeah. So I um as followers of the book review may have heard I am also a big uh romance reader. I cover a lot of romance and I think the reason that a lot of people are drawn to romance novels is similar to the reason why people are drawn to Matt Hey books. Sometimes you you want to know that you're in no matter what happens along the way for a happily ever after. You want to know that things are going to work out okay and the like joy and discovery comes from figuring out how you get to that point. Um Ashley Poston is a author who writes primarily what I would call paranormal romance but again with this sort of like light magical realism touch. So no vampires, no werewolves, but usually something something going on with time or space that's a little unmed from reality. Mhm.
>> A novel love story is about um this woman named Elsie whose life has kind of fallen apart. She has been left at the altar. She's depressed. She's been really living for this trip that she and her friends in her book club take every year where they have a weekend where they just go and read together for a few days, which is honestly like maybe my dream weekend.
>> That's incredible.
>> But at the last minute, all of her friends bail on her. And so she's sort of like picking herself up by her bootstraps and is like, I'm going to go do this on my own. um drives into a storm, almost runs this guy over, and then finds herself in this very charming, idllic small town that seems strangely familiar. And she uh eventually realizes that she has somehow gone through some sort of portal and is in the world of her favorite cozy romance books series. [laughter] So, she recognizes all the landmarks.
>> It's like romance, Megadun.
>> It's Yes. Yes. Exactly. [laughter] It's like romance on romance like and so uh she recogniz she can see like all of her favorite couples whose books she's read but um they're all living after their happily ever afters in this town and this is not a Christmas carol or it's a wonderful life kind of situation. She is actually in the town interacting with people and starts to have these ripple effects on the characters and on the town. And there's one character there who she cannot place who is Anders who is the very grumpy owner of the bookstore. Classic romance
>> hero trope and he has not appeared in any of the books. Um and is very unhappy with the way that she is disrupting the um kind of homeostasis of this little pocket universe. Um, but the more she gets to know him, they she starts to start starts to figure out how she got to the town, why she's trapped there, how he might have gotten there and gotten trapped there. And it becomes this very moving and like tender story about again like grief and healing and love and also not just about the sort of stereotypical happy ending, but about the real life that comes after that, which can be messy and complicated, but it is also more human and real and satisfying for that. sounds very charming.
>> It is. It is very She is a very charming writer. And if you like her, she has a new book um coming out on June 16th called The Someday Garden, which is a secret garden. Again, like a little a very teenytiny pocket universe in this case, uh about a woman who moves to Maine to be uh the sort of head groundskeeper
>> at this nature estate at this like mansion with all these beautiful gardens that has some sort of mystical history. People hear strange rumors about the garden. You can hear the voice of the people you love. you can get lost in the hedge maze forever and end up somewhere strange. Um, and she stumbles upon a secret pocket garden that nobody else seems to know about.
>> This is why I don't like gardens. Um,
>> can't be trusted,
>> you know. Uh, Jen, thank you so much for coming on. You are just a master recommener. You read so much. You can like read a person know what they would like. I feel like anyone listening to this who is into Matt Hey is going to come away with at least one book that they are going to love. [music] I that is my sincere hope.
>> The book [music] review is produced by Sarah Diamond, Amy Pearl, and Patricia Sulbaran. It's edited by Lissa Anderson and mixed by Pedro Rosado. Original music by [music] Dan Powell and Alicia Baichu. Special thanks to Dalia Hadad. We want to hear what you think about the show, so [music] send us an email at the bookreview@nytimes.com. I'm Gilbert Cruz. Thanks for listening.