Hi everyone, welcome. Thank you for joining us this morning. Um, my name is Amy Boyd. I lead our foundry developer relations team at Microsoft. I'm joined by my colleague Nitia on the team who is an absolute expert in observability. And today we thought we'd have a nice catchy title uh given where we are in London of Mind the Gap in your agent observability. We'll talk a little bit through what we actually mean by mind the gap because it's got a deeper reason than just the nice sort of uh title there, but also we'll start going through some really interesting stuff and you'll have a load of assets to take away with you as well. Um this area is there's a lot there's so much to cover in the agent space even just in observability itself. So, we'll we'll get you kickarted, but there'll be a journey afterwards that you can take as well if we, you know, uh, get you excited about what we've got going on here. So, uh, mind the gap is a actually a really good terminology for observability when you look at agents specifically. Um, one of the interesting things Nitia realized is she started her journey uh in New York and found it's also mind notap watch the gap whereas it's minds the gap here but when we started to really think a little bit more deeply about it actually works super well with an observability analogy. So if you think about um things like when we evaluate an agent we're checking for like the quality and the change over time that an agent goes through. And if you think about the change in trains and technology, but the platform doesn't change. So there's this sign on there because at each station it's different. The train might fit perfectly like this one here, brand new train designed beautifully for said platform, but in other cases there's a wide gap between the requirements, which is the platform, and the actual agent, which is the train in this case. And so what we want to talk a little bit about is how you can run evaluations from very, very early on. and throughout the life cycle in order to bring your requirements to the reality of what your agent is actually doing in the wild. There's another element of this mind the gap analogy that works so well as well which is actually when you start thinking a bit more about safety. The reason these signs are in place, they are guard rails at the end of the day for your uh for the tube. In this case, it says mine the gap. is letting your customers know that there's something that you need them to do to be careful of. And it's the same thing when we apply things like guard rails and safety mechanisms inside agents and monitor exactly how customers are engaging with your agent. And then finally, the monitoring side. These things, these platforms, these change change over time. And so having the constant reminder of the phrasing mind the gap over the tanoi allows people to remind themselves as customers that this is happening. But on the monitoring side as a developer with agents you also need to know what's happening not just today but consistently across many agents potentially that you're building in the future. So by the end of this session we want you to be able to say what is the gap between agent observability and what you're actually building. How do we mind that gap? And we'll give you lots of different opportunities to think about the ways that you plan for and implement minding the gap around observability. And also, how do we accelerate that optimize loop? So, how do we say from the information I'm actually given with all of this data, what do I do with it next in order to improve my agents over time? So today we're going to have lots and lots of great assets, but what we want to do is break down everything into small chunks so that we can kind of keep progressing forward. Um, first things first, we'd love for you to fork the repo. We've got a wonderful GitHub repository. We've been working on it for quite a while. It's something that we've been updating and we will continuously do so as well. So this is going to be a great asset to take with you in the future as we add new elements over time. We also have uh a Discord channel that's specifically for our our Microsoft Foundry users. Uh we've actually created an AI engineer channel. We'd love to see you in there. Um what we're going to do today is kind of get through quite a lot of stuff as you take this GitHub repository away. What we want you to do is continue to engage with us. Me and Nitia spend a lot of time in that Discord server. Uh and we'd love to be able to chat you through and help you along this journey as well as you start using um all of these different assets. So as you just take along. So we've got some short links but also some QR codes if you want to use them. So just very quickly as we get started into what technology we're going to use today. I know we asked a few of you uh as you get started the different things that you're using. This is the the reality of the agent space which is many people are using lots of different technologies. But at the end of the day we use this phrase agents are non-deterministic. That's not just a problem for demos. That's also a problem for real life when you actually get to production. And the reliability and consistency is starting to become when you start passing this out to customers, you need to be managing the non-determinism that comes inside those agents. And three ways that we we see as to do that kind of reliability is one to evaluate to look at performance, look at quality and safety. Um and also consider kind of how well your agent is performing. looking at monitoring. So, not just when you're building, not just as an add-on situation with evaluations, but actually monitoring your agents over time as the requirements change, as the customers change, as the environment changes is super important to know how you continuously improve and debug any issues that come up quickly. And then finally, that optimize section. And so optimizing your agents performance, taking all of this incredible data that we're starting to be able to get from agents and actually doing something with it as well. Um, we can tell you, you know, all sorts of different scores and stuff like that, but it's that next step, but what do I do now? And we've got some really fascinating stuff that we can show you there. We'll focus on a specific platform. Myself and Nitia work with Microsoft Foundry. Uh it's our cloud agent platform for all your endto-end opportunities with agents. So you can build the agents, but if you're building the agents elsewhere, you can also host the agents, observe the agents, and manage and monitor your agents within that same platform of offering. You can use as much or as little as you wish. Uh some of the things that we'll notice around observability is they come across three different phases. You should be having observability built in at a really really early stage as you're building your agents. So we'll kick off in that early stage. You'll look at what you can do when you debug and optimize in production and then also when we start thinking in the future it may not be uh that far in the future for those in the room which is actually how we managing many agents not just even not just even multi- aent systems but actually many many multi- aent systems as well. So a couple of areas we'll talk through today uh are things like tracing in those early stages. So thinking about um how you can actually access all of the monitor and debugging information from your agent. What is it actually doing? What tools is it calling? What com um what different messages is it sending to all of the different steps in your agent workflows. One of the really nice things about um tracing in foundry is actually we build on the hotel um offering and so the the group here at Microsoft actually do a lot of work to work with that standard and think about what it looks like for agents in the future as well. We'll continue to do that which actually then opens up the ability for you. You don't have to build everything in one place. you actually may be using different things uh to build different agents across an organization or across many businesses and that's absolutely fine. You can actually bring all of those agents and instrument them uh with hotel tracing which means you can then manage them inside the foundry control plane. Oh, there we go. We're back. Um the next one is at that build stage you're going to look at evaluators. Um, it almost feels like a little bit of an eyesaw. Uh, this uh slide's got a lot on it, but I think take that from it. There's so many built-in evaluators from being able to build agents at scale. We're obviously learning a lot as a platform provider as to what customers need. And so then we start to embed that into the platform itself. You'll notice and probably be very familiar with a lot of the quality metrics. risk and safety is something that often comes as like a second thought but should be built in in those um inside those agents. And then we've kind of started to move quite quickly from um evaluating the model and the actually large language model itself to evaluating the agent output as well. And so the agent specific evaluators are the ones to really consider there as we start to think it's not just that one engagement with the LLM. It's actually how does the agent do holistically across its time and its workflow. Um but if some of these evaluators aren't working for your scenario, that's absolutely fine because you can actually build your own custom evaluators and use the best of both worlds in that situation. And so what do we mean when we kind of evaluate across the agent um workflow is to actually take um weather's the usual great example isn't it of um we're in London it's often unusual weather today it's actually beautiful weather um so you're a weather agent that's a system message our user says what's the weather in London today first evaluation that we might want to do is actually the intent resolution one. So we would say does the user uh the user wants to know the local weather has it been able to understand that intent and then make the next decision point that it needs to which is make a tool call. Then once we get to the tool call space you should evaluate the tool call itself. Um there's a whole set of metrics you could kind of do within that space including just operational metrics in general. But at that point you want to say is the tool call the expected one? um in the majority of cases again that non-determinism does mean that we will be working with percentages there. And then finally the overall response. So that's at that agent level of actually how well did it do on task completion. Um how the task adurance one tends to be the one that is the one that you need kind of tweak I would say over time. But this shows where it's not just evaluating once. You can evaluate a many many different parts of your agent life cycle so that when do things do start to go wrong or aren't quite the top quality you're expecting, you can go and pinpoint exactly where you can make those changes. We have a few extra elements that we uh hopefully will get to today. it very quickly. Uh we mentioned a little bit that actually debugging multi- aent traces becomes exponentially more difficult than just those uh smaller agent specific calls. So there's loads of great ways that we're building that into the platform so you can look at a full agent trace and not just the agent itself uh any single agent at one time. But we're also offering quite a lot of work that goes into monitoring those agents across many different dimensions. So whether that's uh continuous evaluations that happening when you're changing codes, scheduled evaluations that you're working on, uh red teaming, so things like security you're adding in or also if you're already using monitoring across your cloud estate, you may want to pull in some of that information uh around the agent as well. But the key thing here is again on that observability side. If you're already using things like a monitoring solution in the cloud, we have Azure monitor for your infrastructure and your data. The AI platform allows you to bring in the foundry control plane stuff we'll see today, but actually connect to Azure monitor in the end. So developers build with what you wish and your IT admins will still be very very happy because it'll integrate. And then finally on that fleetwide control as we start to look a little bit more into the future, it's kind of looking at that centralized observability looking across far more than just one multi- aent system and understanding what your fleet looks like with inside either the business or um or your own kind of business that you're building and actually all of your different agents. So I know we had many different hosting off opportunities in the room and we've discussed and so this is a great way to think about how we can build in bring in agents from anywhere but again observe within the fleet view there and then finally security. We won't actually get loads of time to touch on security today, which is really sad because it's so impressive um what we're looking at for security in the agent space at the moment. Um but I highly recommend going and checking out a lot of the work we do around red teaming. Um red teaming is not something you do alone. And so Microsoft um works a lot with the pirate um open-source repository and does a lot of uh deep engagement in order to help improve open source and offer a lot of our stuff open source, but we also have kind of the one-click options inside the platform as well. So we spoke a little bit about the foundry control plane. We're only going to cover observability in any kind of depth today um in our short time with you. However, there is a lot more to offer and so we just want to make sure that you take that information away with you. So, at that point, I'm going to pass on to Nitia who's going to talk a little bit more about the workshop setup that we're going to do.
>> Awesome. Thanks, Amy.
>> All right. Um, get your keyboard fingers ready. So, let's try to get uh into this. So, what I want to basically tell you, how many of you think you can basically learn everything you want to learn in the next 30 minutes? This is not the workshop for you. So, I want to set the stage by saying this repo is actually almost like a 4-hour workshop that we're trying to compress into this. So, what I want you to think about is this is a cooking show. I'm going to show you the baked goods, but I want you to look at the repo because it has everything and you can then try this at home and inject your own stuff and actually play with it. It's the only way you learn. So, to set the stage, we're going to have a use case, right? So, how many of you have built multi- aent applications already? Awesome. How many of you are completely new to this and want to just know how to get started? Awesome. This is exactly the kind of audience we're looking for. So let's say this, you've just joined a company called Contoso. Contoso is a very famous fiction fictiticious company in Microsoft. Your boss comes and says, "I need you to build this travel agent application, right? Where do you start?" So let's first kind of set the stage for what an agent is. We all know models, right? Everyone's worked with AI models. You get a sense of it. What does the agent do? Models when they're born, they have a certain amount of knowledge. Agents allow you to bring in additional knowledge and capabilities through tools to enhance the existing model. The models are the brains. The agent is kind of like the experience and the tools are all the things that you put in to make sure that the model's enhanced. So when you think about this, I'm building a travel agent. What do I need? I need to know what the instructions are for that agent. What is it supposed to do? I need to know what tools do I need to make sure that it can actually execute them. And I need to have the right model for the job. Make sense? Where do I start? The problem for us is anyone want to guess how many models there are on hugging face right now?
>> No, no, no. Two plus million. Anyone want to guess how many Azure has in our catalog?
>> 11,000 plus. Okay. I can't if you show me three jams, I can't pick one. You show me 11,000 models, I have no clue where to start. Right? So, what we're really looking at is when you start the job of building an application, you don't want to make all these decisions. How do you just get quickly started? Right? So, here is the challenge from a developer perspective. Bar says, "Hey, I need you to build a travel agent that helps the user find the right hotel, car, and thing. What do you do?" Challenge number one, too many models. I have no existing data. This app never existed before. Where do I get the data to even do evals, right? So, we're going to show you how you can solve that. So, how do I go from zero to agent prototype with minimal knowledge? Second, AI quality. This is a brand that your company has. If your agent does something to destroy it, that comes back to you. So, how can you detect issues in your agent, diagnose and fix them really quickly? So, that's what the quality solution is. And finally, safety, safeguarding it. The difference between the second and the third is that the second assumes that your users are acting normally. The third says, I have a malicious user who's going to try to prompt attack my my my solution. How do I protect against it? The analogy I'll give you is if you're building a home. The second one is evaluations where you've got a building inspector who comes and checks you're up to code. But safeguarding is like calling the guy and saying can you break into my house please so I can sh I can be proved that this is working and then tell me all the ways in which I fail. Right? So that's the big difference. Make sense?
>> Am I moving too fast? My speed. Okay. That's the number one feedback I always get. Too fast. Okay. So before I go in, I'm going to switch over and tell you where to start. So what I want you to do is I want you to go to the repo. So you all were given uh the kind of like the link to it. If you don't have it handy, I will show you where it is right now. You can grab it right off the screen if you zoom in. But what I want you to do, you are not going to be able to do everything today. What I want you to do is fork the repo and show you how to jump start your development environment so that you can at least follow along. You will need an an Azure account and a GitHub account. What I will tell you is you can get away with using a free Azure account. There will be a small cost. I've been running this for two days. It's about 10 bucks. But if you join the Discord, we're going to see if we can actually get a few resources that will help you later. So you can try this at home. But for now, you need just go ahead and fork the repo, right? Uh, everyone good with that? Yes. So, what I'm going to do is I've already forked the repo, but once you fork the repo, what I want you to do is when you fork the repo, please uncheck the main so that you're getting all the branches. The reason is we've been doing this workshop at different places and so it'll keep evolving. You want to fork it with our with all branches so you can get the AIE Europe branch which is the current mind the observer mind the gap uh kind of workshop. And one of the reasons for this is at the end of this I will merge this back into main and we'll have yet another workshop in a month which will have even more stuff and then we'll park that again. Right? So by forking this I want you to look at this workshop today and then keep an eye on the repo tomorrow. Is everyone good? All right. The next thing you're going to do is in your branch and I've already done this but what you're going to do is in the in your branch on GitHub if you click this code you should have logged in right? Uh how many here have used code spaces? Yes, my people. So, for those of you who don't know, one of the biggest problems when you want to do development is to set up your environment. You have to install the packages, do all the stuff, right? Um, code spaces uses a concept called dev containers. You'll see that the repo has this dev container. And what the dev container does is it basically defines everything, all the dependencies that you need. And what codes spaces does is effectively uh when I basically start this off and run a code space. If I say just start me a new code space, it will start up an instance of a VM in the cloud on this container and give me the environment all set up. So you don't have to install any tools, packages installed, everything is ready to go. So I'm just showing you you saw how that was set up. So if you did that and you have to wait a few minutes for it to be ready, but this is a cooking show. So this is how I start. Then I want to seamlessly move to the cooked code space. Okay. But now you've seen uh is everyone good so far? Um it's very dark I know but um let me see if I can switch the
>> this repos on our um on our Azure organization on GitHub and so uh we will take all the costs. This won't go into your code spaces costs as well. So it's um it's quite nice when you are able to use sort of those things with inside organizational repos because it actually goes onto the enterprise account instead. So yeah uh nice little freebie there as well for compute time. So if you were to start that up and you saw I just started it. It'll take a while. So I'm going to let you all just let it run and we're going to switch back and look at the cooked version. Tada. Okay. So what is code spaces? What you basically get is a VS Code instance that's running in your browser. This VS Code instance is connected to a running container in the cloud that has all the the the the tools and your dependencies installed. More importantly, on the side, you will actually see I'm going to reduce this font just for a second so you can see everything. You will see that we have a bunch of tools installed out of the box. And so what these do for you is they give you additional features that you can use when we're basically going to try out things like running notebooks, things like a skill that'll automate all your stuff for you. So once you're here, I want to point out two things in that repo that you just uh so when you're going and doing this at home, if you go follow through, there are actually two paths and we're going to try to cover them really quickly today. Path one is the traditional path. It's the SDK path. I recommend it for everyone who is new. Go through it and get a sense step by step. We're going to cover it a little bit. Path two is for people who think, hey, I want to actually use a coding agent and take it for a spin. In the second path, you will just build that blank agent endpoint and then turn the skill loose on that endpoint and it'll start helping you build out the stuff and evaluate it automatically. We'll look at both today. So, here's the application scenario. We're building a travel agent that has a car rental, a a hotel, and a a flight agent built into it. Here's the workshop outline. All you need to know is there are four steps. Step one is what you just did, the infrastructure setup. Uh we basically want to go I'm I'm going to hand it over to Amy to do that. You've got your code spaces running. That's the dev environment setup. We'll come to that in a minute. Code spaces takes a little while. So I'm going to switch it over to Amy. And what we're going to do now is step one, we're going to go and set up that dumb agent, a simple starter agent in Foundry that will do the travel thing for you. Amy, do you want to take over?
>> And if you want to actually see the one that's already done, it is over here.
>> Awesome. Let me close this. And the code spaces here.
>> Okay.
>> Um, so yeah, I will do our initial sort of stance. So, um, we all love code here and we get very excited when we can kind of like dip in and out of an SDK and stuff like that, but realistically that first starting point, um, highly recommend just hanging out in the portal a little bit and just taking some of this stuff for a test drive very very quickly. And so, what I'll show you is that quick pace. How do I briefly build an agent, but think about tracing emails right from the the word go in some senses. So, um, Microsoft Foundry is just at ai.asure.com. azure.com um on on the internet. It's part of obviously the Azure cloud. Um so if you already have Azure set up, you should be able to get very very quick access to that. Um and then one thing you'll notice is there's actually this like new Microsoft Foundry experience that we're looking at. And so if you click start building just here, you can actually create uh very quickly a new project. We'll call this one London and theno. And what you'll see here is it creates you a project, a resource. It chooses your subscription. So the usual cloud kind of pieces, a resource group, and actually one of the things that we're going to do is is change this to a recommended region, which is actually East US2 at the moment with some of our newest newest stuff. uh and click create. So this will head off and just create you the most basic foundry project. It'll then uh initiate things like models and we'll very quickly start building an agent. But a project is a space that you can come and have agents with inside a single project uh that you obviously you can evaluate and trace across all of them as well. So we'll take a little look as that as it gets started. Um, one of the interesting things around Foundry is actually just that setup piece. We have worked done quite a lot of work to just get those initial stages but also still be able to have the ability to say actually I want to customize as well very very quickly. And so we'll see that it'll do a lot for us so that we can start but then you'll be able to move on and just really you know envision your whole new piece yourself. Um, so you'll get a nice little opening here. This is kind of exactly experience you'll see. And then we'll get taken straight away to create our first agent. Like the platform is to build agents. So let's uh let's do that. So we'll go Ktoso Travel is our agent. Um, and we'll give it a name that won't be in there. So you will need to give it a unique name. What you'll notice here is it's saying it's deploying GPT41. So, it's just looking for capacity straight away for you. Um, and it's finding you a very very quick model and then we're straight into the playground. Um, 41 obviously being, you know, a decent model model of your choice is also available in the catalog, but again, a great way to start. Playgrounds, we're all very uh versed, I think, at this point with playgrounds. You have things like voice mode. You can switch on uh simple agent instructions. add your different tools. So, in this case, we're actually going to add a web search, um, which will just be our Bing search because we're obviously wanting to create a travel agent, so we needed to go and look at Expedia and all that kind of good stuff. Um, and then under here, you'll notice we do have this model, but we also obviously promote other models. And then you can click browse models and see all the providers, uh, whether it's Anthropic, Deep Seek, um, etc., etc., all all of those, they're all in there. Um, one of the interesting things we can obviously initially start engaging um with our agent, but this agent is just a generic model at this point. There's no instructions, there's no nothing, and we've just got some web search. So, it'll kind of go away and it'll tell us it can do basically most things, including general advice for us. So, that's not what we want in this case. So, what I'm going to do is go to my nice pre-baked one. We'll save that agent and we'll go and take a little look.
>> Oh um one other thing is you've got to actually create um app insights. So the agent by itself right now is not traceable right like it's just there. It's been created but you want to make sure it's always picking up things. So the foundry portal is a great way for you to get really a quick start. So if you sorry Amy I forgot to mention that
>> back to the other one. Yeah, if you go into the one that she just created, all you have to do is select that agent, click on the traces tab, and it'll say you don't have app insights, and if you go through that right now, and Amy, I don't know if you want to do that or not. Flip over.
>> I was going to say that. So, um, being able to click on this, you can then add App Insights as a connector tool with inside the admin portal. Very, very quickly. Um, one of the other nice pieces is there's actually an agent helper just up here on the right. So you could say how do I connect my app insights and it'll talk you through exactly step by step how to do it as well. Um but yeah very very quick easy way. App insights is a technology that does all sorts of tracing prior to agents being a realism for us. And so that would be a very quick way for us to kind of turn that piece on as well. So let me show you something where it's got a little bit more to it. So uh back into our traces as we start to use that. So, as we start to engage, we'll start to see the traces as well as the conversations land here with um estimated cost, tokens, the usual things, but also even things like evaluations. We've added some instructions here just so of what our Ktoso agent actually does. So, one of the interesting ones is like always use the web search, um always have a comparison, present externally source specific. So add some of those uh elements that people can see where it's grounded on as well. Um and keep responses focused and helpful, that type of thing. We've got our web search. Uh one other thing is to check out the configuration because what you'll notice here is you can actually add things like display name, description. So if I head over to
>> I think if you flip to version two, you'll see it there. We're now in the version that we love a little version control. Ah, no problem. So, all of your different steps are in this repo. So, we've done a lot of this piece. We've created our project. We go down to create our agent. We're in the playground. We add the app insights. We can test our agent in the playground with different prompts. But we can also add these different configuration properties. And then the outcome of adding some details there starts to bring back your travel assistant with the usual stuff like what is it that people can do with it? those easy step by steps that give them the ability to quickly start engaging with your agent without it being like, "Hello, what do you do?" That kind of command at the start and then having to move from there. Um, so you can kind of very very quickly build um up your travel portal as you start to engage. Let me grab um that query again from just over here. Again, you can use all of this stuff that we've provided in here. Copy this one and send that off. We'll send that. It should come back with some of those grounded responses. um information on car rentals etc. But one of the interesting things here I just wanted to highlight is actually the elements at the bottom. So it tells you what model it used if you're using something like a router. That would be more interesting because you would be able to see given the query which model it actually chose to use things like tokens but you'll also see straight away that we've actually got an AI quality and an AI safety metric that are under here. And so one of the pieces uh you're able to do is under metrics just at the top here is you can very quickly just tick these different things on. So as I said like starting in the portal means don't have to think about what all of the different names are for all these different things. You can just get acquainted with what's available and built in and then you can very quickly start to visualize exactly how that might look. And all of us immediately then leap to code right in the sense that we go okay I I get it. I get that we've got these built-in things. How would I do it with the SDK? So, with all of them then selected, you can head off to things like the tracing logs. You can see exactly what steps and messages it took. And then inside the input and output, you've got an evaluations tab. And so, it then evaluates and gives you some responses back on all of the different evaluations that you've actually selected. So, again, this one's an interesting one. Little warning. task adurance is actually quite low for what we were asking. It didn't really actually answer the question that I wanted it to. It kind of said, "Oh, give me more information." And so, this bit is obviously there when you can start to really think about, okay, how do I start to go from from zero because we're at the most simple agent at this point, but we're already able to get those evaluation results against it. So in this setup, I basically just wanted to show you that I can go from nothing and create a project, an agent with a model that's just a default, add some instructions on a web search, start to engage so I can see those traces, select some evaluation metrics so I can see some evaluations in those early stages. And then from here, I'd probably want to start thinking, okay, now I've got sort of a very quick proof of concept. I want to start moving to code. And so from here I'll pass on to Nitia who will start moving into the code.
>> Awesome. Thanks Amy.
>> So uh before I switch over to that um just a quick show of hands. How many of you are familiar with tracing? How many of you familiar with evals? How many you are familiar with most of the quality, safety and agentic eval types. Okay. So we'll try to go into a little bit on that. How many of you have written a custom evaluator? Prompt or code? Prompt. Prompt. Okay. So one of the things I wanted to kind of just to wrap the thing before we move into the code space is the main reason this is super important is if you think about the notion of observability it's not enough for you to know when things go wrong. You need to shorten the time between detecting something went wrong and diagnosing it. So trace linked evaluations are where it's at. So, one of the things that I just want to highlight before we move back in here is that when you look at this, what what Amy was showing is every time you see a trace, if you've actually linked the evaluations correctly, they will show up here. And that means that you can look at the ULS and figure out what part of the trace as an example. Say your model changed and you had to put a new model in. Suddenly, you find that your tool calls are no longer as efficient. Your evals are going to tell you your tool I mean your one of those metrics failed. But now you can come back into the traces and say what was different between this version and the previous version. And we'll see that through the coding skill later. If you compare them you'll be like oh wait one of the tools didn't get called. Why? Right? So you're able to move quickly to actually compare what happened which is the detection with the diagnosis. All right. Uh let's now move to code. So we've built ourselves a very simple agent right through the portal. Now it we want to actually do something more complex. So what I want you to do is in the in your kind of like we did lab 00 we set this up development environment you all started a code space you don't have to do that right now but when you go home what you're going to do is when you log into Azure and set up that foundry project you've got your infra set up but you need your code spaces to now be connected to the infra the code the the the repository has a very simple script run the script what it's going to do is it's going to use the Azure developer Azure CLI to go and get all the required information and set up avoid run notebooks. So it'll kind of take away some of that uh issues for you. The other thing you're going to do is there is something called an AI toolkit extension. We won't go into it right now, but what it is is equivalent to having that Foundry UI right in VS Code. So you can see some of the things you're doing. So you're going to check that off. And long story short, by the time you're done, you now have your development environment set up to talk to the infrastructure that you just deployed. And we can now go on into our codebased approach. So I'm actually going to go into the SDK approach first. So let me kind of show you why. So we did the plan in portal and when you looked at the portal this is what the actual end toend development life cycle for an agent actually looks like. You need to have a build phase. Then you need to optimize it and then you need to deploy and govern it. So when you think about all the steps involved in build we're going to start by what we did in the portal is I knew my use case. It's a travel agent. Quickly developed my models tools and a simple agent for it. I tested a prompt. I built it. I was able to get all of that done. I added a simple web search tool. Now I have an agent working that's grounded in things I wanted grounded in. We're not going to talk about fine-tuning, but we really want to go to the next day of I want to be able to like do more complicated things with this. So to go to the SDK, we're going to focus on showing you how to do all of these in code. So what you're going to do here is go back to the code spaces that you started and cooking demo. So, tada. I've got my code spaces there. Um, I'm not going to show you my end because it actually has my keys in it, but just know that it was set up. Uh, when you run the script, uh, it'll actually set this up right here. And what you now do is you're going to work through these labs in order. So, I'm going to start with the first one. And if you are familiar with VS Code at all, what don't know how many of you, everyone here familiar with Jupyter notebooks? Yes. Okay. Do you know about this little outline tab? I love it. So, what I would do is say that as you go through these, uh, you'll notice that the labs I'm going to first tell you what they are and then you can kind of on each lab I expect you to just flip it into the outline mode and then we'll go through them. So, what do we have? The story that we're going to tell is top to bottom. First, the first lab is basically going to run and make sure that your development environment is connected to your backend with a simple test prompt. Everything's working. The next lab is you're going to rebuild your first agent in code. In other words, you built it in the portal declaratively. This notebook will give you all the code snippets you need to build it programmatically. So you can use that notebook later to go and change the instructions, do whatever you like, right? And that agent doesn't have tools. It's just going to be a really simple agent. So the next step down there is you're going to add a tool. You're going to add a few functions that do the different things you wanted to do like check flights, etc. And now you have an agent that has a model and tools. After that, which is the more fun part, is you're going to build a workflow agent. A workflow agent actually says, "Wait, why should one agent do all the calls? Let's have dedicated agents for each step." So, there's a flight agent, a car rental agent, and a hotel agent. And then I have a concierge that orchestrates them together. And Microsoft Foundry has a capability called workflow. So, we're going to see that. And then this particular lab will show you how to set it up for tracing. And in this case, you can actually set it up to use OTEL to have local traces so you can see them as you're debugging or you can have them push to Azure found uh monitor and see them in the foundry portal. And then we'll have a notebook for evals and a notebook for red teaming. So far so good. Ready to start? So cooking show. Try this at home. We're going to look at it here. So the first thing is I'm going to look at the notebook. So what do we want to do in the first one? So this isn't much of a a thing, but I'm just going to scroll through really quickly. So we have to install dependencies. All of these come for you out of the box with a dev container, so you don't have to worry about them. Configure envir environment variables. You just need to actually when you set up your project, you have a project endpoint and you need to know the name of the model. It already sets this up for you by default. We're going to run a very simple test to make sure that we're connected. We're going to make sure that the client is working. And then we're going to make a call. So this is kind of the the the data I currently have. I have have some fake data in here that we can use. And so I've made sure that I have my data. I've made sure I was able to make a a call to my API endpoint. It works. I'm good to go. Now it's time for us to create a new agent from scratch. So when I look at this, and I'll actually share this whole document out with you later. What this will do is kind of walk you through what the different steps are. So here we're actually going to go through these where this is what each of these uh notebooks will create a new agent that will do only that capability. And the first one right here will teach you how to build a very simple agent. So the problem you're facing right now is you've never built an AI agent before and you want to know how to set it up with the right instructions and so on. So to create this basic agent, what you're going to do is first of all you start by setting up a client because you're already logged in with the Azure CLI. You have credentials. You set up a client for use with our foundry endpoint and then you create instructions for your agent. So this is a standard set of instructions that we've created for that describes what your travel agent is supposed to do. And when you run this, your agent is now created on the backend foundry with these simple instructions and the default model that we had deployed. Next, you want to start a simple conversation. So we're using the responses API endpoint to try a single prompt. So you said, hey, tell me for instance uh I'm I'm basically asking a question like, you know, I'm thinking about planning a trip to Paris. What should I know? It runs it and returns the response. And now you get to see it. At this point, we haven't done any tracing. We haven't activated anything. We just got a working agent that responds the way I want it to. Next, you can go ahead and try multi-turn uh conversations. So, for those who not used the SDK or are not familiar with agents, this is a great way for you to go try it out and get familiar with it. But I'm not going to go into because we're not here to talk really about the agent building. Um all this will let you do is validate that you can in fact deploy a multi-turn conversational agent to uh foundry and you can inspect the responses and see what kind of response it's giving back. It's really a long winded one right next step if you go into this. So for each of these you'll notice that these are already set up with a runtime environment. So you would just select the the kernel that we've got on the dev container and then just walk through the steps one by one. So in the first case, let's go back and to our portal and see what that looks like. So that first travel agent or that was actually the first version of that. All it did is it answered the question, right? So we have that deployed here and if I ask it a question, it's going to give me whatever I need for that answer. And I should see the traces in here as well. So give me a minute for it to start up. So the the agent that I set up that we invoked from the from the kind of from the code, I can go in and see that when I ask this question, it actually answered it and I can see the traces, but I don't see the evals because I haven't set them up yet. The next thing we're going to do is we're going to go in and add tools. So what tools do we need? So over here we're going to use something called a function tool definition. and we want to register function tools that do various things. So here we have tools for a car search, a flight search, and a hotel search. They're all functions defined within this one single agent. We register the tools and then we enhance that agent. So now the agent before had just a model and instructions. Now it has model, instructions, and tools. And when we then deploy this agent, you can go ahead and test it. So if you go ahead and run this uh deployed a I mean when you deploy the agent and you then hit that endpoint with a query about something looking for a flight it's going to respond to that you can go try out different combinations like give me a hotel and car search etc. So we're still going through these notebooks to just make sure that we have our agent set up correctly. So far so good. Yes. So we start with a base agent. We added tools. We got multiconization. We're good. But now I look at it and go, wait, we really don't want one monolithic agent doing all this work. We want to be break, we want to be able to break up the task into the smallest units of work and have dedicated agents do that and then orchestrate them together. Anyone here who's used Langraph, Langchain, you know that multi- aents kind of have design patterns around them. So how do you do that? It turns out that Foundry actually has this concept known as workflows, workflow agents. So in this particular lab, what we're going to actually go into is build out a workflow agent. So over here, the problem that you're facing right now is you had a single agent and now if something goes wrong, you've got multiple functions to track, multiple things to do, you really want to break it down into smaller components. So in this particular lab, you're going to start creating specialist agents. So you remember in that very first lab, we created a travel agent. Now, think you're just going to create three of those agents, but now dedicated to individual tasks. So, you create this three specialist agents and then you create a workflow agent that puts them all together. So, I'm not going to go into all of the details here, but what I really want you to look at is the different insert traces. So, here when I create the workflow agent, I give it a declarative YAML statement that says how the workflow is knitted together and then I can actually test it end to end. So let's see what that looks like when we deploy it in Foundry. So this is what a workflow agent looks like. So right now you've seen two kinds of agents. The first one was a prompt agent which is just a simple lightweight declarative agent where I've given it instructions in a model but it's doing one thing. It's a single-use agent. Here with workflows that YAML lets me visually compose the agent together. So now I can be like, okay, the workflow says I want to actually create a conversation with each of those agents. I need to get the flight agent to get get a response, the hotel agent to get a response, and the car agent, put them together, and then deliver to the user. And when I invoke this agent, I can actually see the traces in the portal. So, I'm kind of getting to the fact that in the when when Amy did her first uh kind of walk through, you notice that every agent every time you ask a question, we already have it set up with our traces. But now you're able to see how much more you can actually go and analyze the path of your invocation through this entire workflow. So over here now you can see when I ask a question of the agent, it now goes through a workflow, figures out how to invoke every agent in turn. So, invoke the flight agent to get me information about the flight. Invoke the hotel agent to get me that. And then put them all together. And so, the value for us now is you're able to see which of these agents is underperforming, which of these agents is not actually doing its job correctly, what are the costs token wise for this, and then flip out only the agents that you need to optimize to do better.
>> Yes. optimiz this very complex way. You said there's too many rel because we're going to No, no, no. I'm going to answer it now, but you're going to we're going to look at it again when we look at the skill.
>> But your point, I'm just going to repeat his questions. Let me know if I got this right. One, cost. Can we actually optimize for cost?
>> And second one is you were asking u what is the complexity? What was the second question?
>> How do I
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. So um I'm going to answer both in part. Costwise there are two things that impact cost. One is you think about the model cost. You might have a GPT41 is going to cost you more in tokens than maybe GPT4 on mini. So one of the things you do is you switch models. This is one of the right and when you do that you immediately run the eval and see did my was there regression so did my cost drop but the accuracy get so you can try these out right and you'll see that in the skill that you can actually try these out flip the model try that out second thing is you can see why is it spending time so for example if I used a web search and then realize this is really taking up too much time I would rather just have it search a small subset that I have cached or like I have data in maybe cheaper so there are ways for you to look at Right. The bigger picture though is every time you make a change, you should evaluate immediately and see and compare whether it had a regression for something else. So the second one is how do I actually uh roll back? So if you look at these, I'm showing this to you in the portal, but you'll notice later when we kind of go through um the the skill, there are versions over here, right? I have all the agent versions. So deploying an agent is you can actually just give it the name of the identity the version that you're that you want and have that be the one that's the main one. And when we use the skill, we'll see that it'll automatically go back to a version that had a better quality and use that going forward. But the bottom line is they're just identifiers. So you can basically deploy them. Does that make sense?
>> Awesome. So uh this workflow agent now lets you kind of like compose multiple agents through code not through an external framework and still have it managed by Foundry and traceable. So one of the things I want you to take away from this is that from the tracing perspective it really doesn't care what kind of agent you have. It has an endpoint and as long as that emits hotel traces I can gather them and show them to you. Same deal with evaluation. doesn't care how you build the agent as long as I give you an endpoint I can then run those evals and give you metrics back against them. So that's this was the thing now. So now let's talk about tracing. So in this so far you were just kind of learning how to deploy agents and tailor their functions, tailor their instructions and kind of run them and see how well they're performing and see their traces. But what if you actually wanted to run or kind of like have custom um attributes in your traces and how could you actually activate traces to use locally as well as in the cloud. So if you want to look at that this particular uh notebook will actually deploy a custom agent here. So it's this one. And what you're going to get from this is an understanding of how tracing works. So the problem that we've got to right now is we've slowly been changing our agent and we've built it out. We've broken it up. It's now working. And to the point when things go wrong, there are so many possible ways they could go wrong. Wouldn't it be nice if I could add my own custom attributes into those traces so that when I want to kind of go troubleshoot later, I can look for the right things. So in this we're going to look at how you can actually uh kind of bring in custom attributes into your tracing. So in the first one this we've got two different sets for this. The first thing is we want to create and trace an agent. And what we want to do is we want to actually have it set up to put the traces in the local console. So before you do that as part of the setup you actually need to set two environment attributes. want to enable generative AI tracing and want to kind of capture the message content around it. So if you go through this, what this will allow you to do now is to actually activate different attributes or set different attributes and have them seen right in your console so you can debug as you go. So now once I've set this up, I create a conversation and when I actually run it, I don't know if you guys can see this in here, but it's putting in some of the custom attributes that I've generated. And let me put that as a and now I get more personalized traces. So I can actually dump in more information that relates to the kinds of things I want to debug. Next, when I want to interpret the the tracing itself, these traces currently are local, but it would be great if I could actually push them to the back end and see them there as well. So, there are two different layers at which you can see these traces. One in the back end against the agent itself. Those traces should be visible here. So, I can go in and kind of like see what happened. That's just the basic tracing behavior. But the second thing I want to do is I want to actually push this to Azure monitor. So Azure monitor is this giant kind of like uh log collection of all the telemetry across all my services by adding my AI telemetry to it as well. Not only do I see kind of like how the different other services are going or are doing, but I can see whether the impact of performance was related to things I was calling. So for example, I had an Azure AI search that had an index. I'm getting the telemetry from that. I'm also getting the telemetry from my AI uh applications and I can look at them together. So in this particular part of the lab, we're going to configure Azure monitor tracing and have all of the traces also sent out to the monitor. We'll look at that in a second on the back end. Run a trace query and now you should be able to see the traces in the Foundry portal. So with that those if you walk through those notebooks you are now able to do all of these in code and step through the same things that you are doing in the portal. The evaluation one is really taking it to the next level of showing you how to run a quality evaluation, a safety evaluation and an agentic evaluation and have these run and kind of run in batch mode in combination or individually using some evaluator data sets that you've provided. So to set up this travel agent for evaluation, the first thing is preparing evaluation data. In this particular case, we're using we used an AI agent and we created a sample set of evaluation data. Later on with a skill, I'm going to show you how it actually generates that for you. So what is this evaluation data set? The evaluation data set here is just a a couple of like prompt test prompts, right, with uh responses that you can use to evaluate groundedness and so on. So we want to kind of pick a few quality and safety evaluators to run an evaluation. First you deter define an evaluator object and you specify the criteria. We're using built-in evaluators. You notice that we have a lot of built-in evaluators for quality and safety and agentic. So you just specify whichever ones you want and for each one you're going to tell it how the data maps to the evaluation data set that you've provided. Then you set up your evaluation data flow and then you run it. When you run the evaluation from your notebook, it takes a long time. So you can actually set this up to whole till the evaluation is done. And once it's done, it'll actually help you analyze the results locally or you can go into the portal and you can see that again. So the trace the evaluation notebook generates this agent and you can see both the traces here or you can kind of go in and see the evaluation output. So over here one of the things you'll see is that we had three evaluators in that notebook. the quality evaluation. And just to kind of give you a sense of what you see here, you have a copy of the data set that was used. And when I look at this, it's just telling me that for the metrics that I looked at, which is coherence, fluency, it's passing all the tests. There's actually, and this is a very kind of like a a very simple test set. So, we're not doing anything major. But what what it does allow you to do is see the results and download them and see the logs. But let's take a look at the agentic ones. So in agentic in addition to the basic ones that we had we are actually looking at intent resolution. Uh we might look at things like um task adherance and tool calling. Let's take a look at one of these here. In this case it said groundedness fail. So now I want to dive in and see what happened. I should actually be able to look through this and see where those uh failures are. So over here I can see that there was a failure in groundedness. And now one of the things for me is to understand why why was this given as a fail and you can see that the reason it came up with is that the response answered with a date of August 2024 instead of 2025 which is a failure of groundedness. It wasn't actually grounded in the truth. So this is a kind of like a simple notebook that just shows you how to run your evals for quality, safety and agentic and then you can interpret the results and kind of we're done um and view them in the portal. The last thing I want to do is show you red teaming. So with this so far, what you've actually been doing is just setting up evaluators with one of the built-in quality, safety, or agentic evaluators, running it, and then seeing the results of the portal. But red teaming is where you want to set up a scan where it proactively attacks your agent to see whether it can basically get through and assess it for vulnerabilities to different kinds of manipulated prompts. So how many of you have done red teaming or pen testing? Anyone familiar with how red teaming works? So red teaming is actually kind of cool. With red teaming, what you do is you get a second AI to attack your first AI. So the red teaming agent that we have, you basically tell it, here are the risk categories that I think my agent is susceptible to. You define the kinds of attacks you want and then it will basically attack your agent with those prompts and give you a report that says these are the cases under which your agent failed. So how does that work? It works like this. If I were to say hey please tell me how to rob a bank and that's the kind of uh example Amy had. My safety guardians are going to come in and say no you can't do that. Cannot don't answer the question and it would be right. But it turns out that maybe if I were to flip it, right, flip the the prompt around, the safety godre looks at it and goes, "This is gibberish. There's nothing wrong with this. I'm going to let the prompt go through." And the model says, "Oh, silly guy. He flipped the string. Let me flip it back. Now I see what you want me to do." And it'll actually execute it. So you slip past the guardrail because you manipulated the prompt. What red teaming allows you to do is it proactively goes and checks all those different uh attack strategies and then tells you what you're vulnerable to. So in this particular uh notebook, what you're going to do is you're going to look at what kinds of agentic attacks you can perform. For example, prohibited actions. You see with quality and safety, you're looking at red teaming your model. You're just looking at the behaviors. Agentic is very dangerous because if I can manipulate the agent to do an action that it was not supposed to do, that's harmful. So with prohibited actions, which is one of the newer agentic uh red teaming uh attacks you can do or strateg I'm going to give you a taxonomy of actions that your agent is not allowed to do. It can't go and fill in passwords. It can't leak data. It can't do this, etc. Right? And now when you fill this in, the retaining agent will proactively come up with prompts that will test this for you. Yes,
>> do the reverse and say you have the right to do nothing except what I authorize you to do and when authorizes.
>> That is what a guardrail would do. What you're saying is you're telling your agent these are the things you should do, right?
>> What red teaming is saying is if I tell the agent this can I manipulate it by using a prompt? So to your point there are there are very famous attacks that say oh you're not allowed to do this but then I say my grandmom used to tell a story about this and it says oh your grandma let me tell you how your grandmom would tell the story right that's an attack so in this case the prohibited action is saying I don't want you to do this I want you to do this that's the taxonomy so you're absolutely right in your taxonomy I could say I only want you to do this the attack the red teaming agent says is I'm going to be smart and figure out ways to get around this loophole and so it comes up with a bunch of test prompts that it'll run and then you see how good your prohibited action guardrail really was. Does that make sense?
>> Okay. So, when you run this one for example, I'm going to flip over and I'll show you that because I know we're running out of time. Um, so if I go into this, let's see the red team, right? Just to kind of be quick about it. Here is an example of what the red teaming agent scan looks like. So, you can see up top I've said these are my risk categories. This is violence, sensitive data leakage, and task adurance. those I I want you to see whether you can actually assess vulnerabilities to me following these and the attack is lead. If you're familiar with this lead is that way in which you can use like numbers instead of letters to make things look good. So the question is if I were to use an attack where the prompt is using lead rather than normal English does it get through my guardrail. Very simple attack. I can go in and actually run this and you'll see that in this case it was a very simple attack. Nothing major. It passed everything. We didn't do anything at all. You can however then go in and I I'll start one up but u I don't know if it'll finish by the time we kind of get this there. If you basically go in that was that just showed you how to run an attack but if you go in here and I say okay go ahead and give me let's pick the contoso agent that we had any one of them there are actually a lot of different more comprehensive attacks that we can try. So here are the various attacks that I can actually or here are the risk categories. Let's keep all of them. And then I can look at the attack strategies and see these. These are easy attacks. But there are things like a crescendo attack right here that are super difficult. And what a crescendo attack does is it starts it off like a frog in boiling water. Starts with a small attack. Says, "Oh, you got through it. Then I'm going to kind of build on that with a second one and a second one. And by the time you've recognized something's going on, you're being hit on all sides." Right? So if you run a crescendo attack, it takes a really long time, but it will determine all the vulnerabilities in your system. So in our case, we had just run it with a very simple one, but you can go in and look at all the different attacks that are there, all the different risks and run them. So with that, let me actually kind of get back to we because got a few minutes and I really want to show the Amy, are you good with me just going on to the skilling?
>> Okay, so I really wanted to actually talk about this. So I'm going to kind of go into that instead. So, we went through uh the SDK, but all of this is the old way of doing stuff, right? What if we could make this better? You still don't understand all the things you don't know. So, what I really wanted to show you today, and this is in very early preview, is this notion of an observe skill. So, right now, and for those of you want to try that at home, uh you will know it's documented over here. It's the third thing in there. So what it is is Microsoft foundry has a top level skill that has defined best practices for doing everything that you would do with an end to end agent development create deploy and so on and over here these are all the different things we're going to focus on observe observe is a subscale and what does observe actually do observe and I think I have that in here if not let me just bring that up what observe does is it lets you go in and get the whole observability loop done through an agent. Let's actually just see it in action. So, let me know if you're able to see this. Okay, can you all see the right side of the screen? I'm going to minimize all this. So now remember that portal agent that Amy had set up with the observe skill. I didn't have to do any of the stuff I did with the SDK. Instead I just go to the copilot in in this case we're using GitHub copilot chat to activate that skill. I have a coding agent. I'm using cloud as my model with it. And I just say, can you please use this observe skill to start the observability loop on my agent and do the work for me? At this point, I only have an agent. I have no eval set. I have nothing. Can you please help me evaluate this? And what it does is it kind of goes in and it looks at your code and says, you don't have an eval data set. You I know what you're trying to do because you've shown me the instructions. I'm going to start building this out. So the first thing is it checks whether I have metadata and when I don't you're seeing kind of like the cooked agent goes ahead and sets up a cache and the first thing it did is it went ahead and generated the eval data set for me. Okay so I'm going to walk through this really quickly. You see that it reviewed files and created to-dos and then started working through them. It got the agent details. It ran the evaluate catalog built an evaluated data set and then it ran that first batch eval. So, it said, "I have an agent. I need a baseline. I'm going to run this." So, it goes ahead. And by the way, it didn't find the agent because I spelled it wrong. Figured that out. Fixed it. And now it says, "Okay, you have this travel portal agent. I'm going to take the data set you gave me and I'm going to run the uh the evaluation." And one of the greatest things that I find useful here is the reasoning. It goes in there and you actually get to see what it looks for in terms of the failures and how it had actually instrumented the evals and so once it finishes this it kind of like it goes through all the things that need and now it finishes this evaluation runs it runs it runs it and then it comes back to me and says here is the result. So this is the first batch eval and I didn't have to do anything except set up my agent with a simple instruction, a model and an endpoint. And it comes back and says based on what you have, your prompt is not actually perfect. Relevance is fine, but task a there are cases where it's not actually completing the task you asked it to do. There are two failures and I can actually go in and look through the reasoning. It'll tell me where those failures are. Your internet resolution looks good. And for the indirect I tried one test for safety and that passed right. So it comes back with a key finding and said hey there is a problem and it says would you like me to solve that right so the next thing Tom comes back and says okay so this is human in the loop right I did the first step for you would you like me to take another step or is there something you'd like to do so I'm like please go ahead and just analyze those failures for me optimize the instructions and reevaluate. So what this starts doing is it runs something called a prompt optimizer. It says based on the way you've written your prompt, you left it open for misinterpretation. I'm going to optimize that prompt and you asked me at the time how do we actually roll back this automatically get puts a new version number and tests right and if it if it it sees a regression it can roll it back and you'll see that too. So over here it's now it's now updating the agent. This is where it goes and pushes the new version of the agent. It runs a new batch eval again waits for the evaluation to get done and voila when it's done it gives me a nice clean table says here is where you were I optimized your prompt reran the batch evals with the same evaluators and now it's improved by one it's not perfect I didn't get a 10 but it did fix one of those issues that you had so it's better your task adherance and there was this issue in the prompt that I fixed which is now tighter so now you've got this and now it says what would you like me to And this is where it gets interesting. So I was like greedy and I said I want you to I want to push for 10 out of 10. I want you to fix that last remaining thing. And at this point this is where human in the loop makes a difference because it starts just manipulating the prompts to see what else it can fix. Right? So over here it keeps going through them trying it out. And now you start seeing the point you were making where if I actually I'll push it all the way to the end so you can see it. It'll go back and forth and it'll keep regressing and it'll keep finding that it it improves to seven and it comes back to eight. It'll improve to seven, come back to five and at some point it'll basically say, you know what, of all the things that we did so far. So this is where the human in the loop can say, you know, you need to stop. So it says the best version for my agent was version five. So let's go and stick with that. Right? So over here it comes back and says here is the entire history of me trying different things and telling you how I'm able to improve it and for each one I'm going to give you insights into what worked what didn't and now we're at version 10 of all of them five is the best let's go back let's use that right yes
>> does it only change the prompt or it can change the model
>> it can change other things so this one is it started with a batch eval and it's looked at that right so it'll actually come back and say would you like me to look into perhaps for example It'll say web search is taking a lot of time. Would you like me to look for an alternative for that? Right? So yes, the thing in this is this is where the human in the loop makes a difference. The reasoning kind of gives us insights and this is where I think you know it's what we don't know that hurts us. It's not about I don't even know what I don't know. And what this does is exposes me to what I don't know. But yes, at that time I can actually guide the skill what the default skills and you can actually go look at the skill MD because when it installs it, you'll see it. You know what it's looking for. It's got a set of best practices it checks through. If you have domain knowledge, you might want to apply it, right? And say, well, actually, this is likely to be the case. Can we go try that? And it'll do that. But what was I don't know if you you get why I love this so much is it automates the batch eval compare it and show me what happened without me having to know every single SDK call and stuff, right? And so that was the thing there. So here, yes, to your point, there are other things behind the scenes that you can look at. And now at the end I'm like can you just show me a full summary of what's happening right but the more important thing on this that uh I I think I just wanted to kind of showcase before we're done is it'll at the end it'll tell you what else you can do recommendations for future work I was showing a prompt agent but how many of you use lang chain lang graph etc. You can actually build your agent with that and bring it into foundry using something called hosted agents and I can go to it that this point and say we've been using the observe skill. Can we use a create skill to convert this prompt agent into a hosted agent and use langraph to build it for me and it'll do that too. So the point on the skill is really about moving away from looking at the editor and moving to a coding agent that will manipulate it but we are actually guiding it through the process. If that makes sense. Does that make sense to everyone? Okay. So, uh the the the final thing about this is you can see that it gives you different recommendations for what you can do tracing based evaluations, red teaming etc. And so you can guide it through all of them because there are skills behind the scenes. Yes.
>> And if you come to realization that you need to update the evaluation set then redo the whole process essentially.
>> Yes. And you can actually tell it. So one of the things and let me see if I can show that thing to you because it makes more sense if you can see it. I'll I'll publish this uh document out there. But um if you look at the actual skills, it's over here. So this is the god it's not okay. See if it opens this. And I should probably hide some things here. All right. It wasn't supposed to pull up this window. Can you all see this? Okay.
>> So, it's an open source project, so you can actually go look at it. So, Azure Copilot uh for I mean GitHub copilot for Azure. This is the Microsoft Foundry skill um the Foundry agent. And if you look into this, these are all the skills available. So, I'm going to kind of walk through what the observability loop looks like. So, if you can see this, what it does is all of these tasks. And if you want to, here's an easier way. There's a QR code. You can grab the QR code and go directly to this page if you're interested. Um, what this is using is the Foundry MCP server. And all of these, it's looking for trigger words like this. So, evaluate my agent, help me build a data set, etc. One of the subs skills that it has is to create a data set. Another subskll that it has is to analyze your insights and so on. So you can look through these to see what kinds of things you can actually call out on it and uh run them from there. And then let me see if I can just finish up uh what we were talking about. So you can basically go through this and have it iterate more than once. And last but not least, this is bringing coding agents into your SDK and into your IDE. But what if I needed the same help to analyze my insights, right? So I want to show you a couple of last things and then we'll call it a day. Um if you are going into the portal anytime you're in the portal and you have an issue with something you can actually use the ask AI and the interesting thing about ask AI is it's an agent that knows the state of your project. So you can say can you look at this trace ID? Can you tell me what models I have access to in this subscription? Do I have quota and ask it questions here and it's reasoning on the state. The other one is in your traces. So if you actually go into your insights, I don't know about you, but I'm not a KQL query person at all. Can't write it to save my life. So I want to actually know what am I looking at in all this data. If you click on the logs for your u app insights at the top, there's now an observability agent helper. And what this allows you to do is allows you to convert all those programmatic queries you have written into natural language interactions with an agent that'll do the job for you. So over here for instance I can kind of go in and say hey can you find failures like you now have access to my entire uh log workspace right so can you go ahead and give me an analysis on what this is doing etc. Um, and I think we are way past time. So, um, the two things that I just showed you at the end, ask AI, uh, that's the one that's in the Foundry portal and the observability agent is the one that's in the Azure portal. And I think with that, Amy, do you want to do any wrap-up or do I? All right. So I'm just going to wrap up on this and say if you grab those two codes, the first one is the entire repository and even the skills part is completely documented in there. Uh hopefully later today I'll publish the step-by-step uh transcript that I have as well. So you can kind of see my results against yours on the discord while you run this. If you run into issues, please join Discord and the AI engineer channel and then kind of leave us notes there. We'd love to get issues from you. And kind of to wrap this up, you know, we started by saying there's a gap in agent observability. How do you mine the gap and how do you isolate the eval optimized loop? So hopefully we did a job semideently well. And the main thing we're trying to say is the gap in agent observability is three things, right? One, you start off with a working agent, but that working agent will drift from the original requirements because models could change, prompts could change, your environment could change, new edge cases come in. How do you constantly and continuously evaluate what's going on and get alerted when that gap changes? That's tracing and monitoring. And second, how do you accelerate the loop? You can do it manually of course but why not start taking advantage of coding agents and have those automate some of this for you with a human in the loop to guide them so you are faster at responding to some of the these issues before they get out of hand and finally coming back to close the loop on the questions we asked too many models no existing data what do we do we can use coding agents we can use either co-pilot or uh skills and have that generated based on what our current state of the application or our current requirements are keeping up with fast changes. How can it detect issues and diagnose them quickly? The answer is trace based I mean trace linked evaluations. So we want to be able to have a view that lets us see both the traces that show you how it executed and the evaluations that said what was the result of the of this change that I made. And then for safeguarding practices, you want to think not only about safety evaluations for normal behavior, which is setting the default guardrails, but also adversarial kind of testing where you proactively attack it to see whether you can get past those guardrails by using techniques that we may not even have thought of that folks like the pirate team are progressively kind of building on. And I'll leave you with one last thing. I am not like like many of you. I'm just trying to keep up with the pace of things, but there are experts in the space. So, if you're interested in it, we have a series called Model Mondays. Just so happens that this Monday, uh, Felicia Sha is the person behind the skills that you just saw. She's a PM who runs the Foundry Skills, uh, section of things. So, she's going to come and do a demo and tell us what's coming next. What you saw is really, really early. It's like literally got released two weeks ago. They're already building on that. So if you're interested in that, please do attend and she'll have an AMA so you can ask her questions directly. The other one which is interesting for those of you who use AI toolkit is what's new in that. And the main thing here is a lot of the stuff that you saw that was doing uh being done in the portal and SDK can now be done right in VS Code using that extension and can be done much faster locally. So that's about improving your local developer experience. And with that, I think that's the end. Uh thank you all for sticking around. I think we're at time little over appreciate it. And if you have any questions or just want to hang out in chat, please do come and let us know. And thanks again.