Hi everybody and welcome to In Good Company. I'm Nicolola Latangan, the CEO of the Norwegian Wealth Fund and today I'm speaking with Zack Brown, the CEO of McLaren Racing. One of the most remarkable turnarounds the Formula 1 has ever seen. Well, I would argue it's one of the most remarkable turnarounds I've ever seen anywhere. [music] Zach has transformed McLaren from a struggling midpack team into a champion leader and you are currently dominating the F1 season. Well done. So, let's just dive straight in. Why why are you winning everything this year?
>> People, if I had to give uh of course it's not a simple answer, and it's never quite as simple as one thing, [snorts] but it's our our people and specifically our our culture. Um what we've been able to do here. Uh you know, if I take a step back, we're the uh second most successful Formula 1 team of all time, second most historic next to uh Ferrari, which is good company. And we certainly have won a lot of races and world championships over the years, but uh really started to struggle, you know, 101 15 years ago and lost our way
>> for a variety of reasons, but probably the biggest impact being we lost our way as a as a team, uh teamwork and that culture. And so, of course, we've had great investment. We've got great drivers. We have new wind tunnels. All the things that people are the tools that they need to be able to get back to the front. But the way we've been able to unlock um the performance of our people through a great culture of transparency, uh hard work, incremental improvement, uh real talks, park your feelings at the doors. All those things have just made uh everyone rowing the same direction when you get you know 1,400 people rowing the same direction uh can be pretty powerful.
>> But I mean what exactly have you done?
>> Um
>> if you just take us through some of the steps.
>> Yeah. So so
>> so you join you joined in 16 right?
>> I joined at the very end of 16
>> following some pretty bad uh experiences with uh with the Honda.
>> Yeah. We we were at a record low in sponsorship in results on track. uh our fans weren't happy and uh it was a pretty toxic work environment and as I say other than that everything was great and um but what we did have was a great brand
>> in a great sport with great history and clearly we had great people because we have people that have been here for 20 30 40 years but it was
>> and you still have a lot of the same people right so you haven't really sold other people
>> yeah well I would say you know the majority were were here during our winning ways and and also when we were were terrible.
>> So what do you So what do you do? You come into an organization like that. Where do you where do you start?
>> I I I I started with my leadership team because ultimately it's a big organization. Okay. Not as big as some of the uh uh others out there, but you know, it's it's not a small organization, 1400 people going racing. And I started with my leadership team.
>> And that wasn't necessarily my intention when I came in. My intention was to figure out why isn't this great racing team working? And at the time, everyone was convinced it was the the Honda engine and it was all their fault and that was the mindset and that was the commentary. Well, you take the Honda engine in, you put the Renault engine in and you get a little bit better, but you don't get it was like, okay, well, now what are the excuses? And um so that was a great wakeup call for us. I think sometimes you need big wakeup calls. And uh I I changed the uh I brought in new leadership and changed leadership of my leadership team. That was the first thing I did was get 10 people rowing the same direction, finance, HR, team principal of Formula 1, a commercial department, our our HR department, etc. And then once I got those people in place, that became a pretty pretty awesome team.
>> So that were were they mainly new people? How many new people over the time? Um they were all new but one uh Laura uh our CFO is someone I promoted. Uh some were people that I brought in that I'd worked with previously and then others were were we're were headunted. So it was kind of a combination of and when I came in I didn't come in with the intention of I'm going to change my leadership team. I came in with let me learn. But the first thing I learned was I need to change my leadership team. And for a variety of reasons. It wasn't they were bad people. We just needed some fresh blood, different teamwork, you know, was it was things were kind of stale, I guess, is how I would describe. We needed some new energy and and so went about doing that. Then I jumped into the commercial side of our business because that's something I'm uh very experienced and very comfortable in. And I knew if I could get people believing in our brand, believing in the team, bringing some new energy, new partners, which would allow us to make new investments and drivers and wind tunnels, I could kind of reverse this downward trajectory or or bad momentum we had. And that's that's what what happened. And so once we got the the leaders all rowing in the same direction, they got their departments rowing in the same direction. And then I changed the top three people in the Formula 1 team. And then that's when you really saw the Formula 1 team start to blossom. And then letting everybody know how important their role is. There's this kind of, you know, the race car. It must just be the people working on the race car. department. I was like, now if you look at our ecosystem, got to have great fans. That's where you got to have a great communications department, a great marketing department. You then need to have a great commercial department to monetize that great brand and the huge fans. They then need to pass that money off to a great finance department because we live in a cost cap world. So, we need to really be ROI and RO focused. We can't just spend money. We got to spend it wisely. Then you give it to your team. That's where HR comes in. And you got to have an unbelievable team that's highly motiv. And then it actually get in the hands.
>> How do you make people feel loved? I mean, you can't just walk around and say, "I love you. I love you. I love you."
>> I I think No. And sometimes it's it's tough love. Uh I think you do it by being transparent, fair, a great communicator. And that is part of communicating is listening.
>> So great communicate and I believe great leaders know when to lead. They also know when to follow, how to empower people and then make people understand the importance of their job, the contribution that they're making, and then celebrate and be thankful. In addition to that,
>> how specifically do you do that? How specifically do you get fe people to really understand the importance of their part of the team?
>> A lot of communication. Um,
>> how do you communicate internally? Everything from, as you can imagine, you know, companywide CEO, you know, town halls down to I'll do breakfast 20 people at a time. We'll do our new starters. So, we kind of make sure we get the culture set with people that have joined. I do it with middle managers. I do it around uh women in motorsport. I do it around pe uh uh people that have just joined us from coming out of school. So, I break it down by departments um or skill sets or tenure and and really get dialed into the organization. We also invest a lot in our facilities and our people. We've got a state-of-the-art, not gym, but a human performance center canteen. So, people know that we we care about them. We also, as much as we work seven days a week, we appreciate and want people to recharge their batteries and we have families involved. We just did an awesome family day where 4,000 people came. Our drivers were here signing autographs, holding babies, petting dogs, and you know, we live on the road and we take for granted when I'm racing in Monaco, I'm having fun.
>> What does your human performance center look like? What do you you come in the door and what's in there?
>> It's you know beyond a state-of-the-art gym, physios, psychiatrists, wellness room, diet, restrooms. I don't mean as in toilet restrooms as in you you know areas to you know meditate. So it it kind of covers all aspect of physical and mental and health well-being. And that's because we're a a sports organization and people operate at their best when they're in the best physical and mental state of mind.
>> How important is the car?
>> Very important. Critically important. You So you have
>> I mean it's like it's a stupid question, right? But you said it's about the people.
>> No, it's not a stupid question. It's one I'm I'm I'm asked all the time. And and here's how I would say. First of all, you need to have both. Yeah. But I would say there are six drivers that can world win the world championship out of 20, but they have to be in two of the best cars.
>> So two of the 10 cars can win the drivers world championship, but only six of the 20. So you you got to have one of the best two cars in the business or it doesn't matter who's driving.
>> How do you get how do you get two of the best cars? How do you make them? What do you do?
>> Oh, a good good question. I mean, as I tell people in Formula 1, the worst team is really good. 2% separate the best from the worst. If you think about all the industries out there, 2% is our margin of error, which explains why we work so hard for the smallest incremental gain of milliseconds. It's an aerodynamic game. It's a tire wear game, uh, which also comes from aerodynamics. So it it's primarily an aerodynamic game, but that that then facilitates your mechanical grip, your tire wear, and then of course you have things like strategy, and you got to have the best of of everything. You can't have a weak spot.
>> What were the changes last year with me which really made the big difference for you?
>> Um th this year wasn't a big change. You know, we won the championship last year and this car was a rollover, but we took some big innovation risks. We didn't have to cuz the rules didn't change too much. 2026 is a clean sheet of paper. Biggest regulation change in the history of Formula 1. So that has us biting our nails.
>> So they do and they do that basically to change the leadership and to create some new excitement, right? Okay. So how how do you make sure that you'll be you know that your car will be the fastest next year?
>> Well, all we can keep doing is doing what we're doing. We've got great technical tools, a great team, and my focus as CEO is stability. So,
>> take Red Bull, you know, our our, you know, won the last four championships. Unbelievable team. They hit a bunch of kind of culture turmoil, which has been well documented the last year. And you see the team start to slide backwards. Now, they brought in a new team boss that looks like they're very aligned and settled. They're back to winning races. Same driver, same budget, same car, culture at risk, and a great culture again. And you don't you're not hearing any noise. Max is happy. You're not hearing people leave and they're winning again. Same exact race car. Okay, they've had some developments on it, but I think that's the power of of of culture and sports team. So, what we need to do for 26 is keep doing what we're doing. And for me, that's stability.
>> Now, uh F1 is all about making fast decisions, right? What uh how do you think about decision-m speed?
>> I kind of put it back to when I raced. If you think as a racing driver, it's all about making split-second decisions. So, you need to know how to be a quarterback and a and a leader. You know, risk versus reward. Am I going to make that pass? If I if I miss it, am I going to crash or am I going to just go off the track? Can I recover from it? So, risk versus reward. You know, is it worth it? Am I making a pass for the lead? Or if it's for 15th, why am I taking risk? You need to have great people around you. You need to have immense trust. You need to be a great communicator to your engineers. You need to be a great listener from your engineers. Sometimes you can think and have a long time to make a decision. Other times it's pure instinct. It's like the start of a grand prix. And if it if I think of as a CEO, sometimes I got to make quick decisions. Sometimes I'm consulting, I'm listening, I'm trusting my team, I've got the best technology around me. So I think being a Formula 1 driver is kind of like being a CEO.
>> When do you slow down in your decision-m to make sure you make more kind of deliberate well thought through decisions?
>> So I I calibrate when do I need to make a a decision. And I think one of the areas that I've seen in sport and specifically in in racing where people get it wrong is they make decisions when it's an emotional highly charged environment and actually you don't need to make a decision yet. So I'm a you know hey if I got to make a decision now it's a pit stop. Got to make a decision but if it's something that happened during the race on Sunday and and I can't fix it but I do want to talk about it address it makes don't do it on Sunday night. you know, everyone's tired, adrenal, they're not do it on Monday or Tuesday. So, I make the decisions when I have to make the decisions and sometimes those are literally split second, sometimes or a week. I like to get as much feedback and data and whether that data is pure data or data from just people talking to me, I'm a fan of doing that, but in accordance whatever timeline I need to make a decision on. Zack, you say that passion is good and emotion is bad. What do you mean?
>> Uh very fine line between the two. As my chairman says to me, uh Zach, there's a fine line between bravery and stupidity. Um and so to me, passion is what obviously propels us. We're passionate. But the minute that trips into emotion that you can't control, you then make emotional decisions. And that's a bad place to be. So, I think it would be unrealistic to say don't be emotional because you can't control your emotions, but you can control how you react to your emotions. And you know, so what do I mean by that? If something happens on Sunday night in a race and you're massively passionate about winning, but something goes wrong, you're kind of emotional. If you react to that, maybe you think it was the driver's fault or your pit crew or strategy and you say something, you can't fix it, sleep on it. Don't say something that you might regret because you can't unsay it. You can do some damage. You know, I did that the other day to be honest. Um,
>> what happened? We had an accident in uh turn one in Austin and uh it was between my two championship drivers and a driver named Nico Hulenberg. Um in the moment it looked like Nico wiped out my guys. Sky TV comes on to me two seconds after it's happened uh as part of the interview. Hey, what do you think? And I was like that was some amateur driving. When I went and looked at the replay, I don't think Nico was at fault. I think it was a racing incident. So, that was one of those where, you know, unfortunately, I was doing TV, so I had to say something. But, I should have been more measured and said, you know what, until I see the replay, I've only seen it once, but I was I was angry. I was I was p it was passion turned into emotion, and I said something I regretted. I then later apologized to hundreds of millions of people on TV because that's the right thing to do. But that's that's a good example and and you know you say that to the wrong person at the wrong time you create some damage. I was in an emotion my passion had turned to emotion.
>> But you uh but debriefs it's important to do them to do hot debriefs too right straight after the event. So how do you decide on when to do the debrief and when to do what?
>> Uh so we do hot debrief and then a cold debrief and you know have thick skin. We're all on the same team. We're all just trying to drive forward. We're trying to chase perfection, but we know we're never going to find perfection. So, you're constantly kind of almost unhappy because you can always be doing better. So, it's about getting people that understand the intent of a hot debrief. It's not to point fingers, isn't to place blame. It's to having an open and frank conversation so we can all improve. I'm good with mistakes.
>> All I ask is you don't make the same one twice because you'll learn from mistakes, right? You think about R&D companies, that didn't work. Try this. That didn't actually learn by a bunch of failures. But once you failed, don't make that same mistake twice. And that's
>> why why why make it twice when there's so many to pick from.
>> Exactly right. You're exactly right.
>> What's your relationship with Andrea? How important is the team principle?
>> Very important. And the relationship is fantastic. We uh
>> How do you how do you work together? We have uh two different personalities. We we have two different skill sets. We have uh two different areas that we like to work and a common passion for racing and winning. So our working there's so much work to do in a Formula 1 team that the CEO and the team principal used to be one and the same and there are a few teams but that's kind of going by. If you look at the role of today's team principal, it's the performance of the race car. I can't be doing these with you while right now he's in an aerodynamic meeting.
>> But these podcasts, being with sponsors, reporting to boards, getting, you know, the rest of the bit, that's a full-time job as is running the performance of a racing team. So our relationship is you take what used to be one role and these teams are so big now it's two roles and so I run the business I mean ultimately everything's I'm responsible for but I run the business the commercial the brand the board ex and I give Andrea the space the tools the direction that he needs to be successful and then I get out of his way and I'm so my view is that racing team doesn't work for me. My view is I work for the racing team. My job I'm one person out of 1400. My job is to keep them all fed and hungry and motivated. It's not to do their job. I I I can't There's some jobs in here. I I I uh the commercial department is an area that I'm obviously very comfortable in, but this is all about getting the right people uh and the right energy in in the factory. No, I have been in many meetings, but I never been in a aerodynamic meeting. What uh what are you doing in an aerodynamic meeting?
>> Uh pretend like I have a clue what they're talking about. [laughter] I was not a math science uh kid at school and I'm going to [clears throat] speak a different way.
>> You you dropped out of school, right?
>> I dropped out of school. So, I'm good in the EQ department. The IQ has some room for improvement.
>> So, how is it to work with these total whiz kids? They're uh it's fascinating. Um they're different people. They think differently. They get energized, you know, they're they're mad scientists. They're absolutely brilliant. Where I think I can contribute is I've got a good sniffer. I can see who's working well together. I can see who's delivering on their promises. I can tell by the second question how confident they are because they haven't backtracked when I've put a little pressure on them. I wouldn't know how to look at a aerodynamic map. I mean that's a bit untrue. I can look at an aerodynamic but like how it's constructed the method. Forget it. But I can tell who's someone said this is going to happen in two weeks and it did or it didn't happen or they made this prediction and it didn't or wait a minute that's different from what you said two weeks ago. So I think that's my area of contribution technically is I can sniff who's good at their job or not. I can't do their job for them though. Let's uh talk about some of the uh really good sniffing you've done lately. Um what uh why are Lando and Oscar so good?
>> Uh first and foremost, they're unbelievably naturally talented, right? You see this in all sports? It's that rook, that anticipated rookie coming in who's just had a stellar career through high school, college. They just run faster. They throw better. they read the the game better. Whatever it is, Lando and Oscar are two of the six best drivers in the world on a grid of of 20. Uh then you get into the qualities of them as a human being, highly intelligent, which you need to be as a Formula 1 driver. This isn't just get in a car. You need to technically understand what's going on. So, they're high IQ people. um they're great in a team environment. They're honest. They don't have an edge to them. You know, a lot of that we look at families and upbringings. So, they're just a complete package of what you see is what you get and and money and fame and success have not gone to their head whatsoever. It's gone to their car collection, but not their head.
>> Can you predict that ahead of time whether success will go to somebody's head?
>> Um yeah, yes and no. I think it's something that you're looking for when you're bringing someone in of how grounded is this person, but sometimes you get it right, sometimes you get it wrong, but it's definitely something that you're looking for in that early day analysis of do I want this driver in my team.
>> Most teams have a lead driver and then the rest is kind of support, but you are you have structured differently. You they really compete, right?
>> We we've gone the hard route. Tell me what are the what are the advantages of that?
>> Uh the advantages are one from a constructor's championship point of view which we've now won two years on the trot. If you have two great drivers, you're going to increase your odds the constructor's championship. If you got two great drivers, you're going to increase your odds at having a driver world champion even though they can take points off each other which is a as a downside if you'd like. two or three, you're going to have better two drivers because they keep pushing each other. You know, when you get pushed, you just find a little bit more. So, when you've got two great drivers, they just keep elevating. Then you've got two sets of great feedback for the teams to develop the car. Then off the track,
>> you've got two drivers that your sponsors and your fans love and want to see. So, the downside of having two great drivers is they can take points off each other
>> and the rivalry can get uh nasty. It hasn't with our two drivers.
>> Is it about to become nasty?
>> No, not at all.
>> Aren't they becoming a bit more kind of aggressive and competitive against each other?
>> Oh, I think it's always been there. And uh yeah, I mean, we've got four races to go. They're separated by one point. Um,
>> the last time there was a driver pairing competing for the championship that it didn't end in tears was 1984. Happened to be our two drivers and Nikki Lao won the championship by half a point. They were very competitive but friendly. Every other inner team rivalry is has ended in tears. But I think we're that's not who we are as a team and it's not who our two drivers are. They want to beat each other but fairly and squarely. Do they uh train together?
>> Um so yes, from like a simulator, but not from a physical fitness because they'll be on their own routine. So they're not best friends and they're not going out on Friday night, Saturday night, but they have a huge amount of respect uh for each other and you know when you can feel two people coming into the room and you can feel the tension. Never once, not once have I seen these guys BS each other, which drivers can do. feel any tension in the room? Like they just want to race and of course they want to beat each other, but it's very healthy competition.
>> How do they prepare mentally? What are the what are the main things?
>> They're they're they're different guys. Um Lando is extroverted. Oscar is more introverted. You know, Lando kind of likes to get out and golf and done some DJing. I think likes to kind of release his energy. Oscar is much more inward-looking, uh, studies a lot, thinks a lot. And so, you know, you'll find on a summer break. Oscar kind of a little bit more in his hotel room or going of, you know, going on the beach. And Lando, you'll find a bit more with his friends and going golfing and going carding. So they kind of have different ways of you know uh focusing recharging their batteries which again I think is uh makes them a very complimentary uh driver pairing much like Andrea and I.
>> How important is the way they work with fans? I mean you you talk about the importance of your fan base a lot right?
>> Yeah it's it's
>> how you look at fans.
>> Without fans there's no McLaren. Just simple straightforward. We're in the sport and entertainment business. You had some people in the sport who was like, "We shouldn't be in the entertainment business." And I was just I don't understand. Like if you buy a ticket to go sit down and watch a fireworks, a movie, a football match, or a motor race, that's entertainment. That's
>> Do you think you care more about your fans than the other teams?
>> It probably be unfair of me to say that, but I think so. And I only say that and how do I see and how and as a fan let's say now I'm like a dieh hardening fans. What do why do I how do how do I see that you really care? Um we did a great event in Trafoger Square uh free open to the fans uh 40,000 people through two days. We just did a huge fan event. All of this on our dime and our partners' dimes. time and investment in Austin to get us closer to the fans. Only 1% of our fans will ever go to a race. So, the amount of effort we put into bringing Formula 1 to the 99% that'll never go to a race. Um, our drivers, you'll never see them not stop and sign an autograph and take a photo for a fan. We do. Uh, we went back to probably the greatest example, our iconic papaya colors, which you'll kind of see right there. We [snorts] were a dark team. I described us as Darth Vader, which Darth Vader's cool, but you know, dark gray exclusive. We went to Papaya. All our fans when I started were going, "Bring back the papaya. All right, we'll bring back the papaya." And I remember one of the old school teammates around here was like, "We're only doing that because that's what the fans want." And I'm like, is that kind of a trick question? So, our livery today, our iconic papaya, we brought back to McLaren because we listen to our fans. That's what our fans wanted. So, we're we're doing activations and engagement with our fans all the time. Little small things. At the end of a Grand Prix, if we have had a good result, fans come coming to the pit wall, I'll take a chunk of merchandise and I'll start flinging out to the fans. So, I I think the fans know how important they are uh to us because without our fans, there's no McLaren.
>> The um kind of social appearance of uh of your drivers, how is how important is that for your success?
>> Very.
>> So, if I were if I were like a total introvert and I didn't want to talk to anybody and I didn't want to sign any autographs, would I make it could I become a driver?
>> Um you wouldn't be our first choice. Um yeah, yes, of course you could. You know, there are some drivers that don't care about anything other than driving. And while I appreciate that from a driving point of view, that's not what this job is. This job is
>> driving sponsors, fans, promoting the sport. So yes, you would get a ride because coming back to do we care than more than all the teams? I know we care a lot more than a lot of the teams because there are some drivers that wouldn't drive here at McLaren regardless of talent because they don't fit the McLaren brand and culture and our values which is sponsors our brand the way we carry ourselves our engagement with fans. So yeah, you'll get a ride but you won't get a ride with McLaren.
>> You are uh owned by a sovereign wealth fund.
>> Yes.
>> Could you just tell us about the relationship you have with them?
>> Yep. uh awesome relationship. uh Mumellat uh which is is Bahrain uh have owned the team since 07 I think it was so before my time and then we uh they they along with Syin uh which is Abu Dhabi uh huge investors in in motorsports uh the two of them Mumellat is the majority so Mumellat and Syiv Bahrain and Abu Dhabi uh own McLaren massively passionate about our brand uh want us to win first. Obviously have a great healthy business which we do things have never been uh more successful which is exciting uh at McLaren on and off the the track. Uh but we also know in sport it's not uh if we take a step back uh it's when that's how often do you talk to them?
>> Oh, every week
>> and over a race weekend every day.
>> Do you think we should buy a team?
>> Um yes. Uh Formula 1 teams are hot. The sport has never been hotter. Sport has never been hotter. I mean it was um 5 years ago we were this all public 560 million pounds value and it's been reported that we are around 3.5 billion in value. Um and while I can't give you the exact number that's not a million miles off that value growth in 5 years is amazing. And now you have an 11th team who's had to pay almost $500 million just to get an entry
>> and they'll spend a billion or two until they become profitable. So now the low water mark I think for a Formula 1 team is two billion
>> and a high water mark five, six, four.
>> And you were close to bankrupt. We were not in good shape before we brought in our investment. But coming back to winning because our uh shareholder was was you know spending a lot of money on the automotive group. They had a decision to make. Live within our means which was a slow death because you've got to kind of play to win or play to win. They took the decision, let's bring in some external investment so we can give the racing team all the resources they need to get back to the front. That's what we did. We got back to the front and then they went that was been a great 5-year run. We'd like our um our team back and they bought out the minority shareholders. Simon came in and partnered them and now it's it's happy days.
>> So how does winning translate into profits and value
>> obviously? Well, directly you get prize money from Formula 1. Uh, so that increases as you are more successful. And then of course fans love winners. So you get more fans. That's where you have your great communications department who hand it over your commercial department to monetize that excitement in your brand. And then you get you get more uh sponsor partners. So um what we need to do is be a team and we fell out of this. That's always a threat to to win, right? You're never we we've won 13 races this year. I can't say we are aren't going to win 13 races next year. We might win none. We might win 15. We might win somewhere in the middle. But we need to be one of those teams that is always in the top four cuz the top four teams last year four teams won. This year three teams have won. So we we always need to be a threat to win. Where we fell back to ninth for forget it. that that we can't go back there.
>> How important has Netflix been to build the value of of your brand?
>> They they've been fantastic. I don't think any of us saw that coming. It's brought in North. So, if you look at what Formula 1 needed when Liberty acquired it, it needed North America from a geographic standpoint. It needed a more diverse and female fan base and a younger fan base. Tick, tick, tick, tick. You know, we went from one race in America to three to a new huge TV deal with Apple. Our 75% of our new fans are women and a younger audience age 18 to 34. So, it totally moved the needle in the three areas that when you went and talked to corporate sponsors, oh yeah, but you know, North America's big for us and Formula 1's not big there. H it's the fan base isn't young enough. it's not diverse enough. Netflix helped us lead the way on ringing the bell on all three of those aspects. And then of course we've built on it. You have your Brad Pitt movie. All these things have accelerated our new fan base. What's the key to building female uh fansship? Um I think engagement. You you know we went from being an exclusive team to an inclusive team. Come on in. And the sport went from being an exclusive sport to an inclusive sport. I think that's what Netflix did is it brought brought you into behind the scenes. And I think what's happened is people realize how fascinating our sport is. Not just on the field to play the politics, the big money. It's global. You know, it's easy to get to know 10 racing drivers and 10 team bosses where if you look at other sports, you've got four or 500 people in football. So, it's harder to kind of get to know everybody. Um, a lot of drama in our sport. It's a pretty glamorous sport. Uh, racing drivers are pretty cool guys. So, you can see why the younger audience, you can see why Lando Norris is the most popular with uh, young female fans, right? You got a 25-year-old racing driver making ton of money Grand Prix racing living in Monaco. Pretty cool. Um, so I I I think all of that and then it's a it's a sport where it's not just on the field of play. It's the whole environment. It's the social gatherings. It's the evenings out. Um, it's the technology. So, I also think everybody drives. Well, maybe not everybody. Most people drive. So I think there's a relatable aspect to it where women, men, boys, girls all kind of have had a steering wheel in their hand at some point and I think there's some uh relevance there.
>> Do you personally celebrate enough?
>> Not enough.
>> Not enough
>> because you won last night and you look very sharp
>> where where we want to win in Brazil. So um that's something I've had to personally work on over the years. I've had comments um from from my staff, whether it was my old company or here, of like, is he ever happy? He's always kind of busting our chops. Are you ever happy? Um yeah. Yeah, definitely. I'm happy. Just not happy for long periods of time. Doesn't mean I'm unhappy. I just kind of like I'm happy. Let's race. So, but like I'm thrilled we won last night. It was amazing.
>> But like we got a job to do with the next race in Brazil. Got four races to go. In between the races, you also wrote a book uh 710 ten of a second. What do you want to convey in that book?
>> Uh good question. I never thought I was going to be a book guy. Um but I got approached and I thought, well, this is pretty cool. It it's a um business leadership book,
>> but it kind of goes back to my childhood and how my childhood shaped me in my business lesson. So, it's, you know, it's got some autobiographical, I don't know if that's a word, um, aspects to it, but it's not like here's my story. It's kind of here's my story and here's how I applied it to business. So, um,
>> I I really enjoyed it. I read it last weekend. I thought it was, you know, we read it
>> out of order and all and I've read it so many times. I'm interested to hear what people who read it start, you know, because when you're um editing it, we read chapter 20 and I forgot what 19 was and turn, you know, and so it's kind of hard for me now. I' I've can't see the forest through the trees. So, I hope uh people find it entertaining. Uh there's definitely some funny stories in there and I hope people have some, you know, takeaway from it and they can go, you know what, that's something I think uh I saw Zach learn from. I can apply it in my own world.
>> How has your leadership changed with age? You think?
>> Uh, it's matured.
>> What does that mean?
>> Uh, it's become less emotional. Um, you know, I'm I'm a high passion, high emotion guy, which I think comes hopefully comes through in my book, Dating with School. And I I've learned to mature, be a little bit more thoughtful, a little bit more deliberate. I'm naturally an instinct guy and that's great, but sometimes you got to slow down a little bit. So, you know, Andrea is uh ready, ready, aim, aim, aim, aim, aim, fire. And I can be, you know, definitely fire, ready, aim, and put pick an order. And that's got it's worked for me pretty good. But if instincts right 90% of the time, but slowing down takes that 10% you got wrong and you can cut that in half because you still got to rely on then that's what I've learned over the years. And also I've always had mentors.
>> Who has been your most important mentor?
>> I've had a lot of mentors and I still have a lot of mentors. I think my if I had to pick one it would be Paul Walsh uh my chairman. I've known him for for 20 years. So he was a client of mine. He's a friend. He's a mentor. He's a boss. Um, and that's actually what I've probably learned most from him. He's unflapable. He's the one who said there is a fine line between bravery and stupidity.
>> Correct.
>> Where is that? Where is that line in Formula 1?
>> Um, it's almost kind of hard to answer that because that's kind of an in the- moment. I think uh stupidity is doing something that has consequences far worse than the the reward. So if you get your risk versus reward balance out of place, then I think that becomes stupidity.
>> What is your personal charging station?
>> Right. What kind of charges me?
>> Yeah. What's where do you relax?
>> Um something I've not uh perfected at all. Uh, but I've gotten better at it with some uh maturity. You know, golf course, cigar in hand, uh, my high school friends, baseball, and ice hockey. Getting out and playing. I played some tennis this morning. So, getting out and playing sport and driving my historic racing cars.
>> Sounds good. Zack, what is your advice to young people?
>> Get mentors. Get mentor. I was fortunate at a young age because I was racing cars to hang out with CEOs when I was 21 years old. The gap in experience between being a 21-year-old who's just full of adrenaline and a pick an age 40 50 60 70 year old. I think about how much, you know, I'm 53 now and I look up the Roger Pensky, um, who's 85ish, and I think, look at how much I've experienced. He's got 30 years more of what I'm experienc. But if I go talk to Roger Penske, he can share some of that with me. So, I think mentors are critical and and all along the way because there's always someone smarter than you and there's always someone who has more experience than you and I'm going to want to have that the entire way. And then when you do get old, which I'm not there yet, but I'm getting then you want to be mentored by the youth because the youth are growing up with technology that us old guys are like, "What?" So it's we, you know, I think you can get mentored by people that are more experienced that are older and people that are more experienced and are younger because of how fast this world is moving.
>> Well, you for sure live in the fast lane. It's been uh great talking to you. Good luck with the rest of the season and good luck for next year.
>> Thank you for having me on. I've enjoyed it.
>> Thank you.