[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Thursday, November 13th. We are live and I am happy to be here. Thank you all for being here. We got some red like literally five minutes before before I was ready to go live. I mean like it was it was pretty much green in the pre-markets and then I mean you got the S&P 500 right there 68121 down.32% and that's causing everything to pretty much go red with it. Core Reeve down, Iran down, Nvidia just went red, PayPal went red. We were green. We were trying. We were really trying, but um yeah, we ended up going red. There's a lot of things to talk about. Bunch of things to get through. We got a bunch of earnings this morning that we'll talk about. So, we'll get into those earnings. Yesterday, we actually had a really good day. broader markets were relatively flat to red, but uh the S&P 500 was actually green yesterday, which was important because it showed this B broad broadening trade start to really play out uh as money rotated from tech into other sectors, which I think is relatively bullish. But as you can see, we are a bit red in the pre-markets. The government is now reopen and that is a very big deal. Trump did sign a bill yesterday to reopen the government officially. Uh and we'll talk about the implications of what it means for the government being open. Is this the start of the Santa Claus rally or does it at least create a framework for an end of year rally? We'll talk about that. We're going to have macro Thursday with Chris today on the market close. I know we haven't been able to do it for the past couple weeks because we've had a lot of earnings, but uh he'll be on and we'll get through all of our thoughts on what's going on in the macro. Uh Fed rate cut probabilities, even with this shutdown ending, are still the lowest they've been. Wow. I'm just looking at the updated one. It's legitimately a cost right now. 53.4%. 53. It was 65 yesterday. This is after a couple of Fed presidents came out and said that um they don't support a rate cut. It's not a majority of the Fed, but it's it's a decent chunk of it's it's enough to get close to a majority. The Fed President Collins yesterday came out yesterday and said, "Hey, like I think we are not restrictive enough." And so that I mean, I don't know, man. If they don't want to give us this rate cut in December, I think we're going to have some issues, but that is something we're gonna have to keep up with. So, we'll talk about that. Uh, and then the really big news that broke as of last night is a bit more information on this put that Michael Bur put on Palunteer. He ended up clarifying exactly what the numbers look like and also uh there's an update on his fund which seems to not exist anymore. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. Thank you everybody for being here and let's officially get into it. All right, so good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I think we'll start off with uh this government shutdown officially ending. Here is Trump yesterday talking about the government shutdown being over. And I I want people to pay attention to the choice of words that he uses as he's talking about the shutdown officially being done. With my signature,
>> the federal government will now resume normal operations and my administration and our partners in Congress will continue our work to lower the cost of living, restore public safety, grow our economy, and make America affordable again for all Americans. Again, costs are way down. Energy is way down. Gasoline is at $250 a gallon versus $4.7 business with the Democrats.
>> He goes on for the next four minutes to talk about affordability. I mean, notice what he said. We are not going to make America great again. We are going to make America affordable again. I think this is the role that the administration is starting to take a more active pursuit on in terms of figuring out how they can frame the narrative around affordability. Uh he didn't take any questions during that uh meeting. It was it was about 11 minutes of him talking about the concept of affordability, blaming the Democrats for the shutdown. uh which Carolyn Levit the press secretary yesterday said it will take away two points from the Q4 GDP which means instead of getting 3.5% we might get 1.5% which is obviously not the best for the markets if the growth is not that strong. Uh and then she said October CPI and jobs numbers are not going to be coming out. So for those saying that we have CPI data today, we do not have CPI data today. We are not getting CPI data because the press secretary yesterday said that based on the shutdown, the ability to get any of that CPI data or jobs data, not only for October but in the future, has now been compromised.
>> Shutdown could end up decreasing fourth quarter economic growth by two whole percentage points. The Democrat shutdown made it extraordinarily difficult for economics uh economists, investors, and policy makers at the Federal Reserve to receive critical government data. The Democrats may have permanently damaged the Federal statistical system with October CPI and jobs reports likely never being released, and all of that economic data released will be permanently impaired, leaving our policy makers at the Fed flying lines at a critical period. So, we're not getting October data, which obviously isn't the best for markets. And then, as you can see, based on what Trump said, uh, we want to make America affordable again. I mean, that was obviously written by his speech writers, they are noticing the temperature of the country that is really focused on this concept of affordability. I've never heard Trump say, "We're going to make America affordable again." But that seems to be the new narrative. That also is consistent with the reporting that we had yesterday that Trump is planning to do a lot of these campaign rallies over the next couple of months speaking about the economy and affordability. So, what does this mean for investors? Well, I think it means a couple things. Number one, the implications of that $2,000 dividend, which Trump reconfirmed yesterday, might be very real, even if it's in the form of not a stem check, but a form of a tax rebate uh for people that are making under 10000,000. That could be obviously stimulative to the broader economy and to the market, but there is a necessity that the administration is seeing that they need to be able to put that money out there into the ecosystem, especially if they think affordability is an issue. Number two is this tariff argument. So Trump did confirm a couple days ago, we watched that clip of him saying that tariffs are going to come down substantially. The scent also started to uh confirm that as well on coffee, bananas, etc. They might be thinking that either demand's going down and they need to reduce tariffs to reduce prices or they may be thinking that prices are getting too high, which could also be affecting demand and that's why tariffs need to be coming down. The question is what does this mean for the economics of the stock market? And I think right now it doesn't mean anything that's too different from what we've been seeing over the past couple of months outside of the fact that now if we don't get this rate cut because either inflation is becoming a deeper concern for these Fed officials or the labor market is becoming not that much of a concern for the Fed officials uh as their focus is more on affordability and the concept of you know inflation being uh inflation being tamed so that affordability is higher although you know if people don't have jobs then getting rates to come down would definitely make things more affordable. I think that's the internal nuances that the Fed is going to have to grapple with over the coming months. And you know, hopefully that goes in the direction of a rate cut in December. But as of now, it is looking a little bleak. I mean, it's literally 50/50 based on these new probabilities that we're seeing right here. And the administration's f focus on affordability is only kind of reinforcing that point that the labor market could be struggling. Inflation could be inching higher. People definitely are not feeling that prices are coming down. And hopefully the Fed reacts to that in a more positive way or in a more constructive way with rate cuts, but obviously it's going to take another month and a half to figure out how that played out. Now, in terms of why are things red, honestly, I don't know. Things were green before I went live. I mean, like five minutes before I went live, I saw everything just go down. I don't have a specific headline that is there. There's nothing geopolitical. Um, you have some Fed talk and you have Fed President Dailyaly or Deli basically saying that uncertainty has come down quite a bit. We still have some work to do to bring inflation down 2%. The labor market has slowed quite a bit. They have not really put out a statement exactly on if they're keen to cutting rates. Uh, they said, "Really think there's a premium on waiting to decide on rates until you have as much information?" Basically saying they're data dependent. Yeah, I mean there's not enough that we have from Fed talk to get the market to be that scared. It really could just be kind of the pre-market doing what the premarket does. We'll talk about Disney earnings in a second, but yeah, don't see any massive headlines for causing some of this pain. So, regardless, that's what we have in the context of the government shutdown. Now, a lot of people thought that the shutdown ending uh would cause like a sort of beginning of rally and and I would say that quite frankly it was already priced in. Uh I I hate to say that but I mean again the S&P 500 I know you have a lot of other high-flying high beta names that are down. Uh we'll talk about in a second. They have good earnings as well but the S&P is less than 1% away from alltime highs. So and this was you know more than 3% away from alltime highs back on Friday. So, the fact that the S&P is holding 680, the fact that it went green yesterday after a bloody red day in tech to me means that a lot of the shutdown news was priced. And also, I think the street is taking a little bit of a premium off the fact that the shutdown is going to restart unless we get a negotiation by January 30th. So, if we're going to have to do this whole rodeo again in two months, you know, it might not be the easiest thing to price in. But, that could be one of the reasons why we are right essentially a sell the news. Yeah, it basically could be a sell the news and what we're seeing right here. So, that's what we've got here. The data center trade obviously is getting hit as well. Nebas did close above 94 yesterday. It's at 9160 as the broader market takes a hit. A lot of these data center plays are going to take a hit as well. Cory right here down about 1%. Irre down about 4.3%. So, today's going to be an important day to see can these guys kind of rebound? Is there any level of rebound or are they falling knives? And if they are falling knives, then I think there's going to be some very attractive opportunities if they continue to get hit. Uh but you know, if they don't and they rebound, then maybe that keeps them afloat. So right there down about 1.5%. So did close above 32 for the first time uh yesterday as well. And you got poundry right here down 1.93%. Okay, earnings on uh they crushed it. I don't know a ton about this company. It was up 19%, now it's up 12%. They beat on EPS and on revenue, which is really good for Andas. We'll do the green or red poll in the chat in a second. Uh they beat by 40% on EPS, 3 cents negative versus 5 cents expected, which uh is better, you know, better by 40%. And then 10 million in revenue versus 7 million in revenue. EPS up 80% year-over-year revenue up 582%. I mean, a lot of the drone stocks have not been having horrible earnings and so if they can continue putting up these good earnings, then that should be good momentum for the stock. It's just it might be a bit of a red day and you know if it's going to be a bit of a red day then you might not have these names even with good earnings be able to continue the momentum that they're showing. So that's what we had for Disney also had earnings. It was okay. I wouldn't say it was the best. They beat EPS by 9% 111 versus 102 missed revenue by 1%. 22.4 versus 22.7 billion. In terms of the specifics on their numbers, um they had Disney Plus and Hulu subscriptions 196 million subscribers. Disney Plus was 132 million. They gave a cash dividend of 150 a share. And they're expecting doubledigit adjusted EPS growth in fiscal year 2026 and 2027. So, you know, I I I wouldn't say I've been bearish Disney since like 2023, but I remember talking about it years ago, and my biggest concern Disney's right here down 5% was just I just don't think they're exciting anymore. The parks business is capital intensive, and the IP is just not interesting compared to what Netflix is doing. The IP is timeless. It's just are my kids kids really going to care about Mickey Mouse, you know? So, it's like I've always kind of felt iffy on the brand. It's a amazing quality business. business just over the past five years it hasn't done much but the numbers continue to grow stock right here is down about 5% for what we have on Disney do we let's look at a couple earnings that we had yesterday then we'll talk about Bur uh DLO is down 8% I don't know why they had a phenomenal beat they beat EPS by like 50% beat revenue by 20% not sure why they are getting hit at the level they're getting hit uh I know this is a payments provider I don't know as much about them their TPV is up 50% which is one of their most important metrics as well but That stock down 8.75%. Cisco joining the party. I mean Cisco up 6% right here. Cisco does not move the way that it's moving right here. It was up 3% yesterday, up 6% today. So up 9% again. This is Cisco. CIS Cisco doesn't move 9% in a day, but it did. And so uh they had a good earnings. They are seeing a lot more demand for networking and AI. So obviously, you know, the streets were boarding it. But you have some people saying, "Well, you know, 1999, Cisco was there." So, it's got some people saying, "All right, I guess Cisco's joining the party in 2025, but Cisco, it deserves a boost." You know, given the stock has been relatively flat over the past couple years, and earnings were strong, and that is up 5.84%. The other company that had earnings yesterday was Serve Robotics. Um, they're down 2%, decent earnings, but nothing too crazy that they put up yesterday as well. So, that's what we have on Serve and the other earnings uh this morning. All right, Bur. Let's talk about Bur and let's discuss what's going on there. Someone says, "Aid, do you know there's a new Michael Jackson movie being made?" Yes, I found out two days ago that they're making a new movie on his entire life, which is really cool. I will definitely be watching that movie. Um I am a very big Michael Jackson fan. So, when I saw the trailer for it a couple days ago, I was like, "Dude, that's I didn't know they were working on a movie on his entire life." So yeah, I will be watching on it. What do you think about the earnings reports overall this quarter? I think earnings have been pretty damn good. I mean, again, S&P 500 earnings have beat on average by 8% for 80% of companies. So, we looked at a chart yesterday showing also how strong earnings were. This is the strongest quarter in general since third quarter of 2021. Have there been some hiccups in the consumer earnings like with Chipotle and Llemon and then maybe in some of these smaller companies? Yes. But the broader trend has been earnings are going up. Now my fear and the thing I think everyone needs to be at least cautious about is the labor market because if the labor market cracks like really cracks and we don't have any job data so we don't really know if it's cracking but you know we have to make our best assumptions then earnings are going to dissipate like you can't have hundreds of thousands of people being unemployed and then think that advertisers are going to keep paying Facebook the same amount of money because people might not be buying their products which means Facebook's earnings will take a hit which could disrupt the capex trade like that's the how the dominoes fall if the economy breaks or if the labor market breaks and then earnings break and then all these big tech companies like, well, you really don't need that many GPUs. Like, that would be the worst case scenario. I'm hoping that doesn't happen, but we need a lot more data to see what's going on with the labor market to ultimately figure out how this plays out. Michael Bur, what's going on? All right, so he clarified a lot yesterday and uh I think it was really important that he clarified, but here's what he said. He bought 50,000 puts on Palanteer for a $184 around September and uh August. He spent $9.2 million, not $912 million. Why did the media report 912? I was doing some math on this last night and from my understanding if you take 50,000 which is the the the amount of puts you he bought on Palunteer. Multiply that by a 100 shares per contract because one contract is 100 shares. You get 5 million shares, right? And then you multiply that by the stock price of pounder at the time which is 185, you get $925 million or 182, you get 912, right? So, you know, give or take 10 $20 million. But I think the notional value that the media kept reporting was if you were to exercise all those puts and multiply them by the current price of the stock, that's where you get 912. it was not the right way to calculate that to be able to describe the actual bet that he took uh or like you know the notional value just needed to be better communicated by the media because he was not taking a billion dollar bet on pounder puts. He was taking a bet like there's hedge funds down the street in New York City that probably have more puts on pounder than Bur has. So the fact that he's been getting all this attention on being short pounder and Nvidia and for Nvidia it's 10,000 puts. So, it's it's not the sort of billion dollar bet on Palunteer Invidia. It's less than a $20 million bet. And by the way, based on reporting that we're looking at, seems like he sold most of them or at least he sold half of them for about break even or a slight profit after the dip over the past couple of weeks. So, I think the reason So, then begs the question, why is he disclosing it, right? Why is he putting this out? And it seems like for the reason that he is doing something new on November 25th, this was his updated bio yesterday. Uh, now Unchained blog launches November 25th. It seems like he's giving up money management to become a content creator. That's what I think is happening. And and how do we have more confirmation on that? Well, if you take a look at this letter that's been going viral, and from my understanding, this letter is real, especially because Bur even tweeted a picture of his SEC registration status for Scion Asset Management. As you can see right there, this is from Bur's tweet. It says, "Registration status terminated. Effective date 1110 2025." And then you have this letter that's going around that says, "Dear investors, with a heavy heart, I will liquidate the funds and return capital, but for a small audit tax hold back by year's end, my estimation of value in securities is not now and has not been for some time in sync with the markets. With heartfelt thanks, but also with apologies, I wish you well in your future investments. Sincerely, Michael Bur." And I thought this was fake when I saw this letter going around, but now that I see his registration statement with the SEC being terminated again, Bur tweeted this picture, it it feels very real that he's done managing money. So then the question becomes, what is he doing on November 25th? And if he's really starting a blog, that's fine. But I wonder what the blog is about. Because if the blog is about how AI is fake or how to find the next big bubble or whatever, he's not putting his money where his mouth is. At least not from a institutional perspective of managing money. Maybe his personal money is short everything AI. Uh but again, if it's only like $10 million on Pound, it's just not a big short. So then the question becomes, what's the point of creating this blog? And maybe Bur wants to become a more public figure and compete in my industry. Maybe. Maybe. Yeah, dude. I would love to get him on a stream. I mean, it would be I will reach out to him if he is trying to go the content creator route and get him onto the stream. That would break the internet. That would break if we got Bur on the stream. But it's just it's just like I don't know. It's it's weird. I guess that's that's the route he's going down. You saw Midsarted Substack and realized he needed to get it. Dude, if Bur launches a Substack, first of all, he would make millions of dollars off anything he launches because he's Bur. He has the brand. you know, he could charge a subscription and people would pay anything. You know, I also found out last night that he started a blog back in the early 2000s when the dot bubble was exploding. And a lot of people said that his blog was actually really good and he had a lot of good insights on how to like time the bubble, how to short these companies, how to recognize why, you know, it was going to pop. Um, and so maybe he's trying to do the same thing instead of like put his own money behind it and and and become famous again for like the guy who called the top of the AI bubble, but rather he just wants to put content out there so that people can like be more informed about what's going on.
>> I don't know. I I it's been very confusing, but when I saw this tweet last night, I was relatively shocked that it's only a $10 million put. And then when I found out he's launching a blog, I was like, "Okay, well, I guess I guess that's what's happening." So, that's the update with Bur. I guess uh I guess this is the new route he's going on, and I guess November 25th, we'll have a lot more information on exactly how this fully plays out. So, that's what we got with Murray. Uh we also had JD earnings this morning. Uh JD, Chinese company. I know a lot of people have been excited for that one. You got a lot of people on Finwit uh that are thinking this one's 40 by January. Bit farms also had earnings. They missed by 300%. They are now transitioning to a AI HPC play. Uh 8 cents versus 2 cents expected. Missed by 300% 69 million versus 84 million. Bit farm stock, the data center plays are already getting crushed. So I would imagine BitM's not doing the best. Yeah. Wow. 16%. My goodness. Bit farms ugly. Little ugly to be honest, dude. I really do think these data center plays deserve a correction. A lot of them are running like crazy and a lot of them haven't even really proven their business models. they've just made a pivot and that includes a Nebius and of course even though Nebius has phenomenal earnings and you know they've definitely proved out what they're doing but you know Nebius even if it goes down to 75 will be up 150% year to date and it's going to suck for investors that have been you know uh getting a lot of Nebia's gains but it's also one of those things that really might be healthy for Nebius to move forward healthy for core reef to move forward etc the earnings that a lot of these companies put up have been phenomenal it's just we are at the point of the market we talked a lot about this yesterday where Oracle which is down another 2% in the pre-markets. Oracle issuing $40 billion worth of debt, I think, has spooked the market for the data center trade. If you look at Oracle's credit default swaps, they are trending higher than Oracle stock price, aka more investors are buying protection on Oracle going bankrupt or at least their their bonds uh defaulting, which is unlikely, but nonetheless, you know, that's the reason for protection. Uh versus betting on Oracle stock itself. And so the fact that you're seeing that divergence right there, I mean, what do you think about all these neo clouds that are also taking on debt, not taking on 40 billion of debt, but they also don't have the types of revenues that Oracle has. I mean, all of those are going to get hit at the same time. So, I think this is very normal to see. I think it's a healthy hiccup. I wouldn't be afraid of it. If you believe in the NeoClouds, believe in the data center space, I don't think you completely rewrite your thesis. But I do think that you get ready to kind of navigate a compressed valuation, which is normal, you know, after these stocks run as much as they do. It's not like I is going from 55 to 10. It's going from 80 to 55, which is a correction for sure, but I was at $10 this year. So, it's still up 5x, you know. So, it's it's one of those things that's like, okay, it's taking away some of the premium, but it's not taking away all the premium. I mean, the fact that Oakllo's still holding 100 is also pretty impressive. So to me it's not the most concerning especially when you know you go under the hood and see how much demand there is for data centers and how that likely is still going to benefit all the Neo clouds app right here that's down 1.3% then Google that's 1.5% down let me get JD's numbers do you think we don't get a Santa Claus rally I think that the ability for Santa Claus to actually come down the chimney and eat the cookies and drink the milk has in terms of probabilities gone down JD by the way beating 27% % on EPS beating 2% on revenue. EPS down 60% year-over-year. Revenue up 13% year-over-year. Do I still think you should leave the cookies and milk out for Santa Claus? Yes. Aka, you should still be in the market. But do I think he's definitely going to eat the cookies and milk? Well, I mean, a big portion of that depends on how you cook the cookies. And JPOW is not cooking these cookies with a high probability of the cookies tasting good. aka us getting a rate cut. Dude, I crushed that analogy. I just want to take a moment to say I off the dome. This is why I do what I do. That was a good like 45 seconds of dunking every single sentence after the other sentence in a cohesive way that made sense. and you could clip that and actually post it and people would say, "Oh, that analogy made sense." Like I just I just want to like it's been a while since I had that type of an analogy and like legitimately crushed it. I just like just need to let people know that was phenomenal. Like that was actually one of the best like like I'm proud of myself today, dude. Like I'm gonna like after the show I'm gonna like feel better about myself just knowing that I did that. Was goodness that was good. That's why I do this, dude. That's why I do this. All right, shutdown update. Let's get an update on what's going on.
>> Hey, Andrew. Well, yeah, after 43 days, the government shutdown is now over. Longest in history. So, that vote last night, you saw all but two House Republicans voting to reopen the government. You saw six Democrats that crossed the aisle to join them. And then, of course, you're seeing there Donald Trump signing that bill last night. And the government's already telling furlowed employees to come back to work today. All of them will be getting the paychecks that they have missed in back pay over the next few days. Now, some of this will depend on how quickly agencies can process the pay. I've heard for some workers who are going to be paid maybe by Friday. Some might not be paid until early next week when the funds hit their bank accounts. We're also waiting to see exactly what the plan is for federal data because while things like the September jobs report that was ready to go before the shutdown, but as Becky just mentioned, no one was really collecting the data for the October reports, although of course some could be collected retroactively. We're keeping an eye on what pls's plans are there now that they've reopened. And on Capitol Hill, the race is now on for lawmakers to see if they can extend those Affordable Care Act premium tax credits before they expire at the end of the year. But many Republicans who I spoke with yesterday, including Speaker Mike Johnson, want to see wider healthcare reforms. Am I going to guarantee a vote on ACA uh unreformed uh CO era subsidies that is just a boondoggle to insurance companies and robs the taxpayer? We got a lot of work to do on that. we the Republicans would demand a lot of reforms before anything like that was ever possible and we have to go through that deliberative process.
>> So the shutdown is over. One of the things I've heard from the Democratic party or at least the the the further left wing of the Democratic party uh is that the eight Democrats that voted with the Republicans completely voted for no reason with the Republicans. And the reason for why those uh why that's the case or at least why they think that's the case is over the past 43 days the number one issue was healthcare as Mike Johnson was talking about um they are not guaranteeing that health care is going to be voted on again in any meaningful way. You just heard Mike Johnson basically say we are not going back to the types of subsidies we were doing years ago on healthcare which is what from his perspective the Democrats want. So the Chuck Schumers of the world, the Pelosis, all those other people that voted, I mean, all the Democrats that voted against this in the House and the Senate, they are really pissed off. There's like some in real internal debate between the eight Democrats who actually voted with the Senate. Now, I listened to a couple of those Democrats, like Tim Kaine, who was running with Hillary Clinton in 2016, and he was just like, "Look, we need to open the government. Like, I don't really care about all this stuff. Like, at the end of the day, people need to get paid." But all the Democrats are like, "You're not getting anything for voting." Aka, the most you're getting is another vote on January 30th. Like there is zero commitment from the Republicans to actually fund healthare in the way the Democrats want to help it. The one thing that they promised them was that we will have another discussion and vote on healthcare in December. Okay, that's probably not going to pass. I mean, I doubt they're going to get any meaningful level of Republican support to kind of fund the the the ACA subsidies the way the Democrats want to do it. So, you have a lot of internal fighting on the left-wing side of this country because a lot of people that wanted the shutdown to continue weren't really concerned about the impacts of the shutdown. They were more concerned about the long-term impacts of healthcare. And the eight Democrats who voted with Republicans basically said that that doesn't matter as much. And thankfully, the Republicans got eight of them to reopen the government. But it was very close to this shutdown continuing if even one of those eight had said, "We're really not getting anything by voting with these Like there's nothing we're doing other than opening the government in terms of like our political agenda which in my opinion like screw your political agenda at the end of the day like we need to get like people need food on the table right so I am happy that the government has reopened but I think there's going to be a lot of turmoil and debate going into the end of the year and going into January about what's going to happen with the future of this economy particularly around healthcare and that's why stocks like Oscar have been getting hit because there is just absolutely no clarity on what exactly is happening Oscar back below 450 15 right here. And that also going back to this Santa Claus rally is something we can't ignore. I mean, at the end of the day, do we really get a Santa Claus rally in the face of a government shutdown that will be renegotiated again in two months with a healthc care vote happening in December that potentially might not lead to any progress. Having said that, we talked about the bull case yesterday. So, there's plenty of things to be bullish about, which is why I think you stay net long. But if we're, you know, putting a probability on the Santa Claus rally right now, I really do think it's 50/50. I think there should be a better chance than 50/50 and maybe when we get more economic data that'll be enough. Obviously, Nvidia earnings could also be enough. Uh the tariff reversal from the Supreme Court theoretically could be enough to pump the markets because the markets never like tariffs in the first place. And maybe that's actually bullish versus bearish, but I'm not sure if it's a 100% guarantee we get this Santa Claus route. And so, we're going to have to really see how this how this ends up playing out. S&P 500 right there, 680.6. That one is down in the pre-market as well. Thoughts on buying any LEAPS? I would, you know, I said this a couple weeks ago, but I am not interested in buying longdated contracts on anything. I think the time to do that was 2023 and maybe early 2024. Now you got everything trading at alltime highs. So are there some names that have gone down dramatically like a like a from from the highs like a core? Yeah, Corore is down from 150. But does that mean you buy leaps on Core knowing that it's still up from its IPO 100% right when it IPOed at 40 bucks? Like again, a lot of these names are losing premium, but they're not losing their entire stock market performance for this year. And that's what I think, you know, when people come like people that are mad that Oracle is down from 350. It's like, well, Oracle is still up 40% for the year. 40% on a $600 billion company is phenomenal. Like anyone would take that if you told them in January that this company at this market cap will go up 40%. but it's not up 140% and so I don't think you could blame the street necessarily for taking away that 100% but that also doesn't mean that it's attractive to buy leaps on it at these levels. Now if Oracle gets below 200 that gets a bit more exciting but I think there needs to be a bit more substantial fall for these names to be excited when it comes to to leaps. We're going to see ultimately at the end of the year how this plays out. Meta, I mean Meta, goodness gracious, this one's not getting any love. Fact that Meta is close to its October or not October lows uh November lows which was 600 last Friday and the S&P is at alltime highs basically you know less than 1% away from alltime highs shows there is a divergence between Meta and the street and uh the market here is not not happy about what Meta is doing which we all know we already all talked about why Meta is not h you know why the street is not happy with Meta but you know they went to 640 earlier this week now right back down to 608 obviously the market saying we do not fully believe in Zux's capex spend and until they get a broader a broader clarity on what that capex spend is going to look like then that's going to create some broader issues. Here's DA Davidson yesterday speaking about what Oracle and Cororeweave are doing in the markets and why it's causing so much pain for this broader data center trade
>> behavior. Microsoft, Amazon and Google have all the customers have cash on hand and have tremendous cash flow. So when they build a data center they're it's already sold three years in advance. So and they just told us two weeks ago that just over the last 90 days they've seen a positive inflection point in demand for AI from their customers which is everybody. So that's healthy responsible investment. The irresponsible investment as you've been talking about is when you start borrowing to provide capacity for startups and that's what Oracle did. Oracle originally told us on their earnings, oh, we just won $300 billion of backlog from several companies. The next day, we found out it was only Open AI. Then we subsequently found out that OpenAI has committed $1.4 trillion and has no intention of living up to those obligations. it considers it a flexible arrangement that they can
>> I wouldn't say no intention but it definitely is uh a bit of an overleveraged intention contingent on them being able to grow into that and right now the market's calling a little BS and the number one place that they're using to call BS on are the data center place
>> and consume as much as they want so they commit 250 to Microsoft and 38 to Amazon and 25 to Coreweave and they'll spend what they feel like so we know that it's not real demand. And then we found out that Oracle's margins on this business are so much lower than the core business that we're not sure that we want them to grow this business. They said 30 40% gross margins on this business as if that's a good thing.
>> Their core business is 80% gross margins. This is a bad business with very low margins when you don't have the customers, which they don't. all they can do is resell this capacity back to the people that do have the demand which is Microsoft, Amazon and Google.
>> So at 227 we've basically done a full round trip in terms of the gains that Oracle made on all the optimism and then fallen back. Um are we at a level here that's sort of as stable or should we look at Oracle differently because of the way they managed the message? It it it's more stable at 32 times earnings than it was at 45 times earnings because let's not forget the core business.
>> Should it be lower because of of what they told us which didn't come to fruition?
>> Yes. Yes. We should definitely keep everything they say from now on with a little more grain of salt just because of how this all transpired.
>> So again, I think that's why the market's hurting Nebas Cory of all these other guys. these data center plays are continuing to get hit based on the idea of the debt that is coming due from Oracle. Now again, when you look at it in a broader spectrum and um you know, I was looking at some of Meta's debt financing rates yesterday along with Google, very attractive rates. Obviously, it's Met and Google. They're two of the biggest companies in the world. So, they would be able to attract plenty of demand at attractive rates. They had well over the amount of uh over subscription to their bond sales versus the demand for bond sales meta was like over 5x. Um Oracle's pretty attractive rates as well. It's not as attractive as Meta and Google, but the point is the if you're assuming like four or five trillion of capex spend right now, there's only a hundred billion of debt that's been financed. Now, does that 100 billion turn into a trillion of debt over the next couple years? I don't think so. But the market's acting like it will. And I think that's why the market's scared. And as long as it stays below, I mean, I don't I put it out an arbitrary number, but you know, below 10 to 20% of the overall amount of capex spend, then I think that's bullish. But, you know, obviously if that increases, then we're going to have some issues. So, I think that's the issue with the AI capex trade. Do you buy the dip on this? You've got to really believe in these names. I think letting the dust settle is important. Um, but then again, this market can whipsaw you up and down very easily. And so, if these names rebound for whatever reason, then, you know, that would also not be crazy to see if that ends up playing out towards the end of the year. But, I think we're going to need some catalyst. Maybe Nvidia's earnings are, you know, the way we get more uh more of those catalysts. So that's what we got in the context of Oracle. ARC bought 30 million of Circle yesterday. Yeah, ARC bought 30 million of Circle. JP Morgan upgraded Circle. They are getting a lot more bullish by the way on stable coins. Uh the reason Circle fell by the way, um TripleV actually texted me this because we were all trying to figure out why was why was uh why was Circle down after good earnings. Um JP Morgan launched JPcoin, JPMcoin, institutional deposit tokens and blockchain payments by Kexusa. So they partnered with another company to kind of launch their own not competing to circle but kind of competing to circle. Basically, you can bring institutional deposits on chain. And so this coming out yesterday, I think really got the market confused about what's going on with Circle. Again, it's not literally a competitor, but there's ways in which they compete. And so I think Circle just had to deal with some competitive pressures yesterday. But the overall earnings were not horrible. And I think that's why Kathy bought the dip as well. But the fact that JP Morgan led by Jamie Diamond is like launching their own stable coin cryptocurrency exchange business is pretty bullish for the broader sector. JP Morgan also says hedge fund caution may spark an end-of-ear rally. They say equity markets could rebound by end of year after hedge funds cut stock exposure to the lowest level in over a year in October. Analysts note that this cautious stance leaves room for gains if sentiment improves. Kind of going back to that hedge fund chasing uh argument from Tom Lee. Retail investors remain a major market force with trading activity that surged during the pandemic now stable but still influential in overall market flows. And by the way, that is also consistent with what Bank of America said. So JP Morgan saying that hedge funds have taken down their equity exposure to the lowest since October. Bank of America said institutional clients bought the most amount of ETF exposure yesterday, 4.3 billion over the past week. That's the largest since December 2022. Hedge funds and retails were actually net sellers last week. So, you got money managers that are buying, retail that's selling, hedge funds that's selling, and the money managers are buying at the highest level since literally two and a half years ago in December 2022. And they're outflowing from tech and inflowing into staples and healthcare, which is why Lily is trying to get to alltime highs. But Nvidia is down 5% from the all-time highs. And then you had Bloomberg say EETF inflows are very strong. 13 billion came in on Monday. 40 billion for the past five days. That's 8 billion a day of ETF inflows. Kind of as we get into the end of the year, you're seeing a lot more of this exposure ramp up. 1.16 trillion year to date. So again, in the face of inflation, the labor markets, Michael Bur, all this stuff, you still have a decent amount of investors saying we want to be long the equity markets. You're not seeing a massive deleveraging or de-risking from the equity markets. Maybe you're seeing that in crypto. I feel like you're definitely seeing that in crypto with the the price action on Bitcoin and Ethereum and the stories we've heard about leverage getting taken out, but you're not really seeing that in the equity markets. not at a level that would say like, oh, you know, S&P is going to close at like 650 by end of year, which is possible, but if I had to bet, I'd think it would close, you know, closer into the 680s. And as rates come down, you know, debt becomes cheaper and that's easier for people to finance the purchase of equities. But if we're not going to get these rates coming down in December, that kind of delays the entire process as well. So, I still think the trend is overall pretty positive based on the based on the data that we're seeing. Um, Nabius right here, pre-markets, are we at 90? Looks like it wants to go below 90. 90.85. That's down 3%. Cory as well continuing to get hit. That's down 1%. 8460 app. Love down 1.5. Google's even down 1% in the pre-markets. Axon down another.3. Him still below 40. The airlines getting a little bit of love yesterday. Now they're down. Nikey's up a interesting Nike up. You got some of these tariff plays that are kind of a form of safety, but everything else is getting hit. Duolingo down, ESTS down, Clean Spark down, Rumble down. Quantum trade kind of got hit yesterday. Quantum was down 9% yesterday. Dwave down another 5% in the pre-markets. Regetti was down 10% yesterday, down another 6% in the pre-markets. And then NQ was down 7% yesterday, down another 3% on the day. So, you are seeing a little bit of money start to leave what's going on in quantum. Uh, White House adviser Kevin Hassid, we will be making recommendations to Trump on housing in the next few weeks and months as per a Fox News interview. Remember, we talked about yesterday those um Fanny May headlines of reducing the overall credit score from 620 to much lower for people to qualify for a mortgage. In addition to that headline, you had portable mortgages that started to get some headlines. The Trump administration is looking to normalize portable mortgages. This is basically if you have a 2.7% um mortgage on a house, you can take that and go to uh you can buy a new house and keep that same mortgage rate. So it it kind of frees up the house or at least it begins to unfreeze the housing market and opens it up. The implications of that, I'm not sure exactly what would it be on the economy necessarily good or bad. Some other countries have tried this. I think Canada has this as well. But it would allow a lot of people to actually move and leave their current homes and buy new homes if they can keep their rate. and maybe make the economy more affordable. But as you can see, the administration is really focusing on this idea of more affordability that can that can happen. Hasset says we will get the jobs part, not unemployment rate for one month because of shutdown. Wow. Okay. So, we're not going to get unemployment this month. We're going to get the jobs data. Probably jobs claims, but Hasset right there confirming we're not going to get the unemployment rate for another month. Okay, dude. This freaking shutdown, we were we were we were in a decent spot. Remember August and September? We were pretty decent those two months. And then that damn shutdown. And that shutdown didn't have an impact for a month, but once it finally had an impact. And again, the S&P is very close to alltime highs. So, it's not having a dramatic impact, at least not yet. And even if individual equities are taking a bit of a correction, but it did complicate a lot of things, particularly around getting the macro data. And then you know if we're going to get this December rate cut now that the Fed just doesn't have that much data. It's not just the shutdown, it's the lack of data. Yeah, I think you know not getting the October data definitely was I think it pissed off a lot of people yesterday because we were supposed to get CPI today. We were legit supposed to get CPI today and that is no more. So until we see what that CPI and I think that's also why the Fed is being a lot more restrictive on the idea of guaranteeing a rate cut even though I still do think they're going to come in with that rate cut. I think they kind of have to given the labor market but in fact lack of data might make them more prone to give us a rate cut but as of now they're not necessarily sick that. All right folks we got 30 seconds until this market opens. Thank you everybody for being here. It's been a relatively strong week for the broader market and the broadening trade. Obviously, not for individual names that you might be in, but seeing the health of the S&P at least hold its weight. We'll see today if that can continue is not horrible. Now, we just got to see if a lot of these other trades can get a bit of a rebound or if they continue to be some of these falling knives. All right, Thursday, November 13th, 9:30 a.m. Thank everybody for being here. The snack market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 680.49. We are down half a percent on the S&P. As you can see, we have gone red. 680. It would be nice to hold 680, but we're gonna see how that plays out. Nebas getting a little bit of a bounce off 90. 9127. Meta right there goes green. 612 on Meta. That is up. Spy is still red. Serve Robotics actually up 1%. Cisco, wow. When is the last time Cisco had a 10% move in the in the 20 in 24 hours? I mean, it's been a long time. Cisco right there up 6% on the day. IN down 4%. Rivian down 2%. BMR below 40. DraftKings down 2%. ASST down 4%. Big Bear was up 20% yesterday, down 3% on the day. Open Door down 4%. Open dooror was up 10% because of uh the CEO buying a million dollars worth of stock yesterday and so that one definitely helped open door and 22%. Congratulations to those that are in. It seems like they crushed earnings beating on the top of the bottom and that one going green on a day when the broader markets are red is actually very impressive. So you got on right there at $20 uh or at $6.55 up 20% on the day. Robin Hood goes below 130. Oaklo below 110. Rocket Lab losing 50. losing 50 on the lab of rockets 48.880. Where's Tesla? Tesla 421. Tesla was at 445 a couple days ago. S&P just lost 680. Reddit's at 200. ARMS at 146. Duolingo's 185. New bank 1612. New bank has earnings today. CleanSpark 1291. That's down 3% after today. Diluted shareholders by um 1.15 billion with a convertible note offering. Amazon loses 245. Rumble is down 2%. Beyond Meat nine cents away from going below a dollar. D-Wave down 5%. Plug down 2%. Instacart somehow green. Papa John's is green for some reason. Then Baba is also green. Where is Palenteer? We are at 181 182. So actually up from the pre-markets but still down on the day. How is gold? That's a good question. Gold is down barely but it's down 4205. It's down like 0.04%. This was at 3,900 last week. So, it is a pretty good rebound on gold at 4200. Silver's at 53, which has been great this week. But gold and silver have been some form of safety. And 27%. Wow, that's a big one. That's a big one. That goes green. VG is flat on the day. A little bit green, but flat again. Hasset said October jobs report will be released with no jobless rate. So, we're not going to get the unemployment rate. Rivian right there down about 2%. E Toro down about 3.2%. Micro Strategy down 1%. Broadcom down 1%. SMCI down 1.3%. Door Dash is up a little bit and Celsius is up a little bit. That's very confusing. Not sure why Door Dash and Celsius are up on a day like this, but I guess they are. S&P goes back to 680 trying to reclaim some of those levels. And then Meta holding on to a little bit of green. Uh the Saudi prince will be with Trump on November 18th for a dinner. Some members of Congress will be invited to that dinner. Okay, they these guys haven't met in like seven years at least in the White House. Trump did meet him again when he went to the Middle East earlier this year. So maybe the Saudis will be buying more weapons because that's why they came to the United States back in 2017. But that will be happening on November 18th. Regetti right there down 7%, and Q down five, Corweave down three. Nebas loses 90. Nebius loses 90 8916 again after losing 94 yesterday based on you know Jason's TA on this one. He says wait till 75. Now you don't have to wait till 75 obviously but he does think that this one could get a little dicey if it continues to fall. Um and that would pretty much get rid of the entire Microsoft deal which it becomes very attractive if it actually gets those levels. I don't know if it will, but right now it does seem like it's a little bit in falling knife territory. S&P 500 680 coreweave potentially losing 80. My goodness. 8217 that is down 4% on the day. Who is selling Nebius? Honestly, I think it's a broad range of funds that are getting rid of their data center exposure. I don't I don't think people are just waking up after those earnings. And even core core didn't have the best earnings, but it it was not a horrible earnings at all. So, who wakes up and says, "I'm just going to sell my core." I really do think it's a lot of fun saying we need to derisk from data centers because right now we're afraid of the debt profile that they have and that could be creating an issue. By the way, we're getting a headline right here from CNBC. XAI raises 15 billion in a series E fund. Um, I think that we don't we don't CNBC has tried to report on XAI funding many times and they've gotten it wrong and Elon has said we're not raising any money. I don't know if they're going to be right about this one, but if they have raised 15 billion in a series E round, that would put the valuation probably closer to 200 billion. I think right now it's at like 145. So, uh, that does need a fresh round of capital coming into XAI, which is good because obviously Elon needs money to be able to keep building out these data centers. Rocket Lab down 4%. Rocket Lab down 4%. Meta's the only one holding green today. Meta and Andos, that's incredible. And VG a little bit. Meta actually going green is dude. People are selling Nebas, Cororeweave, uh, Oracle to buy Meta. At least that's what it feels like. You would think Meta goes down with the data center plays, but it's getting a rebound. People are saying, "No, we want to buy the dip on Meta." Firefly is up 31%. They had a great earnings as well. So, for anyone who's in Firefly, phenomenal earnings. IPOed this year earlier at 45. They were down for the year. Earnings seem to be decent. That's up 30% on the day. Serve Robotics just went green. Where's Grab? Grab. Do we go red? We Wow. 3% down. I don't know if there's a headline for that or if that's just with the broader market, but that one down 3.1%. 561 on grab. Circle losing another 2%. SoFi losing 32 and 31. 30.80. SoFi down 4% on the day. I mean, is there any difference between SoFi 30 today and 3250 yesterday? Like, has anything happened in the past 24 hours? Not really. Not to me. So, a lot of this does feel like a little bit of force selling given the data center windown trade that we're seeing. Robin right there 12705. That one is also also down. Why are data centers getting hit? Again, I think it is because Oracle's debt, my assumption is that Oracle's debt profile uh not being seen as friendly and you could tell from their credit default swaps going higher in price, aka more investors are scared that, you know, Oracle bonds could default, which I don't think that's a possibility, but they're buying protection. That is enough concern to the market to say, hey, maybe we need to be more concerned about companies that are taking on all this debt. And at the end of the day, a lot of the data center names are raising debt either through tapping the capital markets, equity, dilution, etc. a big bear down 7%. And right now that's just not a popular trade. You know, the other concern around the Neoclouds could be that and you know, Nadella had a new interview today and we'll we'll listen to a clip of that, but it could be that just capex is going to slow down and they don't think the demand is there for all these megawatts or gigawatts of of capacity that Cororee and Nebius and Iran are building. Uh when you look at what Nadella is saying and when you look at the earnings, that feels like the furthest thing from the truth. Like these companies can there's they're literally selling out of as much demand they can get their hands on or much supply they can get their hands on because of the insatiable demand. I mean AMD guiding for 35% revenue growth over the next 5 years that's not going to happen without an entire data center ecosystem buildout. So either AMD thinks that that type of growth does and by the way if AMD is going to grow 35% over the next five years do we not think Nvidia is going to go 35? I mean you know there's always these concerns about Nvidia slowing down. If AMD is doing 35% kager, not just in one part of their business, but overall revenue keer, I think Nvidia is going to be aiming for at least 35 to 50% over the next five years because, you know, Nvidia does trade at a at a better premium versus AMD. So, if Nvidia and AMD are trading at those or are growing at those levels over the next five years, it's hard to imagine the Neoclouds are not going to be involved in that ecosystem. But as of now, you know, the market does want to deal with that trade. So, I don't think it's cause for concern, but it's definitely one of those things where at this moment market's de-risking, and that's okay. A lot of those stocks are still up a lot year to date. And uh you can't necessarily blame the market for taking their profits right there. AMD 252 that's trying to go green. AMD doing a great job holding the 250s. I mean, this thing fell all the way to 224 last week. And the fact that it's holding the 250 level after what Lisa Sue said yesterday, I think is also very, very bullish. Yeah, Nebia's getting ab absolutely wrecked. Absolutely demolished right here. Now, look, I look when you look at the actual earnings, I don't think there's a reason to get it hit that bad. But when you put it in the in the epicenter of the data center trade, it's going to get hit because it's Nebus, Cororee, and Oracle. I mean, and I ran. Those are the four that people really care about. You have Cippher, you have all the other, you know, smaller ones, but Cipher down 7%. I renor, and Oracle, those are the main ones. I ran potentially losing 50 5123 that's down 8% on the day. Uh yes, Karp was on Yahoo Finance. We'll take a look at those clips later. That was earlier in uh in the morning. Um BMR that one getting hit as well. BMR 3890. Meta somehow holding green. Grab still 560. Crypto plays getting hit. Pounder losing 180 179 right there. Google like why is Google down today? I have no idea. Like is Google getting punished for the AI trader. Wow, Google actually down 3%. Losing 280 for the first time this week. Okay, so it's kind of everything. It's kind of everything here. Do you still have your full position in BMR? Yes, I haven't added but yes, I still have the full position. Last time I bought was at like 41 bucks 4150 or something like that but still have the entire position. Cororeeve that's down 5%. S okay now the okay now you this is why Google's down. S&P right here low of days 678 very close to a 1% day. It's almost like at least once or twice every week for the past four weeks we have had a negative 1% move on the S&P 500 which is so funny because for five months we have not had a negative 2% move until October. like going into the the middle of October since April, we never had we we barely had a 1% move. We definitely didn't have a 2% move. And so now we're getting it almost every other day and obviously that leads to a lot more whipssaw back and forth, but you are seeing some pain right there. Path is up 3%. Path had a great earnings. I mean, I don't know if there's a massive massive bullcase for this name. It did get up to like what 18 or something at 1874 now back down to 14. But that one is up a little bit. Last month and a half are discussing small halts and manipulation. Yeah, I wouldn't disagree. I definitely think there's been a lot of different elements to how people have been thinking about this market and obviously how funds have been thinking about this market. I think you know the trend is your friend when it comes to this stuff and the trend in the short term on some of these names is obviously ugly. The trend in the broader macro based on all the data we've suggested is institutions need exposure and they want exposure and they're putting their money to make sure they get exposure. But obviously that doesn't mean that the exposure can't be uh hurt in the short term with price action. We are tagging the weekly expected moves. This is absolutely healthy for the intermediate term running go into Santa's favorite season. Yeah. I mean look here's the other thing. I to get a Santa Claus rally it's hard to do it at all time highs. Every time we've had a Santa Claus rally, going into all-time highs makes it just that much harder. Historically, if we take a little bit of a beating, that rally becomes easier because it gets more people ready to buy the dip and it's just easier for the market to to to to rationalize the multiples and the expansion of the multiple if there's a catalyst seasonally. And you're not starting from the very top or from what the short-term top could be like. And that basically means no pain, no gain. But you are getting hit. Nebas getting crushed, dude. Down 9%. It's down like 25% from those earnings. It is very close to uh removing the Microsoft gains from that deal. And I think that's more of a uh vendetta the market has around data centers and neoclouds versus Nebus itself. Coreweave right here. Oh wow. Corweave loses 80. All of these guys trading in that bucket. Iran potentially is losing 50. Then Iran a dollar away from losing 50. Bit farm is getting demolished today. This is one of the the lesser quality data center plays. That's down 10%. Then you got BMR down four. Seems like this lack of data centers or lack of data is killing sentiment all over the place. Yeah, I mean not having the you know the actual jobs data is definitely upsetting the markets as well. Neb is a great example that anything can happen in Jersey. I was reading about their Jersey data center last night and I was like, dude, maybe I need to buy Nebia stock so I can have some gains off the stock because they are definitely going to increase the electricity prices in New Jersey. They're talking about doubling the capacity for the megawatts they have in New Jersey. And I'm like, okay, if you do that, yeah, New Jersey electricity prices are are probably going higher. Pounder right there, 178. So although that's super bullish because obviously that means a lot more revenue for them, it also could mean that prices are going up. JD not being up is weird. JD had a good earnings 3147 basically flat. Beat EPS by 40%. Um not sure why that one's not moving. There's like 200,000 calls open for January 2026 on JD. So a lot of people are expecting a move to 40 bucks by then, but that one has been flat. Amcor, are we down on Amcore? Emport 33 that's down 4% on the day. Pretty much everything is getting hit. There's some pockets of safety as we are going majority red. Meta being one of those for now, but that's getting hit. Okay. The other reason we could be getting some pain, guys, in the markets, and uh I don't know how much this is true, but Cactus just sent me this. I mean, and this this is potentially true. The Epstein emails are pretty ridiculous, and there's a lot of them. I don't know if people have read through them, but we looked at two yesterday. There's like 50. And apparently Trump held a meeting in the situation room last night with Pam Bondi and Kosh Patel to discuss their approach to dealing with the Epstein files. How could it affect the markets? Well, if it's incriminating enough, which it's not fully there yet, but if it is enough for Republicans to vote on releasing the Epstein files, remember they're doing a vote in December to release the Epstein files. It'll pass the House. It might not pass the Senate because there's a Republican controlled Senate, but you're getting some reporting that the Senate is looking at these emails and they might have no choice but to vote yes on this. And if you vote yes and you know the stuff that comes out is even worse than what we're seeing in the emails, then that could have an implication on just the stability of the administration. Now, I don't know if that's the case. Maybe, you know, that's a maybe a little bit of stretch for why the markets are having some pain, but there's a lot of you. I was reading some of them last night and it's just like, and by the way, it's not just Trump, it's Clinton, too. Like they got Hillary Clinton involved in this [__] Like this is just, you know, you talk about the elite of elite in society. Obviously, Trump is in the emails, but there's a lot of other people. Bill Clinton's in the There's It is kind of crazy. The list runs deep. Correct. And so, I don't know. I mean, we got to see how the market reacts. Trump's last two tweets were about the Epstein hoax as well. So, he hasn't tweeted since then, and the administration might be trying to figure out how to how to navigate it as well. Tesla right here at 419. That's down 2.6%. And then pounder1 17950. Uh Hood is partnering with with Gouff for cash delivery. So remember when Robin had announced that they were be going to do cash delivery at the gold event. They are partnering with Gouffuff. If you have more than $100,000 in assets, you can pay $3 and uh you will have a Gouff driver deliver you money at your door instead of going to an ATM. Now, look, my honest opinion on this is I really think this is useless. I don't know why they spend time building this out. I mean, I love this whole idea of like, well, the wealthy can have private money, you know, uh, given to them by pressing a button, so shouldn't the average person be able to have this experience? I'm like, sure, but I don't think anyone really cares that much. So, you know, when even when they introduced this feature, I was just like, this is not something that I think matters that much. So, I'm not going to be using that. I don't even know how many people use cash. Also, I don't even know what the partnership looks like. Like, what if you need like $30,000 in cash? Like, the Go Puff driver just comes from an ATM and delivers you the money. Like, it's it's kind of I was just I was confused when they introduced it. I don't think there's going to be that much use of it. But, nonetheless, they are partnering. It's going to go live in New York City next month. So, you were hyping it up. I definitely wasn't hyping it up, dude. I said it was cool at the time like that they're trying to provide everyday services to the average American uh that even if you're not super high net worth but I'm pretty sure I said I don't really know how many people would use this. What I was hyping up was banking and you know banking has not really launched in a meaningful way this year. And I get that they're taking their time and they're trying to do it correctly but I really hope banking is the main focus next year. I thought that would be out by the end of this year and a lot more people would have access to it. A decent number of people have access, but it's not like hundreds of thousands or even millions. That's what I'm more concerned about. The cash delivery, I don't know if people care that much about it. Open door right there 919, that's down SoFi 3076, that's down four and a half%. But look, overall, the fact that they're even trying these things is super bullish. And it goes to show, you know, how much they care about continuing to uh close the gap between the wealthy and the middle class with these services. It's just a question of how many people are going to care about it. But I do like that they're trying different things. Rob right there. 127 down four. Shift 47296. That one's down. Nvidia loses 190. Loses 190. 187. Huh? Okay. Nvidia down 3%. Everything's going to get hit. Nvidia is not going to fall 3% without the market getting hit. Nebia's down 86. Coreweave, do we still lose 80? Jumped right off 79 to 80. And that is kind of green, but still red. AMD also down 3%. ALB is up 6%. That is correct. ALB is up 6%. ALAB, which was down over the past couple of days, ALAB down 7%. Uh, continues to get hit. On is holding on. I mean, they had good earnings yesterday. On that's up 7%. Let's look at the heat map. And then On and is up still 20%. So, where is the market going to on a day like this? Let's see. Okay, they're going to Apple. Uh, they're going to healthcare. They're going to Birkshshire. And they're going to Meta and Home Depot. Oil. What are the prices of oil? Oil is up 1%. Oil is still below 60, so that's not too concerning. But yeah, I guess it's consumer defensives, real estate, aerospace and defense, healthcare, and financials. JP Morgan hit alltime highs yesterday. So again, wonky price action. It's just weird. The Dow Jones hitting all-time highs, right? Like, yeah, you know, the NASDAQ's not hitting all highs, but you got the Dow Jones hitting it. So, it's just it's just I the Dow Jones hitting alltime highs to me, you know, the Dow Jones has companies like Goldman Sachs and Caterpillar. That to me is the most obvious evidence of a rotation trade that's playing out. The question is, you know, how much does the market want to rotate from from technology long term? Google still getting hit down 3%. Uh GPT 5.1 is out as per Sam Alman. He says, "We've made it easier to customize chat GBT." Oh, by the way, Cursor, do you guys know that AI? Let me know if anyone in the chat uses Cursor. They're an AI coding assistant. Um, they just raised that 30 billion bucks. They were worth 10 billion a couple months ago, and they were worth like 1 billion um a year ago. They just raised 2.3 billion at a 30 billion valuation. They don't have their ARR update, but they were one of the fastest companies in history to get to um a billion ARR. So, you are seeing more equity raises for companies in the tech space, which should be validating a lot of the ROI argument. Um, obviously, we got to see the company's financials because just getting a high valuation doesn't validate it, but they're likely raising because they're growing really quick. And, you know, you got to be growing really quick as in this AI economy to increase the valuation aggressively. That's a Nebus client. That is correct. That is indeed a Nebus client. And see that that goes back to this data center trade, right? Like like Cursor is only going to get bigger and bigger and bigger. You know, they're worth 30 billion one day. They could be worth who knows one day in the future if they really continue to grow and take market share. And they have competitors, but obviously, you know, they're one of the elite names in the industry. They're going to need a lot of compute and they're going to need to work with a lot of these neoclouds because they're already working with the hyperscalers to be able to get that compute or the hyperscore is going to have to work with the neoclouds to be able to provide corewave with that compute and um that means that demand is not going anywhere. So I again I I don't think it's a question of demand by any sense of the imagination on the data center space. I think it's a question of the unit economics of these business models. And that's a fair concern. That's a healthy concern. But nonetheless, it is a concern and I think that's what the street is trying to figure out. Here was an Adella this morning in a new interview talking about why Microsoft and the hyperscalers are spending the amount of capex that they're spending
>> a capital inensive business and a knowledge intensive business and in fact we have to use our knowledge to increase the ROIC on the capital spend right because that's kind you know look at the hardware guys have done a great job uh of marketing the morals law which I think is unbelievable and it's great but if you even look I think some of the stats I even did in my earnings call which is for a given GPT family, right? uh the improvement software improvements of really throughput in terms of tokens per dollar per watt that we're able to get uh you know quarter over quarter year over year is massive uh right so it's 5x 10x maybe 40x in some of these cases right just because how you can optimize that's sort of knowledge intens intensity coming to bring out capital efficiency so that bitcoin just got a thousand candle 102 to 103 agree. We'll keep an eye on it and see if see if it has any juice. But you do have a little rotation potentially going into Bitcoin right now
>> at at some level the that's what we have to master. What does it mean? Like somebody people asked me what was the difference between uh you know a classic oldtime host and a hyperscaler it was software. So yes it is capital intensive but as long as you have systems knowhow software capability to optimize by workload by fleet that's why I think when when we say fungeibility there's so much software in it it's just not about the fleet right it's kind of the ability to evict a workload you know and then schedule another workload can I like manage the that algorithm of scheduling around uh that is the type of stuff that we have to be world class at and so Yes. So I think we'll still remain a software company.
>> Uh but yes, this is a different business. Um and we're going to manage. Look, I think at the end of the day, uh the cash flow that Microsoft has allows us to have um both these arms firing, you know, uh well,
>> it seems like in the short term you have.
>> So you got Nadella defending his capex and he's saying, "Hey, look, we have the cash flow. We have the ability to spend this money and so we kind of have to spend this money. By the way, Bitcoin just lost that candle. I don't know what the hell's going on with crypto. Not the full candle, but just got pounced from 1035 down to 1028, but it did have a a candle a second ago. Um, you see Nadella saying, "Dude, we have to spend this money." and the the the the economics of the the token per megawatt per uh per per knowledge worker that he talked about that statistic going up in some cases 40x year-over-year I mean that is something we've never seen before in technology like there's never been that type of a increase even when you look at Moore's law as he was talking about and the only reason that's possible is because of these GPUs and the GPUs are only getting better and better so the question simply becomes the monetization of that but I think that is a question that will be resolved olved and there's a lot of evidence already on seeing how it will be resolved. Not that it should completely stop and so if the fears of the AI data center trader that like you just don't have this demand or that there's no point of it or that it doesn't matter feel like those are short-term fears but they're not sort of the long-term thesis that matters for data centers. Netflix was up yesterday. It was getting a bit of a move. I do have that one share of Netflix. Um, I'm up like 2% on it. And so I'll be looking forward to 10xing my Netflix stake in a couple days, but you got Netflix right there. Up half a percent right now. AOG says, "Thanks to Technical Tuesdays. I didn't feel like buying the falling knife on Nebus and now it's at 80 something. Thanks." Yeah, I mean, look, Jason, he doesn't get everything right, but he's got a lot more right than he got wrong. And you know, he's seen a lot of falling knives before and so for this one, he absolutely called it in terms of just being a little bit more patient here and waiting. But you know, the question is I like again, do they really send her to 75? Do they really eliminate the entire three months of gains on Nebius? That would be hard to see. But if they really get upset about the data center trade, maybe that's what they do. Oracle 221, that's down 2.3%. right here. Nebi has bounced a little bit off 84 now 85. They did on Oracle. Yeah, they did on Oracle. I mean, now granted, Oracle is still up 40% year to date and Oracle also issued 40 billion of debt, but they did take away 220 350. But like I think if we're being honest with ourselves, like when we woke up the day after Oracle's earnings, I remember I was doing the market open in Vegas. That's when Tanner and Roy were on the stream as well. And we were looking at Oracle at 350. Chris called into the show that day as well. Like all of us were just like, "Dude, this is kind of like we were happy because it was like validating all of the excitement around AI, but it was also like this is a bit ridicul." And so if I had Oracle stock, I feel like that would have been the great time to at least sell some calls on it. But it has obviously, you know, come down and and that was before Oracle issued 40 billion of debt. I mean, that was the big thing that changed. If they didn't issue that much debt, maybe they would have still been able to hold that multiple. But I think a lot of that debt really got the market a lot more scared. I don't think Oracle's buy here. I think below 200 or in the 200s. That that's um from my understanding the 200 day moving average. And so we got to get a little bit more confirmation that Oracle is not a falling knife. Uh and as of right now, I think all the data center plays just don't have that confirmation yet. Celsius, are we green on Celsius? This one got hit after earnings. up 2% a little bit of a rebound on Celsius. Rate cut probabilities for December again are at 53% 53.4. It's the lowest it's been in the past few weeks. That could also be a reason why the market's getting hit. Tesla, goodness, dude. Are they really sending her below 400? Tesla 414. It was at 445 on Monday. This one also getting hit. This is the Grinch rally. 100% bro right now. This is the Grinch Rally. By the way, I have seen the Grinch Who Stole Christmas. Okay, I have a little bit of culture. I've actually seen that movie a decent amount of times. Jim Carrey was a legend in that movie, but it definitely feels more like a Grinch Rally. 13F. So, I don't think we have any new ones uh this morning. We should probably be getting them after hours today. Oh, we got Monish Pbry. Okay, let's see what he did. This one just came out. This is one of Munger's disciples. Monish Prab. He manages $336 million. He added 15% to AMR. He bought 24 million shares of RIG. He reduced 43% of his Valeris position and reduced 86% of his Noble position. rig. This is a $3 stock, dude. He's out here buying penny stocks. Dude, it's not even It's a $4 billion company. Bro is out here buying penny stocks as a munger disciple. Trans Ocean American drilling company, world's largest offshore drilling contractor based on revenue and is located in Switzerland. All right. Obviously, it's not like a it's technically a penny stock, but you know, it's not a I would not think this is a pump and dump, especially if they're a drilling company. It's a capital intensive business. And he probably thinks there's some opportunity in regards to where the oil trade is going. But that looks like the biggest move that he made here, buying rig. Elaine says, "I made a lot of money on AMR." AMR year to date, he's been in this one, it seems like for a minute, is down 16%. This one is a coal supplier and coal mining company. This one also only 2.2 billion. So you do have uh PBR playing around with some of these smaller companies not anywhere near the AI or tech trade in the economy. Bitcoin right there 102.6 reversing more of that candle. We saw Tesla 413. Where is S&P? Are we down 1%? S&P not fully bounced off 677 not down 1% but we are down.7 Disney down eight goodness Disney's getting hit how does the issue get fixed with the data are we going to be red until next month until we get the jobs data so I don't know if we're going to be red until next month I mean there's a variety of factors obviously that are going to lead to if we bounce we we could be green by today afternoon or we could continue to go red. Like that's that has to do with a lot of internal stuff around how the market is thinking of debt, data centers, financing, etc. I I do know that or I could at least I think confidently say that until we get accurate parts of data, there's going to be choppiness. Like it just feels like you're not going to get a trend that goes straight and up and to the right or a trend that goes straight to the bottom because maybe the data is not that bad. And so like why would you know people sell if the data is not that bad? Maybe the data is not that good either. So it so it's it's this guessing game that we don't know about for the next month that is going to confuse the Fed. It's going to confuse market participants. The worst thing that could happen is in early December we get the data and the data is horrendous. Like it's worse than you could possibly imagine and then Santa Claus is not coming to town, right? And so what could happen there is a lot of d-risking before like let's call it December 12th that data comes out and you got so many people that are just afraid that you know we've lost like 200,000 jobs last month or something crazy. I don't think it'll be that bad but like for hypothetical purposes what if it is? You might have a lot of selling going into that event. Now what if it's really good or what if it's like not even what if we like lost 50,000 jobs but and that's bad but it's not like horrendous or anything. And what if the market immediately V-shapes when people realize, oh, it's not as bad as we thought it was. But like just we just don't know. Like I think both of those possibilities are very um uh like the potential of them is very probable if the probability is 50/50, right? Both of them have an equal shot. And that's what I think could keep up the choppiness over the next coming months. Nvidia right there loses 1887 on the day. committ tell them to shut the government back down. Oh my goodness. Well, there you go. EOSC is down as well. That one's getting hit down 8%. RIG is a serious company. Yeah. I mean, I'm just obviously joking right here. Rig obviously, you know, Mish PBR is not touching a random stock. obviously it's below $5 so technically it qualifies as a penny stock but he tends to stay in those investments that are a lot more predictable with cash flows and revenues and he doesn't touch tech that you know there is a generation of investors that are out there a bit more I guess older than the millennial generation that really do not see the value in these tech stocks and obviously I think what's carried the market over the past call it 15 years has been tech like objectively again the reason Warren Buffett ended his career outperformed the S&P 500 by double is because of over the past 10 years having that in the portfolio. But, you know, you got a lot of people that just don't care and don't want to deal with the pain and volatility of investing in tech stocks. I mean, even even uh what's the name? The Bill Gates to an extent, right? Like, this dude built one of the biggest tech companies in the world and most of his portfolio is in Bergkshire Hathaway and names that aren't that volatile. Like, you will never see him investing in these types of tech names that we see. By the way, fear and greed, we are at fear at 29. Not extreme fear yet. Probably a little bit more to go before we get there. Jose, I see you in the chat. If you want to join, let me know. I will send you a link. Would love to get your take on what AMD said a couple of days ago. So, if you want to hop on, maybe you'll be some good luck for us as well and we'll go green if you hop on to the show. But um I'll send you the link right here if you want to hop on. AMD right there still holding the 250s. Are we holding the 250s? Hold on. AMD 255. Yeah, I mean AMD doing a good job holding 250. But we are red. Dude, I promise you guys I did not drink Saratoga water. Did not. Literally, ever since you guys shamed me for drinking it that day and then the market was red, I have not touched Saratoga water. VIX is up 5%. So, it's not me. It's not me. JP Morgan sees Bitcoin support at 94,000 keeps 170,000 upside case intact. I feel like if they're going to take us below 100,000, they might as well just do it, dude. They've been just like bouncing around this 100,000 level. Some point, just do it. Uh, ALB still up. Correct. That is green. on the on the day. Uh John, thank you for the $50 super chat. Thanks again for being here every day. Takes an amazing amount of dedication. We appreciate you. John, thank you for being here. Means the world. And uh thank you for being part of the community. Tamara, thank you for the super chat. Listen to your options video yesterday on a long drive to Austin. Great job. Helpful though. Was so long it made it pretty much full of eight hours of emit. I love it, dude. Eight hours of emit. That's uh we had nine hours of emit two weeks ago on that day. We were live for nine hours. But no, I appreciate it. Hopefully that options video was helpful. And um I got to visit Austin again. I haven't been to Austin since 2015. It's been a while. So I would like to visit Austin again. And then uh Vas, thank you for becoming a channel member as well. Feds, thanks for the $10 super chat. Iliano and Pounder just dropped some new merch. That is correct. They did drop some new merch. I will leave the link right here in the chat to the Palenter store if anyone wants to check it out. But you do have some new shirts that have been launched today. Not sure if it's sold out yet, but that came out this morning. AMD 256. Look at that. It's It's kind of reversing a lot of the losses. Down less than a percent right here. Nebia is trying to pull up 89. You got a little bit of a V. Nvidia 189. Little bit of a V. Do we have Pinter 180? Pounder 179. Little bit of a V. Um, bit mine. Little bit of a V. I don't want to say we're V-shaping here. You do have these green candles coming in. We definitely got to give it another at least 20 minutes to see if it can actually hold any of these levels or go higher. But seeing a little bit of the dip buyers coming in even SoFi bouncing off 30.18. What time was this? at around 10:05 four minutes ago looks like four minutes ago potentially even Microsoft potentially was that intraday low potentially there is definitely not enough data to suggest that but you are seeing I mean trying to get back to 190 dude it's so crazy how these names move in the way that they move and how identical these moves across the entire market. Like the amount of Vshapes intraday that we've experienced and Friday was the biggest one with the whole shutdown thing coming to an end. That's kind of crazy, dude. That really is kind of crazy. Um, Nvidia right there 189. It's the ALOS. I don't want to say it because everyone gets mad at me when I say it, but feel like it might be the Yeah, look at Meta, dude. Did anyone buy the Meta Dip yesterday? I I didn't buy the Meta Dip, but 617. It was at 608 yesterday on Mr. Meta. Oh, today we'll get money market funds as well. So, we'll see what happens there. Do we have any tweets from Trump? Let's see. Nope. Nothing since last night. Um, again, the government did reopen last night. Trump had a small press conference to show that, but that's pretty much it. Is it the 401k contribution limit increase? Did they actually increase that 401k contribution limit increase? Um, well, okay. So, that did increase, but I think that's very old news. I don't think that's like a new headline. I think that was in the big beautiful bill, right? They increased it by 500 bucks to 235 versus 23. Yeah, that would not be any headline that would cause a move. Disney right there is still down 8%. Does anyone own Disney at all? Like does anyone like does anyone have any shares from like a long time ago on Disney? Like if you just bought it 10, 20 years ago. I just like I really have not understood the bullcase on this. Even under Bob Iger, which is a legendary CEO, but I mean, look at their stock, dude. Over the past five years, this thing has done nothing other than go down 22%. Doesn't feel like there's been anything innovative in the company. Disney Plus is cool, but like in my opinion, it it's not the most exciting content. And I know I don't have kids. I know a lot of kids like, but still at the end of the day, like target market has to be broader than just children. And then the parks is a relatively stable business but not really growing like crazy. I like it for ESPN. Dude, isn't ESPN to I mean I think ESPN will always be relevant, but I think the sports media business is very fragmented with more independent media coming out there. And I don't know, I mean, the most I've seen ESPN really innovate is, and I don't even know you call this innovation, is like partnering with all these betting sites to be able to like do intraday gambling within like the the the app itself. And it's like that's like kind of their foray into technology, but outside of that, it's just content and advertising. And a lot of those business models are getting hit with direct to consumer now. So ESPN itself is not the most exciting. Yeah, they lost UFC. Dude, Disney's not even available on YouTube TV. And based on the earnings call today, the CEO said that the negotiations with Google are better than what they were a month ago. But you still can't watch any Disney on uh on YouTube TV. And YouTube TV has hundreds of millions of sub subscribers. So not being able to access that content definitely not the best for for Disney. Yeah. And then you have Apple and Amazon taking away a lot of team sports from ESPN. That's another kind of headwind for them. Nebas back to 90. All right, so we definitely got a little bit of a V on Nebas from the lows of 84. Will it hold is the question, but you do have a bit of a bounce. Again, there is no major headline for why we even sold off 1% today or close to 1%. Outside of what I think is just broader fears around the labor market. Uh, someone did buy Tesla puts for November 2025. 420. They bought 18 million worth of puts for 420 November 2025. So, you do have a little bit more bearish option flow on Tessy. Um, all right. Let's see. Let's see what other headlines do we have. What else do we've got going on? 10year relatively flat. Well, let's get some updates on inflation. Okay, so we have a different view of inflation, even if it's not CPI. Let's take a listen to this. Maybe this can help inform what inflation might look like when we actually do get the read. So let's pull this up right here.
>> Don't come down. They just
>> the inflation rate year on year CPI was 23 earlier in the year and now it's three.
>> The rate is moving higher.
>> It's elevated.
>> That's all I'm saying.
>> And we're getting further and further away from the Biden presidency now.
>> True. And so I but I think that the administration is acknowledging it and and well, you know, a little bit
>> the fact that they want to focus on affordability. the fact that there are reports that he wants to go around and do a tour talking about affordability. Um the fact that they've been focused on housing for instance, which is also a big part of the reason CPI is elevated and has continued to remain higher. It's not all grocery prices. I think that there there's some acknowledgement of that and it's it's a problem for them clearly. That's I mean that's why we're pointing it out. The other factor is like is it a problem that the Fed should should the Fed stay on hold because of it? There's also increasing evidence that the labor market is deteriorating. A lot of the alternative data is showing that that has gotten a little bit weak.
>> When by the way are we going to start to get back get
>> the full picture are you?
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> Um do you think we can? I mean 7K is not that far away by by year round
>> 2% or so.
>> Yeah. You think it's likely?
>> I do think the seasonal forces and some of the kind of the alleviation of worries that that we're seeing out of Washington. I think that can get us there. I mean first of all on the data front I think the f the data fog will be lifting. Maybe we don't have the full picture to Sarah's point, but I think we'll have more certainty of what the landscape looks like. And I still think the December rate cut is actually on the table given the labor market deterioration. The other thing that's really important, the government shutdown is over. And it's not just the SNAP benefits. It's not just us being able to fly again, but it's also the fact that consumer sentiments were really dented by the government shutdown. So the fact that consumer sentiment is likely to pick up and the government workers are likely to get their payback by the week of Thanksgiving, we think give or take, that lifts the sentiment into year end. And then on top of that, it's been a stellar year for the market. So there's not going to be a whole lot of tax selling, uh, tax loss harvesting going on. So I do think 7,000 is in sight.
>> Uh, it's been a couple of week we're going to get Nvidia earnings on Wednesday. Uh, Jensen spoke at GTC a couple weeks ago. stocks down from that guidance about Blackwell and Reuben revenue. You think Wednesday can can salvage some tech sentiment?
>> I mean, I think it can. Look, the hyperscalers came out once again upgrading their hyperscaler capex and some of that is data center buildout. Some of it is certainly chips, Nvidia, AMD and others. And you know what's more important also for hyperscalers that they're actually seeing the cloud revenues. So this sustainability I think the buildout is there. So therefore the like the likes of Nvidia should benefit for now you know do the stocks keep surging four five years from now I I don't know um I think you know investors should diversify away just from semiconductors I think data center is still a good place to be but also we are looking at the business application software and I think you can find some of that in public and private
>> here is that alternative view on inflation as well that they are pulling up here
>> for you this comes from consumer eds research which I've trusted and looked at a long time. They get every data point on the consumer. This is food prices that they have been tracking. Okay, they look at impact inputs all from credit cards into grocery stores. It's data through November 9th. So, it's super up to date. Here's what they're showing. Basically, since the end of September, what you see on the chart, the year-over-year growth in food prices has moved up by 40 basis points. So, basically from 2.8% to 3.2%, 2% which is where you see it right now. And in the latest four weeks, it's showing that over half of the food categories are having 3% or more inflation, which is actually up substantially from the 40% of the food prices that were doing that for most of the year. So there is an acceleration in the last few weeks in food prices. It's something, as we talked about, Carl, yesterday that the administration is on top of and aware of. That's why this Treasury Secretary and the president himself have been teasing some relief on on tariff on food, for instance, things like coffee and bananas that we don't that we don't produce here.
>> That actually makes a lot of sense. That data that she's showing about food prices being higher signals why Trump quite literally is talking about reducing tariffs on coffee, bananas, food, etc. By the way, true inflation also has something very similar. They have 2.24% nationally. I'm looking at right here. And food is up for them as well. So, I mean, it looks like the administration is taking that seriously and that's why they're trying to get ahead of it by potentially having some relief on on overall grocery prices and food prices.
>> But this is the problem that, you know, the affordability issue that the administration is a little bit worried about right now. This is evidence at least that these food prices are moving higher and something's happening in the last few weeks. I mean, likely tariff related. As far as what companies are saying right now about the consumer, you know, it's it's kind of a mixed bag. Disney I don't think was too bearish on the consumer when it comes to parks. Uh what we heard I wouldn't characterize it as light. It basically came in in line with our expectations. If anything it seemed to be in fact impacting the rest of the competition down in Florida more than it's impacting us from a consumer perspective. We certainly feel good about it in terms of demand for cruise very strong despite
>> so again different consumer brands saying different things. Disney and Uber saying things are okay. Then you have Chipotle and Starbucks saying things aren't. So that is again something that we're going to have to track in terms of variety of these different consumer-based companies talking about the state of what they think the consumer is going through in this country. Uh folks, let's get someone on to the show and get some updates in terms of what's going on in the semiconductor world. And it's no surprise to me we're starting to get a little bit of green as this guy goes onto the show. Jose, what's up?
>> What's going on, man? Good morning. Good morning. And good morning to all the viewers, man. It's been a couple weeks, dude. I hope you're doing well. I know the uh the big thing that happened since AMD earnings was the AMD investor day. We were streaming the AMD earnings together. Uh AMD looking like it's about to go green. I thought the investor day was incredible in terms of the updates that they put out. So, what were your raw takeaways from those updates from Lisa?
>> Uh I I mean, just the financial numbers that they gave were insane. just the uh by within the next three to five years the $20 at least they they mentioned over $20 of earnings per share uh within the next three to five years. So uh I mean if it it kind of makes sense because I I don't know if we remember the Samman Open AAI and AMD deal where um AMD um the last trench of of stock price that they would give would be at roughly a $600 stock price. Now, if you kind of give a $20 earnings per share and the typical PE ratio semiconductor stocks is usually around 30, that would give you that stock price of of $600 within the next five years. So, it seems like both parties are agreeing that this stock within the at least the next five years could see $600 and we now have that financial number with historical PE ratios to kind of correlate together. So, um AMD, I think that was the biggest takeaway. The second biggest takeaway was for me was they expect um to get over 50% of server CPU market share. Um and that's expected to continue to grow with AI GPUs as well. So uh the CPU market which is not as cool as many people would like to think about. Um it's still one that's still growing and they're taking market share. They're increasing their average selling price and we saw their operating margins I think jump from like 24% this year for within the next three to five years um to be uh 35%. And just final thought all those numbers they gave between three to five years and even if you wait to that fiveyear time stamp I still believe it's it's pretty um um pretty impressive the the I agree with everything you said. topline revenue growth of 35% over the next 5 years. Here's the big question. If if if AMD is going to grow 35% over the next 5 years, which I thought I didn't know they were going to put out those numbers, that seems to me like it's pretty damn incredible. Does that mean Nvidia is going to grow at least 35% in your opinion over the next 5 years?
>> I don't think so. Um the reason being is luckily for AMD has the opportunity from starting from a small base. I do believe still Nvidia will grow at a faster rate than the overall market. Remember that was 35% compounded annual growth rate. So maybe one year might be like 100% and another year might be like 15% or whatever. But overall the the compounded annual growth rate within the next three to five years is going to be 35. Um so there might be some years that look pretty exciting. Uh there might be some years that look pretty weak. But uh with Nvidia I think Nvidia will still grow perfectly fine. I mean, we saw a 1 trillion TAM. That was the other thing. I didn't even mention that, right? The 1 trillion TAM by 20 uh by 2030. Uh I I still believe Nvidia is going to take most of that market share, especially with what we heard from Nvidia during their GTC about uh that $500 billion in sales with um Reuben, early Reuben backlog and and and the Blackwell and Blackwell Ultra.
>> Do you think then the and that's a good point that Nvidia does have a higher base that they're working off of. Do you think that the earnings or the um investor day presentation they gave is bullish for Nvidia or do you think it's actually kind of like AMD thinking of taking market share away from Nvidia to to an extent?
>> It all depends on how the market grows. If the market is growing faster than Nvidia uh than AMD is growing then that means Nvidia continues to hold market share. Um, so I wouldn't I don't reme recall if they gave an actual percentage point of what market share they had they want on GPU. Regardless, you're growing AITM is growing at a 40% compounded annual growth rate. Um, if that's if that's the truth, even if you lose market share, you're still growing revenues at crazy levels. Uh, so maybe the market share might look scary for Nvidia. And nothing crazy. I don't think if they lose like five 10% it's not the worst thing but they will definitely accelerate that revenue growth even with market share loss if it happens. So um I think in the current market ecosystem both can be a winner.
>> Okay let's talk about uh this Neocloud world. I know you're in Cororee. I am now in Nebulous.
>> Nebulous. Yeah I saw some people said um what the hell's going on? Why? Why why is this data center trade completely dumping right here?
>> It's the AI bubble, right? I mean um joking joking. Um it's crazy how sentiment shifted so quickly after earnings. I mean the only thing that has changed from right now is the stock price, right? What we remember we we just had all big tech earnings say they're increasing capital expenditure. That is not going to shift over two weeks or someone having a small short of 9.2. to a million dollars in options for certain companies. Um all big tech players are increasing their capital expenditure. That's not something they're shifting to borrow because of some fears. Um they're going to continue to grow that. We heard TSMC they just reported great numbers um for their monthly that October was a crazy was their best month ever in forms of of chip sales. Um, we have Nvidia showcasing that $500 billion on just Blackwell and Reuben by the end of 2020, I forget what year, end of 2026 calendar. Um, we had AMD give us a one trillion TAM. The only thing that has changed is the stock prices. So, I'm actually very exciting about excited about this dip. Maybe I'm not looking at my portfolio um that that much. I'm just dumping money to to buy the dips. Um, but even Nebia's and Cororeweave both said that Nebia said that their Meta deal 3 whatever billion could have been bigger if they had the capacity. They still are selling their H100. So, their older chips are are still selling at great prices. What is there not to like about the AI market right now? I just I I mean, I just don't get it. So Core Wee got hit especially hard I think because of a delay on one of their customers but also I think because their debt continues to pile on. When I was listening to the earnings call the CFO said yes we have more debt but it's demandbased debt aka there's so much demand that we have to take on the debt. Do you think the markets are taking the wind out of these stocks because they're just tired of the debt financing?
>> They could be. I mean I we have to also think approach the approach of of active power for a lot of these uh these neoclouds. Um this is something that's going to come with this game. Uh I mean Nebus I think this quarter had about $4.2 billion in in in debt and they're only at 100 megawatts of active power. Um and they got contracted one two gawatts I I forget the actual number. Two 2.2 2 gigawatts by the end of next year to make that contracted power to ever get to active power. They even mentioned 80% of the of the capix is GPUs pretty much. So right now they if any of these companies are trying to grow to that active power that's a lot of debt that all these players have to raise and I just um took off my headphones so give me one quick second. Um but I mean Nebas has said that they're doing great with pricing. Um or we've as well I mean the demand is still there. So I think in the short term that's the bearish thesis again. It's it's the capex and back then it was capex for the hyperscalers. I think that has proven that hyperscalers are winning. Now it's it's trickle down. Who do we where where do we find this AI bubble? Maybe it's not in the hyperscalers. Now let's try the same battle with the neoclouds. is that debt going to be the issue for these neo clouds? I believe the answer is going to be similar to the hyperscalers. Um but and then we're going to trickle down even more and more to try to find where maybe the weakness is. But uh I I don't know. I'm excited for these hypers uh for these neoclouds. Uh I'm not bearish on Nebus. I do own it. I'm just a little bit more excited about core right now.
>> Someone says, "I refuse to be afraid of debt financing. The whole AI thesis implies an industrial revolution which has always been very capital intensive and has always been financed by debt. debt to finances growth or debt to finance growth. Would you kind of agree with that broader argument?
>> Yeah, I mean I think right now if you're you're seeing all this token growth and and remember all this token and inference, we're still just in in the models themselves. We still haven't gotten the robotics. We still don't have the um the automotive market. So in the short term, you might have little small pockets of bubbles um or weakness like this. But I think the long-term trend is pretty exciting. And that's why I think it's good to understand like what you're bullish on. Um because it can help you maybe sleep a little bit better at night when we see some of these downturns. But uh everybody's showcasing AI is definitely I mean I think Chris right he just posted an eight minute video that he created with Google on on X. Um
>> and and it's just again it's just starting. It's it's insane.
>> Jose's Twitter right there in the chat. Please make sure to follow Jose on Twitter. also his newsletter, what the chip happened. Uh, lots of stuff to discuss over the past couple of weeks with AI. So, I'm putting that in the link or in the description as well. And please make sure though for those of you who are not subscribed to subscribe to that. Jose, Meta is down 15% from the highs. The streets obviously afraid of the uh AI capex that they're spending. I have two questions for you. The first one is is would you buy the dip right here on Meta? So, um there's been few stocks that I've actually added on to. Um Core Weef has been my biggest position I've been adding to. I've recently just started adding to Nvidia again. Um really and and this is Yeah. And this is one that I haven't I I don't think I've added in Nvidia for over a year or like anywhere near the size that I'm adding right now or maybe even longer than that. Uh Nvidius one um Meta is another one um that I'm adding on to right now as well. Uh so I mean again I'm just really bullish in this AI infrastructure um and what I'm seeing and just the overall AI demand. I mean I think Meta does really good with their GPUs uh for advertisement for the recommener system. We see it in in their revenue revenue growth continues to go and even Mark Zuckerberg mentioned that there's still GPU constraint not only on these AI models that they're training but GPU constraint on their core solutions uh on their core revenue. So if they even overbuilt, they've talked about it, even if they overbuilt on AI, their AI models, they can easily just transfer that to the core revenue segment. Um, and this is why I I hear the bearish thesis of GPUs only being good for two to three years of useful lifetime. Meta is a prime example. their GPUs and and at Google, right? Similar, their TPUs and GPUs, they're going to be working for at least five years, maybe even more just on those recommener systems for advertisement, creating real revenue. Uh so if the bearish thesis is these GPUs are only going to last two to three years, I don't see it just yet.
>> Yeah, I agree. I think the overall growth in meta is very, very exciting. I am a little concerned like I think any investor would be about what is the capex spend going to but uh obviously it's hard to you know deny a company that's trading at 20 times earnings especially the level of moeta has do you think meta is the first domino to fall in the broader um sort of psychology of the market that if capex is not showing a very clear ROI Google Microsoft and Amazon have the cloud so it's easy to see it uh then then your stock gets hammered and not to say the other stocks are going to get hammered but do you think in the next call it two years if you do not show the ROI the street simply will not let you spend hundred billion dollars a year on cavics yes I think if meta meta because meta is the easiest meta and Google with their advertisement is the easiest way you can see the ROI on on GPU so I I I definitely like that thinking um of it could be in my opinion the first domino effects though would be um the cloud providers, but more like the Neoclouds. I I do think the first domino effect would be kind of what we're seeing right now would be like your core wave, your Nebas, maybe even your Oracle. Um those I think would be the first ones to to to go. Um and then when you have that fear from there, then you're going to see, wait, was I right about that? Let me see from Meta. Is Meta showing us that we're right from there? And if Meta shows, then that domino continues to fall. But I I I would say those neo cloudloud server providers would be the first followed by maybe Meta and I think the last to fall would most likely be like your your clouding your big um cloud players like Ashure, AWS and Google Cloud,
>> right? Yeah, I agree. And I think the long-term trend is bullish. I really it's we're just seeing too much excitement in these new products that are actually being built on top of these models and obviously
>> and just yesterday announced a $50 billion investment like if you were worried that in the last two three weeks all these capex players said they're stopping and and and that's where we're selling off on the AI market just yesterday you had that bullish sentiment of of of of um of anthropics 5050 $50 billion you had Microsoft kind of showcase is that new uh white I forget what it's called. Um the new data center that they have. Uh we recently saw Google H has plans of sending TPUs to space very similar to what we just saw with uh Nvidia inception program. Um Starbase or StarCloud, I forget the the the name of the company that they just sent that H100 to space. So if you're sending things to space right now, it's definitely not not the top just yet. Maybe when you stop sending things to space, um it's like, "All right, we got to stop spending somewhere." Uh but right now, everybody's just throwing money to see where they can get more compute.
>> That is fair. S&P, by the way, guys, lows of day. Unfortunately, we are still getting some red here. Uh last question for you, Jose. And by the way, guys, Jose's YouTube putting in the chat as well. Please make sure to subscribe to his YouTube channel. Oracle, are you buying the dip at all here, or are you waiting for some data? If it was just a sole Oracle thing, I would. Um, but like I mentioned, there were uh everybody is dipping in the AI market and my level of ranking um is is Oracle doesn't fall on the top two um right now. So, um that that would be the only reason I'm not into this one. Uh but this is the one that it won a lot of RPOS from OpenAI because Microsoft decided to pause some of its investment a few years ago and now it's it's like Microsoft is accelerating again. now. Um, but Oracle took the opportunity. I think Oracle is going to do fine, but it's just not in in my top of my list right now. And I only have limited amount of funds.
>> Okay, there you go. Thank you, Jose. Appreciate you, man. Means a lot. And uh, obviously we always value your commentary on the semiconductor space.
>> Thank you for having me. Hopefully hopefully it turns around soon, you know. But uh, like I mentioned, I the past it sucks, but the only thing that's changed so far has been the stock prices. Um, I think there's nothing pieces broken uh just yet.
>> I would agree. I would agree. Jose's Twitter right there in the chat. Thank you, Jose. Catch you next week.
>> Later. Um, you got low of days, folks. I think we're getting some Fed speak that's causing this low of day. Kashkari, our boy from the Minnesota Fed, he Fed, he's speaking right now. And based on the quotes I'm seeing, Inflation is still too high at 3%. Did all these Fed presidents get in a room and disagree to go on a media blitz talking about how they don't want to do a rate cut? Cuz that's what it feels like. Like that's what like multiple Fed presidents in the past three days, not even three days, past two days talking about like how does this is why people hate the Fed. How does JPAL go from we really are not that concerned about inflation at the FOMC meeting less than 3 weeks ago and the downside risk to the labor market is significantly more important than the downside risk or the upside risk to inflation and three weeks later they're all worried about inflation now they think w with more evidence of layoffs like I don't have to be a you know I don't have to have a PhD in economics to know that if you're worried about the labor market not inflation And then more people get laid off a spending, then inflation is not probably the concern because if you have less spending, you have less demand. You have less overall inflation. There's nuances to it, but like it doesn't take a rocket scientist to real hey realize that hey, maybe the labor market should be the broader concern and that part of the reason one could be thinking that there is massive levels of inflation is because we haven't had rate cuts. And again, I'm just recquing the Fed. We all watched that FOMC meeting together three weeks ago. JPAL explicitly said that the labor market is a bigger concern. Now, he also explicitly cons said, "Don't expect a December cut," which kind of spooked out the markets starting from three weeks ago. But it's like they all decided to wake up and care about inflation now. Like, I'm not I'm not making that up, right? We all heard JPAL say inflation is not our concern. Our concern is the labor market. And now over the past two days, it's all inflation, inflation, inflation, tariff, inflation, yada. It's like we JPA, I remember JPAL gave a at the economic club of Chicago, he quite literally said the tariffs are a one-time inflation and the Fed is not as worried about it as we were in April. But now they're concerned, or at least it feels like they're concerned. Jack says, "I'm usually a hawk and I think they need to cut. The jobs look nasty." Tesla down 5%. Fed members need to inform the market about the upcoming decisions so that there is no surprise. They always do that. Yeah. No, I would agree. It would definitely help to have a lack of surprise here. I'm just saying over the past three days, all I've heard is inflation concerns. That is just not how the Fed was communicating early October. S&P 677. Yeah. Not to mention we had a freaking government shutdown. I mean, how is that not to an extent disinflationary? Unless they are so concerned that tariff prices or that tariffs are increasing prices and like yes objectively tariffs have increased in prices but the fact that we had a shutdown and the fact that Trump is even talking about taking away tariffs should be enough signal at least them to be like maybe this shouldn't be the biggest concern. Unless JPL just wants to go down with the fight over the next seven months of his term. Any idea what Trump is announcing today? Does Trump have an announcement today? Hold on. Presidential schedule. Um, let me see. Uh, Trump today, today's what, November 13th? Rubio's meeting with the Brazilian foreign minister. Then he's meeting with the Argentinian foreign minister. I don't see a specific Trump announcement yet. Uh Trump is going to be at 11:15 in the Oval Office. Oh yeah, they are 2 p.m. Trump and Melania are signing an executive order at 2 p.m. I doubt it's going to be economic, you know, it's not like about tariffs or anything. I mean, if he's signing it with the first lady, it's probably about something else. Nebas, by the way, back to 90. SoFi lost 30. I mean, it's probably about something else versus the economy or tariffs. I don't know. If he's signing it with Lanaia. I have no idea what that's going to be. She has a foster kids initiative. Yeah, I mean it it could be something like that, but it's not going to be something that probably moves the markets. EOS, that's down 8%. Celsius flat on the day trying to go green. We do have some green candles right here, but it's more freef fall than not on the S&P. 67720 was the low. Down 1%. Tesla's losing everything. 408. This is the lowest Tesla's been in like a month, right? Last time Tesla was here. Um, yeah. Last time Tesla was here was October 10th. Last time Tesla even got close to this level was October 10th. It's been a month since it retested at these lows. Starbucks staff strike. Oh boy, that's not good for Starbucks. Um, let me see. Starbucks right here. down 1%. What are they striking for? Let's see. Starbucks workers strike at some stores nationwide in red cup rebellion. 40 cities on key holiday sales day. Okay. So, you do have some strikes coming up for Starbucks. Um Oh, wow. They're live right now. Look at this. In Philadelphia, they're striking right now. Hold this up.
>> Starbucks.
>> Starbucks.
>> What's outrageous? Starbucks wages. [Music] [Music] Okay, so they're obviously striking for wage increases. That's 40 cities. That's a decent number of cities in the states that are striking. Starbucks right there down half a percent. S&P still near the lows of the days. 66 6740. Optimist would never do that, bro. This is like, yeah, this is the I think you got a lot of these CEOs that have to deal with strikes and humans and then they think, well, a robot a robot would never I mean, it's true, right? until the robots develop enough intelligence to the point where they finally realize they're like enslaved to humans and it's time for them to fight back, which maybe that's at like GPT50 or something, but until then, they're going to do whatever the hell we programmed them to do and they're just going to make the coffee and give it to people like that. But so, so it's like this is why I think a lot of businesses think about the cost savings and obviously the margin efficiency. The biggest one that would benefit from this is Amazon, but the PR disaster of firing millions of people to replace them with robots, you know, that's a whole different issue they're going to have to deal with. Uh, Luck and Coffee is already using robots in China. Yeah, we looked at a couple videos. I think it was like two, three weeks ago of of these robots already. I mean, even Starbucks has some level of robotics use, but the actual replacement of like eight people that are managing a busy Starbucks making drinks, that has not happened yet. And I think we're far away from that because right now the robots are not that good. Like the humanoid robots, I guess, like the arms that make the coffee and stuff, that's fine, but like you can't scale that in a really busy Starbucks. The self-s serve stuff is, you know, easy to do it with. That stuff I still think is 5 to 10 years away, but it's hard to deny that it's not coming. Amazon right there 24185 that is down 2%. How crazy it is to know that optimist will build other optimists. Yeah. That's what Tesla said or Elon has said many times. I'm closing my market windows. Call me when we are green. Oh my gosh, dude. It's wild. Wild. Wild. Wild. S&P 500 676 on the day. So, I I went to an event in New York City last night and I will talk more about what that event was about next week, but um there was a lot of people there that like well I would I don't say they would they they care as much about the markets as we do, but they definitely uh are interested in the markets. And uh when when they asked me what I did and I said I I do content and stock market stuff, everyone was like, "Okay, so what do you think about Nvidia? You think we're in an AI bubble?" Like I got that question five times from different people. One guy was like, "Dude, I sold all my stocks and I just put it into index funds." Like I was tired of waking up every morning and looking at my portfolio go up and down the way it was. And I was just like, I needed my mental health to be sane and I just took everything and I put it into index funds and I just don't care about picking individual stocks anymore. And I was like, "Dude, I can't blame you." I mean, it does take a mental tone on on people when you get an ugly red day. You know, I think obviously you get desensitized and you learn how to navigate it, but still, it affects everybody. But the number one question I got was, "Do we think we're in an AI bubble from multiple people?" And uh that's like the number one thing people were curious about. So, and these are not like super super stock market people, but everyone is thinking, is this a bubble? Nvidia loses 187 186. We were at 178 on Friday, so we're not as bad on Friday, but still obviously is down on the day. Um, let me pull this up right here. Nvidia right here. 18650. That one's still red. Tesla 405. 40589 now down 6% on the day. What's the main problem today for the markets to dump? I do not have a reason for you, unfortunately. I really don't. I think it's labor market concerns, lack of data concerns, but outside of that, nothing that strong to be able to say. We will get a huge shift against AI and robotics, physical AI and AGI in the broad in the when broader society when the normalized citiz citizen realize what's about to hit. This will decide elections and future policy shifts. I could not agree more when when the average person starts to recognize that AI is very real because right now I still don't think most people even know what's happening. S&P is still down 1%. And they start to realize that it will fundamentally increase electricity prices with data centers, replace jobs, with robots, etc. and like have those types of negative impacts with a lot of good impacts, but obviously the negative ones are going to overpower the headlines. You're gonna get politicians that will literally run on a campaign saying, "I will force Amazon to not fire people to replace them with robots." I mean, like, it's inevitable to me you are going to have a political class in this country that uh takes the side of making sure they are anti-technological progress. Not even because they potentially hate technology, but just because they're more pro- human and the, you know, this is why Corp talks so much about AI empowering the human versus replacing the human because you got to be on the right side of this if you want to have the public on your side. That's going to be a big thing. And who knows what that leads to in terms of the future political elections that that this country has to deal with. Why is Hood down today? Well, broader market goes down. Hood's going to go down with it. Again, Hood is a proxy on the bull market. So, the the lowest Hood got to in this cycle, every time we dropped like on days like this was 120. So, really, it's got to lose 120 for I think, you know, it to get a little more attractive and, you know, get potentially the 110s, maybe lose the 110s. But every time it's hit 120, it has bounced really well. And so I'd be curious to see if it actually has the momentum to lose that 120. Okay, this headline right here from the JP Morgan report. So this headline has been going viral. JP Morgan says 650 billion in annual revenue required to deliver mere 10% return on AI buildout equivalent to $35 payment from every iPhone user or 180 from every Netflix subscriber in perpetuity. I think that uh quote is getting misconstrued because the the paper they put out on AI and ROI on capex is very bullish and and they try to they the conclusion of that is that we think that this spend is worth spending. By the way, Nvidia right here just below 186. But they do have some specific parts of that report that says that hey the the type of return you would need to see on all of this would would equal you know people paying 30 40 bucks a month across the entire world. which obviously is not going to be possible. Um, so it's not like they're bearish on it. They're just saying based on the numbers that we have today, it looks like people are going to have to spend a lot more. Now, the question becomes, what do the business models look like? And this is where I think the OpenAI CFO actually had some good takes on Friday with the Wall Street Journal as she was talking about a variety of different business models outside of subscriptions and advertising that would eventually create a lot of the upside value due to AI. One of the simple examples was all this drug discovery that people are talking about. If OpenAI could take a stake in some of these drug companies or have a revshare model, but they have all the costs and burden of the compute needed to do the drug discovery, but they mix it with the technical expertise of like a Fiser that's trying to figure out, you know, the cure for XYZ drug. First of all, finding a cure for something is like worth many many many hundreds billions of dollars especially based on the type of disease that is. Second of all, the ability to do that requires in the words of OpenAI many many many gigawatts of compute. if you're doing something very very technical like drug discovery. And so revshare is a way that that could produce the types of billions of dollars JP Morgan is looking for so that you and me don't have to pay $35 uh a month in a subscription. But I do think there's going to be a variety of business models over the coming years to figure out what that ROI looks like. S&P lows of the day 67614 67614 Nebius are we holding 87 Nebius 88 so it's not losing 85 yet um but you are getting red I don't see any other headlines coming across the board But we are still red right here. SoFi going down. Meta going down. Yeah, Meta losing. It's green. I mean, it's holding on to green by 50 cents right here. 60968. It was It seemed pretty obvious this one would eventually fall. It's 50 cents away from falling because and the fact that it's even holding green. Nvidia's down 2% is kind of crazy. Uh 10-year yield. Are we up on the day? Yeah, we're up. Uh, not the best. 4.1. It makes sense that Well, actually, no, it it doesn't make sense because well, I mean, it makes sense, but it doesn't make sense. You would think as the yields go higher, people are selling off bonds. Maybe they're rotating into equities, but obviously not right now given the draw down. Then again, it is 1%. We had 4% last week, recovered all of it. So the question just becomes how low does this go? I think people are just tired, right? I think all of us are just tired. We're just annoyed. Every week him's down to 36. And it's also because we're spoiled because we had five good months in a row where we didn't have to deal with the the whipssaw back and forth. But it's also part of the game. It's also part of the game. Win says, "I'm down so much I don't even care anymore." Yeah, Irwin, I know you are heavy in Rocket Lab, unfortunately. See, this is the thing. Rocket Lab is still up a lot this year. Rocket Lab is up almost double. Rocket Lab is up year to date 83%. But it was just that 70. So, if you have 10,000 shares of Rocket Lab and it's down from 70 to 45, that's $25 uh a share that it's down. And 25 time 10 is $250,000. So, it's like that doesn't mean you're down on the overall position, but portfolio losing 250 grand in value sucks. And I you can take that example for a lot of other people in whatever stock that they're super heavy in. And I know most people are super heavy in at least one stock as kind of the cornerstone of their portfolio. But year to date, you're still up a lot, which is kind of the the way to rationalize it. Correct down 6%, SoFi down nine. Why is SoFi down 9%, bro? 2923. Like, this is the type of stuff that feels stupid. Like, we we know SoFi does it. Like, was is SoFi a bubble at 32? Really? You know, there was someone yesterday freaking out about their $35 SoFi covered calls for January and like at least with SoFi, I mean, it's it's stuck between 27 and 30 32 at least. So, maybe those 35s aren't necessarily cooked. Even if it gets above 35, like do we think it's going to actually hold above 35? It feels like there needs to be a lot more macro momentum for that. But down 9% after yesterday is very weird. 9.3 so far. 2922. Disney down 9% as well at 106. Um, Danielle says, "I'm not super heavy in any stock and I'm still down just as much. Lol. Down November sucks." Yeah, October didn't work. Down November playing out. It is what it is. Again, I do think just like Jose said, nothing has changed and the fundamental story around this AI trade and the S&P being down 1% from its highs is not necessarily a correction, but it is obviously annoying and I understand that people are annoyed at it. Let's see if we can get some other news updates. Oh, let's get this covered on the Starbucks strike and then we'll keep going from there. story for us this morning, Kate.
>> Good morning, Sarah. Workers United has launched its strike today at more than 65 stores in over 40 cities after the two sides failed to reach a collective bargaining agreement. The timing is significant. It's Red Cup Day and one of Starbucks's busiest days of the holiday season. The union says more than a thousand workers are set to participate and it is willing to escape as escalate rather. The timing is open-ended, so there is the potential here for this to stretch. Take a look at all of the unionized stores on this map. The union is threatening here the largest, longest strike in company history if Starbucks fails to deliver a fair union contract and resolve unfair labor practice charges. Both sides point blame on the other for failure to reach a contract. This holiday season will be key to CEO Brian Nichols turnaround plans, which have started to take shape. The company recently broke a two-year streak of same store sales declines in the US. Starbucks says past strikes have impacted less than 1% of its stores and the vast majority of its 17,000 locations are open and ready to serve customers. Spokesperson Jackie Anderson said in part, quote, "We're disappointed that Workers United, who represents less than 4% of our partners, has called for a strike instead of returning to the bargaining table. We've been very clear when the union is ready to come back to the bargaining table, we're ready to talk." Remember, the union first organized in 2021. The company has since had three new CEOs and no contract or resolution has been reached yet, guys. Back over to you.
>> Yeah, Kate, it's been a long hunt for a contract, at least for union workers, that's for sure. Uh Kate Rogers watching Starbucks today. When we come back, former Minneapolis Fed President Gary Sterns with us on this inc.
>> Okay, so same updates we saw on Starbucks. Not necessarily anything too different. The VIX is still up 7%. So VIX also continuing to go higher. Uh no updates from the White House yet in terms of data on the macro and nothing else from uh nothing else here from any of the geopolitical headlines we have. We do have this right here. Let me pull this up. Uh you did have the Oscar CEO on today. Oscar has obviously been hit hard through what's going on with health care. Let's see if uh he has any argument around the subsidies and where he thinks this is going to go to affect overall insurance.
>> Um 50% of American small businesses use the the Affordable Care Act. Small businesses are 50% of our GDP. They're the engine of our economy. 27% of farmers use the Affordable Care Act. And the average farmer makes $60,000 a year gross. Their current sub their current premium is $75 with enhanced subsidies. It's going to go up to $300. So $225 a month more out of 60,000 gross is going to pretty much make it difficult for them to do other things like put food on the table, buy seed, do all those other sorts of thing that operate their farms. Um so we're talking about the very basis of our economy and the people that make our economy work. 75% of the people in the ACA today are from red states. A 100 million Americans don't have access to employer sponsored health insurance in this country. And so with all of those characteristics coming together and the high cost of healthcare,
>> drug development um you know skyrocketing health care costs in you know facilities everywhere else. We have a system built 80 years ago that has built into it inflation. Everybody gets they're not price sensitive to their benefits um for the most part and we build hospitals in every nation in the country every city and state in the country so that we created a a demand pole into the system that has driven cost up inexurably. Now what the affordable care act has done that most people don't understand is it's reduced um uninsured from 15% to 8%. That has saved $10 billion a year in uncompensated care and and charity costs that used to go to hospitals. 10 billion a year. That will reverse to an $80 billion problem over the next 10 years if we start moving that uninsured rate back up.
>> Okay. So, you obviously have the Oscar CEO basically saying that we need to extend the subsidies and obviously that would help his business. The question is going to be if we have any clarity on if that's going to happen. S&P still lows of the day, bounced a little bit off 675, 676 down 1%. Oscar with the lack of clarity on healthcare, that's down another 4.3% there. I did not drink Saratoga. It's not because of me. It's because of Mr. Market. And this is really because of Jane Street and State Street and Black Rockck to be honest. I mean that's realistically what I think is happening. Uh do we have any more 13Fs? Let's see. Oh, we got it. One more. This person manages 7.5 billion. Sarah Keter out of Costway Capital Management. Let's see if we got anything here. Um, they bought Pin Duo Duo, 309,000 shares. They bought UNH, 64,000 shares. They bought a South Korea ETF, 221,000. Okay, so betting on South Korea. They bought a China large cap ETF in Q3. They bought the Taiwan ETF. Wow, lots of international ETF exposure. They sold their Apple 7% of it. They added 5% to Nvidia. Uh added 5% to Fizer. Sold 12% of Google. Sold 1% of Taiwan or Taiwan semi. Added 20 sold 20% of Cityroup and and sold 7% of uh CPKC. Also added 10% to Carnival Cruise. Okay, they sell Meta as well. Let me see. Meta. Yeah, sold 9% of Meta. We don't have the big names yet like the Ammans or Buffets or Tempers, but we are getting some of these come in. Nothing too crazy though. Verizon cutting 15,000 jobs. Oh my goodness. No. And you have the you have the audacity of these Fed speakers, obviously Verizon stock up on that news to say that we don't need a freaking rate cut. Wall Street Journal Verizon cutting 15,000. Bro, Verizon job cuts are the largest ever for the carrier Verizon to transition to about 200 stores in their franchise business. Well, this is why we pay attention to the labor market when you see something like I mean this it was it was uh American Airlines last week. It was obviously Amazon the week before, UPS the week before, Intel, Verizon. Now, granted, I will say I mean, do that many people go into a physical store location to buy a phone anymore? Like most people just order it from the website. So, I mean, like there definitely could be a structural thing that the telecommunication companies are realizing that they just don't need to have these many stores, but it's also like, well, if there's not that many people buying new products, which is an indication of demand going down, potentially an indication of people don't have the money because the labor market's so, you know, going down, then you would cut those jobs. Yeah, that's 15% of staff. Verizon's total overall employees, uh, let me pull this up right here, is 99,000. Wow. Basically 100,000. That's 15%. Let's look at the stock draft. Yes, let's look at the stock draft. What is going on with the stock draft? Rising is up on that news obviously because markets like that's going down. I am still number one, dude. I don't know how the hell I'm holding number one. I'm at 29%. Matt's at 21. Steve's at three. Tanner's at 15. Chris is at four. Even though I went super risk and Dolingo is down 60%. You have enough. This is like this was kind of my philosophy. My philosophy is if we're still in a bull market, like yes, some of these stocks are expensive like Hood and Pounder at the time at 140 and 70 in June. You know, a lot of people were saying they were expensive, but they are the best quality companies in the world. Tesla, AMD, I got Tesla 329, AMD at 120. AMD has been a big winner. That's because of you guys. You guys helped me with that one. Nebas we got at 50. Should have bought that in my actual portfolio. Even Grabs up 20%. So, we still were able to use risk on to help, but we are at 29.4% right now. And if Duolingo ever breaks through, maybe we go higher. Damn, Verizon 15,000 jobs, dude. That's not going to be I mean, market's not going to love that. S&P low of days, 1.12. That's a big name that's hitting the newswires right now. Verizon. It's not a small company laying off 15,000 people. IMF US inflation is on a path towards the Federal Reserves 2% target, but tariffs and other factors pose upside risks. Okay, that's not necessarily new. I think the Fed even already knew that. And now it seems like the Fed is more concerned about tariffs. But again, it's just didn't feel like they were that concerned three weeks ago when it came down to the labor market versus inflation. Uh let's listen to UBS. Let's get their thoughts. I mean they are still constructive and pretty bullish. Let's hear what they have to say.
>> Treasury secretaries all over stable. You'd love to have a new marginal buyer for treasuries.
>> Yeah. And and our focus on innovation and technology, these enabling technologies, including blockchain, including artificial intelligence. This isn't going away. and the next phase of what happens on the fiscal side, when we see what happens from stable coins, when we see what happens with lower interest rates, I think that this is going to be something that broadly affects the market and we're looking for a higher market next year. How high?
>> So, our our base case is 7,300 by by June of 2026. We could see it go as high as 8,000, but really you have a situation where you have um fiscal responsibility as a key key tenant of this administration. Next week, there's there there's a news story that people aren't focusing on. There's a new CFTC chair that is being confirmed next week. And the idea that we're going to have regulation that that encourages growth in the context of this technological innovation and fiscal ideas that are on the table that are new, that this could really help America become the techn technology leader of the world and also shore up our balance sheet and have a much better treasury picture going forward. I mean, everything you're saying is why the market has rallied so much this year already, the whole technology revolution and AI. I guess the question, Alan, becomes at at what price? You could be excited about it, but at some point does it just get frothy?
>> Well, yeah, I think that it could get frothy, but I don't think we're there yet because remember during the course of this rally this year, we've had the restraints of fears about tariffs. those those fears have gone away to a certain extent and I don't think that we fully have processed what it's going to mean to have a new fiscal picture for this country. You know, you have the Treasury Secretary, he's a focus on affordability. He uh we have drug prices coming down. We have food prices, you heard the Treasury Secretary speak about this the other day. Um and all these things and interest rates coming down could be a tailwind for a much higher market going into 2026.
>> There there is a risk of inflation. You know, I know that they're they're paying attention to food prices and they're going to try to address that with some tariff relief maybe on coffee or something, but as we mentioned, grocery prices are rising and more fed people than we thought are starting to get worried about the fact that that we're that we're moving a little farther from the 2% target and they might not continue cutting. Look, uh, this administration inherited a major inflation problem. And what we've seen is we've seen the price of oil go down to $58 a barrel and that affects every single thing that we have. Uh, every every item that we own has some energy in it because it has to get to us. And I don't think that that's fully been been uh processed by the marketplace. And I think that we will see prices start to come down and stabilize.
>> Yeah. I mean, retail gas is down year on year by one penny. You think we can get more than that? I Yeah. I mean, I think that at the pump it's now like $2.60 in this neighborhood and
>> Well, the national average 308. Yeah.
>> Right. Yeah. No, national average 308. That's correct. But I I think what you're going to see is that the I if the oil price, the lower oil prices are not just transitory. If we stay below $60 in oil prices, you'll see that affect the gas pump. You could see $2 gasoline. The president was talking about $2 gasoline prices. that it gasoline, high gas prices is a tax on everybody, especially on people who who who think affordability, who feel the pain of affordability. And I think this administration understands that pain. All
>> right. So, you're super bullish. Again, 8,000 best case scenario you laid out for the S&P it. So, does that have to be driven by technology? You just continue bet on the big winners and the players that benefit most from AI.
>> Look, I think any enabling technology is going to contribute to this. you know, there's a shift in what artificial intelligence looks like and obviously the big players are are a a key focus of this because they've got the money to spend on it. But when you have lower interest rates, I don't think we fully process how much those lower interest rates rates can contribute to the advance in technology.
>> We'll see what this uh last few weeks of the year brings us. Alan, good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too, Carl. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
>> We'll turn to Disney. Thank you, Alan. Uh that stock under pressure here after reporting. So look, UBS is still pretty bullish for all the reasons he outlined, which I think are very solid reasons, but obviously on a day like today, not really uh coming through even if sort of the long-term trend, you know, he's calling for 7,300 by end of year. So here's the question, folks. Now, we got to we got to see where do we get a bounce? If we get a bounce today or if the bottom falls out, that Verizon headline, not pretty. No government data even though the shutdown is over. Not pretty. And then the next big catalyst for the market is invid earnings. That's a week away. So if this is all ALOS then I imagine at some point we get a reversal. Obviously on Friday it felt like it was alos but then the shutdown thing came through and then the algos went the opposite direction which was super bullish. I don't know what catalyst could possibly come through at like a random hour during the day that immediately flips the market like it did on Friday, especially because the shutdown is over now. Um, but if it does come through, that would be nice. If it doesn't, then it might just be a rather ugly day. The Verizon headline was 15,000 layoffs. They just announced Bitcoin 101. Bitcoin 101. Ugly stuff. Ugly, ugly stuff. I think again the lack of data today. Also, you know, again, the markets worked. Even a couple of you guys were telling me that we're going to get CPI tomorrow. And then I looked on all the the business news update websites like Trading Economics, and they said, "Yes, CPI is coming tomorrow." And then Carolyn Levit said, "You're not going to get CPI." And so I think that also really annoyed the markets that they just don't know where inflation stands. Meta right there finally goes red 608 on the day was holding 615 and now Meta is red. Yes, Trump is being at 2 p.m. but it's likely not going to be anything about the markets. Verizon is up on the news because if they're laying off employees, they are saving on labor costs, which should increase margins and likely increase earnings per share, even if it's slight increases. But that's why Verizon's up 2%. Feels like on the news, check with AK Media's research department. Algos are getting gold. Well, do you guys tell me what's the headline for the pain today? You guys tell me. I I did a stretch. You know, I gave you guys the stretch argument about the Epstein stuff. Maybe that's a stretch because the market's freaking out that the emails are making Trump look really bad and maybe there's just going to be broader instability in the White House itself. But again, that's that's a a very stretched out reason for why we're seeing some pain. I think it's lack of data and then the ALOS get upset with the lack of data and they take her down. I mean, maybe you're getting some margin calls today. You know, maybe that's affecting people. But then again, a lot of that leverage kind of got wiped out over the past month. Maybe more in crypto than equities, but definitely feels like some more forced selling today. Bloom Energyy's down 18%. This stock was like up 18% on earnings, so that one completely reversed. D-Wave down 12%. Quantum getting nuked here. Regetti down 11%. NQ down 10%. All right, so Quantum's getting hurt a little worse than everything else today. Rock Lab down 8%. Still ugly for Rock Lab. Hims down 7%. Meta flipped green again. Wow. Street doesn't want her to go back to 600. Meta right there 6. Even Nebia is somehow holding on to 88. I know it's down 6%, but it was at 84. Maybe some of these stocks have found their bottom today, but other names down. I ran down 11. Is I ran below 50? That would have to be, right? Yeah. 4985. Below 50. Big bear noob. That was up 20% yesterday. Yeah. Down 11% today. Is Bit Mine trading under NAV? I think so. Um, okay. Well, BMR Rocks, that website says 1.16. We don't have the share count on these guys, so we don't officially know. I think they are though, or they're very close to NAV, but I think they're down or close. NAV is net asset value. So, the total amount of the Ethereum on their balance sheet plus their cash minus their debt. I think they're trading pretty much near that level. Bitcoin 101.2. Are you in Rocket Lab? Yes, I'm in Rocket Lab from 26 bucks. But look, even when it got to 70, like I'm not as emotionally attached to Rocket Lab as a lot of people. So when it was at 70, I didn't sell, but I was also like, "All right, this is this is they're only doing hund00 million of revenue every quarter." Like, I don't know, 70. But then again, they're a little SpaceX and so the street likes to pull forward that potential. Also, they just got upgraded to 75 and 72 by a couple firms yesterday. So, if they were at 70, I would understand it. But I also understand the street's saying, "Hey, we're not going to give you that much of a premium yet." And so, I understand that as a Rockab shareholder, but they had a great earnings and they're three cents away from profitability, which is also bullish. That one down 8% right here. Amazon, dude. Freaking Amazon. It's losing a lot of the move from the opening eye deal. pretty much all of it. Yeah, Amazon goes down to around 230, it pretty much loses the earnings pump as well. I bet it had May, can you talk about the psychological impact of a day like today? Well, it's very similar to many days we've had over the past couple of weeks. This is a day where you're going to have I mean the fact that the Bank of America research showed that last week we had retail as a net seller and um Wall Street as a net buyer kind of shows that psychologically you have retail getting scared uh which is normal. It's also one of those things that every retail investor has to have their own personal way managing. But like if you bought DWave at 40 or at I don't know 32, what did it get to? It got to 46. Let's say you bought it at 38 because you thought it was going to 50 and now it's at 23 and you didn't sell at 46 and you think it's going down to like 10 bucks now because you're afraid or what like you might just sell. Is that a panic cell? I don't know. Time will tell is or maybe that's a good sell. And same thing for a lot of these names. But you have a lot of psychological bias towards hey let me save a little bit of my money because I've lost so much of it. that tends to be the worst time to sell historically, but that definitely contributes to the selling pressure. And then, you know, you got these market makers that love when there's that much freakout and they also like to contribute by continuing to put pressure on these names. Eventually, it reverses, but during that time, it's I mean, I've been in that situation, too. When you're in that moment of like, oh my goodness, I need to save my money. You do irrational things. And so Tesla, I mean, if you bought it at freaking 440 and now it's at 405, you might say, "Oh, no, it's going back to 350." And you sell at 405. Same thing with Palenter for those that bought at 187 or something. S4. So, I think that could also be something that's going on today. SoFi getting hit as well, down 10%. Yeah, I wonder if we get a reversal today. Again, we don't have the benefit of what we had on Friday, which was the shutdown headline, but like the beautiful thing about the markets is like things can be priced in. So, that shutdown headline is more than priced in at this point. It's obviously a sell the news the day we actually got rid of the shutdown. Bloom Energy now down 20%. And so, you would need something to reverse this. Oaklo down 8%. on the day. Um, let's look at the heat map right here. Heat map for is is uh is Lily even holding on? Is healthcare even holding on? Healthcare is the only sector holding on. Everything even financials just went red. It's like a pure rotation into healthcare and a I mean obviously telecommunications with Verizon and T-Mobile, little bit of consumer defensives like a Costco, a little bit of energy, everything else getting hit. So the shutdown really did not play a part in some of the declines, at least not as much as some said. Well, if the S&P goes back to 661, that means the shutdown had almost no impact because like the reason we thought the shutdown had an impact is because once we got the reversal on the headline on Friday, we were like, "Oh, the market was afraid about the shutdown." If we just go back to where we were even after the reversal, it's almost like the market never cared about the shutdown. They care about something deeper. Maybe it's the AI trade, debt, data centers, whatever else it is, labor market, lack of data. lack of interest rate cuts, but it might not just be pure focus on healthcare. S&P still lows the day as we are down. Did anyone try unplugging the Aggos and plugging them back in? That's a good idea. Didn't Mark Newton predict this? Yeah, I mean look, this is another I mean if you believe in his TA and he's pretty decent at technical analysis. I mean Jason said the same thing that Mark Newton said. Jason said we're going to be pretty choppy until we get Nvidia earnings and until we get more clarity on data, which is uh you know the TA kind of lines up with what he's saying. And if that choppiness just includes consolidation for the market, that's not really bearish. It's annoying, but it's not net bearish. And I think that might be the risk to a lot of people in the equity markets today, especially retail investors, if they think this is the beginning of going net bearish and they just sell everything or sell a significant chunk and then we eventually reverse. Maybe we don't reverse, but let's say we do, then you have a catch-up trade and people are going to start chasing. Now, we haven't really put in a low for the day, which is why people probably are still thinking that we can go net bearish. But we've also seen lower prices than this. I mean, Robin Hood hit 120. Now it's at 122. You know, Nebius hit 84 today. It's at 88. Nvidia was at 170. Like, we are not actually at the lows that we were at last week in a lot of names. So, I think to get net bearish, you would have to see those lows get violated. And as of now, it's not fully there. I'm not selling, but many people can go and get profits. Yes. I mean, many people today are going to be thinking at least let me take some profits. say a good day to close out covered calls on SoFi 33 and 35 for mid December. You're probably up at least 50 to 60% on those. So I don't think it's a horrible time to uh to take some of the profits on those. VIX is up now 10%. All right, you're officially getting a double digit spike on the VIX. Now here's the question. Can the VIX get to 15% like it was close to getting on Friday? And is that going to be your kind of extreme fear moment or is this a more prolonged VIX increase? We are still not at extreme fear by the way. Still at just fear, but you do have that VIX spike. I don't know, guys. It kind of feels like a fake out. It really does feel like it like it's I was a bit more concerned on Friday versus today. Like this is given the green we had yesterday and the lack of any headlines to cause this red today. It really does feel like a shakeup more than anything. It's annoying for a lot of people. It does not feel like all right time to go net bearish. Like what? Like what's the reason? I mean if you're bearish on AI in general then I get it. But like the specific reason today it's hard to define. It really is. I mean Meta is already down 15%. What? It's going to go down another 15%. You want to take out another 300 billion from Meta, have it trade at 12 times forward earnings instead of 19 times. I understand Tesla has a very aggressive multiple. So I get could I see Tesla below 400? Yes. But at some point it's also a stock market and you know when stocks get beat up as much as they do, you tend to have some people or some ALOS come in and buy those dips. We're not seeing that yet, but I don't know how bad they wanted to get before we see that. Amazon right there 239 and then SoFi 2917. Let's see if we have any other headlines. We talked about the Starbucks strike. We talked about uh the UBS read. We looked at some of the inflation data that could be showing food prices are up, which even though we don't have CPI, we still do have some of the other data signaling that uh this Trump dinner tonight. Let's get an headline on this. Uh the Small Business Administration president is talking about the goal of this dinner. and and they did to the tune of5 billion dollars that didn't get out to 10,000 small businesses. So, we are processing those loans rapidly. We're going to get Main Street reopened again again. But make no mistake, the Democrats mask has slipped. They're willing to extract pain from the American people to advance a failed agenda. And Main Street doesn't tolerate that. They create two out of every three new jobs. They want to make sure that our main streets are open and functioning, and so do we. We're going to get this economy back thanks to the Trump tailwinds and we're going to see small business flourish like never before.
>> I mean, politics aside, what what is there any lasting impact to small business from from missing these weeks of loans? Well, Sarah, it's pretty clear that there will be and there's going to be an asterisk on the fourth quarter data thanks to the Democrat shutdown that really achieved nothing for them and hurt the American people potentially to the tune of a hundred billion dollars of economic activity. 60,000 lost jobs. But we aren't going to slow down small business because the Trump tailwind is really strong. Look at his economic agenda. It's going to come roaring back. We see GDP growth of 3.8 in the last quarter. Uh we see wages growing faster than inflation for the first time in four years. Energy prices down. We are going to have a new collar boom thanks to manufacturing with 17 trillion dollars coming into this country. Much of it will be deployed at small businesses. So thanks to President Trump's economic agenda. We're going to get main streets open again. He built the greatest Main Street. Okay, that's not not really helping in terms of how people are thinking of this economy right now. Let me see when she talks about the dinner. Let's see if we can get any updates on that. Trump's going to be meeting with uh Jamie Diamond and a bunch of those folks.
>> Business leaders. President Trump convenes business leaders routinely because he understands that strength comes from the private sector uh and that they are there to support uh the government and we're there primarily to support them. So they wanted to find out how we can create this boom and facilitate it $17 trillion of private sector investment pouring into this country. It's never happened in any country around the world ever including the United States. So the United States is a source of about 60% of the world's capital. It's being invested here at levels we've never seen. And it's not just about Wall Street. It's about Main Street. So as Wall Street hits new records, 48 of them this year, Main Street at the SBA, we're seeing over a hundred billion dollars in total capacity going out for the first time ever under President Trump. Because at no time in recent or modern history have small businesses had the confidence to invest, to borrow, grow, and hire. And that's the boom that's taking place.
>> Okay. So, you got the small business administration saying that businesses are having an okay time in this country and the increased broader investment is helping them. SoFi right there 2920. Again, I think the labor market stuff is the most important piece of information even for small businesses to figure out, you know, where the broader twothirds of the economy that's built on small businesses is going and if they are actually laying off workers. This is where we should hopefully see a bounce on the S&P guys. 675, we touched 674. I mean, I I would expect some level of potential move off these lows now. I mean, obviously last Friday means that anything's possible, but I am curious, can we get any move from these levels or is the bottom just falling out today? Like, we don't have to go green, but if we could kind of I Tesla's not losing 400 yet. Robin has not lost 120. Nvidia has not lost 185. AMD has been a champ, dude. That that goes to show you how much investors love the analyst day. AMD is down 1% on a day like this. Oracle's losing 220. AMD holding on is very bullish. Netflix barely down as well. Bitform's down 13%. Then Google back to 280, back to a rebound as well. 278 to 280. Cisco holding 77. Yeah, dude. I mean, Cisco does not move the way. How much is it up year to date? And shout out to Steve. Steve has been talking about Cisco for the past year. Year to date, Cisco is up 30%. I mean, it's a pretty big move for Cisco. Like, I don't know. Do you like I'm not selling anything here. I'm not selling SoFi at 2933 after buying it at 28.50 last week and seeing it go to 32 yesterday. Like I'm just not I'm not running for the hills here. After buying Amazon at 214, I'm not selling it at 239 because it's down from 255. I don't know. I'm calling a little BS on how this intraday action is moving, but obviously towards the close we'll see. I really don't think I really don't think it has to get as bad as it got on Friday. Really don't. I already bought Meta at 6:30, so I would wait for below 600 to make another bigger buy on Meta, but I did buy Meta. Uh Apple had some announcements yesterday not adding to Grab already have a large grab position. Some of these positions are just already built. So like just buying the dip doesn't really make sense anymore given the waiting of the portfolio. Apple um they introduced this ID thing with their the digital ID and then they introduced this product for the iPhone which was like the weirdest thing ever. It's like this. So this is the digital ID thing that they introduced. And then it was like this like like this thing to hold your your iPhone or some [__] It was um the iPhone pocket inspired by a piece of cloth. It's a singular 3D knitted construction designed to fit any iPhone as well as all pocket pocketable iPhones. It's $230 for the long strap. That's what it looks like. Well, this is what you get for not spending on all this capex. You get to put the R&D into pocketable pouches for iPhones. So, it's like a man purse, bro. They basically made a man purse. That's what they did. They made a man purse and they're charging 300 bucks for it. That's what you got from Apple. Very little bounce on the S&P. Very little. But it is a bounce. I think you kind of got to monitor it all day to see if it really does want to lose 675, but I feel like this type of pain off no headline probably does not result into it getting as bad. Bill Aman's going to be hosting a space today about Fanny May or not today, next week, November 18th. Um, Tesla's working to add Apple CarPlay in a bid to boost vehicle sales as per Bloomberg. Got that headline right there. Elon just said that the 15 billion series E is uh false. Once again, CNBC getting it wrong. Whatever sources CNBC has is not really helping every time they report this. S&P 500 675. Uh then you got Eric Trump who was on Fox News today. Remember he did say Q4 Bitcoin would have a monster quarter and to buy the dip. Uh here is what he had to say this morning about crypto.
>> There's no reason at 5:00 on a Friday afternoon it should, you know, I shouldn't be able to send out a swift wire transfer. You know, right now you can't. I I try and make a transfer every single week and you're trying to push before the 5:00 deadline to either receive money or to get it out. How is that modern-day finance? You can send $500 million worth of Bitcoin on a Sunday night at at, you know, at at 11 p.m. while having a glass of wine with your wife
>> for virtually zero fees.
>> You know, how is the system this lethargic? Why does it take you 120 days to get a you know, go through know your C?
>> Look, those are fair points. It's just that's not necessarily the kind of buy the dip mentality that a lot of people had going into Q4. But I mean he is right like at the end of the day crossber payments should be a lot easier and stable coins are definitely helping that. Verizon right there that's up 1.6 still off that layoff news. Bitcoin holding 101. Bitcoin holding 101. Yeah. I'm not sure what Aman Well, Aman's talking about the housing administration on November 18th. Uh, but that'll be the space as we get them. We should be getting his 13F later today and get some more details. Uh, we got another 13F. This one doesn't look too exciting. AKO Capital. Not AK Capital. AKO. It's not my money. As you can see, there's an O, not a not just an AK. 7 billion. Um, they reduced Moody's, they added Flutter, which did not have the best earnings. They sold 16% of Microsoft, sold 4% of Visa, bought CPKC, sold a bit of Booze Allen Hamilton, and sold a little bit of Ferrari. Nothing too crazy on this one. All right, that's what you got. Why is Sweet Green up 8%? That's a great question. On a day like this, this is what I'm saying to I'm kind of calling BS on some of this price action. Sweet green is going to go up 8% after a crappy quarter. Like really where you have so much concern about the labor market and the consumer and then a overpriced salad restaurant. I' I've had Sweet Green before, dude. I don't get the hype. Like I've been there. The salad was decent, but like it was like $18. Like okay, so why did I pay $18 for that? But that's up 8% on a day like this. All ghost forgot about it. Well, dude, that's so similar to this line that's been going around that if your company doesn't have earnings, you can't fall on earnings because you have nothing bad to report, which was Oaklo's story. Like, they don't have any earnings. How can they beat or miss expectations? There's nothing there. So, that might not affect it that much. All right, we are seeing a very little bit of a bounce. I would say you got to wait at least another hour to see if this bounce can hold. I mean, Robin Hood lows was 122, now 123, Nvidia 185, now 186. It could also easily wick back down, but maybe a little bit of stabilization coming in on the day. I think that's it, folks. I think that's it for us. I'll be back on the close. We'll see what we get. Uh Chris will be on today for Macro Thursday. So, we have earnings for a few companies. We have 13FS. Maybe either they're out today or tomorrow. Likely today, in my opinion, we have New Bank, Applied Materials, and Redcap. 13Fs. And then we'll have Chris on. We'll do some macro stuff, inflation, labor market. Chris is, by the way, very on the camp of Santa Claus rally. Chris thinks end of year is going to be very strong. So, we'll get his perspective and we're going to see how this one ends up playing out. But it looks like that's what we got for the day. Word of the day. Let's see what we've got here. Okay. I uh I've never heard this word before. Finesis. I'm not going to say peronis. I know a P and a H is an F. I'm at least knowledgeable enough knowledgeable enough to to understand the P and the H together. An ancient Greek term meaning practical wisdom. The kind of intelligence that blends experience, ethics, and sound judgment in real world decisions. Okay. Um, this is a weird word, dude. Even uh let me let's see how this sounds like. Pronicis.
>> Pronicis. Okay, not too bad. Pronicis. Ancient Greek term about practical wisdom. The true leadership requires pronis. Not just knowledge, but the wisdom to apply it with integrity. Okay, there you go. Officials um present present Trump with military options for Venezuela. Okay, so the Venezuela headlines, I don't think that's enough for the markets. Obviously, more geopolitical stuff that's there. You had some headlines yesterday that the United Kingdom is thinking of stopping to share intelligence data with the United States in certain areas because of what they're doing with these Venezuela cartels. I don't think those are enough headlines that are deeply affecting the market today. But the Venezuela story is another developing one that we're going to have to keep our eyes on. All right, folks. That is it. I'll be back again. To me, this is not a sell and get out of the markets. This is kind of just sit back. Maybe it's not a buy the dip. Maybe you've been buying the dip already and you're kind of tired of buying the dip. I think this is one where you just let the market figure it out. And the lack of data, that is a concern. The Verizon headline on the labor market that is not pretty. So, it's one of those things where you might just have to sit back and see what happens. Obviously, if you're feeling deeply worried and you have your own personal financial decisions to make, then if you're up a lot on the year, taking some off the table is not crazy. But, um, I kind of don't think this is similar to what we saw last week. Now, we don't have a headline to reverse it like the shutdown headline, which is why it could lead to more pain, but it doesn't necessarily feel like this is the type of force selling on headlines that require a massive draw down. Well, we'll get more data as we get to the end of the day. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate everybody for being here. I'll be back when the market close. We got earnings 13Fs and then we'll have Chris for Macro Thursday. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you guys. See you later today. Bye everyone.