美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者本周三特斯拉发布了第二季度的财报财报后股价是硬生暴跌8%人们都说特斯拉是腰股它的股价经常不明所以的大幅波动然而这次财报之后情况变得不同了因为财报后一条清晰的股价规律已经展现在了我们投资者面前有了这条规律我们就能够在未来的很长一段时间内把握特斯拉的投资机会了 In this video, we will take a look at Tesla's financial reports Find the real stock price pattern from objective data Then we can use this pattern Let's see how Tesla's stock price will develop in the second half of the year 营投证券IB也是我个人认为很好用的券商之一IB的一大特点就是成本低它不仅交易佣金低而且融资的成本也很低如果你是深度交易者那IB的交易平台功能也十分强大尤其是期权交易功能期权且方便上手他们现在还提供极高的无风险利息收益你投资账户中的未投资现金最高可以获得3.83%的利息 In addition, they also provide various free research reports, trading tools, and timely news updates. All these functions are to help investors get more comprehensive help in transactions. If you are interested in watching, you can click the link in the description below to view the details. Thank you. 一上来我们不妨先来看一下本次财报的具体数据本季度特斯拉营收225亿美元基本符合市场预期但同比下降了12% 利润方面,公司nongap净利润13.9亿美元,大幅低于市场预期的14.6亿美元,同比还大跌了23%从趋势上看,营收和利润都相比于上个季度有了些许的反弹,这是好事不过,放在整体来看,公司已经两年多没有什么像样的增长了,利润更是仍处于几年来的最低点 而如果单看卖车业务情况其实比想象中要好不少二季度卖车收入167亿美元同比下降了16%看似不咋地但实际上公司早在7月初就已经公布了交付数据这个表现其实并不令人意外而令人意外的其实是毛利率的表现卖车毛利率能反映出公司的生产效率以及产品的溢价能力因而它往往是每次财报后市场最为关注的指标 本季度特斯拉卖车毛利率17.2%高于市场预期的16.5%而不含碳积分的毛利率回升至了15%更是大幅高于市场预期的13.3%这样的毛利率提升很可能和汽车单价的提升有关本季度特斯拉的单车收入为4.34万美金环比增长了5%也已经从低点的4万美元持续的爬出具体原因我们后面统一会讲 Tesla's other business, the energy business, has rarely fallen. This part of the business is actually not very influential on the stock price, but the income is relatively high. The income of the second-degree energy business is $2.79 billion, which is 7% lower than the previous one. The interest rate is 30.3%, which is 5.7% higher than the previous one. The energy business is indeed affected by a lot of tariffs. But the customer's demand is still full. Tesla will continue to increase investment in the United States this year to reduce tariffs. Overall, the performance of this company seems to be not optimistic, but as an investor, you have to know what data is the most critical for the stock price. Tesla's financial report is really important to car sales, and the most important thing is the interest rate. And the data is actually very good, not only beyond the market expectations, but also has gone out of the trend of a resurgence. 这其实因为新款Model Y的售价持续获得了不错的提升同时所有的工厂都开始提高Model Y的产量这也带来了不俗的规模效应而财报上整体利润端的下降其实是因为碳积分的收入下滑这部分本来就不算在公司的估值之内所以影响也并不会太大另外公司研发收入意外的提升了两亿美元这也压缩了利润但它的负面影响也有限这原因我后面还会谈到 So you see, in fact, this financial report is not as bad as many people think It's actually relatively positive If such a financial report performance was released a year ago, it would definitely bring a big rise But why did there appear a big drop after the financial report? The more strange thing is that friends with great care may have realized that the financial report performance in the last quarter can be said to be the worst in history But after the last quarter financial report, the stock price has risen by 20% in three days Why is this? In fact, Tesla's stock price rules are hidden behind these strange phenomena. Next, let the US Army show you the ugly and ugly to decrypt the real rules of Tesla's stock price. At the first quarter of this year's press conference, although the finance secretary was in trouble, Musk gave the market a shot He threw out the vision and specific plan of Robotex, and clarified the time table of the first six months and the size of the 1,000 cars at the end of the year It was this technological advance that pushed the growth of the stock price Then, Robotexi was as good as ever at the end of June, and the technology narrative was successful. After that, the progress of Robotexi has been very smooth. The price increase, the scale of the tow truck, and the expansion of the operating area seem to be developing in the best direction. The investor's expectations are also rising. And during this period, Tesla's stock price has also risen all the way, and it has risen by 50% before the previous financial report. It can be seen that the technology narrative has been leading Tesla's stock price development during this period. Then, a detail of this financial report further explains the stock rules. We have analyzed above that the data of this financial report is more active. After the data of this financial report was just released, the stock price of Tesla did not rise or fall. And after the last financial report meeting, the stock price only rose. This shows that the strength of the basic surface is not enough to boost the stock price. On the contrary, the empty space on the basic surface is not enough to impact the stock price. As we said above, the research and development of unexpected growth has compressed profits, but it is helpful for the scientific and technological trend, so investors ignore its negative impact. In the press conference, Musk expressed his disappointment to investors in the high expectation of technology. Musk did not further release more progress of Robotex, and did not reveal the key technical indicators such as the average interference power. In addition to Robotex, Musk did not give the launch time of the automatic driving FSD V14 version. Optimus Humanoid Mechanics also just mentioned that the Gen3 version, which will be more perfect this year, will be launched at the end of this year. In addition to these, there are no more updates in the technology narrative. It is the "suffering" on the technology narrative that has given investors a bowl of cold water, which has also led to the final decline in the stock price. And worse, Musk also said that because of the change in the government policy of electric cars, Tesla's basic aspects in the next few seasons will be more difficult. This actually refers to the "Great American Law" passed by Trump. I have shared the details in a previous video, so I won't go into detail here. And the actual basic face is bad, and the further punishment of the stock price also ultimately led to a 8% drop in the price of the stock. So you see, the whole story line actually reflects a double-line thinking in Tesla's current investment logic The technology trend is the main line, and the basic surface is the negative line When the technology trend is strong, the basic surface is good, and the stock price is growing stronger The basic surface is bad, and it will not affect the stock price too much But when the technology trend is weak, the basic surface is good, and it cannot boost the stock price And the basic surface is bad, it will bring double the cost to the stock price This way, we can summarize the four rules of Tesla's stock price. With this set of rules, we only need to put the future development of the company into these four rules, and we can have a basic judgment of Tesla's stock price. For the next three seasons, let's look at the negative line, which is the basic situation. Although Musk said at the press conference that the next few seasons will be more difficult, But we investors have to know that the third season is coming soon. I'm afraid it's not that pessimistic, and there may even be good performance. Why do you say that? Musk's so-called hardship is actually a prediction for the overall performance of the future. One of the most critical factors is that the US-Lithuanian Act has completely cut off the subsidies for electric cars. So far, American electric car buyers can enjoy a $7,500 tax-free subsidy. And this subsidy will be paid on September 30, which is the last day of the third quarter of this year. This is equivalent to the United States' Tesla car after the third quarter will be priced at $7,500. That will naturally bring a lot of pressure on sales. But before September 30th, there will be more consumers To lock this subsidy and spend in advance This will bring a certain performance improvement in the short term In addition to the US market, the situation of the Chinese and European markets It is also likely to be better expected In the Chinese market, the model Y mid-term version of the model Y is just launched in June The sales of the first time in half a year immediately achieved in the month In the future, this growth trend is expected to continue And the home version of the model Y specially designed for the Chinese market will also be listed in autumn This model is considered to be the key to opening up China's new user group Also expected to bring additional growth And in the European market, the modified model has just been launched The early red flag, which is still in the product life cycle, has also a chance to copy the growth of China's area The sales growth has a large-scale effect With the slightly uptick in the price of the new model Have the opportunity to bring improvements to the most important margin of interest As for the most worried market, the car tax issue It seems that Tesla's actual impact is limited Most taxes have been tightened in subsequent negotiations And all the cars sold in the United States belong to local production And the proportion of the original production standard of the 0.5-inch piece is more than 85% So it has almost no effect And in other countries, Tesla has also used the method of adjusting the supply chain Avoid most of the taxes Even in the Canadian region, the tax has dropped 唯一可能受影响的是碳积分和能源业务因为大美利法不仅砍掉了特斯拉上亿美元的碳积分收入还取消了大部分的新能源的补贴不过因为碳积分收入本来就不算入公司的估值之内而能源业务对股价的影响也一直都有限所以这部分的负面影响几乎可以忽略不计 So overall, from the basic performance of the 3G company, it is relatively positive. All the situations in the right half are in this 4-pronged grid. So the more critical question is how the main line of the stock will develop? In fact, we have already mentioned that in the first quarter, the market is most concerned about when the robotaxi will be online. Surrounding this technological trend, the overall performance of the second quarter is actually very positive. Robotaxi is on the line on time and not only is it very smooth to operate, but also the price increase, the expansion of the car team, and the expansion of the operating area are all in an unstable situation. Then in the third quarter, the investor's taste is not limited to when to go online, but has become the scale of the robotaxi. This is the key to the current stage of the entire technology trend. And at this point, the current situation is not optimistic. RobotX wants to achieve scale-wise, there are three key prerequisites. First, the cost must be low enough to support the large-scale copy. Second, technical verification has been completed, and there is no problem with driving safety. Third, the policy and the package must be mature enough, including the review, insurance, and city infrastructure. At present, the first two points have been basically realized. Tesla's whole car is quite low in cost, and the technology has been basically verified. However, it still takes some time to further verify the safety of the taxi. The problem is mainly in the third point, the package and policy. Can cities quickly review whether there are mature mechanisms for managing accident responsibility? These are still unsolved. It is not a single-sided confirmation by Musk's team, but the key to the current Tesla value of investors. In this press conference, Musk did not respond to the specific time table of robotaxi scale. On this issue, he was extremely cautious. From the current situation, I personally think that the robotaxi will not be able to make any progress in the three-season scale, and the management level will not actively promote the scale of the robotaxi in the short term. Because now Austin has only 40 cars, and it only runs for more than a month. The key word "safety" is far from enough to support the US data. For the management, the early stage of technology is not as bad as the slow expansion. If you know that the development is slow, the investors will be disappointed. If there is a security accident, it will be completely cold. I think Musk knows the truth. So I think the progress of Robotex in the third quarter will not be very fast. Maybe it's a step-by-step advance. So in terms of the technology market, I think there will probably not be much bright performance in the third quarter. But to put it in a different way, even if the development of the third quarter is not as expected, the next milestone event will take place after the fourth quarter, with 1,000 trucks waiting to be completed. This means that Tesla still has a whole quarter to go. So even if the technology market is not bright enough, I don't think there will be a more bad weather than now. So overall, I think the main line of the technology narrative will run relatively stable in the third quarter, and the negative line on the basic side is relatively optimistic. This means that the stock price in the third quarter will probably be stable and sound. The bottom line of the stock price may already be in the last place after this report. As long as there is no accident like a hit, I think the technology narrative will be even worse. So I think the bottom line of the stock price is relatively limited. On the other hand, the upper limit of the stock price may not be too high, because the basic interest rate is not enough to control the stock price, let alone the interest rate is still temporary. And the technology trend is destined to be good, so the stock price will not rise too high. If the third quarter is a transition period for Tesla, then the fourth quarter is likely to be the key to determining the fate of the stock price. We still analyze the two lines from the basic surface and the technological narrative. Basically, there are two very important risks in the fourth quarter. The first is the end of the $7,500 subsidy that I just mentioned. The promotion of the third quarter sales is essentially achieved by investing in the fourth quarter in advance. It is known that when the subsidy is over, the sales of cars in the United States will face huge pressure. Another risk comes from the company's cash flow The following picture shows the company's capital and cash flow You can see that Tesla's capital capitalization in the second quarter has reached $2.4 billion It's about $9 billion higher than last quarter At the same time, the company's research and development costs are also high to $1.6 billion And it's still going up There has been a lot of improvements in the past, but they all come with a rich free cash flow to support the company's capital development. But as Tesla's car sales continue to decline, the company's cash flow has begun to become tight. Considering Musk's constant style of technical bias, he probably won't slow down his investment in AI. And now the expected 4G performance will face unprecedented pressure. Once the cash flow is tight, the financial risk will be intensified. This will be a big threat to the stock price. Of course, there are not completely no bright spots on the surface, and these two bright spots are also worth our investors' attention. The first is that the home version of the Chinese market, Model YL, is still worth looking forward to. The second is also more critical, the progress of the cheap version of Model 2. The original Model 2 was planned to be mass-produced in the first half of the year, and it was started to be on the market in the third quarter. But due to the impact of the electric car policy, the management has decided to postpone it to the fourth quarter, to balance the impact of the performance. But whether they can achieve the goal of managing the level of management There are still many variables On the one hand, the specific time of listing is not yet determined No one knows exactly whether the 4G can be sold for a month or three months On the other hand, because the price is far lower than the current model The mass production of Model 2 is likely to be delayed to the profit margin Especially in the early morning, the production capacity will climb the slope Will further pressure the profit So the interview of Model 2 is for the basic surface May be a mixed performance Overall, I think the pressure on the basic surface of the 4th quarter is to be significantly higher than the power. And under the current consumption The 4th quarter sales business may face the greatest downward pressure and even the most severe situation may bring cash flow. So I think the basic surface of the 4th quarter is not optimistic. So what's the situation in the technology market? There are more variables in the technology market of the fourth quarter. We say that the third quarter is a transition period, so many variables are left until the fourth quarter to reveal the answer. First of all, the goal of the year 1000 robots can be reduced by four quarters. More importantly, the scale of the robot taxi is also at an end. The next step of management will be extremely important. The next is the automatic driver software FSD, which will also welcome the most important version. The last important version was released in March last year, V12. The price of the V12 version has quickly pushed the sales of FSD to 25%. It is expected that the next similar version, V14, will be released in the fourth quarter of this year. Musk has mentioned many times that the size of the FSD algorithm will increase tenfold, and the new generation of V14 will be able to predict the behavior of other road users. And with the same online, there is also a hardware computing platform HW5 with a Tesla self-tapping chip. This will also be a very important product update. The online version of V14 will not only bring a sales increase, but also become a key to robotaxi scale. Finally, Optimus, the humanoid robot. At the end of the fourth quarter, according to the plan, Tesla's internal factory will be test-fired to deploy 1,000 Optimus humanoid robots. This is the goal set by Musk at the beginning of this year, and the fourth quarter will also be shared. In addition to these three major business lines, Tesla will also hold an AI Day event in the fourth quarter. If the AI team in the past was still releasing the imagination, then this AI team could be the first time the technology has landed in the field. This year's AI team may be revealing the plans of robotaxi scale-up, FSTV14, HW5.0, humanoid robot commercialization, etc. and even have the opportunity to announce the key milestones of 2026. So you see, there are too many important variables in the fourth quarter of the technology trend. We can't predict the final results of these variables yet. But what can be sure is that the market will be in the risk of falling into the void And the crazy swing between the promises of super-money cash In other words, the fourth quarter of the technology trend will be a double sword. It may be cash plus points or a ten-month deduction Both are very extreme and it is difficult for the third quarter to have such a flat performance. In general, the negative line on the basic surface is very stressful, and the main line of the technology narrative has two levels of division. This is all the situation on the right side of this four-point grid. It can be expected that this year's four-季度将会成为短期内特斯拉股价的一个重要分水嶺。 For investors, the first task is to first clear the investment deadline. In fact, all the content of today's analysis, whether it is the third quarter or the fourth quarter, is just a short-term analysis. In terms of the long-term view, Tesla's most important technological progress is in the dark. Although the car sales are under pressure, there is no collapse in the key elements of industrial status, productivity, product stack and the city of the city. So I think the company's long-term value has not changed. I personally still look at the company's value line. And in the short term, I think the third quarter will be a relatively safe window for Tesla investment. Because as long as there is no black swan risk like the hitman, the company's bottom line is relatively stable. Although the upper limit is not high, there will be some room for growth as long as the technology is not as good as before. The 4th quarter is so critical, and the result is so unclear. The range of the upper and lower limit is not small. So if you are a long-term investor and value the company, I think the 3rd quarter will be a very good layout window. Because even if the 4th quarter is bad, it is only a short-term setback. The scale of Robotaxi and the continuous progress of technology are all in the hands of the master, but only a little bit faster and slower. But once the technological trend is particularly smooth, I'm afraid that the opportunity to plan will become narrower and narrower. This is a little insight from me, but it may not be right to share it for everyone to take as a reference. That's all for the Q2's financial analysis. If you like this kind of analysis, you are welcome to come to my METO PRO. In the absolute tracking version of METO PRO, I made a comprehensive basic interpretation of Tesla's stock. I will analyze every financial report. All its key technologies and businesses, such as autonomous driving, humanoid robots, and super computers, I will make a video to analyze Chinese businesses. I will also give a detailed explanation of any stock market movement and hot spot events. In addition, I will also share company valuation and update investment logic in the investment discussion. If you also own Tesla or want to invest in Tesla, this section can let you fully understand the company's investment logic, track the basic changes in time, and grasp the possible investment opportunities, so that ordinary investors can really invest in peace. Of course, in addition to Tesla, METO PRO has many other follow-ups and a lot of professional video content. Anyway, the first seven days are free to use. You can watch all the content. You can also experience it for free. Thank you all. If you like METO GEN's video, don't forget to like it, follow and forward it. Thank you all.