Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Tuesday, December 2nd. Looks like markets are green. Looks like markets are green. We are getting a little bit of a rebound. We're going to see if this rebound can actually hold, but we are getting a bit of a rebound right here in the pre-markets as we end up going green. Now, yesterday it kind of felt like the markets really wanted to go green. Unfortunately, you had Bitcoin fall from 91 to 83 and that kind of made it hard as Bitcoin is a bit of a risk-on indicator for a lot of these other risk-on assets to go green. But you got Bitcoin right here rebounding from 838 to 87. You had Nvidia breaking 181. It broke 180 yesterday. 181.75 in the pre-markets. That's up 1.09%. You had some companies that have some amazing earnings yesterday like [ __ ] 23%. On the day they beat EPS by like 40%. It was quite incredible to see uh some of these EP EPS beats. And then you had Krdo that's up 15%. So you had some decent earnings yesterday. We have some more earnings today after the bell. Service Now is up. Rocket Lab's up 1.3%. Netflix is up. Apply Digital's up again. Door Dash, this company was up 3% yesterday. An insider bought a hundred million dollars worth of stock, which was quite incredible. You usually don't see those types of insider buys. Amazon up another 1% today. Amazon was at 255 before November, you know, now it's back at 230, fell all the way to 219, maybe comes back to that 250 level by end of year. And then pounder right here is up 1.096%. Hoodie is up 1.5. S&P up 26. So, it definitely does seem like there's a shot for us to go green today. Get some of that momentum that we had last week uh from Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. question is going to be are the headlines strong enough uh and is the essentially rate cut expectations going to be enough that gets the market to still feel we have a shot. We are now at 87.4% on rate cut probabilities. Uh this number was 86.7 yesterday. It's the highest it's been in weeks. So the fact that it's up even 1% from yesterday I think is signaling to the market there should be a good shot for that rate cut. And you know the Japanese bond yields we talked about it yesterday. Although I think it's an issue, I don't know if it's like a structural issue that fundamentally ruins the basis for us to have um a rally towards the end of the year and maybe that's how the market is kind of pricing that in right now. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. We have a bunch of different headlines this morning that I think are really, really interesting. Um Michael Dell is donating $6.25 billion to the Invest America Act. And we'll talk about kind of what happened uh with Invest America. For those that don't know, this is basically a policy in the big beautiful bill that Brad Gersonner kind of ushered through, CEO of Ultimate Capital that gives $1,000 to every newborn child uh in America and directly puts it into the S&P 500. I love the initiative. The fact that it was a bipartisanship uh agreement I thought was incredible. You know, like it's hard for Democrats, Republicans to everything, but like our kids knowing that they have a little bit of Nvidia, a little bit of Amazon, and that being a motivating factor to get them to learn about financial literacy is a very big deal. So, we got that update. We'll talk about uh we have official Black Friday analytics and it's pretty damn incredible across Shopify, Walmart, and then the overall aggreate uh Black Fi Friday, Cyber Monday. Let me know in the chat if anyone bought anything for Cyber Monday, but we have a lot of numbers to look at. And it's quite incredible if you make the argument that the consumer is devastated. The consumer is probably weak, but looking at these Black Friday numbers, if unless all of it's on credit cards, it doesn't feel like it's that weak. So, we'll talk about that as well. Uh, and then we have some geopolitical updates. Got a lot of stuff happening in Venezuela. Again, I'm still not fully up to date on this story, but Trump spent time last night tweeting a lot of stuff about it. So, we'll go through it and see if it has any other implications towards the towards the end of the year. All right, let's get started. Thank everybody for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Second day of December and dude, we have what, basically 30 days left, 29 days left of the year. It's kind of I still don't believe that we are getting towards the end of 2026 but or 2025 but it's happening and uh you know hopefully we have a good run to end it but the fact that we are just ending out this year and getting into 2026 is is crazy to me for the next three weeks it will indeed be happening. Yes, Trump is also making an announcement at 2 p.m. I have no idea what this is about. By the way, JPL said nothing yesterday for those that were wondering. JPAL I mean from my understanding I didn't see any headlines, any quotes, anything specific. So, uh, nothing that necessarily moved the markets from what JPL said, but yeah, Trump is making an announcement. I don't know if it's about the Invest America thing. Maybe it is, maybe it's not. Feel like it's something else, but, uh, if it is, then we kind of already know what it is. So, let's start off with that story. This is Michael Dell and his wife, uh, on this Vest America project, and then we'll get Brad Gersonner's take on why they ended up officially doing this. This is really exciting.
>> Absolutely. It's a very special moment. We're making a $6.25 billion investment in America's kids through our charitable funds.
>> Next year, every American child will be able to get an investment account powered by Invest America.
>> We've seen what happens when a child gets even a small financial head start. Their world expands.
>> The real power of these accounts is that anyone can contribute. Parents, relatives, friends, everyone can help shape a child's future.
>> To philanthropists, companies, community leaders, if you want to be part of something truly meaningful for our kids, for our communities, for our country, join us.
>> And to parents, and caregivers, stay tuned and get ready to activate your child's account. Every contribution can grow over the years just like your child. Together, we can make possibility something every child can count on.
>> And that's a future worth investing in.
>> Can you guys Can you Can you guys This why we're the best chat on YouTube, but it's also like, dude, I knew when I played that video, I had a little bit of faith. A little bit of faith that we would just focus on the invest. like I like a tiny sliver of faith, but I also knew when I played that video, I knew what we were setting up for. It's just I had a little bit of faith in the morning cuz I had the same reaction you guys had. Don't get me wrong, I have the I was like, "What the?" But it's about the kids. It's about the kids and I thought you guys would care about the kids, but I guess not. I guess not. Anyway, here's Brad Gersonner about uh about this announcement.
>> Fix things. Give money to the people who need it. How do you then give them the tools to understand that if I continue to invest in this, if I continue to put money aside, save instead of spend, this is where I wind up.
>> Well, the place you start is they actually need to be able to open their phone and see that they have a little skin in the game. Right? If you don't have anything and your parents don't have anything, it's hard to get excited about learning about financial literacy, stocks, etc. Now, everybody's going to have that. 30 states already require a semester of financial literacy. I expect and you will hear some announcements in the months ahead about efforts at the state level financial literacy threaded in public education because now the teacher can say open up your phone open up your invest America account let's talk about how those stock what it means to own a stock let's talk about the compounding let's talk about what it would do if you added another 20 bucks a month to that account so I think it gives us a platform for literacy and education around finances that we desperately need in the country
>> dude I love it I I genuinely love it. I mean, when Brad introduced this idea, uh, I think it was like a year ago and then he got it passed through the big beautiful bill, I thought it was a phenomenal concept and um, I don't know. I I think it makes a lot of sense. You need to have skin in the game. I think all of us understood that once we had even a dollar of a stock uh, which for me literally was like a dollar of a fractional share of a company um, back in 2018, I felt like, wow, I I own part of this. like you know you know Steve Steve was pitching SL Green which is one of the largest commercial property reats in Manhattan and I was when I was in New York on on Saturday and I was walking through the city and I saw a building that that said uh governed by SLG. I don't own SLG but I just thought in that moment if I did own it I'll be like I own a part of that building. This big building fancy building that probably charges hundreds of millions of dollars a year for rent from all the commercial tenants inside of the the heart of the city. I own a piece of it. Even if I own $50 of it, I own part of it. And that is just unbelievably empowering as a paradigmatic and philosophical concept. And then if you understand the technicalities of how to analyze a business, it becomes very empowering. So the fact that we are starting this off, I mean, I can't believe we haven't done this earlier than now. But the fact that it's happening, it's only three billion bucks a year. I mean, that's nothing. We spend more on, you know, renovating parts of the White House. So like, the fact that we're doing this, I think, is going to be very important. and every kid for the next 5 years and hopefully this continues to extend is going to get those thousands and see the power of compounding. Netflix right there that's up in the pre-markets. Uh Netflix submitted a bid for Warner Brothers Discovery uh yesterday. They had a second round of negotiations. So Warner Brothers, for those that don't know, is one of the five top performing stocks in the S&P 500 this year. They did not put up the earnings to get that ro uh sort of like uh stage for them. you know, they did not they don't get to be in the top five because of earnings, but it's just that people think they're going to get bought out. So, Netflix now offering even more cash than they did in the first round of the bid and we're gonna see if they end up getting HBO Max. Even if they do, I think there's definitely going to be some regulatory hurdles for them to overcome because that's a lot of content consolidating one place. But then again, like it's it's a bit of a winner takes all market. So, we're going to see what happens with Netflix. Oracle right there, that's up 2% and then Nvidia is up 1% as well. So, not only did Brad Gersonner talk about his thoughts on just Invest America, but he also gave some thoughts on the market. Again, he is heavy on this AI trade. Here is what he had to say about where the state of the markets are as well.
>> Tell you why.
>> We're coming up on the third anniversary of Chat GPT. We've come a long way fast. Um, you know, you've seen Nvidia add almost $200 billion dollars of revenue in the last three years.
>> Truly extraordinary transformational phase shift. uh super cycle going on in our economy. It added 100 basis points to GDP this year, but remember this year we had two 25% draw downs in Nvidia. It hit 90 bucks earlier in the year on the deepseek scare, right?
>> Right. And so there's going to be volatility when you're early in these phase shifts, right? That's that wall of worry prevents the bubble that everybody's worried about. And when you look at the multiples today, take Nvidia for example. I think it's trading at 23 24 times fully taxed earnings on next year's numbers. 18 times on 27 numbers. That is not the stuff that bubbles are made of, right? I think the rest of the mag 7 all trades somewhere between 25 and 30 times. Um maybe meta is at 21 times uh earnings. So to me, taking a little of the gas out, having some of these uh uh you know, conversations and debate very healthy. Um, and what I see out there right now is a tremendous amount of progress on the model side, but I think the diffusion, how the rate at which this transforms lives, both consumer lives and enterprise, that takes time. Um, and that's what we're seeing play out. We're seeing the debates about Nvidia versus Broadcom, Google versus OpenAI.
>> Well, yes, and that's what I was going to get to. Is the new version of Gemini better than ChatgPT?
>> It's terrific. It's terrific. Remember a year ago we were counting uh you know Google out of the equation. I've said on Twitter and otherwise we own Google. Yeah. Um I've said it's very difficult to pick a winner here. So you can own them all. You can own OpenAI and Enthropic. You can own Google uh and and Microsoft. Um and I think at this phase you know you probably should do that. I think Google's done an incredible job. Remember a year ago Satcha was saying you know we're making Google dance. I think Sundar is making people do a little dancing today. Um, and so that is that's part of the competitive dynamic that I think is great for the country. It's what's going to keep us on the leading edge.
>> That that's great for the technology spending. There are a lot of questions about what this means for the business world too for enterprise. Um, yesterday Jensen Wong was on SWAT on the street with Jim Kramer talking a little bit about that deal that they did with Synopsis. That was pretty interesting to hear how it's got to be able to be used by these big industrial companies to be able to really make the next steps. And Jensen made the point that I thought was really interesting that 90% accuracy is okay if you're dealing with consumers. It is not okay if you're in any of these big enterprise issues.
>> That's right. That's right. Think about it this way. The machine that builds the machine, right? That's really what he's talking about. We saw that with Tesla and Elon, right? Elon used to talk about we can't get to where we need to get to with electric cars until we first build the machine, right? A totally new way to manufacture cars that can drive down the cost. And that's what you see Jensen talking about, for example, in the design of chips, right? That you really imbue the entire industrial economy with AI. And all of those benefits lie before us. I think we're going we're heading into a very significant productivity boom. I've talked about the golden age of margin expansion for a lot of industrial and other companies in America that can simply do more with less. Our economy is going to see that productivity tailwind. Um, and you know, but it's never a straight line up and to the right, Becky. And so I think for people who are watching it, you know, you you've got to anticipate we're going to have volatility. I remember early in the internet super cycle, Google would be up five or 10% a day. Early in the remember when Facebook went public, right? And then it it broke seven it broke $20 a share. Yeah, right. It broke issuance because everybody was worried could they possibly monetize on these mobile devices. When you're early in these super cycles, there's a lot of questions and that's where we are today.
>> You're talking about the winners that came out of that. There was a lot of volatility in Pets.com too. And by the way, those companies went bust
>> and there are going to be companies in this cycle that go bust. There are a thousand companies in Silicon Valley valued over a billion dollars that are trying to raise money. It's not going to be equally easy for all of them, right? But I think that's part of the process of creative destruction, right? It's okay that you know that some companies aren't going to make it.
>> We talked earlier this morning about some comments from Masasan who said that he didn't want to sell his entire Nvidia stake, but he had to in order to be able to put it into OpenAI. You've got bids on bets on both of those companies. Yes. What do you think about that?
>> I wish my bet in OpenAI was as big as MASS, but you know, you
>> would you sacrifice your Nvidia bet for it?
>> No. Like I like I said, Nvidia has been an extraordinary winner. We invested in Nvidia in December of 22, right after we saw Chat GBT. The stocks up over 10 10 times uh 10x over that period of time as the revenue went from roughly $30 billion a year to over $200 billion a year. And they just told us that we should expect a run rate by the end of next year of hundred billion. And this is at the same time that Broadcom is doing extraordinarily well. What Hocktan has done partnering with Google to build out TPU7 is extraordinary. That's going to force Nvidia to be even better. So I think we've seen a lot of a lot of winners and you can see from the logos that Alttimeter owns. Our choice has been really to own a lot of the best names that are benefiting from this super cycle.
>> So that's Brad Gersonner on the markets. I mean he continues to be consistent with his theme of owning the hyperscalers and the broad sector winners. Nvidia right there getting a little bit of love. 18230. This bad boy should be at 200. I think at least 195 at least 197 where it was at after earnings. And that would still put it at a relatively healthy multiple going into um 2026. Now again, Jensen with that synopsis deal yesterday I thought was really important. Brad ech echoing the statements that Nvidia is going to continue to grow and not only just grow but they're growing at a rate where they can't grow fast enough to match with the demand which is the biggest thing that Morgan Stanley said yesterday. So Morgan Stanley did a report for their clients yesterday for their Asia customers or from their Asia contacts that buy Nvidia chips and they said we believe the customer's biggest anxiety for the next 12 months is their ability to procure enough Nvidia product generally and Vera Rubin specifically and then they said we continue to have an unwavering belief that Nvidia will have the best economics for most applications. Essentially, the market's worrying about a bubble and Morgan Stanley's like, "Dude, when we talk to customers, they're not worried about a bubble. They're worried about just getting the chips because they know how hard it is because of the backlog that Nvidia has." And as a result, you're seeing Nvidia kind of get some more momentum in the pre-markets as the markets potentially are calming down the fears of an AI bubble. AMD, which fell from 260 all the way to 185. Look at that, 223. That's up 1.47% of the pre-market. So, it was a pretty decent dip at that 190 range. Nebius at 100 and the pre-market's 101. That was up 6% yesterday. Iran, are they still down? Iran's down 4%. They did two billion of convertible notes, a billion for 2031, a billion for 2032. Um, I don't think it's that big of a deal. I don't know all the nuances of Iran, but like they're going to dilute. These are very, so is Nebia, so is Corwe. Like, these are very capital intensive businesses. So, I don't think the market should be that upset about it, but that's why I is down 4.5%. And then Corwe right here, that's up 1.48% 48% as well in the pre-market. Celsius is flat. Big Bear AI, haven't looked at that in a bit. Big Bear is up 1.65%. That was down four and a half% yesterday. What you're seeing here is a divergence between a lot of the high beta names like a Big Bear AI that got up to like 8 850. That's not easily getting back there again. Same thing with Hood not easily getting back to 150. Pounder not easily getting back to 200. Tesla not easily getting back to 460. And so you're seeing some of these names kind of recover their momentum. And I wonder, you know, when Tesla does get back to 460 or AMD does get back to 260, does a big bear get back to 850? Does uh a quant a QBTS, right? Quantum got hit yesterday. It's up 2% right here. It was down 5% yesterday. Does that get back to 40 at the all-time highs? When certain stocks make their all-time highs, do some of these other names, is an Oaklo ever get back to, you know, 198. And if that doesn't happen, I think that's the market just saying we needed a flush out. We had a lot of things that were running. Uh a lot of those runs didn't make a ton of sense. When you looked at the earnings growth, we flushed everything out, which was painful for all of us, even if you own some of the most important companies and not just the pure high beta names. And those companies theoretically should come back because their earnings matches their multiple whereas some of these other names might not have the firepower to come back, which is okay. And you know, I don't think that's necessarily the most unhealthy thing for the market. BMR, right, they're up 5.39% as Ethereum rebounds a little bit. And then Micro Strategy up 2.38% as well in the pre-markets. ETH right there at 2,800, bouncing from 2700. So I think what Brad is saying on the tech trade uh is making sense and the argument around uh the data center buildout that he's making continues to be really really excited. I mean take a look at a couple of charts right here just on the concept of data centers. You've had a lot more analysis done as well. This is from A16Z AI data center capacity. As you can see right here you have gas, nuclear, renewables, grid, hydrogen and geothermal. In the United States data centers are getting really big really quickly specifically from using natural gas. And obviously we're going to want to use a lot of other different sources of energy, but that is one that's becoming very strong. Morgan Stanley put out another report this morning as well. They think that most of the gap gets bridged, the gap between energy and the ability to actually get these data centers online uh by time to power solutions rather than the normal grid Q. Bloom Energy was mentioned in the report and that's a name that has done very well this year. And basically they're saying generative AI needs about 72 gawatts of power in the next three years. You have about 10 gigawatts that are covered right now, but you have 47 that are not covered. You need a lot of momentum for it. Again, that's just going to take a lot of investment, a lot of infrastructure, a lot of buildout. You had a Wall Street Journal piece yesterday saying that construction jobs are starting to come back at a massive pace and the reason for those jobs coming back is because to build out data centers, you need a lot of workers and we don't have humanoid robots yet to build out the data center. So, I mean, you do have some pretty strong economic forces just on this data center uh argument. There's another chart right here saying that gigawatt scale data centers can likely be built in two years or less. Again, that would take a lot of jobs to be able to make it happen. And if that's the case, Nvidia, Nabius, a lot of these names associated with the trade probably still end up being some of the some of the better names even in the midst of concerns of an AI bubble. And Brad Gerson was also right that you need those concerns. Like you really need those people being so scared of an AI bubble to get things to go higher because if everyone was euphoric in video, it would be $300 right now. But it's not because everyone is not euphoric and you have people taking the other side of that argument. Uh we have some AMD updates right here. AMD has announced an expanded partnership with HP to develop the next generation of open scalable AI infrastructure. HP will be one of the first providers of the new AMD rack scale. And then AMD delivery of Herder is scheduled for the second half of 2027.
>> Okay, that also probably explains why AMD is getting some love right here in the pre-markets. AMD now up 1.3% 223 as well. Robin did announce ISAs are going to be coming January 26 to the UK. So for all the Brits out there that have been holding off because Robinet didn't offer an ISA. Uh looks like they are getting that done and that's going to be very exciting. The other big announcement uh yesterday from Robin is that prediction markets have now exceeded 9.5 billion contracts, three billion alone in October or sorry in November uh which is up 20% from October. Uh, and they're having a new event on December 16th. It's going to be online and it's going to cover AI and prediction markets. We thought it was just going to be an AI event, but it's actually AI and prediction markets. So, it seems like they're taking prediction markets very seriously. The growth is obviously incredibly rapid. And if crypto volatility is bad next year, and we don't have a crypto run, there's another source of revenue now that can maybe offset that with prediction markets. It's not going to fully offset it, but at least to an extent it will. And if it keeps growing, it might fully offset it, which is very exciting. So it does seem like you're getting more and more momentum on Hood based on uh based on those prediction markets. Where is banking? That's a good question. I think banking they are taking their time with rolling it out effectively going into next year. They they've had a lot of people sign up in the beta, but I think that'll be one of their growth curves for 2026 is just people immediately direct depositing into Robin Hood's Bank. Might take some time to get there, but um I do think that that is a tailwind for 2026. And they probably didn't need to rush to get it out in 2025 cuz like if they want to make the product the best they don't need to rush it out to hit their numbers just given their numbers are already strong and they can have that be an additional tailwind for 2026. A man I saw your interview with Mike Noatrat of Galaxy. Do you think the correction Galaxy is an opportunity? I have not really dived deep into Galaxy. I will say that when he was on the show, he said to be very careful of any Bitcoin miner that is turned into an AI HPC play uh simply for the reason that you have to trust management because if management sucks and you know they kind of dilute like crazy or they don't have your best interest in mind, that could be an issue. I don't know why it's corrected that deeply. It kind of seems to me it was in that bucket of high beta plays that got hit pretty bad. And so it's hard to buy this one over some of the other ones just because I think some of the other ones have a little bit more diversification to their business models uh and are a bit more effective, but they're all going to move in tandem. So, uh if IN goes to like 60, Galaxy is probably going back to 30. But if that doesn't happen, then you know these names are stuck. So I think it would be really a question of which one do you trust? Which one do you think has the best capacity? Which one do you think has the most amount of land? And then which one won't dilute enough to kind of hurt the shareholder returns. Bitcoin 88,000. There you go. Bitcoin 88,000. All right, getting some more momentum here. Uh, Venezuela update on Venezuela. So, Trump tweeted a lot of stuff over the night on Venezuela, including like some AI videos of Maduro. Let's get an update on what happened with Venezuela and then we'll talk about some of the implications of that as well
>> against US Customs and Border Protection. Costco said it has to act now because it's facing a December.
>> This is actually the the tariff update, but we'll talk more about Venezuela in a bit. But this is also really important and potentially implicates Venezuela. So Costco is suing the Trump administration about tariffs and we're going to get the Supreme Court deal on tariffs probably by the end of this month as well.
>> 15th deadline for a final tar tally of its tariffs this year and that customs has already denied Costco's request for an extension given that these tariffs are being litigated in the Supreme Court right now. So, the company also says that firms that paid these tariffs under the law in question are not necessarily going to be granted refunds unless they take independent action against the government, which is why they're doing this. Costco is asking the US Court of International Trade for a declaration that collecting tariffs under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as the Trump administration has done in many cases, is actually illegal. and the company wants an injunction blocking further duties as well as a full refund of all tariffs paid under the statute this year. Although importantly here, Costco does not reveal how much these tariffs have cost the company so far. A White House spokesman said yesterday, "The economic consequences of the failure to uphold President Trump's lawful tariffs are enormous, and this suit highlights that fact." The White House looks forward to the Supreme Court's speedy and proper resolution of this matter. Dozens of other companies have filed similar lawsuits. Remember, President Trump invoked the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to impose many of his tariffs earlier this year. But in August, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld a prior decision that found that Trump did not have that power under the law. The Supreme Court has agreed to take up the case, but it's not clear when a decision might come down, guys. So, it could be any day. And you've seen the president posting about this again and again on social media, hammering home just how important he thinks a resolution in his favor would be.
>> Aean, do you get the sense that other big companies are going to join this lawsuit as a result of Costco kind of stepping up? I I always wondered if they weren't joining it because they didn't really want to stick their heads up and risk the drawing the eyeire of the administration. Yeah, we've seen some companies file suits here. Revlon is one of the biggest that's already taken action. A lot of smaller names though, to be honest, given the scale of the impact of these tariffs. I think you're right. I think a lot of companies have been reluctant to go this far in opposing the administration. But as Costco said in their filing, they're facing this December 15th deadline and so that kind of forced their hand.
>> Okay. Amen. Thank you.
>> You bet.
>> All right. So, that was the tariff update. The Venezuela update was just I wanted to show I'm not going to play the video, but I was just going to show a screenshot of Trump tweeting these AI videos. The caption here is Venezuelan president just publicly surrendered to Trump. It's not necessarily a real video, but nonetheless, the the Venezuela conflict along with the tariff conflict continues to be heating up. And I think it's something we have to keep an eye on because again, oil prices are in a very nice spot below 60. And if we keep them below 60, then inflation is not going to be that much of an issue. Look at that. They're down actually on the day 595. OPEC uh came out with a statement yesterday saying that they will continue to produce or have outputs of oil that are not going to be inconsistent with what the United States wants and uh you know MBS probably making sure that that Trump is happy with oil production. But if we were to get into a legitimate conflict around drugs and Venezuela, that would be bad for oil prices. Number two, if the Supreme Court overturns the Trump administration policy on tariffs, which again, I think the only reason Costco's even willing to sue the administration, because again, Costco is basically, you know, going to war with the administration on this tariff thing and potentially encouraging other companies to do it, is because they think the Supreme Court's going to reverse it anyway. So you have two kind of narratives from a Venezuela perspective which would be bad for oil and then from a Trump tariff perspective that could potentially be good for the markets because I don't think the market ever liked tariffs but be counterintuitive for Trump's negotiations that all were contingent on tariffs as the lynch pin to get uh Europe for example to buy 750 billion of natural gas like a lot of those end up in question now are those enough to create more bearish sentiment in the market? No. I think it creates more uncertainty and confusion which could lead to uh some bearishness. But the Fed cutting rates and the earning cycle I think is enough to overpower it. And at the end of the day, I don't know if the market loves tariffs and maybe they're going to be happier than not if there's a way to get rid of tariffs. The counter to this is Trump has also said and basic said they have plenty of loopholes legally to go through to be able to counteract the Supreme Court decision. Not entirely, but to an extent. So there's a world in which those tariffs continue to to stay on. Yes, we also have a quote from Zalinski speaking of geopolitics. He says, "Better chances now than ever to end the war." He got an updated proposal from the administration um yesterday. And this one, I don't know what exactly the Trump administration changed in this one, but whatever this one was, it it got Zolinsky to be a lot more excited about what this one looks like. He's currently um meeting right here with in Ireland today, this morning. uh Zillinsky, not Trump. So, I mean, maybe there is a shot that by the end of the year, this thing at least has a framework for resolution. If not, then we're going to see how this plays out going into 2026. Triple V, thank you for being here. Thank you for the super chat again. Had a great great dinner with TripleV over the Thanksgiving break. Uh, I showed you guys I think Steve told you guys on his stream yesterday. A lot of you guys didn't believe that I legit ate this steak. Still still alive right here, but I ate it. Steve confirmed yesterday on his stream that he saw me devour this thing. Think I'm legit a medium rare type of guy. Even though this is not medium rare, bro. This is This is whatever comes before medium rare. This This is aggressive. I did not think I would eat it, but I did. So, thank you to Triple V for ordering rare, not medium rare, porter houses for the table, and I just dived in. So, I thought medium was the best. I thought medium well was the best, but I guess sometimes you got to try new things in life. And your boy's now a uh a medium rare guy. So, that steak was talking to a mid. It still had a pulse. Honestly, I just didn't care. I just went for it. And I liked it. Maybe I I guess like if you eat enough steaks eventually you're going to like try different types of steaks and you know the ones that you think you wouldn't like if you discover sort of like a like a taste for the food itself. It ends up becoming part of your your repertoire and I guess that's what happened with uh with this steak over the weekend. So it was good. It was a great dinner. Super fun and very very happy we got to connect again. All right so Black Friday, what happened? Walmart's Black Friday. These numbers are kind of crazy. 57% more orders from stores on Black Friday this year than last year. 44% more orders delivered in under three hours. The fastest delivery on Black Friday arrived in just 10 minutes. It was a a Shark Steam and Scrub Mop to a customer in West Valley City, Utah. Uh AirPods generation 4 and the 55 inch high sense 4K TV were some of the largest sellers for uh Walmart and Walmart marketplace set a new single day conversion record with PlayStation 5s and Laboos apparently flying off virtual shelves. There you go. You got Steve in the chat confirming that your boy definitely housed the uh the porter house. But uh Black Friday sales were incredible. I mean just incredible. So you're seeing the Walmart numbers right here. We're going to get the Amazon numbers probably a little bit later today. Uh they did say that Rufus, their LLM, was helping them s in a sophisticated way really influence customer decisions. And then we saw the the Shopify numbers where we had 25% year-over-year earnings, not earnings growth, sales growth, 6.2 billion and 32 million requests per second for Shopify's API. I mean, these are just incredible numbers. We're going to have an earnings today uh around the retailer stocks. Let me make sure which one it is. Uh last week it was Abberrombi the week then it was urban outfitters today it's going to be oh American Eagle after the bell we have American evil Marll which Marll's acquiring another company we'll talk about that in a bit crowds right GitLab and Octa today so we have a lot of companies after the bell that we'll talk about we'll also have technical Tuesday but these retailer names are are are showing up and retail sales were good last week XRT having the best day retailer ETF in five months I mean I don't know I feel like we're challenging this consumers week narrative and it's important important to challenge that narrative. If you have the data that shows that maybe the consumer is not as weak as we think. Now, if it's all just happening on credit cards or buy now pay later, then I guess we'll eventually see what that data looks like. But it might be happening in a more substantial way because consumers potentially have more disposable income, which again is at odds with the argument that the labor market is super weak. Like you should not be and it's not that we can't have year-over-year growth. We are having exceptional doubledigit year-over-year growth in aggregate uh Black Friday sales. Even uh Adobe Analytics came out today and they said uh 44.2 billion was spent during the 5day Thanksgiving shopping period, which is a record over these 5 days. So, it it just it just feels like there's a lot more momentum and growth in the consumer, and that's not necessarily the the worst thing in the world. Uh Ford, we got an update right here. Ford Motor November US electric vehicle sales down 61%. That shouldn't be too much of a surprise. Ford's not necessarily the best at selling EVs. That stock slightly flat in the pre-market. It was down 1% today. Ford is having one of its best years in a long time, just given the Ford F-150 is selling like crazy, but the electric vehicles are not selling as well for Ford. Um, New Bank, that one is also green. That one hit all-time highs. Are we still at 17? Wow. 1787. Shout out to Tanner. He's been buying this thing since two bucks. Not two bucks, three bucks, three, four bucks. Uh he was buying at the same time he was buying SoFi and you know I think SoFi was like seven, eight bucks at the time. So this one has really outperformed just a monster in Latin America, specifically Brazil and it continues to gain more momentum. Um Paul Atkins, CE SEC chair, he was on CNBC. Let's take a look at what he had to say today and then we will keep going from there. you've ever had a boat and have barnacles on the hole, you know, it's time to scrape off those barnacles and make our ship be able to sail, you know, quickly through the waters. And so, um, that's what we're setting out to do with the SEC. And they're basically three things that we're looking at to try to make IPOs great again. One is to modernize our rule book to make sure that our regulations are fit for purpose uh to help small companies and large companies uh attract capital. Second is to look at our litigation situation uh you know with respect to you know the strike suits and and other sorts of frivolous um actions that really impede I think uh you know people from wanting to be public and then finally the corporate governance uh issues that you were alluding to um where we have uh things that take so much time various preparatory proposals and and whatnot that are um you know that that really don't uh get adopted by shareholders and create, I think, more noise and are weaponized by particular um special interest groups and that sort of thing. So, we need to get back to basics, make sure that our rule book is fit for purpose and helping to make our capital markets as efficient and and growing as possible.
>> So, I think the takeaway from Paul Atkins as he's talking about making IPOs great again is that he is going to do whatever it takes to continue getting the market to be in a strong position. Now, the the big mystery is are we still going to get quarterly earnings calls next year? Uh the SEC did propose that we would have them only two times a year. Hopefully, that proposal is not taken that seriously and they kind of just forget about it and, you know, maybe say, "Oh, maybe that's not the best idea." But if they do take it seriously, that could be a major change for 2026. I don't think it's likely. If it were to happen, I think it would be 2027 at the earliest because that's a big change for companies. I mean, companies pay a lot of money, especially like Google, Amazon to their accounting firms to be able to make sure that, you know, their earnings are updated and every single syllable they utter on earnings is going to be audited and they need to, you know, say accurate things for the public market. So, in order for that to be the case, if they would have to switch the entire way they've been doing earnings calls for the past 20 years to be able to fit some new requirement, I do think it would be it would take a little bit of time. By the way, ASML getting back to all-time highs in the pre-market as well. And it wouldn't be the easiest transition. Now, maybe it's super easy and I'm overestimating it, but I think it would take a year for every company to readjust how they think of their earning cycle. And hopefully that happens in 2027. Selfishly, I like the quarterly earnings because every 90 days we get an update. But we're going to have to see how that ends up playing out. Boeing is up because they put out some statements in the morning saying that their transition from last year has been going really well. Boeing up 6.3% right here. Remember last year they had strikes. They had multiple airplanes that ended up getting into crashes. And it was just a bad year for 2024 in Boeing's stock. And so you've started to see a lot more of a change. They're still losing money, but it's starting to be less in terms of losses. Airbus, unfortunately, was down 9% yesterday as they had some technical difficulties in a fleet of different planes. So you have Boeing, that's up and Airbus, that's down. Rock Lab, that's up 1.3%. Beyond Meat was up 40% yesterday. I don't know why, but it was. It's up another 7% today. So, maybe it's a short squeezing a little bit. Pounder, that's up 1.3. VG, that's up 1.6. Uh, and then Ethereum right there at 2850. That is up on the day. Hopefully, we can try to get back to that $3,000 level. uh as well. Shopify was down 7% yesterday because it got hit on a outage, but to me that just shows there was a lot of demand. Shopify now up 3% in the pre-markets as well. Let's do the red or green poll. I think we forgot to do this yesterday, but let's do this poll and see what people are thinking as we get into the second day of December. Green or red today? Yeah, Trump is talking at uh 2 PM again. I think it's about Invest America. Um, so if it is, then I don't think it's going to be the biggest announcement because we already know what it is. Um, also people that are saying Bur is short Tesla, uh, I don't think that's confirmed. Uh, there's a fortune headline this morning saying Bur short Tesla. Uh, but from Bur Substack, he never said he was short. He just said Tesla's ridiculously overvalued. So I think a lot of these accounts that are saying Bur short Tesla like it's not I mean he has not for my understanding officially come out and said that he's short Tesla. We know that he has puts on pound train and video. I mean maybe he ends up being short Tesla but we're going to see again I I think that um I think you know the psychoanalysis on Bur that that we talked about last time like yesterday he posted a letter from 2008 that he said it's actually a really good letter. It's a letter that he posted from 2008 once the market had crashed and he was showing his he was telling his investors it's time to buy. This was October 2008. This was like either this was the bottom or I think February 2009 was the bottom, but this is awfully close to the bottom. And it's a really well-written letter where he says it's time to buy. It's like the, you know, the markets crashed and these are the moments where you take advantage of opportunities. Um, and so, you know, he's kind of reliving the days of 2008 when he was the guy who made it and, you know, the person who called everything. I think he really wants to experience that again. I think he really really really wants to experience that feeling again. Um there there's this line by uh American philosopher rapper Drake. Actually, he's Canadian as well. So Canadian, this is this is this is one of the reasons I I I love Canada. Got you got Drake from there who like I think I'm like I'm at least I think a top five Drake fan on the planet. But but but he said uh sometimes I would like to go back in life not to redo things but to experience them twice. And so and that's a very profound line when you think about it because a lot of people have regrets in life that they want to go back and redo certain things in their life so that they can change the trajectory of how their life turned out. You have this Canadian philosopher coming out saying I don't want to go back to redo it. I want to go back to relive the experience and feel it twice. And I think I I I think that's what Bur is going through right now. I think he wants to relive being on top of the world or I should say on top of the island and you're the only person on that island for years until everyone realizes that you know you own the island essentially because you were right about everything and he wants to be back in the glory days. And I I just don't know if picking a fight with the the revolution of AI is the right way to do it. But like what what other time would you like everyone is like it's not everyone is bullish as for the past couple of weeks dealing with this whole AI bubble narrative. But you could argue that the majority of the world is bullish on AI and you could argue that a bunch of these AI stocks theoretically are very expensive. Um and you don't believe they're going to grow into their valuations. You don't believe the data center buildout thing is real. yada yada. Like there's not been a better opportunity to be publicly bearish against an entire complex infrastructure ecosystem of an idea other than now because there's never been an idea so big outside of the internet which Bur correctly was you know bearish at the top of the do bubble as well and so now the question is is it going to be right here and maybe maybe not but like I think he's thinking this is the opportunity to reclaim the love that he had back in 2008. And that's why I think he's getting so aggressive here. The depreciation argument, again, I I I've started to look into I really think the depreci depreciation argument is stupid. Like, I really do not think that's a meaningful argument. So, I don't think that's going to be the one that gets him there. Maybe there's something else. Now, he's talking about Nvidia stockbased compensation. I'm like, I don't I don't know. I don't think those are the best arguments. By the way, for those that missed it, this was Jensen. We got two minutes until the market opens yesterday addressing the concerns of Google and TPUs. You know, listen, we've been uh we've been competing with AS6 now for quite a long time and Google has A6 for a long time. Nvidia's Nvidia and they did a great job as you know and I've always been complimentary
>> always.
>> What NVIDIA does is much more versatile. Our technology is much more funible. Notice the announcement today. Accelerating synopsis design tools, the EDA, the SDA, the CAE tools requires a computer architecture like CUDA. It's not available for AS6. And so NVIDIA can address markets that are much much broader, not just chat bots. We are also everywhere. We're in every cloud. We're in every single OEM. We're on prem and we're also at the edge. And so the NVIDIA opportunity is much much larger. And you're now seeing a real tangible experience example of an opportunity that we could do with our platform that nobody else can. And so this is a very big opportunity for us. Huge opportunity to re
>> Jensen's bullish and he's not being disrespectful to Google. Rather, he's just saying, "Hey, there's an opportunity for everyone to succeed." 9:30 a.m. Tuesday, December 2nd. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Big Bear AI, that's up 1%. DWave, that's up half a percent. Nebas, that's up. 0.25. Nvidia 182 breaks through on the day. Let's see if it can hold the 180s, but that is green. Service Now, that's green. Rocket Lab, that's green. They're not big green candles to be honest. Some of these are bigger. A lot of these others are like 34.54%. So even AMD 34. So you're not seeing a massive massive green open, but you are seeing a green open which is good. Grab right there is up.17. Shopify is up 2%. Pounder breaking 170 for the first time in a while. Pounder right there 170.8. So pounder getting some momentum. That is up 2%. Intel 40.16 that's up.37%. Galaxy's up 2%. Micron's flat on the day. UNH is flat on the day. Um Zcaler that's up about43%. IWM actually having one of its best years in a while. Small caps up.57% I think if the Fed is cutting. By the way, quantitative tightening stopped yesterday. The Fed is going to start buying mortgage back securities instead of selling them, which just means a lot more liquidity is going to be entering into the system, which is net bullish for companies that need that liquidity like small cap. So maybe this could be a bit of the tra I mean it's been the trade for the past year but maybe this could continue into 2026. 247 on IWM that's up half a percent. Dell's up 2.2%. Lyft is up 2%. Lyft talked about how Amazon AWS AI services are really enhancing along with Anthropic uh some of their productivity yesterday especially when it comes to rider fleet management. So you got lift right there that's up 2% as their free cash flow margins continue to improve potentially due to AI. Rocket companies that's up a little bit. Amazon is green. Are we holding 236? We are holding 234. We're actually not red, but we are down from that 236 level. Pounder 171. Look at that. Pouncer really making a move right here. Is Nvidia continuing? Nvidia. Okay, I'm kind of convinced Perv and move with each other. Pounder 172, Nvidia 183. I really am kind of convinced, dude. On the days where they're flat, they're both flat. On the days they're red, they're both red. And on the days they're green, they're both really green. Both of them up almost two and a half% on the day as you're getting some of that momentum. Boeing's up 6%. New bank is up. Iran is down 8% because of the dilution. If you are in Iran, you've got to be able to deal with dilution. Same thing for the other data center plays. So, I don't think it's that big of a deal unless there's something in the convertible notes that are like sketchy. And so, if anyone's really analyzed them, let me know. But, I don't think there's anything that crazy outside of what they said on the earnings call. Robin Hood 126, that's up 2.3. Where's the Googs? Google's at 315 as well. That's green. Uh Alab, are we getting a move today? Astera. Yes. Wow. Seven. Why is Astera up 7%. That's got to be something specific to them. Is Arista also up that much? These are the networking plays. Arista's up 1.2. Astera's up seven. Potentially they got an upgrade. BMR that's up 7%. Krato, I mean, congrats to those that have this stock in [ __ ] You guys deserve it. Cradle's up 18%. It's now up 160% for the year. One of the important names in semiconductor manufacturing and chip design. And then you have uh [ __ ] which crushed it 23%. So [ __ ] and Krato just incredible earnings. Even if you bought them yesterday right before earnings, you would be up almost 20% on both of them. So incredible stuff. Beyond Meat goes red. That's down. Tessy goes red as well. 429. 429. Yeah, quote from Michael Bur. I never said I was short Tesla in my post. The article also reports an older $500 million bet. It was5 million 13Fs and journalists still understand. Yeah, that's what I thought. So Bur is not short Tesla. I don't know if he wants beef with the Tesla community, bro. Like I know he said it's ridiculously overvalued, but the Tesla community has made a lot of short sellers, including Jim Chenos, uh lose a lot of money. So I mean, if he were to it would be great for the newsletter. I don't know if it would be great for the actual short position. Tesla right there 430 trying to go green. And also, it's just like there's too many things happening in the world of physical AI to be like, I'm going to short Tesla. Maybe you don't need to buy it because you think it's expensive, but shorting it when Elon's getting ready to really, you know, show off to the world how Tesla's going to play a role when it comes to physical AI is, I think, a tough decision. So right there, that's up 2.6%. So far, trying to get back to 30, which would be nice. Look at Amcor 3861. Ampor finally getting back to where it was before or dur during the upgrade. It got a $62 upgrade. Went from 30 to 38 in basically a day. Then fell all the way back to 30 after the November slump right back to 3860. That's up 2.28%. I still think this stock is very cheap compared to their growth rate. $9.5 billion market cap. And they have a very close relationship with Broadcom, which now is getting a lot of press because of the TPUs from Google. So that could be a catalyst. Broadcom right there. That's up 1% 389. Is Nvidia still moving? Wow. 184. 184 on Mr. Nvidia. Look at that. That is incredible, dude. That is freaking incredible. Nvidia right there 18436. That's up 2.4%. Intel 40.70 up 1.7%. Palunteer what I again I'm just I I really do think Nvidia and Palanteer move together. And and and then the other reason is not not not because like maybe people see them as part of the same trade, but I also just think the market has now position these two together given how much press there is about these two names in particular being like the AI trade and so they go up or down together. Amazon 234, where's Microsoft? Microsoft, are we green? 486. Microsoft still in a slump. And then Meta. Meta got a nice upgrade today to 875. Meta back at 641. Uh, Evercore said, "The company's core position segments are in a fundamentally strengthening position and we reiterate our $845 target. So, makes sense for Meta. Bit mine right there up 7%. Google 316 hoodies just below 126. I rent still getting hit. And then let's see. Could Nvidia really break 185 right here? Could Nvidia really break 185 amid doesn't it feel redundant to own both pound chair and Nvidia if they move together? Well, they you know they don't literally, you know, I their stock prices feel like they're moving together, but they're two fundamentally different companies, right? Um I think the thesis to own both of them are chips and ontology. Same thing that Karpa said many times, right? Do you believe there's a hardware infrastructure necessary to make AI happen? And then do you believe there's a software that is necessary to operationalize LM and and actually deliver results for businesses that are worth paying for not just like fancy models that consumers might pay for or might not pay for. So and I think both of those you need you need the chips and then you need the ontologies of software that makes it make sense. Wow. 185 breaking through 185 breaking through pounds here. Let's see if we can get 174. Look at that. From 170 to 185 for for all of you guys that swiped or that um sniped at 176 or sorry, sorry, 169 last week. Pretty incredible stuff. And this is this is why the market is amazing, right? Like last week you could have bought Nvidia at 169. You just have to see through a little bit of the noise and be like, "Okay, a lot of people are being really stupid right now about those earnings. I am not going to be stupid. I'm going to take advantage of it." Now, if Nvidia went to 140, then you'd be the stupid one, right? But like this is the beauty of markets. There's a winner, there's a loser. Technically, that's not necessarily true, but like there at least in the short term, you know, someone who sold you their shares at 169 lost the the short-term movement of the stock and you won and whatever edge you had on understanding why the stock should not be $169. Well, you're up 15 bucks on it. So, if we can hold 185, it'll be very nice to see. ALD, that one also up four and a half% on the day. And then Nebius, that one's at 101, up 1% on the day as well. The Trump announcement today at 2 p.m. again, I think that's for Invest America. We're going to see if that really is, but if it's something different, then uh we'll cover it on the close. 432 on Tesla as that is up 63%. Tesla potentially getting back to that 440 level, which I think would be very important for topped out at 460 uh 468 couple weeks ago. Google 318, Google trying to get back to 320 and then Nvidia, it looks like she wants 186. It looks like she wants 186. ASML 52-week high as well. Marll, okay, so Marll bought a company that's up 2.4%. Um, let me get the exact name of it, but I believe they paid couple billion dollars. Uh, Celestial AI. Celestial AI. I don't know exactly what this company does. I believe that they're part of the chip ecosystem. They're not chip design. They're similar to Poet. Um, I don't know exactly what these guys do, but they're similar to Poet for those that understand that one. And it looks like they just raised 157 million a year ago as well. Looks like they're getting acquired by Marbell. So they have earnings today. So we'll talk more about this acquisition right before earnings. It makes sense that they announced it before their earnings. And the fact that the stock's up on the acquisition, not down is also really nice. Marbell right there 93. This thing fell to 67 last quarter after earnings. So that as well was an opportunity. [ __ ] up 25% on the day as that one continues to go green. Aid you eating medium rare steaks is good for the market. All right. Well, I guess I will keep eating medium stakes. New bank 1755. Bitcoin 88.5. Coinbase getting a bit of recovery. JP Morgan, that's flat on the day. AS up 3%. Open dooror that's up 2%. Job's down. They got a downgrade from Goldman Sachs yesterday. Apple, wow, Apple at 284. We didn't even look at Apple hitting alltime highs yesterday, but Apple has hit 284. And it's quite incredible to see some of that momentum. People are kind of flooding into the safety of the iPhone 17 sales continuing to be strong. Grab continues to be flat. Again, I think the thing about Grab is there's a pending acquisition that feels likely. Will it happen? I don't know. But, uh, there's lots of other opportunities. There's lots of other stocks that are incredibly volatile. I I still believe Grab is one of the best riskrewards in the market. It's very safe in my opinion. If you hate the fact that it's stuck and you don't want to wait for a catalyst, then obviously there's other opportunities that are out there. But I think until the go-to thing is resolved, which it looks like by the end of December, there's going to be an update on that, then that's where the stock is going to trade until you get that news of an acquisition. If you do have an acquisition like that, you're talking about growth rates of upwards of 40% going into next year. If not, then the market's going to see how they treat it. But not a volatile name and definitely not an AI narrative to it, which is why I believe it's flat. [ __ ] right there, 27% on the day. Tesla as well continue to be up. Do we actually get jolts? I didn't think we get jolts today. Do we actually get jolts? Uh, it's the job openings. I don't think we get those today, guys. Jolts. No. Where do you We get No, I don't see jolts. I don't think we're getting those today. Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think we're getting the I don't see it on trading economics. You guys are saying yes. All right. So, if we get it in 20 minutes, then we'll see it, but I don't see it there. Oh, yes. This was also really important. TD Cohen picked AMD as their best stock pick for 226. That's another reason why AMD got some love this morning in the pre-markets. AMD, right? They're up 2.2%. You're going to start to see a lot of these firms come out and name their best picks for 2026. I will do the same as well. We'll have a video on that in the coming days. But, uh, I would definitely imagine AMD gets on that list for a bunch of these different companies probably that don't want to, you know, overweight Nvidia. And so, they're looking into other opportunities that are still going to grow potentially even faster than Nvidia next year if Nvidia slows down. And that might be AMD. Nebas as well. That's up half a percent on the day. What grab acquisition are you talking about? I'm talking about their competitor in Indonesia, which has been an overhang on the stock for the majority of the year on rumors that they would acquire them. Again, if you kept up with the story, it looks very likely it's going to happen. Maybe it doesn't, maybe it does, but I think that's how the market is treating the stock right now. Until they get that information, it's going to be hard to make a move. Nvidia 184.99 still just at that 185 level. Could not break 186. 18560 is where we were. Then Shopify at 155. Yeah, dude. For those that are saying jolts, where are you getting that information that we get jolts? Cuz I don't I don't see any Jolts data coming through on my end. Um maybe we're supposed to get it today, but Oh, no. I think we do get it today. Okay. Well, my my my trading economics is being weird. It's not showing me it. But all right. Well, if we do get it, then we should be getting. So, that'll be important to see the job openings that are available in the country. This is per September. and might give us a little bit more clarity on what's going on if we do get those numbers. Yes, we will have technical Tuesday later today after the bell. Door Dash, that's flat. Door Dash I'm starting to get interested in. You don't have many board members buy a hund00 million worth of stock. I mean that you just don't see that happen often, if ever. So, Door I think Door Dash like you got my attention. Board member buys a hundred million dollars worth of stock outright in the market. S&P high of day 68250. So I'll be looking a little bit more at uh at Door Dash. Krato up 23% as that continues to go green. App loving that's up 6% as well and that is also green. Aid honest question. Do you actually believe in technical analysis? I don't use it as often as someone who trades, but 10,000% I believe in it. Um, again, I'm just not day trading, so it's hard for me to like effectively use it. Um, I I do think it's valuable for, you know, certain entries and exits, but like if you're actively trading every single day and you're buying low, selling high, or you're swinging like monthly options, like you need the right entry. I mean, your entry is everything, and your exit is also everything, right? You exit too late, you might lose your money. You exit too early, you might not make your money. So I absolutely believe that there is an art and science to TA. I just personally, you know, don't use it as often as some other people. Google right there 31750 is that is great. Also, it's just it's just fun every Tuesday for us to engage in male astrology for three hours. I mean like it's like it's like a little book club. We get to see where the stars line up. Palenteer 17380 Nvidia. She's going for 186 again. She's going for 186. ABTC is down 50%. This is American Bitcoin Corp. What is going on there? This is Trump's company, right? Or his son's company. Or am I wrong on that? This No, this is Eric Trump's company. 50% down. Now it's suspended. And Bitcoin's green, so it can't be because of Bitcoin. Bitcoin's up. Bitcoin is almost 89,000. So why is a Bitcoin treasury, which is what American Bitcoin Corp is, breaking by 50%. His son has like a 9% stake. Yeah, I mean, well, he's, you know, publicly said this is his Bitcoin treasury from my understanding. Whoa. That that's Hold on. 50%. Someone must be selling inside, right? like like there's either a technical glitch or a massive shareholder just sold so much stock that it tanked at 50%. It's a 1.72 billion market cap. It was a $3.8 billion market cap before this. Marll, that's still up 2%. Um, that's weird. Oh, if Eric is selling, I mean, if he's the one who could I don't think that would look good on the optics. Apple right there 28380 if Eric Trump was selling. Uh, likely wouldn't be the best for a Bitcoin treasury company like that, but I guess we're going to see if that's the case. Oscar, that's down half a percent as well. What's the volume on this? Now it's back. Now it's back. Not halted anymore. Uh, volume on this is 10 million. Average volume is 5 million. So it's double the average volume in 17 minutes. That is weird. That is very weird. Uh we got another headline. Amazon retail executive departs for a business development role at OpenAI after 17 years at the company. Wow. Okay. Amazon looks like OpenAI is getting into this integrated ecom business opportunity in the chatbot and so getting an Amazon executive to join OpenAI is probably going to help them do that. Halted again at 220. Now it's down 39%. But ABTC is halted again and you have these executives leaving Amazon. Amazon right there at 234. So are we trying to get to 30? So 29.97 trying to get up there. It's up 3.24%. Touch 30 for a second. See if we can get back to 30. Jolts is on December 9th is what I'm seeing. Yeah, I think you're right, guys. I don't think we're seeing jolts today. I would see it on my uh on my indicators here. So, I do not think we're getting jolts in 12 minutes. I mean it makes sense to get it later in the week but not today. Uh so far right there back to 30. There you are back to 30 as Bitcoin gets to 89. That's great for hoodie as Bitcoin goes up. There you go. Robin right there 12560. Google 316. Iren still down 5%. Market still hates the dilution. Nvidia just below 184. And then pounder 174. There you go. All right. I mean, look, pounder fell from 200 to like 147 back to 174. This is kind of where it was at a couple weeks before earnings. Not that crazy if it can sustain these levels and maintain it. 17415. And the fact that Pounder is going green along with Nvidia means that the sentiment around the AI bubble stuff might be shifting a bit. That doesn't mean they have to go back to alltime highs, but you can tell there might be a little less fear than there was a couple weeks ago. Ethereum right there at 2,900. as that continues to go green. Yeah, Wednesday we get the ADP report. Thursday we get jobless claims. Doesn't seem like we're getting jolts. Uh today Nvidia is having a UBS uh investor conference today. Uh one quote that we have from the conference so far, this going to be with all their sellside analysts. Nvidia said it does not see an AI bubble. Instead, it expects market transitions ahead. The company projects data center infrastructure could reach 3 to four trillion by 2030 driven by growing demand for accelerating computing. So pretty much the same stuff that they've been saying for a while. D-Wave right there that's up 3% and then SoFi again 29 94. Okay. So at least in the first 20 minutes you're not seeing anything crazy. Meta's flat. Tesla's green. I would just love if the S&P can hold these levels again. We don't have to go to the moon, but if we can hold the 680s, that would be strong. Your biggest winners are AMD, Credo, um, Pounder, Nvidia, and [ __ ] And the rest of these names are green, but not crazy green on the day. Bit mine is also up 8%. So, you're getting some of that momentum. And then SoFi still at $29.99 trying to get to 30. I do think SoFi is a buy going into the end of the year. I mean like if if if we get the rate cuts that always has been the big tailwind for SoFi. Um so I mean ending the year above 30 doesn't seem that crazy but we do need to get that rate cut. Amcore right there 3848. Nokia that's at 618. Then Dolingo even going green on the day. Reddit as well up 1.3%. What about Tillray? Okay, what about it? Uh, Tillray, that's down 5%. I don't think that many people care about Tillray anymore. I know this was a big meme stock in 2020. Um, yeah, below a billion dollar company. I'm not sure they're necessarily growing that much. So, Tillray 740, but I don't think people are that obsessed with the name. Correct. ASML, 1100. That again is hitting an all-time high. Tillry at a split. Okay. Well, that's why it's probably down 5%. Again, guys, there's just too many other opportunities in the market to be a to care about a $830 million company that's not growing that much. You know, there's just like you got Nvidia trading at 25 times next year's earnings. That's a That's a massive opportunity. Got AMD that just got chopped from 260 to 195 now back at 220. Like those are opportunities I feel. Some of these other names are kind of just not that interesting. Um Bloom Energy, that's up 7%. This one's been really good over the past couple weeks. Look at that. Up 7.76. Uh Morgan Stanley mentioned them in the report today as well. So that one's been getting a little bit more momentum. AMD at 224 and then Oracle right here at 207. Yeah, I mean a company going through that many reverse splits is not going to be in the best situation. Bloomberg reported the Amazon executive to OpenAI news just now. So that's where we got the source from the Amazon AI OpenAI news. Another piece of OpenAI news yesterday as well. Apparently, from another leaked memo, uh, OpenAI CEO declares code red to combat threats to chat GBT and they're delaying their ad efforts. So, we talked yesterday about OpenAI getting into advertising as the next sector of growth. U, if this memo is correct, then Sam Alman told the company we're declaring code red. The article goes into why Gemini could be seriously hurting OpenAI's enterprise adoption ecosystem. Not just their consumer model, but the enterprise is what they're worried about the most. uh as you know customers might easily say all right if I'm using Google cloud I might as well use Gemini and so the report claims that they are delaying the folks on ads to to to ship a new model by next week so it does seem like the AI wars continue to heat up and we as consumers win but you know open is going to continue to spend a lot of money to be able to get these models out there uh American Bitcoin Corp still down 47% that is very weird to see this type of a move. And someone's got to be selling. Someone's absolutely got to be selling. House Republicans are poised to make a short-term extension of expiring ACA subsidies. Wow. Two representatives from the House told Axios as they exited their conference meeting. Um, where's Oscar? Oscar might get a little bump off that if that news hits 1656. That's not a long-term extension. Again, they got an upgrade by Piper Sandler to $25 last week even without the extension of the subsidies. Piper Sandler thinks that, you know, they're so undervalued that they're still going to be okay and they're going to, you know, continue to grow without the subsidies. But if you do get an extension, that definitely helps. Oscar right there at 1661 UNH 326. That one goes green on the day. NVIDIA CFO says most new NVIDIA AI chips being shipped are adding new data center infrastructure and not replacing the installed base. That's actually a good quote from this UBS conference that kind of goes against Bur's depreciation argument once again. So these GPUs are not replacing the other GPUs because the other GPUs have a life cycle where they can be useful, which is exactly what Jensen said on the earnest call. And so that's a relatively net bullish thing for Nvidia. 18434 on Nvidia. Fear and greed. Where are we on fear and greed? Let's see. We are not at extreme fear anymore, folks. We are not at extreme fear anymore. We are now at fear. All right. So the sort of dirt cheap prices that in hindsight given market momentum now were dirt cheap might not exist. SoFi might not get a hit back to 2350. Palenteer might not get back to 147 as easily. Amazon might not I I mean dude Amazon at 219. Really? That that's that's the one where I was like I am buying this dip and I do not care. Like this one's stupid. This one's actually good. This stock was at 260, had a great earnings, and it's right back down to where it was before earnings. So, we we might still get some good deals, but two weeks ago, it seems like the deals were very good. Fear and greed right there at 28 on the day. Another quote from Nvidia CFO, 500 billion in bookings for Blackwell AI and Reuben chips through 2026 does not include any of the work that we're doing right now on the next part of the agreement with OpenAI. That's going to be a quote Wall Street pays attention to. So, basically, we already knew about the $500 billion commitment over the next five quarters. If Nvidia is saying we're going to have upside to that because of a deal we're potentially signing with OpenAI, and again, the market freaked out last week because they thought OpenAI was just going to keep buying Google TPUs, but I don't think even if they do buy TPUs, they're not going to continue buying GPUs. If there's upside to that 500 billion in 2026 and you still don't have China in the picture, Nvidia is just going to crush all the estimates again. And that probably means the stock is relatively cheap compared to their earnings expectations. SoFi back above 30. There you go. Back above 30 on SoFi. Again, for those asking my thoughts on Grab, I I I will say it again. Until this acquisition goes through, the stock is going to be stuck. And you're you're even seeing the volume die out. I mean, like two million shares have been traded today. Like this stock has completely lost all its volume. I think fundamentally has changed with the company. They had one of the best earnings they ever had. It's just now the market is looking for the next catalyst. And that catalyst is not going to happen in the AI names in the data center space. It's going to happen on an actual deal that Grab engages in. So if you don't like that there's no volatility and that it's stuck then you know there are plenty of other things that move faster. I am very comfortable with my position just knowing that look at the end of the day I think it's very safe compared to the market 7 billion in cash and I already have a lot of high-risisk names in my portfolio. I mean la last month was not fun for me with poundervidia hood BMR just getting destroyed having something that's relatively flat and safe and that I can add to without worrying to worrying about in terms of valuation you know that's why I own grab. So, if you don't like the lack of movement in the stock, and there's other names that are out there, but I do think that catalyst is going to be the thing you want to watch out for. Hoodie 127 12770. I mean, Hood again, this thing will go to 100 to 127 within less than a week. Grab's not doing that. And so, I I personally need some stuff in my portfolio that's I mean, I dude, I'm seriously thinking of buying Verizon next year. Like, I'm starting to do a lot more due diligence on it just because I like the 6.8% dividend. the stock barely moves. You can get like a percent a month off selling um.3 del delta calls out of the money or like 0.5 delta calls out of the money. But the stock is so flat it barely gets to even those strike prices and it's just it's just you know you don't need that much more volatility if you already have a ton of volatility. So I don't think that's the the worst thing in the world amidst getting old. Yeah, exactly. No, that that's actually true, dude. you're getting to the point where you're just like you're kind of tired of all the volatility like you just want a little bit like you know a treasury bond doesn't sound like 4% 4% to do nothing that's not that crazy 18239 10.4 on aa that one's moving heavy as that continues to go green nebus as well 102 and that's up 2%. That is unh for me. Yeah. Well, you know, the other thing about UNH is they theoretically should get back to 500 if they can just kind of get that EPS growth back to like 17 18 bucks. I think right now they got it for 14 15 bucks. It shouldn't be crazy for them to at least get to 450 on increased growth. But yeah, UNH shouldn't be the most risky option going into next year. Robin trying to get to 128. Google trying to get back to 320. Pounder, what a day. 175. Look at that. People are coming back in to Palunteer as it's getting more more momentum. Um, Oaklo's up 8% on the day as well. We're seeing some of these high beta names also get some excitement. And then you have Bitcoin right here at 89.5K on the day. Lift right there, that's up 2%. Dell's up 3.6%. 6%. Zeta, which I also like this name, going to 2026, that's flat. Texas Roadhouse is flat. Wing Stop, that's up 2.7. And then Uber, that's up as well. That's BP for me. Yeah, look, I think a lot of people have one of their safe names that they like. For me, it's Grab. I think that's safe and I think there's upside because I think it's undervalued, but it's also safe. Like I just I don't think if it goes down even more, like I just it's not that scary to buy more. And I think a lot of people have that with either Verizon or BP or a dividend you've held on for people have AT&T for years. Like the reason these names exist is to give investors an opportunity to not be exposed to that much beta which is you know why they continue to get bids. Nvidia right there 18530. It has not cracked 186. It's trying. It really is trying but it's not there yet. Baba that's down 2% on the day. Sound got taken off of Dan Ives AI30 list. That one's up 4% on the day. He replaced it with Cororeweave, Nebius, and Shopify. Coreweave, look at that, up 6.3% as well as that is green on the day. Amazon is safe. It barely moved this year. You know, honestly, this is why this was one this and Nebius were the two names I think I bought the heaviest uh in the no in the in the month of November. Uh I agree. Amazon is just so attractive at these levels because it's barely moved and it's freaking Amazon. The simple two-part thesis is robotics increases operating margins and AWS is reacelerating. That's it. That's all you need to know. It doesn't need to get too complicated. Now, maybe the stock stays flat for another year and and you know, you feel there's an opportunity cost, but you can't like uh get mad at yourself as an investor for taking a bet on Amazon knowing that it's Amazon. And like if you're going for something that is risky, that should have upside, you're in a play that could do it. And if it doesn't, the downside theoretically should be limited. It's not that there isn't any downside, but it's just like, you know, it shouldn't be a stock that gets cut in half like ABTC, which is still down 45%. Who the heck is selling this thing, dude? I like someone's got to be selling this thing today. And it's got to be a whale who had a lot of shares that just dumped it in the market. 47% still down on the day. Yeah, we're not getting jolts, guys. Jolts is not out today. So, for whoever said there was going to be Joel today, that is going to be happening, I think, on December 9th, but we're not going to be seeing that today. Um, okay. The state of the consumer. Let's get an update on that with some of these Black Friday along with some of the data that we have from Goldman Sachs around this
>> Walmart, which I thought was was pretty newsworthy and very positive certainly for Walmart and overall consumers. In part, Walmart says they saw a consistently strong sales growth. This is over the weekend from Thanksgiving um till yesterday, led by digital customers flocking to electronics, toys, fashion, and home categories, as well as unique marketplace finds and holiday essentials. Some numbers, Walmart delivered 57% more order orders overall and 44% more orders in under three hours this Black Friday versus last year. So, we just had Walmart earnings. we know that they're in a strong place right now when it comes to share gains um especially from the the higher income consumer. So clearly
>> Paul Atkins SEC chair is going to be speaking at the New York Stock Exchange. I'll get you guys the quotes of what he's saying. Uh but he will be talking and giving a keynote address and we'll see if there's any major structural things that he proposes in this keynote. Bitcoin 90,000. There you go. Bitcoin and Ethereum both getting some momentum right here as we're seeing a rebound. Robin Hood as well 128. that they're having a good holiday season. Signet Jewelers this morning uh with report the CEO emailing to me importantly he said there have been external disruptions impacting c consumers particularly in lower and middle inome households we have taken action accordingly to ensure we meet consumer expectations for value this holiday. So there's the K-shaped recovery that so many companies
>> BMR 10% you're seeing a lot of these crypto names get some momentum today and some of that money is coming back into the crypto trade
>> are seeing and if and if you're trying to keep track of what companies are saying this earnings period about the consumer which they really do have the best real time indication of what the consumer is doing. Goldman Sachs has a great chart looking at sentiment from earnings calls and comments from earnings calls on the consumer. So they made up this basically chart, you know, with a with an index for it. And what you can see is sure consumer sentiment is a little bit down on earnings calls. In other words, how they talk about the consumer a little bit weakness, but it does remain within the historical average. And I think that explains why the numbers are overall coming in pretty strong. Yes, we can talk about stress on the low income, but overall resilience is the name of the game and we do see growth. I mean whether you're looking at the Salesforce numbers, the Adobe numbers, the Mastercard Institute numbers, I mean continue to point to growth this year from last year in overall consumer spending.
>> Yeah, I mean I think muddle through or mixed is good enough for the markets. And you know, I'll look at it through the prism of if there was genuine aggregate trouble in terms of consumer behavior and finances, you wouldn't see Capital One and Allied financial stocks holding up pretty well. Uh you wouldn't see the regional banks doing what they're doing. And the good thing for the overall stock market is you've you've got to go 50 stocks deep into the waitings of the S&P 500 to really find a consumer sensitive discretionary name. If you're excluding Walmart, you got to get down to McDonald's. And that's not even that discretionary. My point is, you don't have a tremendous amount of leverage to every wiggle in consumer sentiment. If you can have faith that we're not going to go into an outright downturn, if next year, as everybody is building in their case, that you're going to get, you know, a few tailwinds uh when it comes to
>> and one of those tailwinds obviously for the help of the consumer is going to be that rate cut. So, I think he's right about that. the consumer doesn't have to deteriorate like a lot of people have been thinking. Even though the data we're getting is not pretty data, delinquencies being up the highest in 15 years on credit, student loans, and auto. But again, these retailer earnings are just unbelievable. And the Black Friday sales, I did not expect them to be as good, but they are. Neb's right there 101. Bitcoin just below 90 now back above 90. Do we think this is the pivot, guys? Do we think there's a pivot to 100K? Let's do a poll in the chat. See what people think. Do we think this is the move to 100 or is this just a random Tuesday 10 a.m. little Bitcoin algo pump and it'll dump in like a couple hours? What do we think? 85% of you said we're green for the day or we could go green for the day. Does Bitcoin I I'll ask a better question. Does Bitcoin make a move back above 100K this month? I guess that that's an easier question. So, do we think we see Bitcoin 100? Dude, Bitcoin 100K in December 2025. Ironically, literally that happened again December 2024, but I feel like it would feel just as good. Like the first time we saw 100K to to me it was kind of anticlimactic. I mean, it just randomly happened and I looked at my phone. I was like, "Oh, 100,000. Okay, cool." But um if we get it after all the [ __ ] crypto has been through over the past two months with the whole deleveraging stuff, it would be a big way to end the year if we can get back there. So it would be fun to see that happen towards the end of the year. Rocklab 4224 as that is green and cipher that's up a little bit. Amcor wow 3940. This one's really moving today. So you know Amcor was moving the day of Nvidia earnings as well was up like 8% unfortunately then Nvidia dumped and then all the semiconductor names dumped. If Nvidia goes up, a lot of these other semiconductor names, they are trying to get back to where they were and expand. And the reason they're expanding is because the Nvidia earnings were show so good that obviously these companies are going to benefit. Marll, uh, Cadence, obviously AMD, the smaller names like an Amcore. And so it really dep does depend on can Nvidia kind of continue making its moves. So right there 30.17 that's also getting some momentum. Uh and then the S&P high of day at 68327. So Trump is expected to announce uh the the the new Fed chair by the end of December. Kevin Hasset has a 75% chance as per the prediction markets of being the name. If he does end up saying it, it would be a big middle finger to JPAL because he doesn't need to announce it by the end of the year. But if he does, the market immediately can start to price in how Hasset's going to act, which is doubbish over any hawkishness from JPAL. And so that might end up also being a very specific tailwind when that announcement is made if we do end up getting a rate cut because now the market knows we're getting a lot more rate cuts. And that's another reason maybe being net short going into the end of the year is not the not the best idea. Yeah, the markets are just going to start to immediately ignore Pal every time he says something that's like we need to be data dependent or we're worried about this. Everyone's going to be like, "Yeah, in three months no one's going to care." So, it definitely is one of those things that I think just could be a catalyst. And if we avoid the shutdown because of the ACA extensions on January 30th, you might have a little bit of a clear sky going into the start of 2026. Obviously, we'll probably encounter some more things that are volatile, but maybe that can set it up to be a lot more strong. Cheesecake Factory, that's up on today. Zeta, that's up about 1%. Then PayPal holding on to 62. Vanguard, by the way, Vanguard is um officially allowing uh clients to buy the Bitcoin ETF on their platform as of today. They said they would never do it back in 2024, and now they have. So, that could be another reason Bitcoin's moving. Not necessarily because the Vanguard ETF inflows, but rather just the idea that crypto is going to get another bid by a company that has 11 trillion in assets. Bitcoin still holding above 90,000. Got some quotes from Putin. Uh he says two things. If Europe wants to fight the war, we are ready now. Okay. Then he says Europeans do not have a peaceful agenda. They are on the side of war. He also says Europeans hinder the US administration and Trump to reach peace. Europeans do not have a peaceful agenda. They are on the side of war. He also says European demands are not acceptable to Russia. Where's the price of oil based on him saying this stuff? You've got Putin once again saying some of these things. He's probably trying to evaluate the peace deal as well. Oil's down 1.4. Wow, nice to see oil. So, even on that news, oil's actually taking a hit right there. Um, ABTC, that one again is still getting hit to the downside. Someone's selling. It has to be an insider at this point. 45% down on the day. Verizon, that's flat. Astera still up 6%. Didn't see any news on them. I think they got an upgrade, but I did not see the upgrade. Oscar getting love from that news on the ACA extension. Tesla going green 2%. There you go. 436. That one's joining the party. Hoodie trying to get back to 130. 12850 did touch 129. Paler still holding 175. Someone just bought a million dollars of calls on Palenteer. Strike is 180 1226. 1.5 million of calls. 180 1226 for Palanteer. So, you do have some of the bullish option flow coming in. And then Nvidia is still holding 184. Dude, are we back? We actually back. 74% of you say yes. We see Bitcoin above 100,000 by the end of the month. Oh, Bitcoin. That was a $700 candle. That was a big candle, dude. Do you guys remember who was with me on the stream in August? Was it July? I think it was July. I think it was July when we saw Bitcoin go from 114 to 120. Do you guys remember that when we that it was it was it was the first time I've ever seen a $6,000 candle. I've never seen that. It was like 114 115 116 11718 12. I was like, "What is going on, bro?" No, I think we topped out just below 12. I think we got to 119. We tally, but it was a massive move. Maybe it was 120, but it was just it was a huge I've never seen that much money move like that. Okay, a lot of you guys are saying you were there. Like, if we get to 100 again before the end of the year, I think it would be it could be that exciting. Also, great for Hood, which is why Hood's getting some love right here. 12820. That's up 4% on today. Now again for for a lot of people that are saying you know okay so Hood's a buy here I will once again be cautious if 2026 ends up not being as strong in a variety of sectors forget the stock market but particularly in crypto you know Hood's going to be volatile to the downside. It just is what it is. It's how the market treats it. If you're buying it for a genuine 10-year long vision, you know, you think Hood's has a shot to to really become that generational financial institution, then, you know, it's a DCA price, but it's not at all-time highs. It's just getting volatility to the upside. The reason I think it doesn't have to get to like 80 90 bucks next year is simply because of the fact that we're getting a lot of liquidity introduced to the system, which means there's going to be a lot more trading volumes. Obviously, the prediction markets are starting to scale. And if you end up having a relatively strong bull market, it doesn't even have to be a super crazy bull market. Hood will still be able to pull up their numbers along with the AI tailwind once they have new products and banking. But Bitcoin, you know, gets back to 70,000 65,000. Hood's going to get hit. It's going to be ugly. It's just because Bitcoin is so tied to the macro dynamics of the overall economy for it to get cut in half. you know, we would really need to see some issues in Japan or bond yields or um lack of liquidity from rate cuts, quantitative easing. Like, you're gonna have to have so many other reasons outside of just Bitcoin feels like going down, which is why I think you can make the argument that we might have a relatively strong bull market next year. Shopify recovering its entire loss from last morning. I mean, Shopify did not deserve to be down 5% yesterday, but there you go. That's up 5%. 15678 is That's green. Doug says, "End of year, I can see Bitcoin at either 170 or sorry, 110 or 70." Yeah. And I think if most of us had to pick, we'd probably pick 110 over 70K. I mean, Sailor's price is at 74 as average. So, by the way, that 1.44 billion USD reserve they created, that is enough to cover 21 months of dividend payments that they have to do on their preferred equity. So, Strategy has bought themselves 21 months of time, a little bit under two years to be able to make good on all their payments. And Bitcoin's got to be up in the next two years at least. But it seems like they're not going to have to sell their Bitcoin to make their payments for the next 21 months. Applovin, that's up 8%. Again, I like Apploven's growth. Um, only concern here is that SEC probe, if you know the company really well, the SEC probe might literally be a nothing burger. Um, but this stock was at 520 two weeks ago. I mean, again, a lot of stocks gave you some really good opportunities and you kind of just had to hold your nose and buy and that is what I did with at least Nebius and Amazon two weeks ago. Apple new all-time high again. 28450 28450. Where's the heat map today? Let's take a look at that. Ah, rotation out of the value stocks into the greens. I mean, we saw this the opposite last week. Look at this. Last week, Walmart was up the day the markets fell I think 2.2%. Walmart was up 7%. It was one of the only green names. Now, industrials, consumer defensives, insurance, healthcare, all that's red. It's out of Lily, which has just been a beast. Broadcom's up, Palin's up, Nvidia's up, Apple's up, Amazon's up, Google's up. The tech is back. What's your Nebus average? 9779. I have a,000 shares. 9779 is my average. So, it was up yesterday because I got a $200 price target. I think Nebius like if they really have a good near good year next year, I think 150 actually is very possible. Now, I know some people think that's on the low end, but I think if you and I think 150 is a phenomenal return if they can get there, but they were already at 140. The earnings growth does not look like it's slowing down. They need to inch out a margin and actually make some profit, which I don't expect them to do next year, but if they did, I think that would be very nice. And it really does depend on the data center ker in general. But like even if we ended next year at like 120, I'd be happy. So it is a very volatile name. It's one that swings up and down. I could see this going back to $85 easily. If there's any data center headline that's negative, but I do think the upside to 150 by the end of next year is not not that crazy to imagine. Peter, thank you for the $20 super chat. Amcor is another stock I would have never found and invested in if it wasn't for this community. I love this community. Peter, thank you for being here. Again, uh Amcor is not an original idea for myself, me and Stock Talk. You guys know him on Twitter. He's one of the best accounts on Twitter. Uh this is one of his picks and you know, he pitched it live on our show. We do a show every Wednesday. Last Wednesday, we had a show where a bunch of people pitch stocks. We're going to do it again tomorrow. So, if anyone wants to pitch a stock, just DM me on Twitter and we can get you into the queue. Just three minutes of a pitch and then we'll ask a couple of questions. Um, when when he called me and and told me about the thesis, I was it really did feel like a nothing burger or sorry, it felt like a no-brainer uh and the and the the the the uh the decline from 38 to 28 felt like a nothing burger back in early November after it got the upgrade. So, uh yeah, it's really cool stuff. He's an amazing stock picker and I would have never found this name either if it wasn't for him. that finding names with very low multiples but trajectories of growth tied to a derivative overall of a of a macro trade like the AI onshoring in America. That's essentially what Amcor was. And it only trades at 1.5 time sales. It was trading at one time sales at 29 bucks. So I think this was a nice one and hopefully that one continues to do well. Bitcoin right there 90.5 a nothing brainer. Yes, that's what that's what that's what we need to say and nothing greater. I'll leave his Twitter right here in the chat. He's definitely a follow. He's one of my good friends on Twitter. He he's one of the most nobullshit guys on Twitter. Like, if you're looking for someone who actually understands how to analyze the market from a macro perspective, technical perspective, and like can really find undervalued gems, which he's found multiple of them this year. I would give him a follow. He's actually he's gonna he's said he wanted to be on the stream. So, we'll get him on the stream, but he's just a busy guy. Um, but he's really active on Twitter spaces, so we'll try to get him on the show hopefully in the coming weeks. Yeah, that one making a good move. Now, again, Amcor can get hit back to 30 if we get any negative Nvidia headline. At the end of the day, a lot of these names are dependent on Nvidia, which is why we spend so much time analyzing Nvidia because a lot of the trades that people are in, they don't work unless Nvidia works. Navius is not going to work. Micron's not gonna work. Like a lot of these names need Nvidia to hold up, which is why November was so painful. And you know, based on everything we've seen, it seems like Nvidia should be able to should be able to hold up. Gold is down 1% on the day. Would you sell Amord 50? I I definitely do think if you entered at 30, which I think a lot of people entered at, taking profits at 50 is not crazy. I I like, you know, there's price targets out there at 60. It's not a name that just because it's going up today 4% it'll go up another 4% tomorrow. It's not like a pounder hood that could have those multiple green days in a row. Maybe it does, but it's getting a good day because the market's green and the Nvidia narrative might be shifting to the upside. It's not a volatile name that has those compounding days. So, yes, I think at 50, even at 45, that's where you at least trim part of the position. It's It's not a name I would hold for the next 10 years, but it's a name that's in a category that should do well as Nvidia continues to grow. Um, gold right there, that's down 1%. Then silver did hit all-time highs yesterday. Silver, that's down 2.2% on the day. Even when Nvidia was doing bad, AMCore held well. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, this is the beauty of and and this is something that I have not necessarily uh done over the past couple years simply because I've been so concentrated. But when you find a name that trades at a really low PE, even when the market has an ugly ugly downturn like we did two weeks ago, those names don't really get hit that bad. Like they just don't because they're already trading at dirt multiples. Now they're not going to go up to the moon like Robin does when things get exciting again. um because because the volatility is not baked into them, but but your downside is also not that ugly either. So I think finding those names that just don't have a crazy multiple but are still undervalued that that is really the sweet spot of picking stocks and that's not easy to do. That's hard. You know, you can either find them when they're super dirt cheap and they're about to go on a generational run, like a pounder or a hood, or you can find them when they're dirt cheap and they're not going to have a generational run, but a 30% move is still amazing. And and that's I think something that I am definitely trying to get better at. But there's a there's a real art to being able to find those names. Tesla right there, 433. That one continues to go green. Did you ever look into QXO with Steve? I did not. I looked into GXO, which I know is a derivative of what Brad Jacobs is doing. Uh, I've not dug into QXO yet, so I'll need to take some time to do that. By the way, speaking of the milkman, he might be making an appearance in the next couple minutes on the show today because he works from home. So, we might get to hear from Mr. Milkman today. Nvidia, we're getting a little bit of a red candle. 185 to 184 still holding up and Palanteer still holding 174 as well today. Do you follow VRT or have a thesis on it? I have heard of this one. I think what's her name? Nancy owns this one. I do not know enough about it. I know it's a data center play that definitely could be a candidate for for a deep dive. Reddit deep dive should be out this week as well. I still have not bought Reddit. I don't like the multiple, but then again, I really like the growth. Still trying to make a decision on if it's a 2026 long, but like Reddit's another name, right? Like Reddit trades at a a multiple. You know, the stock has done well enough to have a multiple. So, if if if if you have some volatility next year, I feel like you should be able to get ready at a way cheaper price. Even I know it was below 200 last week, but like if you have volatility buying Reddit at 220, you know, maybe that's not the best riskreward right here. But if you're holding it for five years based on the research I've been doing, I mean Reddit looks like it should be a big player, especially in AI. I think like that's the undervalued part of it. And I like Reddit at 100. I bought it at 115. I just ended up selling it because I I even at that time I was like I don't know. But it's done very well for the people that that took advantage of it. Um VRT partnered with Nvidia on liquid cooling possible S&P inclusion and a few other catalyst. So S&P inclusion we'll know by this Friday for a lot of companies. SoFi is one of them. VRT is one of them. Reddit ironically is one of them. Let's do a poll in the chat and get some sentiment on that. Do we think that SoFi gets into the Do we think that SoFi can get into the S&P on Friday? By the way, let's take a look at the bullish CEO. Kathy's been buying the crap out of this stock. I still don't get why, but she loves this company. Bullish, that crypto exchange that went public. Here's what he has to say about some of the crypto volatility.
>> Couple weeks ago, we talked about uh some of the volatility that we saw in November. Are you heartened by this return to 90K at least? Uh yeah, I although I'm not surprised like I I've had to now that I'm a full-time crypto guy, I've had to just kind of put away my phone and my price charts on my desktop because otherwise it's too anxietyinducing. Uh I mean the the volatility is real. The volatility is here for for a long time. You know, when you when you think about Bitcoin in particular, a simple way to think of it is there's a 160,000 Bitcoin that are mined each year, 2025, 2026. And so you have to find an incremental buyer of that roughly 15 billion dollars worth of Bitcoin. And in the first seven months of last year, Micro Strategy alone covered up that 160,000 Bitcoin buy. They bought 180,000 Bitcoin. And in the last five months of the year, they only bought round about 15 20,000 Bitcoin. So you pull out that marginal buyer, you're going to get more volatility, you're going to get more downdrafts. So, it's not entirely shocking. Uh, but you know, 90,000 we are where we are. I'm still a long-term bull. Bullisho holds 24,000 Bitcoin. We continue to hold those Bitcoin. We'll see where it goes from here.
>> I know there are some macro concerns, Tom. Like I yesterday everyone was worried about the Bank of Japan raising rates. But the but also some of the crypto companies were reporting about this year finance this DeFi protocol based on Ethereum triggering the big the big selloff on a on a hack basically that that this is still happening and that you know these these companies are still getting hacked whether it's by foreign actors or foreign companies and it does make you you wonder if the infrastructure is in place safely to own to own these cryptos. Yeah, I I personally, Sarah, going back to 2021, 2022, I had some like tough internal monologues about my career choice with with hacks and with frauds and uh but I can tell you that number has declined dramatically. And we kind of woke up about six months ago and we said, geez, this now feels like an institutional asset class where by and large the centralized exchanges are trustworthy. the custodians. Absolutely.
>> Which could be breaking the four-year cycle if it is an institutional asset class. By the way, Crane data just came out. Uh they are estimating eight trillion dollars are now officially on the sidelines for money market funds. We'll get the official ICIM data on Thursday, but they are estimating 8 trillion have officially entered the sidelines on money market funds.
>> Absolutely are trustworthy. There's fewer and fewer major hacks because these are now bot battleh hardened rails and we're going to see major financial asset classes move onto publicly available blockchain and related technology over the years ahead. There's no question there are still there are still hacks and I'm not minimizing the impact of that. It's it's scary stuff. U
>> all right so that glitch narrative he is reaffirming that could have been one of the reasons for the volatility. We are seeing some red candles right here. Let's see if there's any news to this. Nvidia 183, Hood 126, Pounder 173. Let's see if we have any piece of news. 10:30 dump might be the simple reason. Um, do we have it? I don't see any headline here that would be causing it outside of 10:30, but you are getting some red spy low of day as well. Yeah, definitely. Okay. So, either it's purely the 10:30 dump or there's an actual piece of news. I don't think there's a piece of news. So, seems more like the 10:30 dump than anything else. It's kind of crazy that we've framed 10:30 as being a dump because it's happened so many times, but it has happened so many times. Uh, Bank of America recommended clients put four% of their portfolio in Bitcoin and crypto. Saw that headline as well. Yeah, I mean, once again, a lot of these firms are just capitulating to where they think the asset class is going. Cory right there, that's up 5%. Sound, that's up 4%. I don't think it's the Russian news. The Russian news was 15 minutes ago and it was just Putin saying the same stuff he always says. So I'm not sure that is the reason. But also it might just be, you know, a lot of these stocks were up 5% on the day. They might end up 2% on the day and have to give back 3% of the gains, which is not crazy. Amcore trying to hit 40, dude. That would be crazy if it hits 40. Uh Vanthros, thank for the super chat. I'm up 16,000 on Amcore. Great long hold. Thank you, Mitt Vandros. Thank you for being here. And Mike says, "This channel has been gold for me for the last three years. Milkboys for life." You know what? Speaking of milk boys, I think I mean, you know, Mike in your super chat, it's the perfect segue because there might be a certain milk boy who's working from home today and uh is going to is going to take a little bit of time out of his day to give us some analysis on the markets. Ladies and gentlemen, no reason to fear. The milkman is here.
>> What's going on,
>> dude? You're on right when the market's crashing, which is great because I can ask you a question and you can respond in the way that everyone wants you to respond, which is, Steve, do you care that the market's taking a little bit of a dump right now?
>> Everything's green. What are you talking about? Like you guys need to chill out. Everything's green. Nvidia's up three bucks. SoFi's teetering in 2950. I mean, what are we worried about? Net is up two bucks.
>> Mar. You guys are so
>> We're so dramatic.
>> So dramatic. And by the way, I took the day off from work and I am still working by the way. I'm actually day off.
>> Yeah, I took That's why I came on. I took the day off.
>> Dude, why are you working then? You got to enjoy the day
>> because PTO does not mean paid time off. It means part-time off in my world.
>> That's That's a fair point. And you are
>> take a meeting at 11. Have to answer emails. I'm trying to
>> Wait, hold on. You have a meeting on your day off?
>> Yeah, I got work calling me, but this is not really workrelated. So, I will call them back. Um, trying to write an article for for the alpha. Going to go live tonight. Busy day for Steve.
>> Oh, dude. I think uh are do you have anyone going live with you tonight?
>> No.
>> Okay. So, I'll because Thursday I have somewhere to go. So, I think let's do our show tonight.
>> We can do that.
>> All right. So, we So, you guys are hearing it here. We're going to do our Thursday show tonight. So, I'll be live with with Steve tonight.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> So, real quick, real quick. I am so proud of you. I'm so proud of you.
>> I mean, your boy, your boy,
>> I told everybody last night that I will no longer give you [ __ ] for anything regarding steak. You have transcended medium well to freaking rare because that was not medium rare. And I'm very proud of you. Nobody can give you [ __ ] ever again about the way you eat steak.
>> Ever.
>> And I really ate that. Like I actually like ate it.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. You weren't forcing that down. You weren't like saying I'm just going to eat this because everybody's eating. Like you actually enjoyed it.
>> Yeah. I liked it. I think
>> like you were reaching for more after the waiters put on your plate.
>> I think this is my natural evolution. I had to get to this point, but now I'm here. Uh, yes, we will have technical Tuesday today, but then after that at like 9:30, I will be on Steve's channel. So, we will still have TT on the market close and then at 9:30 I'll be with Steve. Uh, all right, Steve. Markets making a move. S&P very close to all-time highs. Two weeks ago, it was pretty emotional for everybody seeing some of the pain kind of. What are your general thoughts on why the markets might be back to liking AI again? Well, look, I I think it's less of a reason about liking AI and more of a reason about getting a Fed cut and not getting a Fed cut. And it's just playing more into if companies are going to borrow, it's going to be less carrying costs on the debt. I think people are trying to equate a Fed rate cut to now increase spending on capex. And it's all wrong. The the the bottom line is companies are expanding earnings. The scenario has not changed. The only data that is changing is the outlook for what a rate cut is going to be. And we need a rate cut for many reasons. And that's been the driver of the market seesawing. It's not anything else. Nothing that happens right now that is going to change what Microsoft or Meta or any of these companies report in Q4. And Q4 is aligning up to be super bullish on earnings, which we're going to get next month. We're already in December. This is the last month of Q4. So, it all comes down to the Fed. If the Fed screws us, I seriously can see the S&P finishing around 6250, 6,300. If we get 25 pips, forget it. I I think we're off to 7,000. And we may even be further than 7,000. Do you do you think the the Fed pivot on the rate cuts um do you think this was something that I guess the better question here is this retail data we're getting for Black Friday is really good. Labor market's still bad but not deteriorating and then inflation is still a concern. So I guess what do you think the probability is that the Fed in your words screws us versus just says let's do one cut and then we'll reevaluate next year.
>> I don't think the Fed's going to screw us. Can we go to Conspiracy Corner?
>> Okay, be my guest.
>> You ready for Conspiracy Corner?
>> Let's do it. I always love a good one.
>> Somebody sat three or four people down last week and said, "Listen, Powell is ain't is not running the show anymore. Powell's out.
>> This is who I am picking. Get on board." Four Fed presidents and voting members came out last week and started talking pretty dovish about a cut. You think that was just freaking random?
>> You know, I think there's a fair point because they all did it within like five hours of each other.
>> I mean, do you think that was random? And then Bent and Trump saying that Trump knows who who he's going to pick. I mean, you think this was r a random thing? This was all coordinated and it was to send a message to J. Pal that if you screw us, it doesn't matter because we'll take the short-term pain. Rates are going under 3% next year and there's not a thing you can do about it.
>> This was a direct middle finger to Pal.
>> I I I don't even think that's wrong because yes, it's a direct middle finger to Pal. The Fed shadow chair is going to be announced soon. And then when Williams and Daly came out, were two of the most important presidents, I mean, there you go. The job's done at that point.
>> And they're seeing unemployment go up. And they're able to use that as part of the thesis on why they should cut. If they, and this is why I say if they don't cut, the market is going to go down and we will not finish the mar the year where everybody thinks we're going to finish because now the Fed is going to have to play catchup. Now, a January cut could be off the table and it'll just be prolonged until you get a new Fed share. I think they're cutting and we need to get off this whole inflation thing. I'm so sick of it. And I at dinner last night, I and maybe I'm asking the wrong people, but at the same time, I truly believe whether inflation is three and a half or two and a half percent doesn't freaking matter. Are are you not buying something because it cost 10350 versus 10250 next year? Now, if inflation was 1520%, that's a much different story. But we're playing around with one percentage point or half a percentage of point for no reason on the inflation numbers. It's not stopping anybody from buying anything next year. It's just not. We need to get this narrative off and we need to protect the job market. the job market and job stability is so much more important than freaking bickering over where the terminal rate should be.
>> What is your perspective on the this uh Black Friday data? Like this is kind of really targeting the consumer's weak narrative based on the numbers we're getting.
>> 14.6 billion over Black Friday. Cyber Monday up 27% year-over-year. 81 million customers. Peak velocity 51. Walmart had amazing data. Adobe said 44 billion over the five days. Like I if the consumer was in a horrible position, I just don't think you would be seeing double digit growth year-over-year in disposable.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, unemployment can go up for several reasons. And while we're at 4.4%, it is still historically low. And there is still a lot of people spending money in the economy. So right now economic growth is outweighing the increase in unemployment. We are at that 1 percentage mark. It is a pivotal point. We need to make sure this does not keep going higher. But right now we have the economic growth to keep this going.
>> Why did you tell us to buy Intel at 20?
>> I mean I don't know. I told myself to buy it and I didn't freaking buy it. So I don't know. TJ's the only one that listened. TJ bought some intel.
>> TJ's the only one that listened. We didn't listen to me.
>> Dude, when Donnie T and Jensen Hong both bought it at 24 bucks, maybe all of us should have been like
>> Maybe we should have been like, "Yeah, this move isn't the real move. This is like it's going to get better."
>> It was such a missed opportunity. This would have just such an easy Trump wants American chips. He's putting money into an American chip company. I mean, we know this. This has been the narrative. Like, we should have freaking bought it. We should have listened to me, but we're we're ridiculous.
>> Um, Nvidia, are you still concerned about the Google TPU narrative?
>> I don't think I was ever concerned about demand. I was, my bigger thing was how many companies are going to augment, but I don't think it hurts anything for demand in the next year or two. My thing is now this changes the very forward outlook. But with the new chips of Rubin coming out next year, Nvidia could say, "Hey, cool story. Check this out." I mean, I I think there's only several companies that can really benefit from the TPUs. So, it's not something that's an Nvidia killer. I've been pretty clear on that.
>> Yeah. No, I agree. And I I think if anything, it's really bullish Google. It's just not necessarily bearish. uh bearishing.
>> Yeah. And keep in mind, Alphabet's easy money is done. Like I'm telling everybody, I'm coming out with an article and explaining this. This is not the same Alphabet it was five months ago. You're buying Alphabet here after the run that was so obvious was going to happen that I have receipts that I was saying was going to happen. Like it's a funny how not much has changed with the alphabet story and the TPU thing was just the icing on the cake. You still got the whole freaking chocolate frosting and everything before it. I mean this was a 150 160 and this ran to 280 290 before the TPU thing. I mean the easy money was made. The narrative was there ever since the lawsuit ended. Done. It went up
>> and and then the Birkshshire state came in. I agree with you. Going from one I I still don't think people realize, including myself, how big of a deal 150 to 300 on a $2 trillion company in four months is insanity. So
>> fair value right now.
>> Yes. So I I think and tell me if you agree with this. If you bought at 150, you don't sell, you know, if you because everyone they're just doing so right. But if you are didn't if you don't have a position, maybe there's something better than Alphabet right now. If you don't look, Alphabet, in my opinion, will continue to do well over the next couple of years. It'll probably match the market return. I don't think Alphabet's doubling from here anytime soon.
>> Yeah, the the only way that would happen is if they legitimately eat Nvidia's lunch, which
>> to me, this is now a story of go look at Meta. Meta is so cheap. Keep in mind, Alphabet was trading 17 times forward. It's no longer doing that. It's trading at 25 26 times. Now go look at Meta. Meta's trading at 18 times forward. It's in the same situation. There's going to be easy money in my opinion to be made on Meta. The easy money's already been made on Alphabet. Like it's funny how so many people don't want Alphabet at 150 because Search is going to be cannibalized, but at 300 they can't get enough of it. But what happened to search is going to be cannibalized? What news changed on search? because that was the whole bare thesis of 150.
>> Yeah. And again, I You're not saying you're bearish, Google. You're just saying the risk.
>> No, I'm just saying this is not an opportunity to buy. Like you can go from being bullish to neutral and not exit the position. Neutral means you hold it because you still think there's value. It's just not easy money, right? Um Ethereum breaking 3,000 right here. When's the last time we broke No. Yeah, we broke it over the weekend, but then it got hit. Uh any updated thoughts on BMR or you continue to just stay long?
>> Yeah, just, you know, get cash, buy some dollar cost average. We knew that this was a possibility and as long as the Ethereum thesis isn't broken, then we freaking run with it.
>> I would agree. Bitcoin right there at 90.5, Ethereum 3000. I think that's the other thing about these markets. It's like if we do have quantitative tightening turn into easing and more rate cuts, maybe that does open the crypto markets to kind of move again, which could help a lot of the risk on assets which are important towards the end of the year. Um, Amazon, is that a name for you for 2026? And does that take your capital before Meta?
>> I I think Meta. So, I don't have a crystal ball. So, please keep in mind I have no freaking clue what is going to happen. My prediction, and this is a prediction, do not do anything based off of this. Meta is going to run hard and fast out of the gate. Amazon is going to sustain a long-term run. I think there's value in both, but in the shorter term, I think Meta will outperform. In the longer term, over the next three years, I think Amazon can pull an alphabet or do more. I think they can more than double because I truly believe they are going to extract margin out of robotics and AI and it is going to make operating income expand.
>> Yeah, I agree. And and you know, I think Meta could get that run up, but I also think there's a world where Meta just doesn't because the market's still confused about the ROI on capex, but that doesn't mean when it does run, it's not going to run faster than Amazon because it's just more volatile than a name like
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I'm going to be adding some Amazon. I am not currently adding Meta, but I also have a full position in Meta. I don't have a full position in Amazon,
>> right? Um, I know you haven't been the biggest fan of a company that I like to shop at. By the way, Amcore breaking above 40. Really?
>> I am very happy that you did not buy a freaking Apple stock.
>> Well, that transitions me to what I was going to talk about. Apple.
>> I know what you're talking to talk about. I'm just happy you did not buy an Apple a sock.
>> Well, maybe I should have cuz 28.
>> No, you should not have.
>> Maybe the socks are bullish. Listen, your phone doesn't need a freaking koozie. All right,
>> they put out the sock and the stock went up. I don't know how you think that's not bullish. So, I mean, this thing's going to 300, dude. This thing there's going to be $300 a share selling socks.
>> I mean, okay, dude. 4.24 trillion. Yeah, it's Apple. They make two billion a week in net income. Like, why why would anybody be shocked?
>> So, we might end the year with Apple, Nvidia, and Google being at four. I mean, Google I mean, another percentage, two percentage points on Google. You're at four trillion. Like, just it's just amazing to be alive at the same time where this is happening.
>> How about this? There's going to be a big catchup trade with Amazon. I'm telling you. Go bring that back up real quick. None of the top four companies do more than 150 billion in operating income. If memory serves me correctly, only one of them does exceed 150 on IBIDA, maybe two. Microsoft definitely does, maybe Alphabet. But Amazon is doing less than a h 100red billion on operating income over the next couple of years. If they can expand margin and get their operating income to 120 130 billion, there's no reason that can't be a 4 to5 trillion company and then 2029 there is a road where this becomes a 7 trillion company. if their revenue expands to a trillion and margins get to at least 18%.
>> I agree. I I could not be more bullish on Amazon. I want we are going to see the stock at 300. Maybe not next year, but it's happening. And you just got to got to duke it out. And and if the operating margins inlect faster than what we're projecting, as you said, it's the stock's going to go up faster than what we're thinking as well.
>> I mean, think about this. You live in a heavily populated area. I live in the most heavily populated area and work in the most heavily populated area. We both go outside. Take a Peter Lynch approach to this. How many Amazon trucks do you see versus FedEx and UPS and United States Postal Service? And then packages. How many packages do you see getting unloaded? That is Amazon versus these others. And then in your building, how many times is the Amazon delivery people there versus other companies?
>> I agree.
>> It is a household name and that's that's not even doing it justice for what Amazon is.
>> Nobody is stopping freaking Amazon e-commerce. It's only going to get more market share. AWS is going to continue to expand. And I have news for everybody. Nobody's getting rid of Prime. And Amazon can increase Prime by a dollar or two. Nobody's getting rid of it because the amount of value you get out of Prime is so much more than the freaking Costco membership.
>> Agreed. You wrote an article on Seeking Alpha uh about Verizon. I'm going to link that in the chat just your
>> I think people will be interested. I mean, look, Verizon's CE new CEO Dan Schulman, you can say what you want about PayPal. Under his tenure, revenue 3xed, EPS quintupled, and his pay package is heavily tied to PSUs with a band of 55 to 75 on stock price and they pay out at a zero to 300% rate. If he doesn't get the stock to these tanches, he does not get the PSUs. He is heavily incentivized and this is not a long-term deal. His contract is over end of 2027. This is only a two and a half year deal for him.
>> Yeah, I think that
>> Prime is like $120 for the year.
>> Yeah.
>> How much does it cost for membership? I don't know.
>> Isn't it a Costco membership like 80 bucks or something like that? I actually don't know, but
>> 65.
>> Okay, so it Prime is double, but you get so much more. Oh, cool. I get to go to a freaking warehouse and waste my time walking around some aisles. With a Prime membership, you get the entire video library. You get an entire music library. You get an entire freaking Kindle library. And you get same or next day delivery. I mean, I would pay 5x for a Costco for a prime membership than Costco because it is freaking that much more valuable than a Costco membership.
>> Yeah.
>> Think about the sports you're getting on freaking the Prime membership alone.
>> Yeah. And the funny thing is Costco is freaking trading at a higher multiple than Amazon.
>> So, no, I agree with you 100% and it makes sense why people continue to pay for that. Uh, the other thing about Verizon that I like is that you got an almost 7% divvy with an incentivized CEO. And this is not a name to buy if you think it's going to 50 anytime soon. But if you think it's
>> You see the uh movie Moneyball?
>> Of course I have.
>> I I actually thought you would have because it's more of like a stock picker approach to baseball. Um, it's actually a really good movie. But
>> what's a what's the guy's name in it? Um,
>> Billy Bean. Brad Pitt's in it, Jonah Hill's in it, but it's it's based on Billy Bean. So, Billy Bean goes to David Justice in the movie and he says, "David, I'm not paying you for the player you used to be. I'm paying you for the player you are today." So, look at Verizon as a company it is today, not the company it was. This is a company with a lost decade of freaking growth.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. This is a company that's down 10% over the past decade. It's a shitty [ __ ] chart. But you look at the company it is today. They're doing 50 billion in IBA a year. Yes, they have a large debt pile. They can completely finance it and they are still growing in the low single digits and you're getting paid 7% in the dividend. My opinion, it's it's bottomed. Now, can it go down further? Sure. But the chances are probably not as likely as it once was. And it's in a position where maybe it can get to 55 or 60 over time while locking in a 7% yield in an environment where rates are coming down and they'll be able to refinance some of the debt or issue new debt at a lower price and pay back some of the high yielding debt. It's just Oh, and I see some of the comments. Cash back with Costco. Cool story. and get an Amazon credit card and get 5% back on Amazon. So, I don't know what you're talking about.
>> If Costco does a split, we're going to get you to buy a 100 shares and uh
>> you are never getting me to buy Costco stock.
>> We're going to get you to buy a 100 shares of this thing and hold it.
>> Never happen.
>> We're gonna make a bet with you that you lose and your punishment will be
>> I mean, that would be the only way is if I make a bet and lose and I'm forced to buy Costco stock. Yeah, but Moneyball I think was a phenomenal film. So I agree with your analogy completely. It made a lot of sense given how phenomenal the film was. Um Amazon right here at 236 that's up 1%. Bit mine's up almost 10%. Google at 318. Nvidia 184. And then Intel having a hell of a day 7.37%. The US is investing in a company that works with Intel. I think this is the reason it was 185 million. the DOE is investing or the DoD one of them uh called Xite in the semiconductor space and that one works with Intel so that could be the reason here. Um Coreweave Steve are you interested in this Nebias?
>> I am. I'm just I don't know. I have cold feet at the moment but I am interested. We'll see what happens.
>> I feel like if someone were to invest in a data center play, it would be now. Most of these stocks are down 40 to 50%, right? that and that's why it's interesting because they actually are trading at a forward valuation that you can make an argument that it's not tremendously expensive.
>> Yeah. And you know they're super volatile but obviously this would be your opportunity. I mean Cory's down from 150 which is a bit aggressive. All right. So I think we have five minutes until Steve has a meeting. So we'll do some rapid fire. If anyone has any questions, put in the chat. We'll get Steve's quick response to some of these questions. Wow, Meta 645. Everything's having some fun today.
>> Love it. And look, everybody was freaking out. Stop watching the freaking market every second. Like, I don't tell you, just don't freak out. No reason to.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I really didn't look at the market over the past couple days. So, I think as more people are coming back from vacation and looking at it, you're seeing something.
>> Also, you have to freaking ask yourself, what are you investing for? If you're a trader, freak out. Absolutely. Most people are not trading every minute of the day and are not trading on a day-to-day basis. So, long-term companies pick ETFs.
>> Okay. So, rapid fire. What's your best dividend paying stock? Is it Verizon that you would pick right now?
>> I mean, hard to define best. I I like Verizon. I like MO, but I mean, there's ETFs I really like. I mean, go read my article on QQQI. I mean, that ETF is on fire. And Goldman Sachs put out an ETF, GPIQ, which is on fire also.
>> Okay. Crowd Strike, they have earnings after the bell. Any thoughts on this one? I'm interested in because cyber security will do well over the long term. So I am interested. Salesforce reporting tomorrow.
>> Well, I was going to ask about this question. Uh pounder little bit of a rebound. Salesforce still kind of
>> stuck. I mean any thoughts on if you would buy one or the other at these levels? No, I mean look, from a value play, Salesforce makes a lot of sense, but from a momentum play, Palunteer can keep going higher. So, um, yeah, you got some QQQI fans in the chat.
>> Okay, another question here is um, Snowflake. Thoughts on this one? I haven't followed them in a long time, so I don't even know where the metrics are.
>> You know, they're up 60% this year. So, I mean, they've definitely gotten a lot more momentum and excitement. Uh, someone says, "Steve, would you buy Microsoft or Amazon at these levels?"
>> I think Amazon has more upside, but I'd be buying both. I mean, I I think Microsoft's the most complete company you're ever going to see, so they're both great.
>> But you would pick Amazon over Microsoft.
>> Yeah, probably. Yeah, me too. Me too. I mean, you're right. Microsoft is one of the most complete companies ever. It's just I I we know robotics will inflect margins for Amazon. I don't exactly know what is that very like two-year-old could understand thesis on Microsoft outside of its Microsoft.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, the business community is not getting rid of Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office, SharePoint, One Drive, or the upsell on Copilot. It's just the most complete company.
>> Jeep, any thoughts on that one?
>> Uh, it's no, the JP Morgan funds are done. I've downgraded both of them on my stock.
>> Really? You don't like them?
>> I mean, they are not performing as well as the Neos investments or Goldman Sachs ETFs. Yeah, I I did a article on GPIQ and QQQI and I just put one out yesterday on Jet Jeeppy or maybe it came out today on Jeepy. Yeah, it came out this morning on Jeeppy and I got to tell you, read that if you could link that article, take a read it. It's no longer the king of the high yield ETFs. If you scroll down, I put a table in it and I show you the year-to-date numbers against SPYI and GPIX because they are right there. Uh the next one that's a since inception. Yeah. So right there the total return compared to GPIX and SPYI since the beginning of 24 is freaking nowhere near. So, I'm no longer bullish on Jeffy, but I have to get going. Appreciate everybody. Please like and subscribe to Amit and do not give him any crap about steak. He is turned a new leaf. And we will see you guys tonight.
>> We appreciate you. Congrats on 11,000 subscribers. And
>> thank you.
>> I'll see you tonight. 9:30.
>> See you later.
>> Later. All right, so that was Steve takes or that was Steve's take on the market. Ethereum actually getting a nice move right here at 3,000. Same with Biddy 91. Nvidia falling off a little bit, Google falling off a little bit, but the crypto names getting some reprieve. S&P also pretty much high of day or very close to high of day at 68330. Uh Trump's going to be live at 11:30. Um. Oh, wow. Look at this. Oh, cool. Look at Look at this. Look at who's uh Look at This photo is going to trigger some people right here. He's going to be live for a cabinet meeting at 11:30. Um and so I guess they'll be talking about a lot of the Venezuela stuff. Look at Mr. Vlatty Vlad. Now, before people freak out, that says make IPOs great again. It doesn't say the thing that people will get triggered by. It says make IPOs great again. He's on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. There you go. Got Mr. Vlad there who's uh at the stock exchange today. Um, okay. Update on Amazon. Let's pull this up right here and see what we've got. I think this update has to do with their tranium chips. I don't know if they're actually going to start at 11:30. Usually they end up being later, but we'll see if they start. I know there's going to be a lot of questions around the Venezuela uh situation, which is why I think they're doing the the public cabinet meeting
>> event in Las Vegas. Hey, Matt.
>> Hey there, Carl. So, AWS CEO Matt Garmin is on stage now unveiling major upgrades across the Amazon AI stack. Now, let's start with what's increasingly become the deciding factor in both the cloud and AI wars, those in-house chips. AWS is rolling out its new tranium 3 chips. The headline here is performance and price, roughly four times the compute, memory bandwidth, and energy efficiency of the prior generation. So, customers can train much larger models faster and at a lower cost. Big users like Anthropic are already using Tranium to cut AI compute bills by as much as half. But we're also getting new details on Tranium 4, their next chip in development that promises even bigger jumps in speed and memory. And it's being designed to plug into the same high-speed racks as Nvidia GPUs so that customers can mix and match everything in one giant cluster. All right. Second, Amazon. It is debuting a new suite of its Nova LLM models as they look to get competitive in the model race. Nova 2 is what you'd think of as the rival to Gemini and Chad GBT. Nova Forge is basically for the enterprise customer that wants to run proprietary data inhouse on its own LLM. So this is very much the build your own Frontier model. And then finally, Amazon, it is introducing Frontier agents. They can run for days with virtually no human intervention. That's supposed to be a huge perk for enterprise customers operating on Amazon's cloud business. And all of this, it is very much a big swing at convincing investors that Amazon is a formidable contender in the full stack AI race. Guys,
>> this is all so interesting. Mac, I'm wondering a little bit more about the tranium chips. I I guess the first question is is are those details for the Tranium 3 as expected? And then what what do you make of the fact that they're already talking about number four? I know you said no release date, but does that sort of take the wind out of the sales of number three? It's a good question and and part of what the strategy is here is pro showing that there's even greater efficiency ahead that these training for chips are already in development and I think that also comes at a very sensitive time for the company where you know Google's been getting all this great publicity around its in-house silicon the TPU but keep in mind they were three years earlier to to the AI race in terms of developing their own chips inhouse and so Amazon is saying we've got a playbook we're looking ahead this has six times greater efficiency the tranium 4 chip is coming down the pike and what's really notable here is they talked about this fungeability where you don't have to use training for in the context of being an AWS customer you can plug it into other racks and it goes to this larger question of will uh these companies whether it's Google whether it's Amazon start to sell their in-house chips to third party buyers instead of make them uh use it in the context of their cloud program
>> it doesn't seem like that long ago going vertical
>> that could be the reason Nvidia is maybe getting a little bit of red right here uh More concerns about S&P almost high of days. Amazon, are we pumping? Wow, Amazon, look at that. 238. It's time to go back to 240. It's time to go. Wow, Apple 287. Maybe that tranium news is actually taking some some uh points off Nvidia. Nvidia 182. Amazon just unveiled that its newest AI chips are now available for customers. Is Amazon having a live stream? Are we do we have Amazon live anywhere? Let me see. Uh I would love to see if they're making these announcements live, but Amazon is Yeah, these announcements are definitely getting the market to be more excited about Tranium. The fact that Amazon and Apple are making a move right here. Again, I don't think this is bearish in video, but nonetheless, the headline is always going to be thought of as bearish in video. Um, but you are getting these to get momentum. S&P 682, Bitcoin 91, Google 316, Apple and Amazon having a hell of a day. I mean, Apple 286, I guess. iPhone 17 demand is enough to get excited for Apple and that's why that one's moving. Bitcoin is also pumping. Are we at 92? No, still at 91. We hit 91.2. Did not hit 92 yet, but it's trying to get there. Wow. Bitcoin ETF's volume on Vanguard hit a billion within the first 30 minutes. Oh, that's that's a big update. By the way, for those that don't know Cactus, who is our personal Bloomberg for the entire community, um let's just say he's a Bitcoin bull. He definitely likes the Bitcoin ecosystem and the crypto industry in general. Now, he never lets that bias uh sort of come in when he's reporting all the news. He's gives me bearish stuff, bullish stuff about crypto all the time, but uh I'm I know he's I know he's loving that update right now because that's a big one. If you're a crypto OG and you care about Bitcoin, seeing the company with 11 trillion assets that said you will never be able to trade Bitcoin ETFs on our platform do a billion in volume in 30 minutes, it means all those people that have all that wealth on Vanguard, guess what? They want to put some of that money into Bitcoin. Yes. Essentially, Cactus is Satoshi. That's that's what I'm trying to say. But that's really cool. That is really cool. So, you're getting that Bitcoin momentum potentially affecting those equity prices. Uh, let's get an update on OpenAI. This was that Code Red that we talked about on how they're competing with Gemini. So, here's the update there, and then we'll see if we can get some more stuff from Amazon.
>> Morning, Carl. Feels like it's always there, but this memo cited by the journal and the information, it's proof that the AI moat is breached. Alman is essentially signaling that OpenAI can't scale a profitable business until they resecure its foundational lead by fixing the core product experience. But that's also part of the problem. Competitive leads and models are now fleeting. They're measured in months, sometimes just weeks. The minute that Google's Gemini topped GBT on benchmarks, OpenAI's dominance was gone. This past week, Deep Seek, remember them, unveiled two new versions of an experimental model that it says matches GBT5 on multiple reasoning tests. Next week, OpenAI will answer with its own new reasoning model that Altman says is ahead of Gemini. The result is this, a leaderboard that is constantly shifting. The difference between first place and third place is just a few percentage points. The cost of chasing that tiny lead is huge, but the utility for the average user is almost indistinguishable. And the trade-off for OpenAI is increasingly brutal. Altman is talking about sacrificing future high margin revenue. The memo says that they will delay products like advertising and specialized AI agents to refocus on the chatbot itself and that exposes OpenAI's core vulnerability. Chat is both its crown jewel and its single point of failure. Everything rides on defending its position in the chatbot wars, a position that Google just disrupted. And the more worrying data point comes from similar web. Users are now spending more time on Gemini. So engagement has flipped. We talked about that yesterday. The real question, guys, it may be, has the model race itself become a distraction, or has chat GPT made missteps? Alman's memo spells out what needs fixing in the app? Speed, accuracy on simple questions, personalization. These are the day-to-day things that matter far more to users than a few benchmark points. Either way though, this is taking focus away from building diversified products that would ultimately make the business less fragile.
>> How sticky D is a user experience in one of these? I I guess does it depend if you're enterprise using it versus just an everyday consumer? I mean, are you going to switch back and forth?
>> Yeah, I think that's why enterprises very different big difference between enterprise and consumers. I think enterprises are working with a bunch of different models because it is sticky and they have the proprietary data. You don't want to get stuck in just one. As a consumer, Courtney, I can tell you myself because over the last few days, I've been trying to switch over to Gemini 3. I do believe the answers for what I'm using it for are better. it, you know, more clear-cut. I like the personality of it, but it is hard to switch from chat GBT because it, you know, quote unquote knows me. Um, but that's why that engagement stat is so important that you can see that people are spending more time on Gemini, which means that maybe they're doing more deep research. They're incorporating it more into their day-to-day lives.
>> It's pretty incredible, dude. These LLM, uh, I mean, there's no switching cost, right? like if something's better, you're just gonna you're you're not going to worry about the switch. Nvidia getting a little bit of a haircut based on some of this Amazon stuff, Amazon 237, but uh the models are competing ruthlessly to get your attention and people's attention is fleeting based on whatever model they like to use. So the question just becomes who's going to have the best model and there's probably going to be multiple best models, but they are all going to continue to compete as much as they can. Guessing the AWS event is live. Let me I can't find the stream. Let me see. AWS event. Oh, no. Here it is. Okay, let's tune into this. We got Trump at 11:30. We'll transition to the cabinet meeting. Then here's the AWS event live. for uh developers or builders to get the servers or compute capacity that they needed without investing significant capital and time. Developers were spending way too much of their time procuring servers, managing infrastructure, and not enough of that time building. We've actually felt this ourselves inside of Amazon. We had a company full of builders who had these incredible ideas of how they could make our customers lives better, but they couldn't move as fast as they wanted. So we asked ourselves why not? Why couldn't developers focus on building instead of on infrastructure? Why couldn't we bring our why couldn't we bring the time and the cost of experimentation down to zero? Why not make every idea possible? And we've spent the last two decades innovating towards those goals. Giving all of you the freedom to keep inventing is why we're here today. And right now we're witnessing an explosion of invention with AI. Every single customer experience, every single company, frankly, every single industry is in the process right now of being reinvented. And we're still in the early days of what AI is going to deliver. And the technology is iterating faster than anything any of us have ever witnessed before.
>> All right, so AWS pretty bullish. We'll get all the updates from that event throughout the day as they announce it. Um but it is in Amazon's best interest to make sure they can continue showing different use cases with AI particularly on AWS uh for developers because the more AI workloads the more cloud services they get to sell but you need to have more applications and as the applications continue to grow it seems like Amazon wants to be a big supporter of that. Meta right there at 642. Ethereum still holding 3,000. And then Amazon's at 236. ALAB is now down 2% on the day. I don't know why it was up 10%. That one looks very weird. Uh went from up 10 to down two. So I'm not sure why, but that one is down. I'll see if I can get a headline on that. Symbotic. That is Wow. 15. Didn't they just have earnings last week? And it was a good earnings. This is the robotics company. Micron also is dump. Micron Micron's down 2%. Again, Micron is one of the best performing stocks this year. I wouldn't say that's too much of a dump. Goldman downgraded Symbiotic um or Symbotic. They said, "While Symbiotics warehouse automation technology has been very received well by Walmart, we believe shipments are likely to come with limited cash flow. downgraded them to 47 stocks at what? 71. That's why it's getting hit. That's why it's getting hit. Is anyone taking the opposite side on meta? Let me do a poll right there in the chat. I mean, like because I know like most people have been pretty bullish on Meta. Curious if anyone, by the way, 54% of you said yes so far. We'll get into the S&P 500 this week. So, we'll find out on Friday. But I guess are you bearish meta? Is anyone more on the side of this thing goes back below 600 before it comes anywhere near 700? Neutral on meta, not a fan on meta. And what time frame? I would say for next year, 2026, right? Like is it a buy for 2026 is the broader question. Or would you avoid it? Because I mean if you knew Meta was going to go to 800 by the end of next year, it's probably a buy, right? Like a because the quality of company that it is and then b because 800 to 640 is a 25% return. I mean, I don't think too many people would be unhappy with something like that. But if you think this thing is either going to be stuck or go below 600 because of whatever fears that exists with Meta and that would be a bit of a counter trade. I think there's more people bullish on meta than bearish right now. So it would be a bit contrary and red right there at 227 and then Nabius red on the day at 100. Is Tesla dumping? Is it actually down? Tesla. It's not dumping, but yes, it's going red. 436 to 426. Tesla got a bunch of upgrades over the past couple of weeks. I mean, by the way, did Okay, did anyone actually watch that Elon interview with the Indian guy? Nikil, I think is his name. I'm sorry, but I started watching some of it. This was a horrible interview. Like, I I don't even want to throw sh I don't I don't really know who the guy like this was one of the worst interviews I've seen on Elon Musk. The questions were unbelievably basic. There was no flow in the rhythm of the conversation. Uh there were these awkward pauses. Elon's allowed to have an awkward pause when he's thinking. You as the interviewer are not allowed to have an awkward pause after he answers the question because then it just looks like you're staring at him and you don't know what to say. And the questions didn't compound. The arc to an interview is the conver the questions compound after one or one over the other leading to someone really valuing the inter exchange of dialogue. When you just immediately transition from one thing to another and there's no closure to the first topic, it just looks like a like not a podcast like just like like you're an interview just throwing questions at somebody. Okay, it's not just me. Thank you. Because I don't want to sound like I'm hating on the guy. Now, apparently my mom loves this guy. She texts me. She's like, "Oh my god, Elon's on my favorite podcaster interview." And I'm and I don't have the heart to tell her. I'm like, "Mom, this interview was trash." Like, my mom just like loves these like Indian podcasters and stuff. And I'm like, "Mom, this guy sucked. Like, this was not good." Like, like this is Elon. Elon's done thousands of interviews. Like, you get Elon Musk for two hours, you better be ready. And I don't think the guy was ready. Kill is the CEO of Robinood, equivalent of India. He's not just interview. Well, he sucks at interviewing. He could be the CEO of Robin Hood, but or the India Robin Hood. That's fine, dude. He can be a great entrepreneur. But he that was not a good interview, dude. I'm sorry. Like, by the way, Vlad, who was also the CEO of Robin Hood, sucked at answering questions back in 2022 and uh it was horrible communication from his part. Vlad has got a lot better over the past couple years. But after GameStop, Vlad, you just I you should have just not talked cuz every answer he gave just made things worse. This guy Nick Hill, dude, I was just I'm just I'm like I couldn't believe. And then the the they edited the podcast with all these stupid overlays thinking that that would make it more entertaining. I'm like, dude, it's a podcast. No one needs to see every little detail on the bottom of the screen explaining stuff. It's like, we need to hear a good conversation. And there's like all these random things that would pop up in the middle of the pod and I'm just like no amount of editing can change this [ __ ] Look at this. Like there's just random stuff that just popped up and I'm just like I don't I just want a good question. But yeah, I didn't like it, dude. I really didn't like it. I didn't think it was that good. Brown on brown hate. Yes, exactly. No, look, I have no reason to to hate on this guy. just as someone who is aspiring to be an interviewer one day at a at a profound level, you know, hopefully Elon sits with me. If I had that opportunity, I'm not wasting it. And I think that two-hour podcast was a waste of my time. Genuinely a waste of my time. Like it's Elon Musk. You got to get something real out of the guy. And he's asking just like [ __ ] that like is not important. It's your job as the interviewer to get the guest to feel comfortable and to actually this is why Joe Rogan, love him or hate him, he gets people to feel comfortable and open up. You got to be able to do that if you're going to have a big interview. So, yeah, I didn't like it. But, but there were some clips that were interesting. It's just the overall interview wasn't the best. Yeah, I would have asked for his favorite movie, you know. I would have and I would have agreed to whatever interview he said. Okay. It's not just me. I see a lot of you saying absolutely stupid questions were asked. I think Elon did it because he wanted distribution to the Indian audience. I don't think Elon did it because he likes the guy or anything. I think Elon was just like, "Hey, this guy's a big audience in India, so I should probably do the podcast." Which is fine for him. It's just I thought the podcast was was wasted. Uh Hims, that's still flat on the day. Micro Strategies up 5.4%. Let's pull up the stock draft. By the way, shout out to Steve because I offered to trade him Apple for him and he said no. That ended up being really good for my portfolio because when we did trades at the end of the stock draft, if I ended up having him and Dolingo, this would not be pretty. But we ended up keeping Apple and we're up 44% on it. This was my controversial Mac. I didn't have a single Mac 7 outside of Apple. No one wanted to trade for it. So 29% on this ETF. Matt's at 19. Tanner's at 19. Steve is at two. And then Chris is at six. So Palin Hood, Tesla, AMD, JP Morgan, Nebius, Grab, and Apple kind of holding up this portfolio. Um, if Farzad doesn't repost the interview, you know it's bad. Yeah, that's fair, dude. Far if Farzad doesn't repost an Elon interview, you know it sucks. Usually Farzad's team will clip up that interview within seconds and get it posting it. I don't know. I just like it. And there was a thread on Twitter last night about people talking about the same topic and it was just people were like the dude was just so awkward at so many moments. Let me see if I can find some clips of it. But like there are moments where Elon would say something. The guy would just stare at him. I'm like, "Bro, you're not Elon. You don't get to freaking wait 10 seconds before you say something. Like, you have to be ready to talk." And he's just staring at him. And the camera's then zoomed in on this interviewer staring at Elon. I'm like, "What is going on here?" Like, "What is happening?" Oh, yeah. He did call Elon fat. He did say that. I remember. Wait, I like Where's the clip of him saying that? He was like, "You look a bit bigger." or something, right? What was Does anyone remember the quote? Was it bulky? Did he say the word bulky? Um. Oh, yeah. This one right here. Okay. You're going to see it right here. Like, bro, how are you going to call the world's richest man fat?
>> You want a coffee? Um, sure. Why not?
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Are we going to be talking for a while?
>> I hope we are.
>> Okay. Okay. Sure. Um,
>> may I trouble you for
>> Wait, hold on. Let me let me put this back. What was the question he said?
>> You want a coffee?
>> Um, sure. Why not?
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Are we going to be talking for a while?
>> How is this included in the podcast? Do you want a coffee? How like what? Like like how is that like what is going on here?
>> I hope we are.
>> Okay. Okay. Sure.
>> Um
>> may I trouble you for a coffee?
>> Can we get another coffee?
>> Uh cap.
>> You know how you know how podcasts have like cold intros or whatever and there's like the guests that are talking before they get into it? This is not that. This is them telling the crew members to get some coffee for Elon. Elon tried to make it funny by saying, "Are we gonna be talking for a while?" But like, what is this, bro?
>> No, I guess. All right.
>> Are you a coffee drinker, El?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah, I copy once usually in the mornings, you know.
>> Okay.
>> One a day kind of thing.
>> Yeah, pretty much.
>> You want to wait for it?
>> Do it. What is like is that just me thinking that's incredibly awkward? You want to wait for it? Why is that included in the interview? And for everyone saying he's a billionaire, I don't care. He sucks at being an interviewer. C can we not acknowledge reality about people that have money? Just because he's a billionaire, we're not allowed to criticize. What are we talking about?
>> Like, how is this how is this here?
>> The mornings, you know.
>> Okay.
>> One a day kind of thing.
>> Yeah, pretty much.
>> You want to wait for it?
>> No, I'm I'm I'm good. The first thing I must say is you're a lot bigger and bulkier, muscular than I would have thought you are.
>> Oh, stop. You must make me blush.
>> Nah, he just called him fat. You just called him fat, bro. Elon tried to make it funny by saying you're He just called him fat, dude. He added musler at the end to try to act like he wasn't calling him fat. I'm sorry. I don't care how much the guy is worth. I don't care what he's done. That That was And then the rest of the interview is not that much better. He sucked. That was a horrible intro. Why do you even keep that included? This is Elon freaking Musk. And that's the start to it. Like, what are we talking about? Like, I don't care if this guy is a billionaire, if this guy is worth a million. I don't care if he's a big entrepreneur or not. Like if you're a bad if that was a bad interview. That was a bad interview. Yeah. Editor. No, but it's not the editor's fault. It's his fault because he should be he should have listened to the interview twice before it was posted. And I don't understand how as an interviewer, which I don't care if he's a CEO of another company. He's also a podcaster if he's going to be interviewing Elon freaking Musk. You got you can't listen to that and be like, "Oh yeah, we should keep that in." Like there's no way. By the way, Nvidia getting hit right here. 180.60. Nvidia losing a lot of its move today. Is this really because of Amazon losing it as well? Amazon 239 and 234. So the entire market kind of maybe getting an 11:30 slam rate. I think you know you know you know what it is. I think Trump's about to speak in five minutes. Trump should be going live and maybe the market's getting afraid that he's going to say some [ __ ] Meta right there. 639 that goes red. Apple losing 287 and then the S&P red as well. Guys, I'm not jealous of him. There's nothing to be jealous about. Like I want good interviews of Elon. Like there's like I hope one day I can have an interview Elon, but like I obviously have not done enough in life to get Elon to sit down with me. There's nothing to be jealous about. I'm trying to be objective. That was not a good interview. Some of the clips were good, but if people can't see how awkward those first 45 seconds were, which ended up setting the tone for the rest of the interview, I don't know what we're even talking about then, but I didn't like it. I didn't think it was the best. Apple 285, Nvidia 180, Amazon 234. Is Trump actually going to go live at 11:30? They say he goes live then. Is the White House stream up? We haven't seen a cabinet meeting in a minute. Usually they end up ordering a decent number of crispy cream donuts at this meeting. Um, and you, you know, we just need a decent chunk of glaze when we're in these meetings. So, we haven't seen it in a while. Path heets probably going to get a ton of questions about what's going on with Venezuela. So, we're going have to see how they navigate that. Google losing 315. Bit mine 7%. Amcor still up five. Nebius loses 100. Robin loses 128. Wow. Paliner 175 to 170. Just like that, the ALOS take it down. Unless there's a headline. I don't see a headline. If there is a headline, let me see. But I don't think it's the Amazon headline. Trump at 2 p.m. I don't know what that announcement is going to be, but 11:30 should be the the cabinet meeting. Um, it wasn't a horrible podcast because he has the following for a reason and people gravitate towards his style. Look, you can have a I mean, again, I just people have followings for a lot of reasons. Like, you have there's plenty of people that have an audience or influence. that doesn't mean they create good content. So, I don't know. I mean, yes, like maybe a bunch of people like how he interviews, but like based on the comments I'm seeing here and based on what we all just witnessed, that that was not a good moment. And the and then then the rest of the interview is not that much better. Like I think we're being objective and maybe his other interviews are good. I haven't seen too many of them, but if we're being objective, no, that was not good. And again, you can have a following in an audience and people might gravitate towards that style, but you can also be objective that somebody like Joe Rogan's had some bad interviews for most of his career. It's been good, but it's not like he hasn't had bad moments. That one was just not a good moment. Not a good moment to me. CNBC, do they have Trump? Um, I don't have it on the White House stream. Let's see if it actually starts at 11:30. No, CNBC doesn't have it yet. Mike Johnson was taking some questions. It might end up starting in like 10. As soon as the White House stream comes up, then we'll know that it's going to start. We're not having yet. Dude, I've had bad interviews, too. Again, people saying it's jealousy. I I don't I don't think you're listening to what I'm saying about the art of an interview. When with Tom Lee, me saying right after everything he said was bad. That was not a good moment. And like we can be objective and be like, "Hey, like you don't need to say the word right or correct after everything someone says." And I could have easily edited that out too. It was a stupid thing I left in there. But I also think we can be objective. If Nina, can you get us the coffee? Like, no. That's not small talk, bro. That's just awkward. That's just weird. Uh, all right. White House live stream. Where is this [ __ ] White House is not live yet. Yeah, this thing might take a while to start, guys. They usually say 11:30. It might end up being 12 here. I'm trying to see a better reason for why we're seeing some of the red meta now 638, S&P 679 losing full of 680. Oh, let's get an update on the tariff stuff and see if maybe this is creating any headlines. Filed Friday against US Customs and Border Protection. Costco said it has to act now because it's facing this December 15th deadline for a final tally of its tariffs this year and it says that customs has already denied Costco's request for an extension given that the tariffs are being litigated in the Supreme Court. So the company says firms that paid tariffs under the law in question here are not necessarily going to be granted refunds unless they take independent action against the government. So that's why they have to file the suit. Costco is asking the US Court of International Trade for a declaration that collecting tariffs under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as that Trump administration has done in many cases, is illegal. And the company wants an injunction blocking further duties, as well as a full refund of all the tariffs paid under this statute this year. Although Costco does not reveal how much the tariffs have cost the companies so far, a White House spokesman said yesterday the economic consequences of the failure to uphold President Trump's lawful tariffs are enormous and this suit highlights that fact. The White House looks forward to the Supreme Court's speedy and proper resolution of this matter. Now, dozens of other companies have filed similar lawsuits. And remember, President Trump invoked this International Emergency Economic Powers Act to impose many of his tariffs this year. Not all of them, but many of them. And in August, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld a prior decision that found that President Trump did not have the power under the law to do that. Now, the Supreme Court has agreed to take up the case. It's not clear though when a decision might come down. Guys,
>> can you explain, Aean, again, the timing of this? I know.
>> Could this be the reason? Could this Costco stuff getting more intense be there? Again, I think it's cuz Trump's about to speak and maybe markets are just selling off before he says anything. I don't see any other headlines for those that are asking. I really don't. Obviously, it could just be alos, but maybe it is a little bit more of the tariff fears heating up.
>> There's a December 15th timing. Can you just go through the details again?
>> Oh, we got another headline. Walmart CFO peak impact from tariff costs likely hitting in Q1. No, it might be the tariffs, guys. It might be the tariffs. Where's Walmart stock? Just went red. Huh. Peak impact from tariff costs likely hitting in Q1. We all know that Walmart's been avoiding the impact of the tariffs and they've been eating the cost. The CEO of Walmart has a very good relationship with Bent, but eventually they were going to hit it looks like Q1 that might happen.
>> And about why Costco's filing this now when we are still waiting for this potential decision from the Supreme Court.
>> Right. Well, there's a process in customs law where they have to what they call liquidate the entries. That means that all of the imports that have happened during the course of the year, there's a time frame for those to be tallied up. They pay an estimated tariff as it goes along and then they have to liquidate that when the deadline hits. In this case, Costco is saying they face a major deadline on December 15th to liquidate entries from this year. And so they want to have this lawsuit on the record before then so they have a chance of recouping some of these tariffs that they've paid uh if the Supreme Court rules in their favor. Now, the White House seems to be just punting now to wait to see what the Supreme Court does. And you've seen President Trump on social media relentlessly and talking in public relentlessly about how important he sees this decision. And we just have no idea, Courtney, when this is going to come down. The Supreme Court could act at any time and either strike down all these tariffs or say, "Yep, you know, in fact, we decided the president does have the legal authority to do that under this statute, which doesn't mention tariffs ever in the statute, but the Trump administration says it gives them the power to do what they've done."
>> I've noticed, Damon, one reaction to the Costco news has been, "Well, what about consumers who pay these tariffs? Where's our refund?" Uh, and I guess that would bring steer you back to a conversation about $2,000 checks, although we haven't heard much on that front lately.
>> Yeah. I mean, the question is, how much did Costco raise uh uh to pay for these tariffs? And how much did consumers pay at Costco during the course of the year? And what would be Costco's plan uh to pay those people back? I mean, presumably you can't, right? if you bought, you know, 800 uh, you know, pieces of toilet paper during the year at Costco, uh, you know, they don't have a way of refunding you the money for whatever that cost to import from wherever they imported it from. So, uh, yeah, I think you could be looking at a situation where if the administration loses here at the Supreme Court and the companies win, uh, these back tariffs, the companies could be able to keep that gravy between the diff the difference between whatever they paid in tariffs and whatever the prices were that they raised to pay for the tariffs. So, it could be kind of bullish for a lot of these companies that paid tariffs under that situation. How much so is anybody's guess and probably varies a lot company by company, industry by industry. All right, the tariff stuff might be the news. You're taking away a little bit of the green and it is what it is. When Trump speaks, you'll probably get some more stuff that play as that. Also, this Amazon headline AI chip to take on Nvidia. Amazon new chips say they're more cost effective than Nvidia. Google also says that about their TPU. So obviously um obviously that could be something that really does affect Amazon as well. Amazon 230 or Nvidia in general. Nvidia right here 180.49 that's up.3%. Now if Nvidia goes red on the day that would be a bit more interesting here. S&P just recovered from going red to green. Meta also getting a little bit of a green candle right there. All these names took their red candle down and now they're somewhat trying to get it back. Even Google went from 314 red to now back to 315. So a lot of this could just be contingent on what Trump has to say. It feels like the overall trend is intact. I mean that's what matters whether we close at 678 or 680. Like we just keep making progress in the 680 range and obviously that rate cut is going to be the more important thing that plays out. I also don't know if the dude are the tariffs really having that much of an impact like consumers just spent $50 billion over the past five days. Like are the tariffs really hurting consumer confidence to such an extent? Again, I I I don't think we can undermine the Black Friday numbers. I really did not think we were going to have a massive uh shopping season. If people feel under pressure and things are rough, like yeah, buy now pay later credit cards, but you still shouldn't see these types of volumes that we're seeing. Maybe that's different. Oh, we have an update on the 2 PM meeting from Trump. This is from Bloomberg. Not confirmed, but Trump to announce proposed roll back in auto fuel economy rules. Uh the meeting will include executives from GM, Ford, and Stellantis. Okay, now this says Wednesday. Today's Tuesday. He has a meeting at 2 PM on Tuesday. So maybe this is not the 2 PM news. But that could help those stocks. GM flat on the day, Ford is flat. Um, the auto fuel economy rules from my understanding were that the Biden administration said basically by 2035, you know what, we're going to ask Gemini, what did the Biden admin say for auto fuel economy requirements? over the next decade.
>> I think it was like we have to phase out all gas cars in the next 15 years or make every car at least have 50 miles per gallon. I think that was like what what Biden said. Maybe I'm wrong, but uh if Trump rolls all that back, which I think is kind of inevitable that he was going to do that, not the best for EVs, obviously pretty good for the other auto car companies. Ethereum still above 3,000. That's making a move. The B administration established two major sets of regulations in early to mid 2024 to govern auto fuel economy in June 2024. The target is yeah 50.4 miles per gallon by 2031. That's only six years away. Uh passenger cars fuel economy must increase by 2% per year. Light trucks had to increase by 2%. This is their miles per gallon. and heavy duty pickups had to increase by 10% until 2035. The second one was manufacturers must lower their fleetwide tailpipe emissions by nearly 50% by 2032. The administration carefully avoided an explicit EV mandate. Instead, they estimated to meet that these pollution targets, automakers would likely need EVs to make up 30 to 56% of new sales by 2032. Oh boy, dude. that the executives at Stalantis, GM, and Ford must have been so happy that Trump won the election because for them to make 50% of their new vehicle sales, even 30% in the next seven years to be all EVs or at least like hybrids closer to EVs than gas cars. I mean, I I just I don't know if those companies are built to have that much of an operational change in less than 10 years. So, if Trump's rolling all that back, then that's definitely going to be uh bullish for those for those car companies. Probably not bullish for Tesla, but again, you know, Tesla, I don't think I just I don't know. Do we even talk about the car sales anymore for Tesla? Do we even care how many cars are sold? The European registrations still aren't that good. Like, I don't know if that's still the story people care about. Dove Bear says, "I love my gas guzzling car." Um, my miles per gallon is 19. Dude, what car do you have? 19 miles per gallon. My Civic I think my Honda 2019 Civic miles per I think I had like 28 or 30. Yeah, it was about 25 in the city, 36 on the highway. 19 is wild. My 4Runner has 16. My Escalade gets 12. Goodness gracious. My Jeep is 13. See, when you own those cars, you either own it for the love of owning it or you like just don't care about paying for gas. And look, although the Tesla doesn't have to deal with gas prices, the the Tesla miles are not amazing. the range on Tesla, at least my Model Y from 2024, it's not like phenomenal, especially because Tesla advises to only like does anyone actually charge their Tesla up to 100%. Because they advise you to keep it at 80%. And 80% gets you like 250 miles, but it's not like that amazing, but you're not supposed to charge it up to 100 apparently to help the life of the battery. So, I'm not really impressed by the Tesla miles. Like I I love the Tesla itself. FSD is amazing, but the mileage is not the uh the most exciting. Here's an analyst talking about the Amazon new tranium chips. Let's get some coverage on this as well. Incremental. I mean, this is a next generation chip. Um I I think most of the investor focus is really actually about bringing data center capacity online. And I mean they talked about project reineer but um as as they've been kind of behind or catching up to client demand it's really about how fast they can bring data center capacity online over the next you know call 12 18 months.
>> Okay so incremental um but then they also talked about this new chip to come. So looking at trrenium 4 that we don't have a date yet um but is that incremental or hard to know yet?
>> Hard to know yet. I mean, look, the Amazon playbook has always been um take your your your data lock in and your cost efficiency and then ultimately bring new, you know, products historically with software products to customers that were effectively more efficient and less expensive than other alternatives and do it all in the same cloud. and and so on the model standpoint, they basically want you to be able to run every kind of model on AWS and then also offer their own lower cost models for uh customers who are more, you know, cost focused.
>> Okay. And so you said capacity is really what matters matters more and they do.
>> All right. So the AI chip stuff maybe that's having an impact but you know I don't I just like the TPU stuff. I don't think that's going to be the worst thing for Nvidia. Nvidia getting a little bit of recovery. Meta right there 641 and then the S&P at 680. Yeah, range and efficiency I agree are different things. I am talking about range with my Tesla. It's just the range is not, you know, it's just not the most impressive to me. And so, I mean, if they could, you know, if they could somehow get that range to be 400 miles, 450 miles on 80% charge, that would be amazing. But that is just not there yet. How many cars do you have? I have one car. I had a Honda Civic, sold it, got the Tesla. I got that 0% APR back in November 2024. So, I like I literally sniped it right when 0% APR was was coming through. Um, you know, honestly, people hate the Cybertruck. I would love to have a Cybertruck one day. I really still think the Cybertruck looks amazing. I know it hasn't sold that well, but I love that car. I've driven it twice. I really do think it's a dope car. But it's also too big, dude. Like, if you're not driving every day, like it's it's kind of overkill for having that big of a car. Trump is still not live yet. I mean, it should be happening soon. They said 11:30. It's 11:45. Do I have to leave at 12 or 12:30? I have. Okay. I'm not going to be able to stream it. I have a 12m meeting. All right. So, I guess we're not going to get to see the glaze session. We'll end it here. Actually, was the reason I wanted to see it because I was curious what the heck is happening with Venezuela and I at least wanted to get a little bit more information on that side, but I guess we'll find out later throughout the day. Um, Doug says, "I charge a Tesla to 100% right before a road trip. Other than that, 80 is way more in the daily range. Yeah, that's fair. I think I did it to 100 like once. Once or twice. I thought I was supposed to do it to 100 all the time and then I realized like you're not supposed to charge it to 100%. I was like, okay. Uh yes, Tanner will be live. Maybe T. It's so funny because Tanner got a me and Tanner were talking about this. Tanner got a taste of what it feels like to stream Trump cuz he's never like now that he's doing his evening show, he doesn't like stream Trump. I mean, he's never had to stream Trump, but now you know Trump's live. You got to hear what he's saying because the market's reacting to it. And Tanner just sees the chat explode. He's like, "Bro, people were like fighting back and forth there." He's like, "And I'm Canadian. I don't care. Like, I'm just I'm just listening to what he's saying." And I was like, "Dude, it's politics. This is what happens. This is what happens. So, all right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody for being here. We'll be back on the market close. We got a ton of earnings today. So, it is a big day for earnings. We have Marll that just acquired a company, Octa, Asana, American Eagle, maybe we get a Sydney Sweeney pump, GitLab, and then the big one that I'm looking at, Crowdstrike. Um, so those are going to be the big names. Then we have Technical Tuesday right after that. So, probably at 4:30 we'll get into TT and we'll get those earnings after uh the bell and and then I'll be live with Steve tonight. So, that's pretty much what we have today. I'll see whatever Trump says on these updates and then we'll talk about it on the close as well. All right, I think that's it. Let's do word of the day and let's see what we can get and we'll be back after the bell. Um, okay. Let's ask Chach. So, we're doing these finance word of the days that are okay. Chat is giving me phrases. I need words. Yesterday, the word of the day was convexity. Today, it's convexity hedging. Give me one word, not a phrase, and use it in a sentence. Also, make sure the word is cool enough for when I randomly use it because I stream about the stock market and I want my audience to think I am intellectually competent. What the hell is that? I'm not even gonna try. Senior, the profit a government earns by using currency. Basically, the difference between the face value of money and the cost to produce it. I actually like this word. Hold on. We talk about government bonds and yields all the time. This could be a word we use. How to pronounce senorage. Okay, let me let me pull this up. Let's see.
>> Senorage or senorage.
>> Senorage or Soridge. Senorage or Senor.
>> I wasn't that far off. I wasn't that far off. When inflation runs hot, senorage quietly becomes one of the government's most reliable revenue streams. The profit a government earns by issuing currency. Basically, the difference between the face value of the money. Wait, so so this is like when the US issues shortterm treasuries. Not exactly. Senor is not about issuing treasuries. It happens when the government through the Fed and Treasury creates a new base money that costs almost nothing to produce but is worth its full face value of the economy. Example, if it costs 10 cents to print a $100 bill, the government effect Wow, I have never heard of this con. If it costs 10 cents to print a $100 bill, the government effectively earns $99.90 in senorage. Uh, give me another example of this word. I've never heard of this but emerging market governments often rely on senors when tax revenues collapse but he usually comes at the high ah okay so it's the cost to print money but the arbitrage in the in the money they spend to print the money because then they get the upside of the money although obviously it would increase inflation when the Fed expands the balance sheet that's basically senors the government printing money like it's playing monopoly chat thought that this would be funny to stay on So there you go. Um Oh, Trump is live. Okay, I got 10 minutes. I got a 12 o'clock meeting, but I'll stay for 10 minutes. We'll see what Trump says in the opening and then I'll be out of here.
>> It was like the rest of the country. It was in disrepair. One year ago, our country was dead and said to me by many leaders, we had a dead country. Now we have the hottest country anywhere in the world. It's trillion dollars. It's in a period of four years. Think of it. Four years at less than a trillion. In 10 months, we have more than 18 trillion. Is that right, Scott? It's even going to be higher than that.
>> It'll be higher
>> and going up.
>> And we're waiting for the Supreme Court case. And it's so important and so vital for this.
>> Guys, real quick. So, my meeting I can leave the computer and leave the stream up if people just want to be in the chat and listen to it. I'll be done by 12:30. I think these meetings end up going for a long time. So, I can leave this playing. I'll be back at 12:30 and then we can end it out. Let me know what people want. I I would just have to leave for 30 minutes, but we can still leave the stream going if you want.
>> Country and I hope that goes well. I think it's very important. But, think of the number. We're going to be over 18 trillion dollars in 10 months. And which is a record times probably eight or 10 times, I think more than that for any country. There's never been a country that's had that kind of an investment ever in history. And there's never been a country that's had half of that. It's a tremendous thing that's taking place. We have uh companies moving in from all over the world, from Mexico, from Canada, from Europe, from China, from uh Japan. a lot. We just had Toyota is going to spend $10 billion, they just announced, on building new plants in this country. Our workers, they're going to be our workers, but they're spending a tremendous amount. So, the stock market is set 46 all-time highs. And this last Friday, which is called Black Friday, was the biggest ever online sales that there's ever been by a lot. More Americans are working today than in any time in the history of our country. I mean, these are the facts we have to get out. And you know, there's this fake narrative that the Democrats talk about affordability. They just say the word, it doesn't mean anything to anybody. Just say it. Affordability. I inherited the worst inflation in history. There was no affordability. Nobody could afford anything. The prices were massively high. Do you remember when we took over eggs? You did a great job on that, Madam Secretary. Agriculture Rook. uh eggs were four or five times higher than they had ever been. We they said don't order eggs for Easter at the White House and we ended up doing it and we got the egg prices way down lower than what they were before. But the word affordability is a conj job by the Democrats. They say afford I watched the other day where some very low IQ congresswoman talked about uh affordability, affordability, affordability. She had no idea. Their prices were much higher. As an example, energy, gasoline, we're now at about $2.50 a gallon. We're going to be, I think, at $2 a gallon. We could even crack that at some point. I'd love to do it, but and we could do it more easily if we weren't building up the strategic national reserves, which Biden emptied out before the election so that he could try and get elected. meaning she he started it, then he got thrown out of the race, then she took over and she kept it going. And they emptied out these strategic national reserves, which are really meant for something else. They're not meant to keep people happy with their gasoline price. They're meant for war. They're meant for problems, big problems. He emptied it out and then she continued it during the process of trying to get elected. Didn't work out too well for him. and they virtually brought it down to the lowest level I believe in history and uh it didn't have much of an impact because the prices were very high but our prices now for energy but for gasoline are really low electricity is coming down and when that comes down everything comes down but the word affordability is a Democrat scam it and then they go on to the next subject and everyone thinks oh they had lower prices no they had the worst inflation in the history of our country. Now, some people will correct me because I always love to correct me even though I'm right about everything. But some people like to correct me and they say 48 years. I say it's not 48 years. It's much more. But they say it's the worst inflation that we've had in 48 years. I say ever. But whether it's 48 years or ever, it's pretty bad. We had the worst inflation that we've ever had since last January. We've stopped inflation in its tracks and there is still more to do. There's always more to do, but we have it down to a very good level. It's going to go down a little bit further. You want to have a little tiny bit of inflation. Otherwise, that's not good either. Then you have a thing called deflation. And deflation can be worse than inflation. But we have it almost will soon be at a perfect level. But we inherited the worst inflation. But we have 20 states that are now selling gasoline at less than the $2.75. I think of that $2.75 and it was at $5 under Sleepy Joe. Grocery prices are down with the cost of Thanksgiving turkey this year down 33%. It was lower than uh 33% lower than under the Biden administration. Egg prices are way down 86%. Thank you. And mortgage rates, despite the fact that we have an incompetent chairman of the Fed, a real dope, uh, who should reduce rates. I saw even Jamie Diamond said he should be reducing rates. I never saw Jaime Diamond say that. I wonder why he said that, but he really said it because he's right. But we have a guy that's just a stubborn ox who probably doesn't like your president, your favorite president. But uh they're going to be coming down. We'll be announcing somebody uh probably early next year for the new chairman of the Fed. I talked to Scott about taking the job and he doesn't want it. You got the greatest job here.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Right. He said, "No, I want to stay chairman. I want to stay I want to stay right where we are. Treasury." Uh, and I think we're doing really great, aren't we?
>> We're doing great, sir. And it's a great team to be part of.
>> Yeah. It's amazing under my executive order to lower prescription drug prices, which I think is the single biggest thing we've ever done that nobody writes about because you fake news. I've made unprecedented deals along with Bobby and Oz and all of the people that work on it. A lot of people, a lot of people that you wouldn't even think work on it, but they do to slash drug prices by 200%, 300%, 400%, 500%, 600%, 700%, 800%. Nobody's ever heard of it before because I instituted favored nations and no nation agreed to do it. And then I said to the nations, if you're not going to do it, I'm going to charge you 100% tariff, which is more money than we're talking about. And they said, "Sir, we'd love to do it. Please, we would be honored to do it." And they agreed that they would uh go along with the whole thing. Nobody Nobody thought you could do it because they agre they felt number one, you couldn't get the drug companies to do it. So, we're paying as an example for the let's call it the fat drug. The fat drug fat for fat people. Uh, anybody use it in the table? Don't ask. But the fat drug was $135. Think of that. Uh, for certain people, $1,300 for certain countries, $1,300 in New York. So, in New York it was $1,300 and in London it was $135. And a friend of mine called me. He said, "What is this? Why is it?" He got used to paying $1,300. Well, now what we have it down to is Bobby, what's the number like $150 or something? We have it down to a low number, don't we? Yeah.
>> Yeah.$1125.
>> Think of that. So we got it down from $1,300 to $125 to $140 depending on various countries. In other words, we're paying the lowest price tied for the lowest price in the world. As people said, you could never do that because you couldn't get the countries to agree to it. I did. Every country agreed to it because I said if you're not going to agree to it, that's okay. I'm going to charge you tariffs. And as soon as I said that, they said we agree. And then we had to be a little tough with the drug companies, but they came along. The bigger problem was the countries. The countries just wouldn't go along with it, but they did. Every country. So we have reduced drug prices by 500, 600, 700, 800, 900%. Depending on the drug, depending on the company, depending on all of the different factors involved. Uh nobody's ever even thought of drug reductions like that, price reductions. And I told you the story that in my first term I was so proud of myself because I reduced drugs. It was the first time in 28 years that drug prices were reduced was one quarter of 1%. One quarter of 1%. And I was so proud of myself. I said it's the first time in 28 years that drug prices went down over the course of a year over the course of a presidency. One year one quarter of 1% I had a news conference. I was so proud. Now I got them down not one quarter of 1%. I got them down 400, 500, 600% and more. And the fake news won't write about it. And it's going to have a huge impact on health care because a big part of it buying drugs, buying prescription drugs, drugs. It's going to have a huge positive impact because Obamacare is a disaster. I said it years ago and I say it now. And the money should be paid. taken away from the insurance company. Obamacare was made to make the insurance companies rich. Their stocks have gone up a thousand% in a short period of time because the money goes to the insurance company. I want the money to go to the people. Let all the money go to the people and that the people go out and buy their own healthcare. And I see on television people are advertising now we will help you buy health care. We will go out and help you buy. that's becoming like an industry because of what I said. So, something's going to happen. It's probably not going to be easy because the Democrats, frankly, uh they don't want to make a good deal for the people. They just want to make a bad deal for the country. They want to make a bad deal for the Republican party. But the Republican party is is united. And I will say that what I would like to do is the money doesn't go. Trillions of dollars get paid to drug companies and you still have lousy health care. Obamacare is horrible healthare. We want it to go to the people and then let the people go out and buy their own health care and they'll do great. They'll do great. So we're negotiating that now with the Democrats. While congressional Democrats want the largest tax hike in history, I proudly signed the largest tax cuts in American history with the great big beautiful bill. The great big beautiful bill, the biggest piece of legislation ever signed. And that includes the extension of the original Trump tax cuts, but it's the biggest tax cut ever signed. And it includes no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, and no tax on social security. Nobody's ever seen anything like it. So, think of that. And in addition, you get if you buy a car, this is great for our car industry because we have a lot of car plants. We're bringing back the automobile business. 60% of it was stolen because we had incompetent presidents or incompetent trade people, but 60% of it was stolen over the years. And now we're bringing I think we're bringing it all back. I think we'll be bigger than ever than we've ever been in the auto business. That's not even to mention AI where we're leading China. You know, we're leading China by a lot. They're not going to catch us. We have to be smart, but if we're smart, they're not going to be able to catch us. They know that. They told me that. Next year is projected to be the largest tax refund season ever. And we're going to be giving back refunds out of the tariffs because we've taken in literally trillions of dollars. And we're going to be giving uh a nice uh dividend to the people. In addition to reducing debt, we as you know, I inherit a lot of debt, but uh it's peanuts compared to the kind of numbers we're talking about. So, we're going to be making a dividend to the people. And uh additionally, we're going to be able to reduce debt and as time goes by over the next two, three, four years, those numbers are going to go up. And I believe that at some point in the not too distant future, you won't even have income tax to pay because the money would take it in is so great. It's so enormous that you're not going to have income tax to pay whether you get rid of it or just keep it around for fun or have it really low, much lower than it is now, but you won't be paying income tax. We've slashed $1 trillion in costly job killing regulations, saving Americans an estimated $2,100 for a family of four. Uh the Biden administration was the exact opposite, but times four. They went up $6,000. We went down $2,100. Think of that. To bring down energy, electricity, and utility prices, I ended the Green New Scam. They call it the Green New Scam. one of the greatest scams in the history of our country. They talked about global warming and all the crap and uh and what they've done to this country. What they've done by allowing 25 million people into our country, many of whom are criminals, many of whom 11,888 are murderers. And we have to get them out. And we're doing it. We're doing it. I think what what the job that our law enforcement groups are doing, Christy, you and Tom and everybody. Amazing. what you're doing is amazing. I terminated the insane electrical electric vehicle mandate and uh look some people that make electric cars weren't happy with that. But we have to do that because you have to have a choice whether it's a gasoline powered car and we have so much gasoline you know China doesn't have gasoline we do and uh whether it's a hybrid which really are working really well uh the combination of electric and and gasoline driven but we uh you know everybody was supposed to by 2030 everybody had to own an electric car under the Biden stupidity and not everybody wants to do that. I like electric cars. I like all cars. They're all good. They all have reasons, but you want to be able to go and buy what you want. I oppose historic tariffs that are now bringing in so much money that we've never Nobody's ever seen anything like it. And countries that were ripping us off, including allies, but they were ripping us off for years. Uh I won't use the names. I won't mention Japan. I refuse to mention South Korea. I will not mention names. But they were ripping us off like nobody's ever been ripped off before and they're taking horrible advantage of your country. But now we're making a lot of money. Making a lot of money because of the tariffs that are pouring in and it's really national security among everything else. It's national security. We've also rapidly turned the worst border crisis in world history. I believe we had the worst border ever in history. I don't care if you had a fourth world country, you know, we allow third world country in. We would allow fourth world war countries in also. It doesn't matter. There was never a border that was as bad as our border. We allowed anybody in with no checks, no vetting. So, we've rapidly turned the worst border crisis in world history into the strongest border in the history of our country and probably one of the strongest borders in the history of the world because we have nobody coming through. And I want to thank our people, the border patrol is so amazing, ICE, and I want to thank the military for the backup because they're standing right behind them. And that was really nasty for a period of months and now it's no longer nasty. Now they don't even come up. Nobody comes up. It's an easy job. Made your job a lot easier because they know they're not going to get through. And we take people in, but they have to come in legally. For six months in a row, zero illegal aliens have been admitted into the United States. You believe that? Zero. We had millions of people coming in a year. Millions. Now we have zero for six months. And these are given by radical left people that do the numbers. I mean, they're not doing me any favor. It's they're being we don't have we don't have our net numbers are unbelievable. But we had zero people uh in the last 6 months. Illegal border crossings along the US Mexico border have plummeted to the lowest level ever recorded ever recorded. And nobody talks about that anymore. You know, it's crazy. They don't talk about it. They You'd think they'd say, "Well, Trump's done a great job at the border. This country is being destroyed by the border. But you always find something new like is he in good health? Biden was great, but is Trump in good health? I sit here I sit here. I do news four news conferences a day. I ask questions from very intelligent lunatics. You people I always get I give the right answers. There's never a scandal. There's never a problem. I give you answers that solve your little problems. You go back and you can't find anything. But you do you do stories about Biden was in wonderful health. The guy didn't do a news conference for eight months. If I go one day, I had one day where I didn't do a news conference. There's something wrong with the president. You people are crazy. I'll let you know when there's something wrong. There will be someday. That's going to happen to all of us. But right now, I think I'm sharper than I was 25 years ago. But who the hell knows? I took, by the way, I took my physical. I got all A's, everything. But they said to me, "Would you like to take a cognitive test?" I said, "Is it hard?" They said, "Yes." I said, "Well, I'm a very smart person." Who was the last president to take one? No president has ever agreed to techn because uh when you get into the mid questions meaning you know 10 question number 10 11 12 28 30 they get harder and harder and uh they said would you like to do it? I said well no reason to do it. Nobody's ever done it. I'll do it maybe but there's really no reason. They said, "Sir, the problem is this is Walter Reed Hospital and that's a military hospital and that means that things are, you know, sort of open. It's not like private where you have if you do poorly uh we'll uh have to probably you'll you'll find out." I said, "I won't do poorly. I'm a smart person, not a stupid person." And as the doctor will tell you, I aced it. Right, Susie? I aced. I got every question right. And these are tough questions. These are questions that I would say 99% of the people that I'm talking to right now, meaning the people that from the fake news would not do well in those exams. But I'm the only one that took it. I got every single question right. And then I read in the New York Times, is Trump sharp? Trump is sharp. But they're not sharp. That's why they're going out of business. The New York Times are that they're losing so much money. It's ridiculous. They're a bunch of fakers. But we have uh we can never let another thing happen like what happened to us with a fake election, with a rigged election where a guy like Joe Biden assumes the presidency because a man was grossly incompetent and he was incompetent 30 years ago, but he was really incompetent for those last few years and our country was put at great danger because of it. So for six months in a row, we had zero people. Illegal border crossings along the US Mexico border have plummeted to the lowest level ever, ever, ever. Think of that. And uh the net benefit to our country is enormous, incalculable. America is strong and respected again on the world stage. We're really respected. In fact, I went to a NATO and they were calling me the president of Europe. Uh we're doing very well. We have a a lot of respect. As you know, we have a problem with the war that our people are trying to settle now with Russia and Ukraine. Um we are not involved in the war monetarily anymore. Biden gave away $350 billion like it was candy. That's a massive amount of money. And uh much of it in cash, a lot of it in equipment. I don't give away anything. We sell the equipment to NATO. The European nations pay us for the equipment 100% price and then they bring it to Ukraine or whatever they do with it. But we're trying to get that settled. I've settled eight wars. This would be the ninth. And our people are over in Russia right now to see if we can get it settled. Not an easy situation, let me tell you what a mess. It's a war that ne never would have happened if I were president. Not even a chance. And it didn't happen for four years. We've renamed the Department of Defense the Department of War. And I thought that would be controversial. And frankly, I tell you what, I haven't met one person. There's not one person I've met that doesn't like it. You know, think of it. We won World War I, World War II, everything in between, everything before it. And then we said, "Let's change the name." So, we changed it back to what it was, Department of War. Pete's doing a great job. We ended eight wars. Think of that. Eight wars. But we're going to do one more. I think. I hope. I hope. Every time I end a war, they say if if President Trump ends that war, he's going to get the Nobel Prize. So, I end that war. Well, I won't get it for that war, but if he ever gets it for the next war, now they're saying if he ever ends the war with Russia and Ukraine, he's going to get the Nobel Prize. What about the other eight wars? India, Pakistan. Think of think of all the wars I ended. I should get the Nobel Prize for every war, but I don't want I don't want to be greedy. Uh actually, the woman who got the Nobel Prize said, "You've got to be kidding. Trump deserves the Nobel Prize." So, that was very nice of him. I appreciate it. Which is true, actually. But I don't care about that. You know what I care about? I care about death. I care about all the people that are dying. And last month, 27,000 young people died. Mostly young people, mostly soldiers, despite some missiles being shot into Kiev and other places. But think of it, mostly young people. 27,000 people died between Russia and Ukraine last month. What a shame. So, we're restoring law and order to our cities and towns. If you look at what's happened, and I want to pay my deepest respects to those two incredible people from the National Guard in West Virginia they came from. I spoke to their parents. Uh Sarah is gone. She passed away. She's looking down on us now. And she loves her parents and they loved her. They they were somebody said, "How are they doing?" I said, "The word is devastated." Doing. How are they going to do? They're devastated. the rest of their lives are going to be devastated. She was an incredible person, highly respected, top of her class, everything. She was like a perfect human being, 20 years old, just started. She was like a baby. She was so proud. They were giving her a promotion and she told the parents that she was getting a promotion and they were so proud of her. Then they get a call that this happened. And we have one young man who's fighting for his life. He's fighting very hard. I think he's probably doing better than anybody. And they they said he he didn't have a chance. I'll tell you the one who said he's going to live is his mother. Spoke to his mother. Sir, he's going to live. I spoke to her very soon after this horrible event took place with this scum that is able to come into our country. Uh I spoke to his mother. Sir, he's he's going to be okay. I'm telling you, no doctor thought that. Nobody thought that. He was hitting bad places and she was like so positive. It was incredible. And it's possibly right, Pam, right? Possibly right. Boy, it would be amazing. If he lives, it would be amazing. A miracle, actually. But, uh, we're very proud of those two people. We're very proud of the National Guard. We're very proud of our military and our police and our firemen and women. Uh if you go back and take a look a year ago, year and a half ago, it all changed I think on November 5th, the day of the election. But you go back before that, you couldn't get people to join the military, Pete, right? They didn't want anything to do with military. They wanted nothing to do with joining the police or the fire. They wanted nothing to do with anything. They had no spirit. The country was had no spirit. Nothing. And now we just had the highest recruitment in history. And uh we're getting great people. We're getting great people. And I will say despite what just happened, Washington DC has become a really safe place. And I guess this lunatic probably was upset that the National Guard is so effective because we were really really effective. And we are. And Washington DC is now considered a very very safe city. We had crime numbers a year ago that was so bad embarrassment that the city the capital of of this country could be have numbers like that. And Washington now is uh I mean no murders, no this. It's it's been a miracle also what happened here. And now we're in Memphis and we're going to New Orleans pretty soon. Over then the governor called me. He'd like to have us go there. Governor Landry, great guy, great governor. He's asked for help in New Orleans and we're going to go there in a couple of weeks. And uh we're doing a real job. Even Chicago's down a little bit because of we have a minor force there. We could knock it down within four or five weeks. We could bring it down to almost nothing. But we have a governor that's grossly incompetent and we have a mayor that's even more incompetent than the governor. Very he's a very low IQ person and typically low IQ people don't make good mayors. So I want to thank all of our cabinet members. They're high IQ. Let me say one.
>> Generally speaking couple I'm a little concerned about no but I want to thank we have a great cabinet amazing cabinet. amazing people. All of them, you know, sort of have become stars. We're getting credit for the good cabinet actually. And I just want to wish everybody a great holiday. We we've uh I think done a great job with the White House bringing the White House back. You see the Palm Court that was redone. Uh the Lincoln bedroom was redone. The Lincoln bathroom is now gorgeous like it should have been. It was terrible green tile that was never the way it was supposed to be. It was done in the 1940s actually, but it was not not proper. And it's we're restoring the White House just like we're restoring the country and people are thrilled. But we the first lady's done a beautiful job with the Christmas trees and all the decorations. I see the wreaths on the windows. I've never seen that before on the windows of the White House. And you know, it's four stories high. I said, "How did they get that wreath?" They had people going up in a uh a little dangerous. I wouldn't want to do it, but they put them up and we have wonderful people working in the White House and they're really proud to bring the building back because this building was a little bit like the country. It was mishandled. It was mistreated and now it's being given love and we're building one of the great I think maybe the greatest ballroom. We needed it for 150 years. They've been asking. You see the the trucks and cranes and excavators in the background and you hear them. And every time I hear them, I love the sound. To me, I love the sound. I wouldn't say my wife is thrilled. She hears pile drivers in the background all day, all night. They go till 12:00 in the evening. Day night, pile drivers. Darling, could you turn off the pile drivers? Sorry, darling. That's progress. But, uh, no, we're doing we're doing great. It's going to be the I think it's going to be the finest ballroom ever built, and we're going to have it here. They've wanted it for 150 years. Think of that. So, I will just uh end by saying I want to thank the cabinet. It's uh been a great cabinet. Our last think of it, time flies, but this is our last of the year, as I said, and I I just think you've done a fantastic job. And we're going to go around the room. We'll go quickly, but we're going to go around the room and we'll start with Pete and you'll tell us about some of the achievements. And some of you have achievements that are so big. I don't want you to go through the whole thing because we don't have time. But we'll start with Pete and then if you want we'll take some questions at the end. Please list Pete. Well, thank you, Mr. President. As you said, uh it has been a historic year at the Department of War. Uh recruiting and retention over this year are at the most historic levels our country has ever seen. I had a chance to be on a aircraft carrier destroyer over Thanksgiving. The spirit in our ranks since the election under President Trump is unprecedented. I've never seen anything like it as a soldier. myself in uniform and I know a lot of you feel the same way. We've ripped out the DEI and the political correctness. It's all merit-based at at the department. Uh we're getting back to basics, accountability, training, readiness, lethality, and and that's reviving that spirit. And Mr. President, we're rebuilding the military, historic investments. I just took briefings on the Golden Dome and F-47, next generation capabilities that are going to make sure that for generations to come, America has the most powerful, most capable, most lethal military in the world, which you have rebuilt once and we're rebuilding again. Uh, and then we're reestablishing deterrence and credibility. If you look at what happened, we deal with every day the outcome of what happened in Afghanistan, the debacle under Joe Biden. We just dealt with it in the streets of Washington DC with those two National Guardsmen. Uh, and then what happened on October 7th with Hamas, what happened in Ukraine, a war that never would have started under President Trump, we're having to rebuild that. So whether it's freedom of navigation and taking the fight to the Houthies, whether it's Midnight Hammer, those beautiful B2s going 37 hours back and forth undetected, delivering with precision and Iran not getting nuclear capabilities, Europe and NATO stepping up to 5%, locking down our southwest border. It's been an honor to work with Christy and Tom and everyone else down there to lock it to zero operational control of our border. And then it's getting after going after narco terrorists and designated terrorist organizations in our own hemisphere. Uh as I've said and I'll say again, we've only just begun striking narco boats and putting narot terrorists uh at the bottom of the ocean because they've been poisoning the American people. And Joe Biden tried to approach it with kid gloves and allowed him to come across the border. Cartels take over community, 20 million people, hundreds of thousands of Americans poisoned. And President Trump said, "No, we're taking the gloves off. We're taking the fight to these designated terror organizations." And it's exactly what we're doing. So we're stopping the drugs. We're striking the boats. Uh we're defeating narot terrorists. And we're standing
>> and Pete, you may say one thing that drugs coming in through the sea by sea are down 91%. And I don't know who the 9% is.
>> I'm not sure either, sir.
>> But down 91% by see. We've had a bit of a pause because it's hard to find votes to strike right now,
>> which is the entire point, right? Deterrence has to matter, not arrest and hand over and then do it again. The rinse and repeat approach of previous administrations. This is meant to get a after that approach. And I will just end by saying uh as President Trump always has our back. We always have the back of our commanders who are making decisions in difficult situations and we do in this case and all these strikes. Uh they're making judgment calls and ensuring that they uh defend the American people. They've done the right things. We'll keep doing that and we have their backs. Mr. President,
>> good job. Thank you very much.
>> So we set out to stop the ripoff of the United States of America. This is about global change of trade. We've been ripped off since 1945 when we set this policy. So we set out and together with my partners Jameson Greer and Scott Besset, we set out to change that. So we started the first one was the UK deal, right? We asymmetric, they pay us 10%. And we get charged nothing. That allows us to export and that began the process. Then we did the biggest, the European Union. 450 million people, 20 trillion dollar economy. They completely open their borders to us and we charge them 15%. That makes America $100 billion dollar a year and turns it back to where our economy is the best. And so it proved that President Trump's trade agenda was the right trade agenda. Then we go to Japan and Korea. They offer us 750 billion in cash to build in America at the president's direction. And we're going to start as an example nuclear, right? We need to have a nuclear arsenal in America of power, the generation of power. So, we're going to build hundreds of billions of dollars financed by the Japanese and the Koreans. Meaning, they give us the money, we build it here, and we split the cash flow 50/50. We're going to build ships, $150 billion dollars worth of ships in America. That changes the way things work. Right? After those trade deals, then you go to how are we going to reshore, right? Let's start talking about the auto industry. Right? We've been competed against by Koreans, the Japanese, the Europeans. We're kicking our tail. President Trump changed it. 25% tariffs. Bring it all home. This year, General Motor stock up 40%. Ford up 34% and on the same day that we announced we had set all the tariffs, Sean Feain, the head of the United Auto Workers called and said, "I can't believe I'm calling a Republican Secretary of Commerce to tell the president that this is the greatest administration for auto workers in America. Stocks up and auto workers up." that proves that President Trump understands how to take care of the whole ecosystem, both the companies and more importantly the people who work there. Semiconductors, right? We didn't build any The Biden Chips Act was a $60 billion giveaway, right? We've now turned that $300 billion is committed to America. That's going to go up to $750 billion in the next 60 days, right? And then you go to pharmaceuticals, right? 250 billion being invested in America and then working together with Bobby Kennedy, right? Pounding away on that MFN, working together as a joint team. They're coming to over 250 billion and cutting prices in half. We did the golden share of US deal to make sure the M Valley is protected. Intel gave us 10% of the company, make tens of billions of dollars, right? And the last thing I will say is a year ago today, I was working on transition with President Trump, right? to build the greatest cabinet ever for the greatest president ever. And I, as I sit here today, I can't be more proud of how you did it, sir. You've created the greatest cabinet. It is a joy to be at this table.
>> You know, one thing we will mention. So, they came to see me from Intel and they had a problem. I said, "Look, we'll fix your problem, but I think the United States is entitled to 10% of your company." And the chairman looked at me and he goes, You have a deal.
>> Tell how much money have we made since I made that deal?
>> It's only 40 billion.
>> 40 billion.
>> We made $40 billion. That was what three months ago.
>> Does anybody write about it? Nobody writes about. That's okay. Uh Mr. Secretary, how we deal with trans?
>> Well, Mr. President, uh so just quickly on aviation, um many of you have heard that we have an infrastructure made of copper. We have to transition to fiber. Uh the last administration said it was going to take more than 10 years to complete the transition from copper to fiber. Uh they had no plan to actually do it. Uh we have already completed a third of this transition from copper to fiber. Now it's going to take longer for us to go from analog to digital. Uh by the way, the rest of the world transitioned 20 years ago from analog to digital. We are just going to do that at the FAA uh right now. But we're buying new radios. Uh we're going to buy uh uh new radar. By the way, those radar are going to be made in America. Mr. President, uh this will all be this phase of the operation will be completed by the time you leave office. It's uh three years. I do need another $20 billion Congress uh to start the second phase um which is really important and we'll uh try to get that done also in that three-year time period, but we need the money uh critically uh important. With regard to commercial driver's license, I think we've covered a lot the uh the crashes that have taken place around the country. And what we found is there have been states that have issued uh commercial driver's license to foreigners and they've gone through sham schools and they're not safe on American roadways. And so in partnership with uh uh Secretary Gnome, we have uh driven those numbers down. We got California uh Gavin Newsome to revoke 17,000 unlawfully issued licenses. Um we've closed out half of the the the fake schools that give out these fake licenses. All critically important. Uh Governor Tim Waltz of Minnesota gave 33% of these licenses unlawfully. People that should never have a driver's license driving a big rig on American roads. Um endangering the American people. Uh uh shameful. where we've cleaned up uh uh Union Station here in DC per your directive. We're going to rebuild Penn Station in New York. We're going to break ground at the end of uh 2027. Uh get that project uh operational. And uh you know, Mr. President, a lot of us I fly commercially. I fly back by the bathrooms. I don't know why that happens. They put me in the back. You know, I we've asked Americans to bring their better selves, to bring civility back to travel, to say, "Listen, let's say please and thank you." And if you have a someone's pregnant on your flight and and you're as strong as Pete is, we'll pick up the bag and help her put it um in the overhead van. Let's be nice to each other, uh is what we've asked. Maybe not wear pajamas or slippers on the airplane. And uh I think it's been received fairly well, and I think we can all have a better travel experience when we do that. Uh, and just the last point I'll make is there was a big football game where the Merch Marine Academy that falls under de actually beat the Coast Guard with Christy Gnome. We beat him by one point. Um, and so we're very proud of that. So well well done uh Kings pointers. So a little bit in a nutshell. We're rebuilding the air traffic control uh under boot edge edge boot edge edge. He was another grossly incompetent person. He he'd get in his bicycle ride to work and uh he was just terrible. What they do is they take the fiber optics and they take fiber tried to hook it into copper and fiber and copper don't mix. You can't do it. But people knew that for the last uh 30 years since they started doing the fiber. And uh they spent billions of dollars and it didn't work. And you saw that by the helicopter crash. You saw that by into the plane. You saw that by a lot of things. So, we're doing a brand new air traffic control system and it's going to be the best and it's going to be from top to bottom and we have the three top companies in the world bidding on it and it's going to be one bid and we're going to have one company responsible and it'll be the best system and uh it's going to make this look our skies are safe otherwise we wouldn't let people fly but uh we're going to have the safest skies. We're going to have the best system anywhere in the world. We're also going to rebuild Dulles airport because it's not a good airport. It should be a great airport. It's not a good airport at all. It's a terrible airport. It was incorrectly designed with a good building actually. It's got a beautiful terminal. Sarin was the architect. One of the greatest architects in the world the time, a great architect. And so they have a great building and a bad airport, but we're going to turn that around and we're going to make Dulles airport serving Washington and Virginia, Maryland, etc. Uh we're going to make that into something really spectacular. We have an amazing plan for it and other things. But you you're doing a really good job. I appreciate it.
>> You've been those the people movers of Dallasos. Uh we had a crash recently. Um, so we're going to announce that later today, the a request for bids on this. But again, it's a it's a it's a not a great airport, which we can make great in this administration. Mr.
>> We have a design that's amazing for Dallas. It's going to take Dallas and make it a really bad it was a badly designed airport. We're going to make it into as good as there is in the country. It'll be exciting. Okay, please.
>> All right. Well, Mr. President, it's good to be here at this meeting because in one year you can look around the table and see the change. And I think one of the biggest changes is how this cabinet works together. And I want to start there. Um there's often been said, I found out some things this year that I didn't know that the department of what was defense now department of war and the veterans department had never really communicated. Now we're fraternal twins in a way. Pete and I are He lives better. I'm better looking. But but in looking at this, I mean, he brings them in. He keeps them for a number of years up to 20 or longer and then they come in to the what the uh country has committed to our veterans. And if you don't have both ends working correctly, then recruitment lags, morale lags, and we've been able to work and fix a great deal of that. I didn't need to change our name, but I did do one thing. I put the veteran back first at VA. And we did that in one year. How did we do that? We started taking things that have been neglected for a long time and put them back. We had a backlog in which we've dropped over 160,000. We're not talking year-to-year change at the VA. We're talking five, six year. We have to go back five to six year. Prior COVID numbers to see the change of backlogs that are now reduced. We do it in six months instead of the long time it took. In fact, it grew under the Biden administration. It shrank over 160,000 under us. Champier, which the program we have, has basically been back to dayto day. It was at a terrible state which delays and claims and everything's going on. We've got that back. We're doing things like uh taking a new look. I have one question that I ask when I go to my hospitals, which by the way over 170 hospitals, 1200 clinics. And I ask the people one thing, Mr. President. I said, "What are you doing right now that if you were just honest and I wasn't standing here, you say, "This is stupid." It's been amazing what we've gotten and the feedback that we have had. We've been able to change how we do credentiing, how we do privileging, how we do uh hiring. We're all working through that. And it has all made a difference for our veterans as we go forward. CMP exams for veterans out there listening. If this is the one where disability claims where they say, "Well, let me send you to a doctor to make sure." Most of the time we have that already in the record. We're working now where those could actually be changed where we just look at the record and not have to send them to doctor. That's almost a three billion dollar savings that we can and also not taking what the veterans did. We're also getting ready to announce here pretty soon a reorganization that's going to bring our hospital system organizationally in line with the 21st century. We are the largest healthcare organization. It's about time we acted like it. Mr. President, you gave that leadership. We're going to do it. And also, one thing, community care contracts getting ready to go out. It's one of the largest contracts in the federal government, but it does exactly what you and I have talked about before, making sure that our veterans can get care in the system or in the community, wherever they want it. We're getting ready for that. Now, I have one thing for all the press who really enjoyed the first of the year saying, "Oh, you know, they're going to cut all these jobs, 80,000 this, 80,000 that the VA." Mr. President, every success that I just gave you came after the fact or pretty much after the fact we had 30,000 take early retirement. Early retirement, no risk. Although you reported it is loss and risk. You can't help yourself. 30,000 took the retirement. Every bit of success that I just told you about came with a reduced workforce. There was a motivated workforce. They said, "How can we take care of veterans?" That's what this cabinet does. That's what we're doing for you.
>> And you've got the highest approval rating we've ever had at the VA. So that tells you something. You're doing a great job. Thank you very much, Jameson, please.
>> Well, there's been some activity on trade this year.
>> Um, you know, for about 75 years, we had a system, global trading system that was premised on the United States having totally open borders, right? Not just on immigration, but on goods and services. And everyone else generally kept higher tariffs, higher non-tariff bears, etc. Obviously, the outcome was we had a huge trade deficit. uh you took it head on. Uh you gave all of us who work on the file a lot of leverage. So we spent the past uh you know 10 months or whatever we've been doing now uh just going around the world and flipping the script. So now we're in a situation where we've protected our industries. We have the tariffs and the other countries have decided to take their tariffs down and and not tariff barriers and we've done it in a very constructive way. Uh we've achieved agreements on reciprocal trade, which are a new kind of trade agreement that's really focused on making sure we have balanced trade, we have reciprocal trade, that we're treating each other fairly, and it's been embraced uh by the international community. Uh and it's going to be exciting to see what it's like 5 years, 10 years from now because you've changed it and that's how it's going to be now. Um and I think you should be commended for it and we'll look forward to seeing what comes in the next few years.
>> Thank you, man. You're doing great. He's doing a great job. Thank you very much. Please.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. Last time I was here, I said that the amount of dereg that we had for regulatory was 30 to1. Since then, it's up to 48 to1. Your goal had been 10 to1, which was in excess of 6 to1 in the first term. It's actually much higher than that, but I made I made my team redo this the threshold a little bit because it sounded so unbelievable. Uh but the the amount of work that's being done with this entire team is astronomical. And another detail in that is that when we propose a rule, some of some of the biggest ones that you care the most about don't go into that count until they are finalized. So next year we should be even even more eyepopping. One of those to talk about is the federal acquisition uh regulations which you gave us a charge six months ago to dramatically reduce. In six months, we've lowered it by 25%. 500 pages, 2700 mandates, which is a third of the mandates. That's going to lead to savings, competition, and speed. So, probably $40 billion for the agencies in savings over the course of 10 years. Uh when we get up and running, it'll be north of between 200 and $400 billion. uh competition about 45% of government bids are only have one bidder. So you got no competition in that situation. Uh that will now change and then we're just getting faster months uh and hopefully we turn into years which means you all around this table can buy things that you need quickly and that you have better vendors to come uh many of them small businesses who want to participate in the federal procurement process. So, uh, making all sorts of, uh, uh, improvements on that front. It's very exciting. Thank you, Mr. President.
>> The regulations, we're cutting them at levels never seen before. And I have the record from the first four years, but we're blowing that record away. So, it's been really great.
>> Scott.
>> Yes, sir. Mr. President, uh, great to be with everyone. And you know when you were given your report uh which was fantastic and I listen to the report of all my colleagues here and those that will come. It reminds me when I played in the NFL we had this thing called game film. You know all about film and we had a saying the film don't lie the film tells the real story. And I hope that the American people when they watch the film that's going on now in this time in our history that they will see that America is greater today than it ever has been. And so I thank you for that and thank you for giving us uh good stories that we can tell for the American people.
>> We're saving our country.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Okay. And I don't want to be braggadocious. We're saving our country. Our country was going down and would never have been able to come back. We're saving all of us, but we're saving our country. tonight. Go ahead, please. So, at Housing and Urban Development, uh, in keeping with your executive order, sir, in making America's streets safe and beautiful again, we've been very intentional about making public housing in our country safe. Uh, and I want people to know, our colleagues know this, but people in America know that we actually care about people that live in public housing around our country. A lot of public housing is wrought with crime, sex trafficking, drug trafficking, illicit drugs, illegal aliens living in public housing, but we put them on notice to let you know that it's not lost on us. We care about the people who are paying attention to it, and we're going to root out crime in public housing. We've been very uh focused on working with the Memphis Safe Task Force, the DC Safe and Beautiful Task Force, working with Pam and and Chrissy and others, and law enforcement. law enforcement is tremendous. Every single night they go out and they go to public housing to make sure that our people are safe, mothers and children are safe. And so at HUD, you know, it's a different day. We're running new plays. Uh the film was real bad when I came in. I'm going to be honest. Uh but we uh are giving the people that live in public housing the assurance that they will be safe. And we also announced a new crime hotline, sir. uh that people that live in public housing if they see criminal activity, if they see illegals living there, if they see drug trafficking, if you see it, if you hear it, report it. Don't be afraid. And so work with our office of inspector general. Uh we've set up this crime hotline and also working with Christian Department of Homeland Security uh making sure that everyone that lives inside of public housing is accounted for and that they are American people. And so I say that and I emphasize that to know that we prioritize American people and American people only. Uh lastly sir uh in Atlantic City uh we took over the Atlantic City public housing because the living conditions were deplorable and they have people that have been living there for three generations and they were being treated very bad. And so I took it so that we can now give people a safe place to stay. And working with the first lady and the foster youth initiative has been a great joy for me and our team. So thank you uh for doing that executive order to make sure that our foster youth have a safe landing pad and have financial literacy as they age out of the foster youth system. And sir, you talked about affordability. Uh HUD has supported over 1 million Americans in home ownership and affordability and over 560,000 are firsttime home buyers. So I hope that the press will write about that good news that a million people are able to own a home uh and to refinance their homes. And sir, we are moving our building from DC to Alexandria, Virginia. So thank you for your support. We're going to save the American people by 500 million dollars. So that's my report. Thank you. Thank you, Scott. Go ahead.
>> Uh, well, coming off of Thanksgiving, moving towards Christmas, I think it's the season of Thanksgiving and two words for me are gratitude and joy. Uh, gratitude to you for, as Howard said, bringing this team together. Uh, I say a lot, but I'll say it again, that this is like family at this point. And I don't know that there's ever been an organization like this, at least a government like this, in the history of our country. Uh these jobs are hard, but the joy every day in getting to fight for America and save the country uh is is the privilege of all of our lifetimes, I believe. So, thank you for that. um at US Department of Agriculture, the people's department, Abraham Lincoln, um launched this department in 1862, but under your leadership, we have finally again put farmers and ranchers in rural America first. In the last year, it's no longer DEI, climate change, sending out money based on the color of a farmer's skin. It's it's now about literally putting uh farmers back at the center of it. And under the last administration, we talked a lot about affordability. We'll continue to talk about that. But under the Biden administration and the destruction of our economy and the cost of inflation, interest rates for farmers and ranchers went up 73%, labor went up 47%, fertilizer went up 36%, fuel went up 28%. So when you think about the extreme economic strain that a lot of our farmers are under in our farm economy, the these are massive massive numbers that will take some time to get out from under. But we've already seen the beginnings of the movement toward more affordable food, housing, fuel, etc. And that will only continue to trend as we work to solve those issues. uh my partners in trade, of course, they do the work, but I'm constantly talking to them about selling more soybeans, selling more corn, getting more of our products out. But when we really think about how to solve for this idea that for so long our farmers, many of them have been farming for government checks instead of moving their product around the world. These trade deals change that forever. And it isn't one trade deal or two trade deals, it's dozens of trade deals. And so talking about rural prosperity and bringing the golden age back to rural America, which has been lost for too long, and we're going to focus on that next year, hopefully with our vice president, many of our cabinet members, but the opportunity to do that under these new trade deals is unprecedented. And so just putting farmers first, our ranchers first, Mr. President, is such a huge such a huge priority and an accomplishment of the last year. The second quick thing is lawfare. And I know you know this better than anyone in the country. When a government politicizes and weaponizes their power to go after average everyday Americans, well, from you, the top of the of the heapest president, but all the way down to the ranchers in South Dakota, uh, the Mod family who were facing jail time over a fence line dispute that had been in their family for 130 years. We fixed that. a family, the Henry family in New Jersey who were facing their farm being taken away for imminent domain to give to affordable housing. We fixed that. So being able to completely change the trajectory of private property rights, but especially as it has to do with our farmers and ranchers and our rural communities changes everything for our country. And then the third thing, we have so much great things to talk about at USDA, but the third thing which became very much a part of the national conversation during the Democrat shutdown was SNAP reform, food stamp reform. When all of America saw what so many of us know and have been working on, but when you have so much rampant fraud in a program that 42 million Americans participate in. Now, a big good piece of news that I hope is written about since you became president, about 800,000 of those 42 million have moved off of food stamps, which is hopefully the plan with better jobs, higher wages, etc. But still, when we found 186,000 dead people or dead people's social security numbers being used, 500,000 people receiving benefits more than twice. We had a couple of people receiving benefits in six states. In February of this year, we asked for all the states for the first time to turn over their data to the federal government to let the USDA partner with them to root out this fraud to make sure that those who really need food stamps are getting them, but also to ensure that the American taxpayer is protected. 21 states said yes, not surprise 29 states said yes, not surprisingly the red states. And that's where all of that data, that fraud comes from. But 21 states, including California, New York, and Minnesota, the blue states, continue to say no. So, as of next week, we have begun and will begin to stop moving federal funds into those states until they comply and they tell us and allow us to partner with them to root out this fraud and to protect the American taxpayer. As Joe Biden was working to buy an election a year ago, he increased food stamp program funding by 40%. So now as we continue to roll that back. So uh the partnership in making America healthy again is also in food stamps, but a lot of what we're going to Bobby and I are doing together is really remarkable. But again, just gratitude and joy for this work. Uh and so so grateful to you. Final thing I'll say, a lot of gratitude to Secretary Marco Rubio for wearing his Aggie maroon tie as a reflection of Texas A&M beating Florida handily about a month ago. So, Marco, I want to thank you and much gratitude and joy in my heart as well. Yes.
>> Thank you.
>> We also say something about
>> about China with one of the largest purchases ever in our country, the soybeans.
>> Yes, sir. Also, I want to thank President Xi. We had a great meeting. We were in South Korea and I went to a lot of other places too, but we met in South Korea and President Xi was great and China gave us among the largest orders of the history of your world ag.
>> That's right. And sir, may I say this is the this is the remarkable result of real leadership and your real leadership. Just a couple of days ago, China announced that they were going to halt all purchases from Brazil because they had found some irregularities in some of the soybeans they're buying from Brazil. And what that means is a continued signal that this country and our farmers produce the best, highest quality soybeans, sorghum, etc. in the world. And what you've been able to do is open those markets up and again move toward an era where our farmers are not so reliant on government checks, but they have the markets to sell their product. Having said that, we do have a bridge payment we'll be announcing uh with you next week as we're still trying to recover from the Biden.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> To help the farmers help the farmers. They did not help the farmers.
>> That's right.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> Scott,
>> Mr. President, it's been a great year on the economy, but the best is yet to come. the tens of trillions of dollars that have come in investment both the portfolio investment investment by companies investment the by countries the is turning into a capex boom for the US capital expenditures up 15% in history the when capex is up jobs will follow the one big beautiful bill is an incredible as you said the thanks to your leadership along with speaker johnson Senator Leader Thun, we had that done on July 4th, which everyone said was impossible. And the great thing about that bill, served for the American people. It's for industry, 100% expensing. Build your factory here. You can write it off immediately. But you also insisted on the four benefits for working people. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, auto deductibility for American cars and that is retroactive. So as a result in 2026, we are going to see very substantial tax refunds in the first quarter. So the best way to address the affordability crisis is to give Americans more money in their pockets, which is what this bill has done. We're going to see real wage increases. I think next year going to be a fantastic year. Taxes, deregulation, energy certainty. That's why everyone with your leadership is coming to America. Bond market had its best year since 2020. Everyone said it couldn't be done. So, we're going to have growth. We've had two 4% quarters before the Schumer shutdown. We're going to go back to that. So, not only we going to have great growth, but it's going to be low inflationary growth. And stock market obviously is following, but next year is going to be the year for Main Street as all this kicks in. And you came in immigration. I called it the three eyes. Immigration, interest rates, and inflation that were killing the American people. Close the border. the promise kept interest rates are down and 10-year bond again best year since 2020 and inflation led by energy prices is going to roll next year. I think it's going to be a fantastic year that we can look back be very proud of this year but I think 2026 is going to be great for the American people thanks to you. It's
>> going to be great. Thank you very much. It's nice to see you.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. It's an honor to serve with this great team that you've assembled. And I just want to pick up on something you said, Mr. President, because you hit the nail on the head that it is absurd that Democrats talk about an affordability crisis that they created and the people around this table work every single day to address. You'll hear a lot of statistics today. You hear a lot of statistics in our political conversation. I think the most important statistic for the American people is that under the Biden administration, the average American family lost over $3,000 of household income. And under the first 10 months of this Trump administration, they have gained over $1,000 of household income. What that says very clearly is that we are fixing the problem that Joe Biden and the Democrats created in the last administration. If you look at every affordability crisis that's confronting the American people today, it is traceable directly to a problem caused by Joe Biden and congressional Democrats. Why did homes get so unaffordable? Because we had 20 million illegal aliens in this country taking homes that ought by right go to American citizens. Why did tax bills get so unaffordable? Because Democrats were raising taxes while congressional Republicans under the president's leadership, we're now cutting taxes. Why did food get so expensive? Because we printed trillions of dollars and threw it into green scams that made our agricultural economy suffer while Americans were paying higher prices for food. On every single one of those issues, Mr. President, I think we've made incredible progress, but it would be preposterous to fix every problem caused over the last four years in just 10 months. I think that we've done incredibly good. But what I see over the next year, and you heard uh Brooke talk about uh joy and gratitude, what I really think this season represents for me, and I think for the entire administration, is that we have now done incredible work to fix what Joe Biden broke. And I think that next year in American growth and American prosperity, could be the best year that we've had in the United States of America. It's going to happen because we're all working hard. It's going to happen because we have the greatest country in the world. But I think for congressional Democrats in particular, if they want to talk about affordability, they ought to look in the mirror. We are fixing what they're broken. We're proud to do it. It's the job that we were elected to do, but I think 2026 is going to be the year where this economy really takes off.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you for talking about Sarah heartbreaks for her family and Andy um is doing well. His parents, Melody and Jason, wanted me to tell you and I was with him yesterday in the hospital. He's a miracle. I was there when the surgeons came in and he they wanted you to know this. He's a miracle. And if everyone in this country can continue to pray for that family, he's got a long road ahead of him, but he is a miracle. And of course, our DC initiative is led by our amaz Oh, and the monster will be held accountable who did this. Our um our marshals of course are leading the DC safe effort. We have made over 7,000 arrests at your direction. DC is safe again. Working with everyone around this table, Pete and everyone. Scott and I were in um Memphis together last week. And everyone and Bobby, your HHS doctors and medics are on the ground to help people in Memphis and DC. In Memphis, we've made over 3,500 arrests so far. And Homeland Security, Christie, you've been instrumental in this. But it's everyone working together as a team. We even have treasury agents out there. It's unbelievable. On the ground in DC and Memphis, of course, law enforcement first, FBI, all you know, Cash Patel has led the FBI. We have 100% increase in the arrest of violent criminals. Thanks to your leadership, DEA led by Terry Cole, over 45 million fentanyl pills, 4,200 kilos fentanyl powder. That is the equivalent of 30 347 million potential lethal doses. That's unbelievable that you've taken off the streets of our country. And the weight of all the drugs combined taken off by DEA is is the weight of 17 full seow
>> of the drugs just since you've been in office. the drugs that had flowed into this country under the previous administration. ATF led by Rob Sakata has seized more than 31,000 illegal guns. 31,000. Unbelievable. At your leadership, 19,000 of those were from trafficking cases.
>> We've been sued on the legal front now. We have been sued 575 times. 575 times. more than every administration going back to Reagan combined. Most recently yesterday, I was sued by an immigration judge who we fired. One of the reasons she said she was a woman. Last I checked, I was a woman as well. But 24 Supreme Court wins. President Trump 92% success rate. We told you it would take a while to get to the Supreme Court. We're doing it at record speed. Led by John Sauer, of course, Sarah and Hos, all working together. immigration. We're winning nationwide injunctions, ending DEI funding, working to secure that our federal workforce is aligned with your America first agenda, representing pretty much everyone in this room. We met with your general counsel yesterday, Doug. Um met with working with everyone. It's non-stop. Um ICE, of course, we're winning there with Christie. We're um Brook SNAP benefits won there. Marco, US A pet, um, National Guard, of course, going non-stop. Our US attorneys are fighting violent crime, working around the clock to make America safe again. Which was your directive? Our civil rights division, suing Gavin Newsome three times now. Prop 50, keeping boys out of girls sports and instate tuition for illegal aliens. We've um sued over election integrity. We are litigating major universities with Linda. Thank you our civil rights division for everything that you've done to um to end DEI in our schools. Our civil division fighting sanctuary cities every single day. And of course our antitrust division with Google major settlement. Our attorneys are working on terrorism TDA MS13 Antifa. President Trump, we've charged more than 500 defendants with assault on federal officers thanks to your directive. And also, we have dropped countless cases against Americans that were prosecuted under the Biden administration, including J6, COVID, Face Act, and more. And as everyone knows, we cannot talk about pending grand jury investigations, but no one is above the law, and that includes what happened in Arctic Frost. I hope everyone has a very merry Christmas, happy Hanukkah, and um happy holidays. Thank you for fighting for our country.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much.
>> Please.
>> Well, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for allowing me to be at this table. When I came on board, I knew really none of you uh in this last year, and it's been a year, Mr. President, since I've had the pleasure uh to serve this country on the workforce. Um everybody said the Department of Labor would be quiet, fly under the radar. You won't have to do too much. Absolutely not. Because you made the American people realize the American dream is real for the American workforce. And it's been under your leadership, Mr. president that over two million jobs that has been created since you started have been nativeorn workers and that is the difference between this presidency this administration as opposed to the Biden administration were mostly foreignb born or federal government jobs and I think through the private sector over two million jobs of native born and so the labor department has wasted no time in putting that into action with our make America skilled again either grant dollars but the intentionality of the apprenticeship program. 1 million active apprentices across this country. We have done over 250,000 new apprentices so far in the first year and registered over 2,000 new apprenticeship programs. Why do we need the apprenticeship programs with the men and women in the trades? Because of the leadership of onshoring and reshoring and have a lot of these companies reinvest in America. We have to build this country. We cannot do that without the tradesmen and women and the craftsmen of this country. And I think that, you know, Howard and I, we talked about that from the beginning. And we're going to have to lean in on that because we need the labor force, 700,000 new skilled jobs with electricians, construction workers, machinists, and so forth. And as I traveled with the vice president as well, we see that on the manufacturing floors of this country, they're in desperate need. The Department of Labor are going to get uh the workforce skilled again. working with Secretary McMahon as we move a lot of the education out to our respective states. We are now working together and we have deployed 86 million dollars in investments. Um, and a lot of that is in I in AI infrastructure jobs to have um our new workforce proficient and literate in AI if we're going to continue to lead the AI race. And we're working on that. And the Department of Labor is now creating and will soon launch the AI infrastructure and workforce hub which we will be able to track that metrics to see exactly if these dollars are going correctly. Integrating education and workforce um with obviously administrator Leeler and I are on the road a lot together because we're talking about Main Street as well as um a lot of the manufacturing jobs and how we're being an ally to our businesses as opposed to an adversary. For far too long under the Biden administration, we were adversaries to our business owners and we want to give them a leg up always and make sure that we're paying attention. And we want our workforce to be educated. We do not need the numbers that we have seen across this country where our fourth through eighth graders cannot do read, write, or do any math and they are our future workforce. We have to depend on the American worker first. Also lowering health care costs in line with the executive order. I'm working with Treasury and HHS and rulemaking is underway uh to expand healthcare transparency and make pricing more affordable for our employers who offer these to their employees. promoting retirement security. The department rescended the Biden administration's guidance that restricted the use of crypto in the retirement investments and we're seeing more and more of that where we also uh rescended the supplemental statement that discouraged the fiduciaries from considering the alternative assets for 401ks and that will also come through the department of labor that rulemaking ending abuse of cheap foreign labor at the expense of the American worker. We launched over 200 investigations into companies who will um have abuse and or fraudulently against the American worker. So, Project Firewall was released. Thank you, Mr. President. We want the trained workforce, but we will root out the fraud and abuse and we'll protect the American worker first and slashing the job killing regulations. The department has rescended discriminatory DEI practices. And I will tell you, reducing compliance costs for businesses as it was for DEI has saved American businesses nearly 1 billion dollars this year by just getting rid of DEI for that compliance cost that they've had to do. So, Mr. President, continuing to skill the American worker, the American workforce is going to be my mission. We have to do it faster. We have to do it quicker. we have to build so that the American people can realize that American dream that you have laid out so eloquently. And I it's an honor to serve under this administration and to talk to the American workers who believe in the American dream. Again, the pride on their face, the pride of the American worker, the skilled men and women who build with their hands. It's an honor. So, thank you and merry Christmas.
>> Very good job. Thank you,
>> Chris.
>> Mr. President, I am honored and frankly inspired to sit at this table with this incredible team of leaders that work every day for one and only one constituency, the American people. Not this group or that group, the American people. The price of energy that's very much on the mind of Americans. The biggest determinant of the price of energy is politicians, political leaders, and policies. That's what drives energy prices. Under your leadership, what we've seen in the United States is just a steady drop in the price of gasoline, a huge consumer cost for Americans, as you mentioned early on, well below $3 a gallon right now and trending downwards. There are a number of stations in the heartland of America with $1.99 signs flying today. That's simply impossible without the leadership and changes you've brought. Now, of course, you can go to California where the average price of gasoline is between $450 and $5 a gallon today in California. That's just bad political leaders there and bad policies in California
>> and taxes
>> and taxes.
>> Taxes they charge on gasoline are just insane. Terrible. and electricity prices is a very parallel story, but it's a it's a bigger moving ship. So, the changes are a little bit slower, but Americans are outraged at, you know, a roughly 30% rise in the average price of electricity across this country. But everything we are doing together is going to reverse that. Not just stop the rises, but start a downward trajectory and electricity prices. And I can say that with confidence, not because we think these policies will work. We know these policies will work and I'll get to that in a second. We're going to stop closing power plants. We've already done that. Of course, stop closing the coal power plants and natural gas plants that were shut down. We've got over 30 gigawatts of generators just sitting there today, not allowed to run. Well, of course, we're fixing that immediately. We're going to bring on from our existing grid tens of gigawatts more capacity that'll drive down the cost of electricity. But if we look at the last five years to see what works and what doesn't work, the most al Trump aligned policies in the electricity sector were by no surprise one of your cabinet members uh Secretary Bergam for eight years governor of North Dakota. Over the last five years, production and demand for electricity in North Dakota grew 35%. Think data center boom's going to do and what happened? Electricity prices went down. Didn't rise slowly. They actually went down those five years. That's the answer. Trumpal aligned energy policies increased demand for electricity. Nebraska and Texas, more Trump aligned states, uh, had significant growth in demand for electricity. They had electricity price rises, but well below the price of inflation. Unfortunately, Biden brought all of us a lot of inflation. If you look at the other end of the spectrum, California, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maryland, I could go on. What happened in those states? Policies and politicians that forced the building of unreliable electricity generation, which requires new infrastructure and transmission lines. And what happened today? They produce less electricity than they did 5 years ago. A lot of spending money and less electricity. What does that mean? Of course, much faster rises in the price of electricity. Blue states have had one and a half times faster rise in electricity prices than red state.
>> Guys, tell me it doesn't look like Trump's sleeping right now. It legit looks like he's sleeping right now. I think they have one more person to to glaze him and then we'll have Q&A. These cabinet meetings just end up being like three hours long. But after this, we should get Q&A and then we'll see if there's any questions about the economy, Venezuela, etc.
>> We're focused on winning. Special thanks to Howard and Scotty who were there with me to see the Denver Broncos win on Monday night. Now, we want nationwide wins on energy for three more years.
>> And we're doing more energy production than we've ever done by far right now. records across the board that'll continue to be reset every year you're in office.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Well, Mr. President, thank you for giving me a very interesting job. Some days it's a little controversial, too. But it's been an honor to work for you. You are a great American. The fights that you pick are the right fights, and they're always on behalf of this country. So, I appreciate the chance to do this um job heading up this department. If if you think about what Joe Biden did with the Department of Homeland Security, he used this department to invade the country with terrorists. He opened up the borders, let anybody come in that wanted to. He put them on airplanes. He let them through our airports. If they could figure out a way to get to our shores and in our country, he just opened the door and invited them in. So, it's our job to get them out. And I want to thank you for this team because I look around the table and I think every single person here has helped me do my job over the last year. Uh they've supported us at the border and given us resources. Marco negotiates all the travel documents and relationships with other countries to take their people home. Two million people have gone home already. Um the people that were here illegally, you've removed from our country and sent home. And we're going to send more home for the holidays, too. And make sure that they get to be with their families in their countries. Yes.
>> Mostly the bad ones.
>> That's right.
>> Focus is the bad ones. That's right.
>> And there are a lot of them.
>> The terrible uh horrible people. And Pam, make sure she's fighting for us in court so that we can get up every day and be bold. We're going to have hire our 10,000th ICE officer will be on the job within 10 days. So, we have hired 10,000. We've had hundreds of thousands of applications. Uh we've got within the department uh TSA uh went through this government shutdown without any delays. Uh they all showed up for their shifts and worked hard doing security and uh they have been absolutely fantastic. Sir, you made it through hurricane season without a hurricane.
>> Yeah.
>> And so FEMA FEMA you even you kept the hurricanes away. So we appreciate that. And FEMA is deploying resources and dollars 150% faster than ever before. So if somebody does have something bad that happens to them, you are immediately there helping them and telling them they have the resources to get back up on their feet. So we have built and deployed hundreds of miles of border already. You have uh cut the fentanyl flow over the southern border by over 56%. You've saved hundreds of millions of lives with the cocaine you've blown up in the Caribbean. And uh you know, you told me to look into Minnesota and their fraud on visas and their programs. 50% of them are fraudulent, which means that that wacko Governor Walls either is an idiot or he did it on purpose. And I think he's both, sir. He brought people in there illegally that never should have been in this country. Said they were somebody that they're not. They said they were married to somebody who was their brother or somebody else, fraudulent visa applications, signed up for government programs, took hundreds of billions of dollars from the taxpayers, and we're going to remove them, and we're going to get our money back, and we're going to this next year make sure that we only put people in leadership positions in this country that love this country and have its back. So, thank you for letting us get up every day and have a purpose.
>> Thank you very much. Thanks, Chris. Appreciate it,
>> Mr. Mr. President, you're exactly right. We are saving this country. We're doing it one day.
>> There's one more. Wait, no. Did Bobby speak? Oh my goodness. I don't think Rubio or Bobby spoke yet, right? Yeah, guys. We might just have to end it, bro. If we got four more people to talk. Oh my goodness. We're not Yeah, everyone has to talk. That's how they do it. Everyone has to talk. They give the update. Yeah, we might have done this soon
>> to speed that workforce to small businesses that under this administration are now at record levels. 36 million small businesses have now taken on board for the first time in the SBA's history a hundred billion dollars. That's
>> okay. Yeah, we're done. We're done. Six more people now. We're done. Bro, I tried to stay on for the Q&A. I really did. That's the stuff that matters here. He just makes us sit through like 20 people, say good things about him, but we at some point we got to end it, dude. I got to get out of here, too. So, all right, guys. Appreciate it. Again, if you want to watch it, White House is live on YouTube. You can watch their stream. I will try to get all the answers that Trump gets uh that Trump gives to the questions by the market close. I'll be live in a couple hours. We got a bunch of earnings. Uh and then we have technical Tuesday. So we have Crowd Strike, Marll, Octa, GitLab, American Eagle, Asana, then we have Technical Tuesday, and then I'll be live with Steve at 9:30. So we'll be gone for the next couple hours, but we'll be back pretty soon. And yeah, I mean, I didn't get anything from that entire cabinet meeting. I think there were some comments in the beginning that Trump said, Bent said some stuff about um tax refunds going into next year. One thing I will say is this administr I mean, two weeks ago, people were saying you should sell your stocks. You should get out of the market. We're in a bare market. What we just heard from Lutnik and Bent and Trump is that this administration is gearing up to make sure that the people that are actually going to win. I know they they think they care about Main Street. News flash, no one cares about Main Street. No one cares about the little guy. Not Trump, not Obama, not Biden. Like just no one like they say they do. They don't. They just don't. Like, let's be honest. They care about the shareholders. It's the brutal truth. They care about the shareholders. So based on what Bassen said, which was uh the Fed chair will be picked soon. That's what Trump said. And that substantial tax refunds are coming in Q1 2026. You have rate cuts, you have tax refunds, you have potential stimulus checks and you have the Fed getting ready to ease with the AI narrative being real. You own the market. It's just that simple. You own the You don't overthink it. You own the market. Now, will there be ups and downs? Of course, and there could be things that change the narrative, but this administration is gearing up to make sure that if you own I mean, they spent the first 10 minutes talking about look at GM stock, look at Ford stock, look at Stellantis stock. They love when the stock market is up. That's what ultimately pays the bills for this administration because rewarding shareholders is how this country continues to move forward. Uh, and that's the only way, quite frankly, we're going to pay off the deficit and the debt that we have. We're going to have to grow GDP. I think the takeaway outside of any nuance from the questions that we'll get later and we'll get Trump's answers to those is you own the market. That doesn't mean you just yolo into anything, but it means that when people are screaming that you got to get out of the market, you just have to come back to the reality of this administration wants the market to do well. And if they do, they have a lot of power to make sure the market continues to do well. They have a lot of influence to make sure companies thrive. And that means owning those companies probably makes the most sense. Asset owners are the ones that usually tend to benefit. Fear and greed is at 24. We almost got to I think we were at fear at 26 at one point. So we're now back at extreme fear. But once again, I don't know why this index continues to work as well as it does. When you buy when that thing is low, and that was at six two weeks ago, it tends to do well. Now maybe if we have a real recession, this index is not going to matter. Whenever we have these types of four or five percent pullback corrections, just using this as a barometer to then buy something is not the the worst thing in the world. So I think a decent chunk of us bought at least a little bit of something two weeks ago and those are starting to benefit. And also the super high beta names are not really recovering which is a good thing. I mean like at the end of the honest truth is it's a good thing that Oaklo is not going back to 193. Like I think part of the reason we had such a nasty flush out is because you had a company like Oaklo that was worth 40 billion and has no revenue and you need to get that flushed out. So Oaklo doesn't have to go to zero but I don't know if it's going back to 193 and and that is a healthy market saying hey we're going to broaden out. We're going to get rid of the froth and a lot of these names probably aren't going to get to alltime highs anytime soon. But if they're a good quality company like a Meta or an Amazon it should have a chance to get there versus names that are just not putting up the earnings. So then you got Apple right here at alltime highs at 285. S&P at 681. Bitcoin also making a nice little move. Bitcoin 92. Wow. 92. And then Ethereum, are we holding three? We are holding 3,000 on ETH. All right. Not too bad. Not too bad. I'll see everyone on the close. Bitcoin now getting a little bit more momentum. Uh, what do you think about GitLab? I really don't know much about GitLab. I don't know much about any of the companies that are reporting today outside of Crowd Strike. I know a little bit more about Crowdstrike than the other companies. So, we'll see what we get today. I know Jose is a big Marbell fan, Octto with Security, American Eagle. I'm just curious on if they can actually show good results from a retailer perspective. And so, we're going to see the uh the earnings that we get later today. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I will see you guys on the market close. The meeting that I had is for something you guys will find out about on Thursday and so I think you guys will like it. But it was a quick meeting and um yeah, we'll be back for the market close and then technical Tuesday and then I'll be with Steve tonight. Bang everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys in a little bit. Bye everyone.