All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live and we have got a lot of different headlines that are going on back and forth. In about 20 minutes, we will have Jason on for the show and uh we will get into technical Tuesday and we'll get all of his updates on what's going on from a technical perspective, but we had some interesting markets. Um we were going relatively green until honestly the last like 20 minutes and then we started going red again. I mean, uh, we we flipped green for a very quick second on the S&P 500. Certain names did go green. Uh, but now, as you can see, the S&P 500 right there, 66132. We are back down for the day. The lowest we got to on the day, at least during the market open, was 655.86. So, it is nice to see that you're getting a little bit of reprieve. At one point, we got to 665 on the day. Uh, but it looks like we are going to end out red. At one point, we were down 1.5%. Now, we are down 1.6 6 or 63% on the day. I did do some buying. I opened up the wallets, did some buying. Uh did not do any buying yesterday. Did very little buying last week. I did some buying. Very, very small nibbles on four names or three names. Uh Nebius, Amazon, and the next one that everyone's going to love or hate at the same time, good old BMR. Very, very small nibbles on these three. But after they bounce just a little bit and you know maybe that bounce is fake. Maybe those are going to be dead cap bounces. We're going to see how that plays out. But uh have been waiting for a while on BMR. I mean quite frankly been waiting a month on that. Nebas been waiting since like 97 until it really got much lower than that. Uh and then Amazon kind of just gave back the entire freaking earnings move. I mean I was buying Amazon at 214 212 had a nice little jump and got to 255 and now it gave it all back today. Those are three of the names. Gave a little bit of a nibble on. Let me know if anyone bought anything in the chat. I mean, you had some names get a big rebound. Meta went from 583. I did not pick up Meta at 583, so I did not catch that bottom, but now that's at 601. We'll see if 583 ends up actually being the bottom, but 601, nice recovery. Meta did have some news today about uh them not being ruled in a legal monopoly from a US court. So, that was one of the good headlines for Meta, but then over overall the entire market started rebounding and that was good for Meta in of itself. SoFi above 25 but still stuck below 27. Google right there 285. We have some big updates on Gemini that we'll talk about. Nvidia unfortunately could not really break through back into the green bounced from 179 has not really touched 179 now at 182. Uh we'll talk more about the updates with Nvidia and Microsoft investing in Anthropic because that was another big headline today. And then Microsoft right there 494. That one bounced off 486. Can't believe it even went to 486. Wow, I did not see that. 494 still down 2.5% on the day. So, that is what we've got across the board in this market. Again, it doesn't look like we're going to end out green, but it's not the complete bloodbath that it was in the morning. And that goes back to this idea of the choppiness of the markets. The market's waiting for a little bit of uh security from Nvidia earnings. We do have some government data that we got an update from. We are going to be getting PPI uh in about five days. So, we were supposed to get it tomorrow, but uh it h it now says we are getting it um let me pull this up in a second on November 25th. So, actually a little bit longer than five days in about a week. And then US import and export price indices for September will be released December 3rd. So, PPI for September, November 25th, US import export price indices on uh December 3rd for September. So, we are going to get a lot more data. We did get that jobless claims last night which was super important. 232,000 jobs um that filed for unemployment or people that filed for unemployment. As you can see, the Fed probabilities are back above 51% which means at least it's better than where it was yesterday at 41. So, I think that along with a little bit of calmness around the AI trade started getting the market to warm up a little bit, but in no way or shape are we out of the woods. It just seems like maybe it's not as absolutely horrible as it was early in the morning. I didn't buy Google today, but goodness, Sundar is making me want to buy Google at basically all-time highs. Gemini 3 is absolutely incredible. There's a lot of things to look at, but here is their release video from Google AI Studio, and it's pretty much getting universal praise across the board. Bite coding in AI Studio with Gemini 3 lets you build anything. Build entirely new experiences. Create apps that see. Make tools that listen. Build apps with a single prompt. [music] Get inspired.
>> [music]
>> Refine [music]
>> and refine some more [music]
>> right now.
>> Share with a friend [music]
>> and remix.
>> Then share with the world.
>> [music]
>> It's pretty incredible some of the things that they're showing off. I mean, I didn't get through all the examples, but some of the ones I saw today are just kind of crazy. I mean, this person right here said, "I asked Gemini 3 Pro to create a 3D Lego editor in one shot. Enailed the UI, complex spatial logic, and all the functionality." And there's a lot of more examples that were uploaded today. So, so what is the takeaway from this outside of like unbelievably bullish Google and just like the the praise that Sundar deserves for uh getting Gemini 3 out there? I think it's AI is real. [laughter] Like what you're seeing on the screen is only possible because of AI. So maybe a little bit of a reminder to the entire market that AI is a very real thing. It's not a fad or it's not fake. And that you need a lot of data center compute, GPUs, etc. TPUs. Gemini 3 was trained on a lot of Google TPUs to be able to make this thing a reality. These are the benchmarks right here. Gemini 3 pros beating pretty much everything. I mean, even Elon had to uh comment and say how surprised he was by the level of success that Gemini 3 is uh is deploying. And again, all of that comes through this integrated ecosystem of the data centers, the compute, the GPUs, the power that's necessary for all of those data centers to make sense. the cloud computing like this stuff all goes t in in tandem with each other which is why we've seen this entire industry start becoming a massive investing opportunity and the other person that understands how big of a deal it is are the Saudis US government is planning to approve the sale of chips to the Saudi AI venture Humane Humane is a subsidiary of the public investment fund in Saudi Arabia that has lots of money to be able to invest in all of these chipbased companies and build out more data centers remember Nvidia's guidance does not include include China and it does not include the Middle East. So that could be the upside surprise if this does get approved. We're probably not going to get approved for China. But if we do get approved in terms of the chip companies with Nvidia and AMD for the Middle East, then obviously that would be bullish. Here's what the Saudi prince said today. We're thinking of increasing [snorts] our investment from 600 billion to 1 trillion in the United States.
>> Today it's very important uh uh time in our history because there's also a lot of things that we're working in in the future. uh we believe uh in the future of West of America, we believe in what you're doing, Mr. President, it's really creating a lot of good things and good foundation to create more economic growth, more business in America and also your work for the world uh uh peace. I believe Mr. present in the today and tomorrow we're going to announce that we are going to increase that that 600 billion to almost $1 trillion of investment real investment and real opportunity by details in many areas and the agreement that we are signing today in many areas in technology in AI in uh materials magnets uh etc that will create a lot of investment opportunities
>> so you are doing that now you're saying to me now that the 600 million will be one trillion
>> definitely because what we are signing facilitate that.
>> I like that.
>> No, that's great. That's I appreciate that.
>> By the way, you know how Trump just slapped him on the knee? In Saudi Arabia, if you touch the prince, you can go to jail for a long time. So, uh, yeah, you're you're not really supposed to touch the prince, but I guess if you're the president, that's okay.
>> Great. It's No, we're doing numbers that nobody's ever done. And in all fairness, if you didn't see potential in the US, you wouldn't be doing that. You don't want to lose money.
>> As you said, Mr. President, it's the most hottest country in the the planet. But what you're creating is not about opportunity today. It's about also long-term opportunity in America that will affect American economy positively in the next coming decades, preparing the right foundation of emerging technologies that that's a game changer for America in a good way. And we want to be part of it. Again, at its core, is the $1 trillion investment good for the United States? Obviously, is it good for the AI sector? Yes. But what is the takeaway from that story and the Google story? The Google Gemini 3 story is like, oh my goodness, there are models that are becoming better and better and better. They are getting integrated through every part of our life and we're not going to go back to a world where there's not AI. The takeaway from uh um the Saudi prince is that they understand in terms of at least in the context of Saudi Arabia that they cannot rely on oil money for the next 10 years. and the prince has been very vocal about the idea that he thinks that previous leadership in Saudi Arabia was way too focused on something that is inevitably going to die out in terms of oil and they have to get ready for life in 2050 versus life in 2025 and that requires massive amounts of investment and so as a result of all that investment obviously that money is going to come into the microns of the world the AMDs of the world the Nvidas of the world the question becomes can the market move past this hiccup of navigating what they're feeling is a sentiment shift in the market. Now, either it's a sentiment shift, which is the best case scenario for all of us because sentiment will potentially shift to the positive side, or it's a structural shift. And if it is a structural shift, then obviously there's more downsides to come. I personally don't believe it's a structural shift. I think all the evidence we see every single day is less about it being a structural shift unless we get into a recession, which is another question. But if it's not, then this is more sentiment that everyone kind of has to navigate with. Also, you know, I was kind of thinking about it today. Uh when you when you really look at it, August, we were supposed to crash, but we went higher. September, we were supposed to crash, but we went higher. October, although uh it's supposed to be an October month, we ended up having some choppiness, but we still ended 2.5% up for the month. So, November, we're now down 4%. I know a lot of us are down more than 4%, but at least on the S&P 500, it's down 4%. At its core, it feels like this pullback, and I hate to say this, and everyone's going to hate me saying this, is healthy. And I know no one wants to hear that, but we were green six months in a row. The idea that we're taking a 4% pullback in November, I mean, that's just not something that to me means that it's a a bubble that now has to has to pop. And I know that's what the bears are sort of like screaming, but does that make sense to be mad that we're down 4% after having six months in a row of green? I mean, people are saying get ready for 2022. Where everything collapses, the NASDAQ goes down 40%. Even if we get a 10% move, so another 6% down from here, that puts us at 6,200, I think. And I think a lot of people would agree with this, even if they would hate to admit it. It is way healthier to be 6,200 at the end of November on the S&P uh for the overall market, which means a lot of stocks probably have a lot more down to go than to moonshot up to 7,200. And I know it would be really fun to be like Tuesday, November 18th, 7200, boom, S&P above 7. But it wouldn't be real, right? Like it wouldn't be uh based on any logic. It would just be a lot of euphoria, just be a lot of hype. you wouldn't get any of the froth or excess leverage out of the system which has obviously started to leave the system especially in the crypto markets especially in a lot of stocks that don't have any earnings and so as much as it sucks to go through and it obviously is painfilled it's not the end all beall if it is not a structural decline in the concept of the bull market which you know it could be I just disagree with that assumption but it's rather something that we all have to deal with and I think that's not the craziest idea I mean quite frankly again if we were at 73 7400 like that's just begging for an epic collapse apps versus, hey, let's not get crazy. I mean, we get we got pretty close. We got to 68 66 6,890. You know, we were less than 1% away. Took a bit of a breather. Maybe we have to take more of a breather, allowing valuation multiples to compress, allowing the market to digest a lot of the earnings that have happened. And then we can get ready for the next leg up if the earnings can justify that, which, you know, as much as this sucks, I don't think it's crazy to imagine that would take the case. 62 S&P 500 means no growth. Yeah, it would be hard to imagine we get there, but if we do, I just think a lot of stocks would look very attractive because that would be eliminating the majority of the year's gains. And again, at that point, you got to ask yourself, all right, well, why do these stocks deserve to be here? And if they don't deserve to be here, those would be opportunities I think the market cares about. Tuesday, November 18th, 4 p.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now closed. [music] All right, we are done for the day. Definitely still a red day. 660.17 on the S&P, which means we were down about 82% almost 1%. BMR actually held up a bit, up 4 and a.5% on the day. Nebas 5.3. Nebas got to 9250 at one point. Amazon got all the way up to 227, closed at 222, took off 4% on Amazon. Microsoft got a big downgrade as well. That also got the street a little upset. Fell to 486, now at 493, down 2.7%. The other big news of the day for those that missed it is Anthropic is getting an investment from Microsoft and Nvidia of up to about $15 billion collectively. And Anthropic is going to be buying 30 billion of compute from Azure uh as of today's announcement. And that brings up questions of the circular stuff. We'll talk more about that in a bit, but that was also a very big announcement today. Uh and quite frankly I think that announcement came out because Google's Gemini 3.0 came out and you know Microsoft Anthropic Nvidia kind of wanted to make sure that people understood that uh GPUs are still important from Nvidia not just Google's TPUs and Anthropic you know wanted to give a lot of publicity to their model not just on Gemini. So I think it made sense the timing of this announcement in the context of Gemini 3.0. It's healthy competition across all the model companies. Cloudflare right there down about 3% on the day. That one did have a shutdown throughout the entire morning and that's why a lot of websites weren't working. PayPal actually did it fall below 60 did not fall below 60 but closed 2% on the day. Palanteer right there was down about 2.29% falling another.3% after hours. Hoodie did get to 116. Hood closed at 11430. The Q's 596 down about 1.2% after hours as well. Lily did make a new all-time high or did got did get yeah pretty much got there 140 52- week high30 up 85% on the day so you saw some of the healthcare and defensives get the rotation out of tech and that tech rotation has been happening for the better part of two weeks right now S&P 500 659 after hours the Epstein bill did pass 427 to1 um that happened 427 to1 uh in the house it's now going to the senate to continue um getting a vote. Klay Higgins, Representative Klay Higgins was the one person who didn't vote for it, which kind of embarrassing. I mean, if everyone votes for it and you're the one guy who doesn't, you start getting a lot of questions on why, but nonetheless, he was the one person who didn't vote for it. And uh now it goes to the Senate, and if it gets approved in the Senate, we should be getting somewhat of these files released over the coming days. VIX ended up 7.42% on the day, 2404 on the VIX. as that one ended up going green for the day. Um, another big headline, so outside of the Google Gemini news and the anthropic stuff, you have this headline which kind of went under the radar, uh, given all the other AI stuff we had today, but I mean it's a real things, folks. Deputy White House chief of staff said the administration is considering options to send millions of Americans $2,000 dividend payments funded by tariff revenues without congressional approval, according to Bloomberg. I don't know how they're going to do it, but I guess they're going to do it. And the fact that they're looking to do it without congressional approval, again, Congress has the power of the purse. I don't know how the heck they're going to do that, but they're trying to. And so, it looks like these STEMI checks, I mean, I don't know if they're coming, but the White House is definitely thinking that they're going to find a way to get them to get out there. Uh, Aswave, he was on CNBC. Let's listen to what he had to say. curious about what people's thoughts are for his analysis. Again, he did a big podcast over the weekend, got a lot of different views, basically saying we are officially in a bubble. Here he is confirming that argument and explaining his logic for why he thinks we're in a bubble. Jason should be on in about 5 to 10 minutes and then we will get into technical Tuesday. But how do you know we're we're overvalued? It's easy for people to say yes, this is a bubble based on what? based on the fact that people are throwing money at investing without really telling me where the money is going to come back from those investments. Starting with, you know, Sam Alman, he's asked about how does open AI expect to make money blowing off that answer without giving me a business sense of open AI. What I get are companies like Oracle, like Meta, like Microsoft, like OpenAI throwing insane amounts of money to building AI architecture without providing any tangible. I mean, I don't even want evidence. At least give me a story of how all this investment is going to play off in terms of products and services on which he can make money. So, so you my quick response to that is I'm not saying Sam Alman had the best answer and I know there's a lot of confusion over how these companies are going to monetize, but to say that there is absolutely no understanding of the business model, how they're going to generate revenue. I mean, if you listen to the opening eye CFO at the Wall Street Journal conference, I listened to the entire 40-minute keynote she gave a week ago. I mean, she introduced a lot of different business models outside of just consumer subscription and advertising. I know Sam Alman did not have the best response there. But to use that response and say, "Well, there is no way in hell they're going to be able to build a big business off of this. Therefore, everything is fake." I don't know. It just feels a little a little misguided based on all the different things that they have. They could still fail, but I don't know if his answer is the number one reason for why OpenAI is done. agree with that that downgrade today of Amazon and Microsoft at least in the narration around it which is don't you can't we can't do the trust us anymore. You got to show me now. We we gave you the benefit of the doubt. We drove your stock prices up and now it's like okay we need some tangible answers on where all this money is going. But what if we can't get those for a while? We may be faced with months if not years before we know
>> and that's the reason going from overvaluation to deciding to sell short is a bridge that's too far for me. Clearly AI is overvalued but you ask me is it overpriced? That's a different question. That's about catalyst and corrections. And you're right that moment of reckoning might take days it might take weeks it might take months. I mean remember Alan Greenspan warned about irrational exuberance in November of 1996. The correction itself did not happen till 2000. So you could be waiting a long time for that catalyst and correction. So even though we might accept that that AI is overvalued, I'm not sure what the immediate followup is going to be for you as an investor other than not to pour in all of your money into these AI stocks because that's asking for trouble.
>> I I think it's interesting when I look at your notes to our producers that you you think Nvidia is going to beat, right? I mean, I think everybody agrees that they're they're going to beat, but that the stock price is likely to go down. Why do you think that?
>> Because I think markets expect you to I mean, the expectations game is a strange one. If you keep beating analyst expectations by 15% every quarter and you beat them by only 10% per market, that's a negative surprise. And I think increasingly as these companies have become better and better at beating the analyst forecast of numbers, markets are building that in to their expectations. I'm actually arguing that this is a second set of expectations out there that we don't observe, which is what's driving the market. So that would be my prediction. They'll beat analyst expectations, but they won't beat market expectations. Is there a stock in the group whether it's Nvidia or another that that garners the most attention or the most caution do you think?
>> I think the more a company spends the more caution is called for. So I would just take the AI spending of each of these companies. Now outside of Nvidia and the more spending they have the more cautious I get which is one reason it might if you're if you're planning to buy one of the bank seven stocks it's not a great time to buy any of them. I would say by Apple because it's the most cautious of these companies and this is a time where caution might actually be the by word for which of these companies will walk out of these with the least damage. Apple's trading at 40 times earnings and not really growing as fast as the other companies. The other companies are trading at cheaper multiples and growing faster. But he is so mad about the capex spend that his argument is buy Apple instead. And that goes to show the kind of divergence in thinking between some parts of the street and other parts that just feel this capex is unrealistic. It makes no sense. It is not justified enough to the point that you'd buy a company that is way more expensive than Meta, Amazon or Google and it's not growing as fast just because they're not spending that much on capex. That's so funny. Um, you know, this this company was so criticized, we've mentioned this several times over the last week for being behind and not going all in like the others. And now we've had this market upset and all this volatility and we're like, well, Apple looks great compared to the others who aren't spending as much. Let me let me finish with this this last question. The debt raises that we've seen among the hyperscalers and these so-called circular deals. What do you make of all that?
>> I'll take the circular deals first. To me, it's a sign that they're worried. They're worried that the entire AI in the infrastructure could be put at risk if there's a disruption. I think of deepseek a year ago where essentially you change the AI story by saying maybe you don't need these chips and these huge data centers and what I see is this preemptive setting up to prevent that from happening by making themselves the status quo. So to me it's a sign of fear not a sign of optimism or confidence about the future. The credit so far if you look at the credit as a percentage of cash flows of the big tech companies throw off it's not to me troublesome. That's not where I think the catalyst would come from. But I think the smaller AI companies that are using credit are putting themselves at risk.
>> Now again, Oracle credit default swaps, they're at the highest level since 2022. You got a lot of investors buying protection because they're afraid of Oracle defaulting on their debt, which again, I don't think that's going to happen. But nonetheless, that is the argument that the market is making. Again, Oracle was doing 12 to 15 billion of free cash flow a couple years ago, and investors were asking, "What are you going to do with that money? Are you going to give me a dividend? Are you going to buy back stock?" And they ended up saying, "Hey, we're going to invest heavily in AI." Now, they're having negative free cash flow because of all the investments and all the debt that they're taking on. But if it ends up working out, aka there is an ROI, then, you know, eventually that debt will likely be rewarded long term with the share price. So, it's really interesting to see Osw come on live TV and say it's all a bubble. It's all fake. For those that didn't listen to his podcast over the weekend, uh you just heard in those five minutes he's saying that you shouldn't touch any of the Mac 7s outside of Apple because Apple is somehow safe and the other ones are overspending on capex. And essentially what he's basically saying is the capex investments aren't worth it. Which again begs the question when you look at what Gemini's growth is like just even on Gemini 3.0 know or the 650 million monthly active users the cloud growth at 34% chatbt at 800 million weekly active like when you see this type of stuff all of it is happening because of the data center buildout and because of the training now you either believe in that or you don't oswth is obviously making the argument that none of it should be justified and uh investors will punish these companies one day in the future when this whole crashes for spending this much in capex and I think that sentiment that narrative is permeating across the market enough to the point where he thinks buying Apple would be a better bet than Google which is you know growing significantly faster than Apple. Time will tell but it is quite incredible to kind of hear that analysis from a DNA valuations and you know that is his take and nonetheless that take is part of the overall collective market which is obviously discounting a lot of these different tech companies. All right folks let's get into technical Tuesday now real quick let me just say I have to leave at 6:30 p.m. uh on the dot. It is my sister's birthday today, so I am going home to um uh celebrate with my sister. So, I absolutely have to leave at 6:30. We are not going to get to every single stock. I think today's technical Tuesday is less about every little stock that's out there, but more about the broader trends in the market, and that's what we're going to try to get out of Jason today on the main companies and the main indices. Um maybe Jason will stay on after at 6:30 if he's up for it. But if not, then I will have to get out of here. But we got a good two hours and we'll try to get as many stocks as we can, especially the main ones. Without further ado, let's roll the intro. [music] [music]
>> What's up?
>> Happy birthday, sis.
>> Is it big sis or little sis?
>> Big sis. She's four years older than me. big. Oh, big sis.
>> And I I know I I didn't tell her I'm coming back home, so it's a surprise, but she never watches my stream, so there's no way [laughter] she's gonna know. So,
>> love that.
>> There you go,
>> dude. It's been a hell of a week,
>> dude. It's been uh you know, it's it's been a wild ride for sure. Hopefully everybody stays up like with I try to post as much, you know, updates as I can, but yeah, we it's got it's it's been choppy. It's been choppy for sure. um looked good for a little bit. We locked that little lower high earlier or later late last week. Couldn't get over and and but you know, here we are. So, I think we have I mean, from now till till next Tuesday, dude, we have a lot of stuff coming. I mean, [laughter] a lot of Well, I mean, we have two major events. So, I mean, we can get into this the the charts right now, but um you haven't prefaced the show or at least the segment. What do we call this? Do we call this? It's the show. So, or the segment of the show, but this is about trading. And so, if you're uh if you're if you're very much into investing, first of all, I don't want to scare any investors, and I don't think any investors should be scared about this. Num number one, I think there's a lot of shenanigans out there in the markets today and people are I I look at the feed that I get on X and I'm like I see all kinds of crap flying around all the you know [laughter] things are fl like you know it's it's all going to burn blah blah blah right now. And I mean first of all it's it's it's like noise. Um and I'm like this pullback this pullback. I look at the charts and I I got I got to be honest. I'm like, first of all, what what what what the hell what pullback o on at the [laughter] index level are we talking about? Because like we're still really close to the highs number one. Um and and it really hasn't been that much of a pullback at the at at the index level. But that said, you know, a lot of people's highf flyers and and heavy growth stocks, my hoodie included, or Palunteers included, have been hit pretty hard. But that's that kind of comes with the territory. So, um I mean
>> also it's it's a good disclaimer. If Jason says a price level in a stock, remember he's talking about if you're long Amazon for the next 10 years and Jason thinks Amazon might touch 210. Please do not run for the hills and get scared and want to kill Jason because he's he's a little bearish on Amazon because at the end of day this is trading and a lot of this is shortterm.
>> Well, to be honest, well, to be fair, I actually bought some Amazon stock today. Wow.
>> You did.
>> Did you say
>> you did?
>> I did.
>> Well, I of of all of them, I just heard the clip that you had this guy talking about and I mean it's a small like not even like a token piece, but when we're talking about investing, it's completely different than trading, right? And I think that that you have to preface this segment with that trading and investing are not really compatible from a time frame perspective, right? because your time horizon or how long you you expect to have money actively moving in the market that that that time horizon is completely different. So, uh from an investment perspective, it's like ooh this is actually should be exciting [laughter] like from that from that perspective. Um cuz you know I might I might get some Black Friday deals but I might not either. And I just want to be prepared from that perspective. And uh, you know, from a trading, you know, viewpoint, it it might be a little bit different. And I don't know, you know, I thought I thought I was going to get a really nice dip on Hoodie uh the other day. And uh and I I started to and my god, dude, I've never seen Hood and Palanteer are two stocks that are just they're just built different. Like these dips on these two stocks. I I have not seen dips get bought this fast. Uh like these two stocks in quite frankly I I I don't even know the last time I've seen stocks get bought up this fast. But um but yeah, if I get if I get that $100 sub $100 dip, I I want to be ready for it. Do I get to see it? I don't really know yet. Um we're still holding the the relative lows, but um but unfortunately, no. We're not at the highs right now. So, but we can get into
>> Yeah, let's get into Let's start with the index because I think everyone's curious about that and um then we'll get into all the main tickers. But S&P right here is 660 down from 689 at the highs, which was about three and two and a half weeks ago.
>> Um and so we're looking at basically
>> a 4.2% decline.
>> Yeah. All right. So, I have uh I have the timer on the top left. I'm going to shrink it a little bit. Right now, I'm starting at five minutes. So, this is SPY. Um really quick, I posted something about the SMAs and the on my screen. I have the 20-day, which is white, the 50-day, which is blue, and the 200 day, which is red. And down here in purple is the 200E simple moving average. But primarily, you want to use these three. And what I will say is, you know, if you've watched this segment for a long time, what I always talk about is the distance in between the SMAs, like the distance in between these SMAs right here. And that that is and always will be the most important thing to to look at. And the best the best entries are are really when it's it's very tight, right? Like this is a very good entry here where the SMAs are very tight and they start to expand. So from a net new money long perspective, what's clear is that okay, so this is this is very wide and and we can see, hey, look, these are about to contract. That's what we can see at the moment. It always starts, by the way, with with the loss of the 20-day simple moving average, which is the white one. And [clears throat] today is the first day that we actually did lose or we opened below the 50-day simple moving average. So that's where we are at the moment. What I will follow this up with with is that these these lines, these little squiggles on my chart are are kind of just that. And they are they're also magnets. So, I don't want you to think of them like support and resistance cuz that is kind of a misnomer. People get that idea, but they should not be thought of like that. They're they're momentum indicators. They're general l they're completely lagging indicators, but they will they will give you an idea of momentum and and what you want to look at is the slope. So, right now the 20-day is starting to slope a little bit down if price does continue to go down. But also know that these are very tight together and it's going to be a while before these two can start to cross. And what we're looking for, if things were actually going to if things were actually going to turn kind of bearish, it's going to be a while. And and what these actually do is they act as magnets. So, it's very very possible that we get this pop back up and this 50-day simple moving average acts as a magnet and price hugs it very closely while the 20-day catches up to it. And if for whatever reason, let's say Nvidia comes out or non-farm payrolls come out and the trend becomes a little bit cleaner and price starts to starts to trade above these, well, the only thing that's going to happen is that the 20day is going to catch back up and the distance between these two is going to start to widen again. In what direction? To the upside. And that's going to happen. So, it's not over till it's over. The signs are here now that hey, look, we've stopped going up at the moment. And that is what's true. If we do continue from a from a m momentum perspective and what large funds are probably screaming about is that when you lose this, what happens is that you tend when you you lose something like this is that you tend to travel towards the 200 day simple moving average. Here's another one here where you tend to travel towards the 200 day simple here. you tend to travel towards the 200 day simple pretty much nearly every time in history. It doesn't mean that you breach it, but you tend to travel towards it. Let me get back to where we are. And and because this is a very steep and and we'll say uncorrected slope and the trend has as of today, day one, one day doesn't make a trend. We have a lot of news coming. Um [clears throat] basically been today broken. Uh if it if it does continue then that that does I heard you say a number earlier that does bring you to 615
>> as where the 200 day simple lies and that actually would be your dip by which also by the way kind of lines up with these prior tops over here and that would be that typical um pullback that is not a bare market. That is completely different, right? And and to be crystal clear, that is that is a typical pullback and that is not a bare market. A bare market is completely below all of these SMAs, which we are very far away from. We're not even close to that. So, no, we're not talking bare market. No, we have no signs of bare market. We only have signs of a typical pullback. And that is very to that is absolutely to be expected in any normal sit any normal market. And that right there is actually healthy.
>> Do do you think at all that the there's an argument for the S&P 500 is topped like is there a legitimate claim
>> from a price topped in terms of like for this week?
>> No. for like for the next year like it's the top of the cycle like from a technical does any I mean maybe fundamentals are different but does the technical say that
>> you can't you can't say that from a um so we're running out of time but like the only thing here is that here's the last low here's a high here is a lower high that we caught last week and we today as of today have breached that lower low have breached that most recent low unless we're trending below 650 No, I I I just you like for the next year. No, no way, man. No, no, because Okay, so Emit sent me this video earlier and I was trying to understand what his context was. But when I say typical pullback, this typical pullback will normally resolve itself like this,
>> right?
>> Like to be like that's normal. like that would that's that's normally how this pullback will resolve itself. I mean end of story. So
>> defending defending 615 is very important but we are far away from even touching those levels.
>> Yeah. So so this normal pullback will typically resolve itself just like this. And and by the way you guys know this kind of pattern. This is AIT's favorite pattern or one of his favorite patterns. He won't get his double bottom. Maybe he gets his double bottom around here and then he gets another double bottom around here. Why you shaking your head? But you know,
>> no reason.
>> This is this is your this is this is way before everybody else sees it. You know where your cup and handle's going to show up. Just so you know, you have my art skills. I mean, that wasn't bad. But but quite frankly, that's how this this you know, if you want to know how things evolve as charts, it's literally just like this. Um [clears throat] but but yeah, that's a long time away. And and that's how a a normal chart would actually pan out. So, so yeah, no, this is not um to to your question, it's all about your time horizon. So, can it have topped out in the near? Well, I mean, if that happens, like that that's going to take a while
>> to actually play out, right? So, that's like I mean, that's a while. So the only thing so or quickly we reclaim this is 667 and we're we're back on our way. So in this instance so I have a couple lines on here and I know we're going a little bit over so I if that's okay that's fine. Um [clears throat] couple lines here. So red read red on my chart inside this this is actually a threemonth range. So within the last 3 months, first level that's important, 667 and a quarter or 66730. This is a big deal right here. We really have to reclaim this and and that's going to know that's going to tell us if we're able to to hug that 50-day simple moving average. If we can stay at least around 667, 668, then that 50-day simple moving average is actually going to be just flattening and it's not going to be heading downwards. Same thing with the 20-day simple. That will keep that will keep those SMAs at least flatlined. Um, near-term [clears throat] 663, which is basically just last week's low. Near-term, if we can get over 663, that does give us this small little pop. This is a small chop zone. And this this gives us right over here. If we do hold that, then what you would expect just very basic price action wise is you would expect actually you might even expect a bit of a bullish bounce that looks possibly um a little euphoric. And uh I would I would I would caution that euphoria here and and just know that hey there is a a possibility that we even do bounce here and hit hit about a 50% retrace of last week's range which is going to line up to the 20-day simple moving average because remember these are all going to act like magnets. And in this moment, right around this level around 678, that's where a potential third lower high could show up. Um, this could be what what I would call in those in the trading world, we call this like a bit of a lifeline anywhere in here. Um, and and we've actually done this kind of exercise many times in the past, but this is, let's say, if if Nvidia has a really good story to tell and things look good. That's actually what that would look like. And I would expect something like that to be pretty typical here cuz a breakdown into a into a pullback is not a one-day thing typically. It's it is a series of events.
>> It doesn't happen overnight. Not normally. Normally we get a bit of a chop and and and there's time to make a decision. I mean chop. So quite frankly I would expect something like this and um potentially something like this and it might even be a single day event that ends up looking like this.
>> Let's transition into Nvidia then because that I think that goes hand in hand with the S&P.
>> How are you thinking of this one and its price action? The one thing I will say on Nvidia is that we hit 212 on a really big announcement at GTC and now we're back down to 180. One could argue that if he never said the 500 billion in five quarters, we would have never seen 212. So I guess how are you thinking of price action?
>> So Nvidia here, this is one of our charts. If he never said what was it?
>> So Jensen basically was like in the next five quarters we have a $500 billion revenue opportunity. The street thought that was 380. So that was a, you know, big beat against expectations, but he said it already, so the market kind of already priced it in,
>> right?
>> Yeah. So I mean, you've been saying this a lot and I and I and I couldn't agree more, right? Like earnings are good. I think that's that's true across the board. The the one caveat is that the market is always forward-looking. So what's weird about the market too and and I guess this is a bit of a side note is that the market will punish equities on bad news multiple times over but they won't really uh praise equities [laughter] on the same news multiple times over. So I mean that's that's the market for you. Um we we're in Nvidia is the exact exact same setup as the market from from an SMA perspective. Now, SMAs are not not not price action. That's candlesticks. And candlesticks actually are far superior than a smoothing trend line. Um [clears throat] but uh but right now we're still at the same level on Nvidia and Nvidia's what we call point of control here. Uh this is 177 still. That remains like the main area of interest for Nvidia. Um, I I honestly think the best case scenario on the actual earnings it it's fairly flat. It might even pop up a little bit, but unless you're over quite frankly 200, and I mean like trending over 200, which is right here, it it's not it's not really going to be out of the weeds cuz it there is a um this snapshot essentially right here um from a technical perspective is technically what we would call distributionary, meaning that this looks like more sellers than buyers. And if the if the sell if the buyer is down here, um we're not enough to continuously bring it higher even over here. This [clears throat] trend at this point in time is actually not holding. And so if if these current buyers from this zone, this is the story of this price action. If these current buyers were not enough to sustain this move in this direction to the upside and keep it going and and more buyers did not step in here to continuously push it higher. Well, then quite frankly, what this story is telling me is that it probably needs to come down a little bit lower to come in and visit a little bit lower support to see if there's any more interest to press it higher. And and right now, I think that this chart, not I think this chart is is basically telling me, wait a second, uh just just to wait. It's it's basically in a holding pattern. Um, and if it can't make a new high over the double top, which is the opposite of a double bottom, um, then then it can't, right? And if this next press to the upside can't break through, well then that is probably likely going to be the sign that you do in fact need to come back lower and revisit at least these lows in this general area, which might be a decent pickup spot, but in reality, if I zoom out here again, if that happens, the the better pickup spot is in this general area where the last the ass group of buyers was. But we're very far away from any of this. So, [clears throat] it's too early to say this still has to play out. And the only way that this really happens is if this is the box that Nvidia is trending in. Two scenarios here. One, this only gets to 187 and then it starts to reject and then you have this kind of tra trajectory and it's it's literally this. So, like I said, there's a lot of a lot of work to be done before this is really like not happening, like not going up anymore. There's like 1 2 3 4 5 This is multi-weeks. Uh this is really like a couple weeks of of price action and then okay, fine. Then then we're probably looking at this kind of general 150s area. [clears throat] But until then, we probably have some upside to go to. And then at that point, we'll get to we'll get a chance to say, okay, well, can it actually get over this 200 level? And we'll at least get a chance to test that general it's 195, sorry, 195 up to 200 level, but we got to get through this top this top box first.
>> So, like a flat reaction is enough to be a win for Nvidia
>> in the moment. Yeah, for sure. Right now, Nvidia is not going up and it's not going down. It is definitively going sideways. Um, and it's not in a tradable zone uh from a from a trade perspective. So, again, trading version of the show show, not investing version of the show. It It's more of a wait for a setup. Trading needs a setup and there's no setup here. Not yet.
>> Okay. Uh, let's do hoodie. By the way, guys, EOS Energy, I know this is a popular stock. They diluted after hours. That's why they're down 9%. Um I don't know the full amount of the dilution. Oh, I 500 million. Okay, so convertible note due 2031 500 million. Again, some of these smaller stocks, they're going to have to raise money through diluting and that's why that stock is down. So, [clears throat] hoodie man. Um so, this is where I was on my hoodie. uh looking for some kind of consolidation. And the last time we're here, like my thought, my logic on hoodie was that we would have this kind of consolidation and eventually break up and get into here. Well, somebody rained on my parade and it broke that consolidation level and it actually started to break down. I still everything I said about Hoodie, I I love Hoodie, right? But I do have to I do have to like juggle with the idea that not the idea I just I mean the what's true is that this level didn't hold and therefore I'm not I'm not actually in that consolidation. So this this whole logic has to come off the table at the moment. So right now that's not happening because trading [clears throat] is is very much if this then that and and if this scenario well it's not happening. So then that is not happening at the moment. Right now we're we've broken that that potential consolidation. We've lost this 20 and 50 day and if this does it's not right now. It's It's sitting like on the edge. And I bought more hoodie, by the way. So, I'm like I'm sitting here thinking, what am I going to do? I've bought hoodie in the 120s uh 125s in all this area. So, I'm kind of thinking, well, these recent buys, I have a potential situation on my hand where maybe I can harvest some losses on those buys, but um I [clears throat] haven't decided really what I'm going to do yet. I have some I have I have some time to decide if I want to do that. But quite [clears throat] frankly, it's like this guy if it does fall, it's like and if I sell those, the thing gets bought up so freaking fast. It's crazy. So, I don't even know that I don't think I'm going to be able to buy fast enough. Um, and everything will probably bottom at the same time anyways. And I won't be able to buy everything I want all at once either. So um so what I'll say is that 100 was when I posted this 100 was my level and that actually comes from this general uh what we call like high volume node or like on the right hand side of my screen. We've talked about this. We we trade typically peak to peak. So if these are a little if this was a little mountain range of volume here's the the mountain peaks right like down here. This is where this is where I see confirmation of where the large buyers stepped in in the past. So this is where everybody's cost basis uh of recent is [gasps] and then [clears throat] we had a big move right over here and we have a low volume pocket that sits right around 10134. We call this a fair value gap in in trading. Some people call this a fair value gap. I call it a little low volume pocket. right here. 10134 is the next what what I'll call like a price of interest. And I can draw this straight across and it actually sits right at the bottom of this general areas which is just around a 100 bucks. And that's a nice a nice little round number. Is that going to stop this? Again, just like BMR, when it gets here, you have to see. I think it's a decent DCA spot. But at that point, let me take this off. Um, let's go ahead and pull from this 200 day simple moving average low to the high. What's also true is that if I were to take from the $30 lows, I do have a 50% retracement that gets me into this area, which is the absolute like bare bottom low. So, I mean, literally,
>> I mean, if S&P is anywhere near 620, 630, it's not crazy to think hoodie here.
>> I don't know, right? But what I do remember and what I always remember is that fintech bottoms first and fintech bottoms quickly, right? And SoFi and Robin Hood do it fast, right? And if we remember the hoodie over here, I mean, okay, so this moment in time, this right here, by the way, it's very similar, right? So this here, so I'm running out of time, but hoodie epic earnings. This right here is a 51day snapshot in time and a 56% draw down. 51 days, 56% draw down in time. I mean, did you snipe these $28.50 lows? Probably not, right? So like to the investors out there, I am not selling a damn things. I'm sorry. I'm not selling anything because I'm not going to be able to catch that that absolute snipe of a low. Are you? And I do this for a living, man. Like, I'm sorry. And they're all going to bottom at the same time. There's no way, right? And and then followed up by a 50-day 130% rally. So, it might look bad for a minute, but like if you panic like immediately, boom. And this is what I'm talking about, right? So yeah, it might look bad for a minute. Something like hood is going to whoosh like right right out from under you. So like from an investor perspective and a trading perspective, two completely different things. And this is why it's very important not to mix these two things. I hope that makes sense and I don't want to scare any investors because trading and investing, this is why right here, this is a perfect reason why they're not really that compatible. Rephrase me, admit if if I didn't say something right here.
>> That's very fair. And and you're basically saying given how the technicals are lining up, if we were to get a draw down, yes, 8590 is possible, but also these are the quickest stocks to bottom. And if you panic at 8590 with a cost basis of 40
>> might against you to, right?
>> Yeah, it's a great company. This is like I mean the best company, [laughter] the best company. But this is number one on my shopping list.
>> They had they had one of the best earnings in the whole quarter and then they got hit 10% the day after, you know, so it's not really them, it's the market not willing to cooperate with a lot of stocks.
>> Yeah. And you know, fintech fintech tends to bottom first and they tend to have the most violent pullbacks. Um I still hope that like the the event contracts and stuff hold them or stop them from doing that, but there's a lot of crypto association here, so you never know. It's always it's always fair. I'm way over time. This is my favorite stock in the market. I don't trade it a whole lot. Um because I just I don't want to get caught up selling the lows, right? Like you sell the lows and then here's what's happen. You sell the lows on something like a hoodie and then you FOMO back in only to have this. I'm not joking, right? You sell the lows. You FOMO back in because you think it looks good. Then you sell the lows again at another loss. And then you FOMO back in because you think it looks fine again. And then you sell the lows yet again at a massive loss. And then you FOMO back in. Let's say you don't like buy the top, but you FOMO back in. You think it looks good. And then you have this massive day. You sell you you sell for a small profit and then you think you you add back and then you sell the lows yet again. I mean, that's what's going to Sorry,
>> we've all been through something like that.
>> Yeah. I'm not just so trading, investing, let's not let's not mix them.
>> Okay. Meta, [clears throat]
>> great strategy. I mean, that takes skill, by the way. So, [laughter] like you can like virtually raise your hand if you've done that, but like we've all been there.
>> It does take skill to do that. [laughter]
>> It is quite hilarious when that happens. I've done that more times than I can count, and it's annoying, [laughter] but you learn from it, right? I did a I did that a lot in 22 and 21 and just realized like it's better to just hold and
>> buy the highs and sell the lows.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, dude, talent, man. [laughter] Oh, look. We got some hands, right? Look at Look at Look at [clears throat] Oh, yeah. But that's why that's why patience, dude. Time heals he heals so much. Time heals so much. [clears throat] Um, so here we are on meta. This is my box. And I think it's it's really important to know that look, we've hit my box.
>> By the way, guys, I sent uh Steve, the NYU professor by Apple. He said he's so [__] stupid. NYU should fire him. [laughter]
>> I disagree. He's not stupid, but Steve hates Apple now, so it's kind of funny to his reaction. Okay, go ahead.
>> Yeah, Apple. I I think we can look at Apple. I'm actually a little I'm not so sure about Apple right now. Um, but so we're right here, right dead center of the broadening range. Um, Meta, it's the nibble spot. It is literally right in that golden pocket. Not the golden zone. It's literally here. So, what I need to see now is I need to see that structure show up. And I'm I'm I'm still watching like I mean I don't think this could have tagged my actual spot any more perfectly than it did today. And I mean today when we talked last Tuesday it was very much hey look we lose this 633 we are going to go very likely to 585. And that's quite frankly exactly what happened. This was a stat statistical edge in terms of trading. That's how that stuff works. Um, if we can get over like if we see structure like this build, you're very likely going to see that 633. But that's that's all that's going to tell you. And and it's it's very likely that we actually get this for a while. So, the structure that I need to see actually should show up within this entire range. Um, [snorts] and it's it's still unfortunately not going to be until I'm up and over 630, like 635 that this is really out of the like out of the weeds because of all the charts and what I said what could actually be, you know, what would actually be bearish is if SPY was below all significant simple moving averages. In fact, Meta actually is below all significant moving averages. One thing I'll say, I saw a lot of stuff about this Bitcoin death cross um yesterday, which always makes me laugh. Let's take a look at this Meta setup right now. A death cross, if you don't know, is when the 50-day crosses below the 200 day simple moving average. First of all, when Meta's death cross appears, it's going to be like freaking two years late on this. It's very likely going to be the low. So, when you see the headlines about Meta's death cross happening, that's probably when the buy is about to happen. Just so you know, death crosses have called more bottoms than I can count. Um, if we want to look at Apple, I'd love to look at Apple next, and I will show you exactly what I'm talking about. But this is such a this is why this is such a lagging setup. It it may be closer to 550 is the next level somewhere in here. And if all hell breaks loose, it's down here. Right now, we are at the level where I need to be patient and see structure show up. Meaning, I need to see a little bit of sideways chop. Remember, I'm looking for something like this to show up in this area. And still, I have nothing but lower highs and lower lows, which is true on a daily perspective. So, I'm what I need to see is a higher high and a higher low from a daily chart perspective. And um I just don't see that on Meta yet.
>> Do you think 550, which is a target I keep hearing is possible there, or
>> Oh, it's definitively possible. And I'll tell you when it's like when you have a day open and close below 5 84. That's when you know it's not just possible. It's it's it's pretty much going to happen
>> like it's it's not at
>> this point. So it's it's if this then that in trading, right? If this holds then that's not happening. If this breaks it is happening and there's here's your session gap. It's not just that, right? There's another one, right? 506 and and there's another one 413. So it's one level to the next, right? So we lost this level, we go to the next. If we lose this level, we go to the next just like this, right? And the big ones are down here. But [clears throat] at the same time, if you if you reclaim a level, you go to the next just like this. This is trading and just just just just how it works, right? And so these are what we call pathing. So if this comes back and holds cool and it's not going to be until you get back over here, right? So if any of these happen, your pathing becomes boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. Right? But until we get that break of structure, meaning like until I have the pathing start to go boom boom, it can go this right pathing. I can't I can't say that the trend has has turned around. And so my job as a as a trader is to wait for the trend to start to show signs of life of reversing. Otherwise, my job as a trader is to stick with the trend. And currently the trend is is slowing but it's not reversing, right? And so it's to stay short, if you will, in this one, but cover any shorts in this in this instance and and wait for a reversal setup to show up.
>> Okay. Uh, Nebius.
>> Oh, wait. I wanted to show you the Apple.
>> I think we should do some others before Apple because honestly, no one cares about Apple.
>> Oh, I was just going to be so fast.
>> Okay, you can do it.
>> All right. I was just going to show you the stupid bear cross or death cross. It's hilarious to me, but it's it's literally I'll just quick and done. But the Apple when when Meta gives you a bear cross, all I was going to say death cross bear cross this right here. That's the death cross of Apple like recent April 2012 when Meta gives the death cross. Look at how like that. I mean that basically called the low on Apple and Meta is gonna lag this much and so I think when the bears really come out like Meta's death cross is happening it's probably going to look a little something something like this and I'll probably really step in. So anyways
>> that's fair and if that does happen I think you have a lot more people get excited to step in.
>> Yeah. All right. So Nebius that's all I wanted to say. Um, so, uh, but we can look at it later if the guys want to look at it. Uh, Nebia, so Nebia, so 87 was one of the levels that I I I was supposed to text you on and I texted Did you I did text you today.
>> You did it.
>> And I did I
>> three as well yesterday.
>> Yeah. So 87 comes from It's a small level. It comes from here. It's like the bottom of this uh earnings gap up here. So uh and this is a little bit better structure. Today's price action which means candlesticks is um this is an important day for Nebius and this one day candle is uh this is a tell. If candlesticks were a story of if the chart was the story of price action, candlesticks are like the day-to-day drama within the story, right? And and the words or sentences within like this is the alphabet, right? And so what this is telling you is that there was a there was a a singular battle within the day of of Nebus. I mean, sorry to be really dramatic, right? Um, but the battle the battle ensued and and really the bears were in charge today at the beginning of the day cuz we started this little bottom wick means that we started red probably deep red and we started to go down. That's what that means. That's what this is depicting cuz this little bottom wick that's that's what it is. We were we were down we actually were down so much that we were making really new lows. And at some point in the middle of the day, um, there was there was a a push back. There was a a a you know, the the defenses held literally at $82. The defenses held right here and and there was something some it wasn't just a defense, it was a counterattack. Like there was a counterattack that was launched and it it actually was launched so strong that it not only broke back up to the lows of the prior day, but it actually pushed all the way up to the highs to the midpoint of the prior day and up and over that that breach point and actually they won the battle on the day itself. So this this counterattack that was launched by the bear by the bulls on Nebius for today is a pivotal point in the story of of this stock's price action today. It doesn't mean that the the the whole momentum of this war has shifted. It means that that a very strong counterattack has been launched. Now there's still they're still under attack. That's that's true. So it can it can come back down. But you you do want to know that this level right here, this is the stronghold, right? And and there is a very strong defensive structure here where counterattacks are being launched. And so strong in fact to the point where look, it's it's not only a defensive structure, it is a straightup counterattack um to the bears. And that's that's what you need to know from the story of price action in this instance. When you see something like this that opens deep red and actually closes bright green, that is a pivot pivotal narration of of price action that you're actually seeing. And this is what we would call a a bullish engulfing or a reversal candle. Um, usually what this means is that there will be a push back by the bears. But as long as it holds this this 87 level moving forward, this can be the beginnings of a reversal, you will know that the momentum has indeed shifted by today's high. It's as simple as that. Today's high 9369 means that from this point forward all right that that counterattack that was launched today the momentum did indeed shift uh shift the story here and and the bears will be or the bulls will be the bears will be on retreat and
>> up or down
>> up as long as it holds over 9367 up 9367 this is going back up Okay,
>> in between you can see some chop, but that's today's high. Lock it in. Draw the line straight across your charts. That's the level.
>> Okay, Rocket Lab. [clears throat]
>> Um I I mean Rocket Lab looks like it's gearing up to be something similar. Um it was this is a defensive stronghold, but not a counterattack. [laughter] So maybe you get a counteratt attack tomorrow. But you're very
>> I'm loving this analogy, dude. I love it.
>> Do do you I mean I mean I worked on this for a while. [laughter] But um it is a very strong defensive hold, but um not seeing the counterattack. I actually like the spot. Uh I like [clears throat] this spot a lot, but this looks like it could be just holding a bit more. So, I think that tomorrow is a good day to watch a stock like Rocket Lab. I I actually think tomorrow is a very important day to watch Rocket Lab. So, if it's below 41, I mean, clearly we have some more work to do. The last time there was a big move that um well, let's call it, if you like the the analogy, the last time there was a big battle, it was at 38 and a quarter. So that's where that's where the attacks will be launched is 38 and a quarter, but this is this is more of a defensive hold.
>> Do you do you I mean the lows were 15 in April. You're you're thinking 38 is when Bulls should start really defending it.
>> No, no, they're defending now, right? But it's like how how well do they defend? Like there's there's a difference between like, oh yeah, I'm just going to I'm just going to put up a shield and stop you from hitting my door down and there's a difference between actually shooting back. Like am I actually firing back or am I just holding strong, right? And that's that's the difference between Rocket Lab today and Nebius today. Nebas today fought back, right? Rocket Lab today held strong. There's a little bit of a difference and that's that's that's what that story is. By the way, you could pause the timer real quick. We got a Trump tweet. Uh, investment in AI is helping to make the US economy the hottest in the world, but overregulation by the states is threatening to undermine this growth engine. Some states are even trying to embed DEI ideology into AI models producing woke AI. We must have one federal standard instead of a patchwork of 50 state regulatory regimes. We can do this in a way that protects children and prevents censorship. I think Trump is trying to preview some legislation that would be very bullish for more AI investment, but he's got to be able to justify a federal, I guess, standard to implement that legislation versus going through the states. And he is right that, you know, California has different standards than Texas. But that might be a preview to something else. All [sighs] right, back to the lab of rockets. Oh, dude. I think that did the chat like the analogy. That's funny.
>> I think they uh appreciated it.
>> Yeah. I mean, it makes hopefully it just makes sense. That's all.
>> No, it makes sense. You're basically talking about bulls and bears in in a battle to defend the price, right?
>> But that's what Yeah. I'm just trying to get people to understand how to read the charts like a book.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Like a story book. So, anyways, yeah, this is this is this is interesting.
>> [clears throat]
>> Um, it's a good spot, but is it like the ultimate spot? [clears throat]
>> It's a It's a It's a decent spot. It's not the ultimate spot.
>> Okay. Uh, Paler. [clears throat]
>> Yeah, Palunteer looks like our hoodie, man. It's like, you know, things can change in an instance and uh dude, if there's two stocks that I just don't like, like I just don't understand how people short because you imagine being short some of these stocks sometimes the way that they get bought up so fast like good god. Um, you know, am I am I do we want to stick with five minutes on these?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's fine. That's fine. So Palunteer's next level and again I I'll stay with the the mountain range right it's this and so it's it's in the 150s since we have lost that 170s area I called out 173 last Tuesday and uh 173 hit like right in this area I think it was here but it did not hold it defended for like a a day maybe but it was a pretty weak defense Um and and where we are today is we've like we actually tagged the top of it today. So like if I bring this line up that's 17248. That's basically the top that we rejected on Palunteer today of of my my general my general level and we closed kind of intermediate lows. So, it's not the low. What I could do that I haven't done, and I don't really like trend lines as a as a general practice. Uh, it's not like my favorite thing. Yeah. I mean, that's honestly a stretch. I think if you get back if Palanteer gets back over 173, cool. It's all good. Um, but this morning's kind of like top tick at that exact level is the one thing we're like, "Hey, look, any of these people that were buying right here, I just don't want to see that become resistance because this general area right here was support here, here, and here also here. So if this goes lower, what I don't want to see happen moving forward is this general area become support. And so tomorrow if and and not really it's not about tomorrow. First of all, I didn't say this in the beginning of the show, but I really should have prefaced this with like this whole week I think quite frankly is going to be a lot of a lot of shenanigans with NFP coming, Nvidia earnings coming. I think this entire week is going to be mostly meaningless from a trend perspective because it's it's really going to be about how the market digests next week um quite frankly. And I think that we could see a lot of knee-jerk reactions this week. But this here is what that would look like if these people are weak-handed uh new money. And I think we would see this 150s general area. Um, but even then you still have to kind of see if that if that shows up as actual buying support. Probably not 150s, probably this low 150s. And you're you're going to need to see this this cohort of buyers step in. Is it 150s? Let me Yeah, it's a general area. It's very wicky down here. A lot of buyers stepping in the low low 150s as close to 150 as you can.
>> 142 was the low of August.
>> Yeah. I I mean I have 144 and the real you know cuz things can get weird and again are you going to snipe these exact lows? So, it's probably better for me to say below 150 as, you know, as close to 140 as you can because it sometimes these things happen after market or they're only like they're only there uh for a couple seconds before these things get bought up, especially on something like a Palanteer or Robin Hood. I mean, how fast is Robin Hood going to see 100 if it sees it or or 90s or 80s? Like, it's it's probably going to be milliseconds, man. It's [laughter] probably going to be as h as long as as Ethereum sees 2700 if it sees it right like very quickly.
>> I I think we underestimate how many people missed out on some of these names and would be dying to get the exposure if they had an opportunity.
>> Yeah. So I instead I would not I would not trade down towards these levels. Rather I would actually set limit buy orders if you really want them. Um so that they're working good to cancel extended hours on probably something like that.
>> Yeah. Okay. Uh Tesla, which by the way after hours officially got approved uh by a trans to get a permit to operate as a transportation network in Arizona. So that is the news after hours for Tesla.
>> So Tessie hit my level. I texted him. He didn't buy which is probably good that he didn't. Um, it was a good trading entry, I think. But I would I would preface this. It definitely hit my level, 380, something like that. It got a really big bounce, but Tessy is definitely not out of the weeds here. Um, 415 is has been what uh what I've been talking about as like that pivotal pivotal range when you get a big breakdown. And this is the same thing that we've been talking about for for a while. uh is that this prior support what we know is going to hit its head and it's going to probably the first time act as resistance which is exactly what we're seeing. So to see this pullback here and now to me not not surprising whatsoever. And if you didn't realize that this is what's happening, what you you really should realize that this now is acting as resistance. Just just as an aside, this 415, if you're new to the show, comes from over here. comes from way over here. Circa November 2021 all-time highs. That level still absolutely is is is in play from 2024 breakdown 2023 or 2025 uh support now potentially 25 2025 resistance. So, for now, until Tesla is back over 415 in strength, it's not in it's not back in its uptrend [gasps] and [clears throat] and the dip by but the broader up not in its active move. It's it's potentially in the consolidation. The broad uptrend here, this is still intact. So, this is good. That tagged I think it's fine. But what we have what we have to see from here is more consolidation. What I don't want to see is I don't want to see this happen, this little blip and a breakdown below. And so where that leaves me is 387. So below 387, no matter how I slice this, however, however this chart ends up working below 387 or essentially that uh the other day's low, if that gets lost, then in fact, I'm talk we're talking about pulling the whole thing back to the 350s um and and really retesting these 360 type areas. So that's what that's going to be. Is it is it a big thing from an investing point perspective? It should not be a big thing to you. From a trading perspective, that's a tradable range. Um, but again, it should be pretty quickly uh that that happens. And again, if you're if you're into investing, this is a buy uh to me. And and that even then it would probably still take some time. It won't be if that happens, you'll see the distance between the 20 and 50-day actually start to expand and eventually the price will get back over the 20-day. And uh if you're okay with this, since I have two two times or two minutes, two and a half minutes left over, it would it would probably look a little something like where did this go? Here. So, here is like here's what actual bearish breakdown looks like. SMA is super tight. That's as tight as I could be. They're probably all on top of each other. Full-blown breakdown. Range expands below. This is like a 70% draw down on Tesla.
>> That's 2022, right?
>> 2022. Yeah. From $300 all the way down to $100. Massive dumper, right? Like all hell breaks loose. You really You have time though, right? All hell breaks loose from here, right? And this is the price action I'm talking about. There's a little blip comes back up. But this day here, actually 275, you know that mayhem is about to ensue when you don't when you don't get back over 275 and a 100 day 63% $180 drop in ensues. But time heals a lot, right? And it always starts with the two the 20-day simple moving average, right? And that's that's how it starts on the downside. That's how it will start on the upside as well. And this is what that bearish to bullish reversal looks like. it will begin to break back over the 20-day simple moving average. That first move is going to be big, right? But it's not going to be the move. It's going to hit its head probably on the 200 day and then it's going to go sideways for a while. This is a long while and eventually the distance between the 20 and 50-day simple moving average are going to expand again, right? And you're going to know probably somewhere right around here when they're really tight one more time that things are actually going to be on the up and up. But you got to go stocks go up and then they go sideways. This is sideways. It's slow grindy but sideways. And when when the distance between these start to go again, boom, you're back in you're back in the game. And by the way, you're all the way back to where you started. And and time heals a lot. And that's that's what that looks like. So, it can be bearish for a bit, but to say like the highs are in, not the highs are never in, right? Like
>> I think that's that's a trend of what you've been saying on a lot of tickers. Like it could look bearish in the short term, but it's not the type of engulfing bare trend that you saw in 2022.
>> Yeah. No, it's not. That's not that. Look at this. This is not that, right? And I'll go back to Sorry, Google. It was similar, right? Google 2022 is is very similar. This is 2023. They all look like this, right?
>> All under the moving averages.
>> All under all of them, right? And you have a big drop. We're not We're not talking about this. We're just not right. We're talking about this basic stuff, right?
>> We're not even close, my guys. [laughter] Like we're not even like what are we talking about right now? Like we're so far away from something like that. Are we steep and uncorrected? Absolutely. Yes. But even something like Google, look, let's be real, right? Google, by the way, has not even lost its 20-day simple moving average.
>> Can it lose its 20-day simple? Yeah, absolutely. Right? Is it is it steep and uncorrected? Yeah, it is. But is the structure fully completely intact somehow someway? Absolutely. It actually is. How? I couldn't I couldn't tell you, man. Um it but it is. And there's there's there's no way that you could deny that it's not quite frankly. So there you have it. So something's good, some things not so good. That's what's true. SoFi. [snorts]
>> SoFi. All right. [laughter] All right. So, SoFi um SoFi yesterday also had the first the first day under its 50-day simple moving average yesterday, which um that was yesterday. Here's today. You get a little extension. You hit you hit a bit of support here. Um but it's kind of a weaker close. You get a bit of a um Is this a thing? Like your double bottom? I didn't know that that was like a thing for you.
>> For some reason, you find all these double bottoms when you Well,
>> I don't know. I don't know how, but
>> I mean, you always put me on the bottom. I've never I mean, you must I thought you were a top. [laughter] Clearly, you're a top.
>> What are you laughing about?
>> Oh my gosh.
>> No, nothing. Continue. You're such incredible analysis around
>> [laughter]
>> technicals, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> It's funny because you're right. You literally are on the bottom of the screen, which
>> I'm You always You always put me on the bottom. You just like you just grab You're on the bottom. I'm a top. All right, fine. [laughter] But But anyways, here we are. So, [laughter]
>> you're not helping me beat the allegations, bro. You're not helping,
>> bro. I'm just saying what's true. [laughter] God. Anyways, um another defensive hold, but not like uh dude, the Nebia chart was something else. I I got to say the Nebia chart was something else. I mean, that's an important type of setup to see. It doesn't mean it's over, but it is an important moment in in in charting to see that kind of a push back, right? When you see those things, um those are those are real storytellers. So, um, yeah, we're we're holding support, but we want to see that kind of violent [snorts and clears throat] push back and, uh, you know, tomorrow's a new day. I think this market is on hold for um not just Nvidia but broadly speaking NFP and and and this is another some things like SoFi are highly tied to rates and things like that and this is not going to necessarily be tied to Nvidia but very much to this data that's going to come pouring out that the market is is more or less on edge for right I think the sentiment right now is that this data coming on on Thursday, not Friday, will be largely bearish or or hawkish if you will. Um, not hawkish as in terms of like well, let's say bearish. Um, and the market doesn't really know and the market hates uncertainty. This is this is what we do know. And in without clarity, we just see the market on edge. And and that right there, I think, is what we're really seeing in the charts is is just that level of uncertainty. And and we've been so certain for so long. And we're on the cusp of getting this this look of historical data that's probably just going to be old and stale anyways. And by the time it actually comes out, nobody's everybody's going to be like, "Oh, dude, it's it's old. Nobody cares. Who knows? Whatever." Uh and things will eventually start to change later. But when it comes out, it's going to be the first time we're going to see a lot of the stuff in in a while. And so those are the things that I think have a stock like SoFi a bit on edge. And um you know, if if SoFi loses this, the 24 area is is absolutely um on deck, at least for where where we know SoFi has their real their real stand. um 24 and change does that hold TBD? But I think I think that's where you see the the stand actually happened in in that 20 low 24 area, not not here.
>> Okay, that's fair. Uh AMD, what were you thinking about this one? [clears throat]
>> Um so that prior all time high 227 uh got tested the again today. Um the close was actually pretty weak. I I think with with Nvidia earnings tomorrow after the close. So again either this 227 ends up being support or it ends up being resistance post Nvidia earnings. Um I think something like this you just wait to see how the cards flush like pan out. This one is well over its 50-day simple moving average, but it like I said before, it always starts with the 20-day simple. So, from a a trading perspective, uh the options market was going out for blood, but you know, the when you lose the 20 is usually a pretty easy move to go in strength to the 50, which is about 210. So, and also 210 on this here. If I take this area, uh, two things on AMD. One, here's that power earnings gap. I believe this is earnings. Um, it's got to be if I if I lose this 227 in strength for sure, I have to assume that I go to what? I have all of these things. What's going on here? Let's pull this back down to here. If I lose this 227, um, I should I should probably see two two10s for the 50-day. If I lose the 50-day, I should probably see that 187. And I think this 187 area, which is that 50% pullback of here, it would be this trajectory and then this trajectory if that cannot hold. And I think that 187 is actually where I said way back when where I would actually think a solid pullback would would lie when we first talked about AMD from this big move. Correct me. I'm pretty sure I did.
>> You're right. But um but otherwise if that doesn't happen and 227 does hold this this is what the AMD bulls would actually be looking for to see this area actually form some kind of support based on that prior all-time high here. So that's where AMD is at. This is at a pivotable pivotable pivotal pivotal spot on the chart. um a breakdown or just not even this is not a breakdown. This is a blip on the radar is what it is. Um to two to 210 that doesn't even justify a break. It's just a it's a wick. It's like a wick down from an investor perspective. That could just be like a blip. Uh and then it could instantly get pop like bought right back up and then right back over and then potentially have something like this. This, by the way, is what structure looks like. Um, and then you would want to see something like that. So, this this drop, if you saw structure show up, structure actually looks like this. So, it could be a it could be a liquidity grab down there, but you want to see this kind of structure play out. I think it's a little early, so time will tell on this one.
>> Yeah, I I agree. Yeah, I also think AMD has done a relatively strong job holding the line from the open AI announcement. I mean AMD was 150 for almost 3 months, bounced up to 205, then 210, then 220, now recently been holding 230, 240. And what's the biggest fundamental concern that's been happening over the past couple weeks? AI bubble. Who's the biggest culprit in this AI bubble as per the market? Open AAI. The reason AMD pumped 100 billion in market cap was because OpenAI said we'll give you 100 billion in revenue. And so the fact that the market isn't taking away AMD's premium, I don't know. I kind of feel like that's good for the bulls that they've been holding on.
>> Yeah, it's just know this 227 area, the 20-day is the first the first kind of canary that well, not canary. It's like that's when you know, hey, look, we're going to at least go into consolidation. So know that that's where AMD is. It's in consolidation. So you're going to be you're you're you're on the hunt for the next level support right now. And until until that's defined, that's what the stock is going to be looking for.
>> Amazon.
>> So, I did buy this one just I mean, it's a tiny nibble. The reason I did is because of the setup like longer term. So, I still like Amazon's setup longer term. And when I It's back to that that SMA, right? Like even though even though like it's more stretched, it's closer in terms of Amazon consolidating. If Amazon consolidates, even if I get a little bit more of a dip, I still like the the idea of a ripsky like that into the foreseeable future. Um, and so because I'm closest to the 200 on Amazon, um, and and uh I don't know if you you heard like I I heard the argument on Apple I don't So
>> Amazon for their
>> I mean I don't think he'd be a fan of them.
>> Cook is leaving Apple.
>> Correct. Yeah. And and that's why I would have more concerns about Apple.
>> Period. End of story because I mean you do invest in leadership and and and that
>> that's funky. Uh so it's possible that we get uh same kind of um exercise that we always do. Oops, sorry. Is uh this 215 area gets retested one more time. So, if I'm looking at the two this last low and I want to look at the high before the last low, I this general area in here would actually be where I'm looking for my nibblets, like little little droppings of buys. Not a lot, but like just to um what's the word? accumulate if you will slowly from as an investor. So [clears throat] today big red candle. This was very much about that same like we we did this last week uh with you uh about you know when we have this big major earnings type move and how how the setup works. Look, when and I actually posted this chart that that move I think it was last week uh when when Amazon Amazon when Amazon lost I wanted to see this 235 hold and when Amazon lost this 235 I think it was like yesterday it was pretty much in the cards that we were going to fill that entire earnings move which is exactly what we did. So it was just a nibble today. I'm well aware that we can see 215 um and possibly even breach down here, but the deeper this goes, the more of a buy this becomes to me from a long-term perspective because this momentum, while it is steep, um it's going to be steep and uncorrected to the downside because of how fast this is going. And I think this is going to get actually a bit overdone. And I'm as an investor in Amazon kind of excited to this because the steeper this gets, uh, the more ridiculous this will get over time, uh, and the more of a slingshot recovery I'll actually have later on.
>> Yeah, that's why I bought today as well. I mean, it just completely erased the earnings move and then some. And I'm kind of just like, okay, I get that the market's upset, but
>> yeah.
>> Does that mean
>> Yeah, I'm I'm well aware that this could go a little bit lower or even it could it I think you are too. Like I'm aware that this could go lower still.
>> But as you said, you got to take a nibble somewhere, right?
>> Yeah,
>> that's fair. Um
>> and plus, you know, Black Friday is coming and Christmas and all that stuff. I mean, okay,
>> dude. If the Black Friday holiday numbers aren't good, that that's how the Fed knows it is time to cut these rates, dude. [laughter] People don't buy on Black Friday and Christmas.
>> Yeah,
>> that's not the best.
>> We'll see. This is a stock I don't actually at this point. Look, it's been sideways for a while. I you know this has always been one where like look we have this having this and having another one with your whatever item that is that is I I can see all of that happening and my target here long long run target is actually still fully intact so having this or even like a breach of this holds that intact and so if I could get this really close to even 200, dude. Okay, first of all, if I can get this, so this is shopping list item. If I can get this close to 200 and have a target of 300, I mean, that's a 50% Dude, that's a 50 Dude, that's a 50% equity.
>> Yeah, it's a big move.
>> I mean, I'm good with that.
>> Agreed. Um, Cororeweave.
>> Ah, [clears throat] this one's got uh Did you Did you read my text about something something? So, this uh your your your thing didn't hold.
>> What thing? your new pattern.
>> The um Oh, we don't have to.
>> So, it's not always great. [laughter and gasps]
>> Oh my gosh. Giving you these stocks that are involved, [laughter] but it's the chat. It's not even me, dude. They want
>> Oh, is it the chat?
>> Yeah. They like They really want Core Weef.
>> Okay. So, there's something going on with the Coref private credit market.
>> Yes. um that saying that there's a debt issue here, right?
>> They doubled their backlog, 55 billion in revenue and the street does not care because their debt to equity ratio is over 3x.
>> Yeah. And um so so but the interest and stuff on on said debt is like uh it's it's getting to the point where it's like um Carvana back in the day, right? Where it's it's just basically like this the street just doesn't believe that it's going to happen.
>> Exactly. um where the the the in the bond market doesn't believe that it's going to happen. So, it's a bit of a canary in the coal mine, if you will, right now. Um
>> does the Okay, so it's down from 150. Does that can does that qualify as a candidate for bottom fishing or no? [clears throat]
>> Um at $50. You can hate me.
>> I don't own it. I don't hate you. You got to give us the truth.
>> Oh, they might. Yeah. I mean, you got to wait for you got to wait for this to drop. So, $50 comes from just taking this bounce. If it breaks down, die. [__] That's 20. [__] No way. Um,
>> the IPO was 40, right guys? So, I mean,
>> I mean, the IPO was 40. The IPO high I have here is 65. I have 50 as 50% of this move right here and a full doubling of that move is right here. Um, albeit this is pretty wicky. You just have to We could take this one move at a time. And if I just took this one move at a time, this is just saying this is still saying like 65s, low 65s. The thing about this one is if Iran and Nebas hold their weight and Cororee dumps, that's how you know the street is giving up on this one and they're preferring the other datas. Even though this one has better metrics than those two from a backlog perspective, but they don't have the type of debt profile that Cory has
>> is the debt is 100% the debt.
>> No.
>> Um, [snorts] yeah, I think as close to 60 as you can. And this is a low float still. I believe there's a bit of a I I hate to say 50.
>> It's like Nebius has debt, Irene has debt, but they don't have the type of debt that but they also don't have the type of growth technically,
>> but it's almost like it's a catch22 because the street doesn't like that. It's coming from the debt.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, this is Nvidia's largest holding. They own four billion of this company.
>> Well, I mean, at what price though, I guess, is the thing. It's just like the fact that Nvidia is like trying to backs stop them right in the streets still is like no we don't care. It is incredible. And this is turning out to be like a BMR also is like uh you can think that there's a good price anywhere but at a certain point you have to like just chill and let let the buyers step in and not worry about getting the lowest price possible right like be I if I were if I were to start buying coreweave personally I would be happy buying it higher I would rather buy it higher than lower and not worry about bottom fishing. Because yeah, this is mixing trading and investing because I want to see like a good investor base step in before I try to snipe a low, right? As an investor and a trader, my job in either of these is not to snipe the lows, is not to get the lowest cost basis possible. That's not my job. In both scenarios, as a trader and an investor, my job is exclusively to extract as much freaking money as humanly possible from the stock market. That's our job in all scenarios. And and that can't really be mixed, right? Like you that is that is that is universally true. And it's it's not it's not to bottom fish either. So, uh I do have to identify good companies with good growth, with good cash flow, things like that. Um it this may be that from a fundamental perspective, you know, to each your own. I don't know. Um but but but that said, I have to I have to make sure I get it the right I have to try to get this at the right time. uh also or you know I do it once and I just let it be and I don't worry about continually ds DCAing into this cuz I I make my purchase and then I just wait for the rest of the market to come around to my viewpoint,
>> right?
>> And when they do then I'll go ahead and buy more
>> Ethereum. Sorry, that's just my two cents. You guys don't have to agree with me. just like how I my logic.
>> Yeah, we could do BMR after Ethereum. And because Ethereum did have a little bit of reversal, we have one question here of can you ask Jason how to show us how to spot a reversal if you think there is any reversal from 29 to 32.
>> I mean, if you time stamp that Tesla thing I just showed you guys, that's perfect. Like I liter that's that's why I did that, right? When when we go from full bearish to actually finally going, time stamp that Tesla, that's a reversal setup. And I think that's easy for investors to look at, but it always starts with the 20-day simple moving average from a long-term perspective. Um, so, uh, what am I doing on on Ethereum? Just the status update
>> leading into BMR. Your thoughts on that stuff?
>> So, I I I said 2,800s. I I I think I'm going to stick with that. quite frankly, it's it's potentially lower, but I don't think like if you're in something like a Robin Hood or something like that, I don't think you're going to get filled lower than that. Um, this is like that meta setup right now where you're at. So, so this this here, what this is is from this high, it's this low to this high. And it's about it's a 50% retracement, right? Also, pin pin uh [__] Shoot. I don't know if we can do it later, but um
>> what
>> how to spot reversals. I'd have to pull up like trading decks and things like that. It's a price [clears throat] action thing. Um, dude, we're going to release the beginning of School of Gains, like the foundational stuff, like pretty soon. I think at the end of the month. So,
>> let me just uh this is Jason's links if you guys want more of Jason's stuff on Twitter. He has a lot more stuff if you want to go deeper with him in terms of TA. So, please make sure to click on his links and his Twitter right here. Um, so, so right now from a from a retracement perspective, we're very much at the at the at a meta at a metalike spot on Ethereum. So, from the the extreme low to extreme high, extreme low being 1,200 and change, something like that, and extreme high being nearly 5,000. We're literally literally at the halfway point. It's a It's a okay spot, but it's not the end all beall. Okay means okay. Okay does not mean good. Um, if we if we cannot get and that okay spot, by the way, is $3,16610. Not to be exact or anything, but but if we cannot get over that, what what is true is that you have an extremely high probability of getting to $2,628.93. Again, not to be exact, uh over a fairly short period of time. And and about 2,800 is what I said last time. This is a statistical probability. If you cannot get back over that 3160, call it 3170 for round numbers, then you will, this is that self-fulfilling fib thing, you will see that 618, which is about 2750. And and for me, I'll tell you, you'll probably see 6 65, right? Which is about 26. And you're going to retest this general area. [clears throat] It might, if you're in a real exchange and you might have like real orders out there, it might be 25. But again, crypto is the epitome of supply and demand. It is supply and demand in its rawest form. And flash crashes are very real. Um, when these things happen, if they happen, I don't know that they're going to happen, but if they do, gas fees are going to be insane. And you you you may actually have a an order that goes through and the gas fee might cost you a full ETH. Who knows, [laughter] right? Um, because that also is Ethereum.
>> [clears throat]
>> just just as an aside. But um but that said, I think uh I think this is going to be that that actual spot that you do want to this is it right. And so this in this general area, my friends, is a is a legitimate discount. That is a legitimate discount.
>> This is the first time you said that on Eat so far. Yeah, that is a legitimate discount. Um, now is that a reversal? No, not really. Uh, is it a discount? Yes. What you need to see is from a reversal perspective is if you go back to that Tesla time stamp, your 20-day SMA is going to come down like this. Eventually, price is going to come over and eventually price is going to reclaim that 20-day. Your 50day is going to be like this. Your 200 day is going to be like that. You're going to get a big old bounce all the way back to whence we came and it's going to get rejected and uh and it's going to be a process to come back and it's going to probably defend that 50-day simple moving average, right? And that 50-day is going to be like this and that that 20-day is going to be curling and and then they're all going to come and they're going to intersect and your price is going to be like boop and boop and we're going to be talking about this 36 and change level for a while. And this 36 and change level is going to be the same exact level that I'm going to tell you is going to be the pivot of your big reversal. But here in this area, it will be a discount for sure. Will it be the lows? Very possible. But will it be a full-blown reversal? That's the difference between a full-blown reversal. Um, and if we zoom out and we look at this on a larger, let's call it weekly scale. If that were to happen, right, here's here's here's ETH. Sorry, I'm going over a little bit. Um, when you look at this for just a minute and you think about what this could actually look like if that were to come down and say a little something something like this and do a little something something like this and then a little something something like that. Guys, does that not normal chart to you? That looks like a freaking normal chart to me.
>> A very normal chart. So all that to say what I said just anyway.
>> So then that leads us to BMR. Are you thinking BMR is at a a reasonable discount at 32 and change?
>> Probably. But again, I still need to see what I need to see. Um [clears throat] uh and and that is that is structure show up. So you know the crazy thing here is that it is at my level. It is at my level. Um, but I didn't but I was I'm very hesitant to What the hell? What's happened to my charts? So, we got the breakdown which was quite quite unfortunate. Um, we're we're testing these lows. This was my level 33, breached the level, comes back over and sitting on my level. This is the beginnings of what structure could look like. Um, you know, if I if I look at this objectively, not objectively, but like legitimately, and I say, "All right, well, if this can extend, so an extension, 30 bucks was that first extension. I could see 27. I really could." And oddly enough, it actually is exactly that little wick down below. But but I mean the one thing that's kind of funky about BMR is like to be fair like this is this chart goes into no man's land after that. So it's like I really don't know. Um because it is in such no man's land beyond that. Um and I have to do as if we were doing all-time highs and I just have to use extensions on fibs. I'm just going in the reverse direction which is what this is. So $30 $3055 was an extension. If it cannot hold that level, it's $27.71. But again, here now, because this can go kind of wherever it wants to go, I I have to like chill and I have to say, hey, look, if I if I bought it at 40 bucks and then I bought it at um let's say I bought I bought it here uh and I bought it uh wherever I bought it, like here, right? I have a I have a cost basis of like like 3849 some dollars, right? Uh $39 some dollars. I could buy it here, which gives me a cost basis of I don't know 35 bucks. It that's not going to do me any favors if it just continues to go lower is what I'm looking at. And I don't want to put good money after bad. I'd rather wait for this flush to what if that's going to happen. and then I'd rather wait for structure to show up and it might be here later, but I I want to wait for this to happen and then I'll I'll buy it if if I see something like that was a weird pattern. uh and and I know that it's actually starting to come up because if I buy it here later after this kind of flush has has begun, then I know it's about to I can add here and it's about to get back to my cost basis and I'm quickly back in the green and I'm not really throwing good money after bad in that case. So that's that's why it's important for me on BMR to see structure show up because I don't want to just be throwing otherwise it could take a really long time and again with trading money I have to consider opportunity cost as well um investing money not so much right and it's just it's more about allocation percentage from that from that p respect
>> okay
>> but that's where I'm at it looks Okay. But uh but it can be lower.
>> Can we can we look at Oracle? I mean, I know there's some fundamental issues here, but is this at all exciting to you at 220 2 uh 215?
>> Oracle has never been exciting to me, brother.
>> Not even after a 35% decline.
>> I don't like Oracle just in general, but um Wow. No, this looks dangerous. Are you talking about short or long?
>> Wait a second. What are you talking?
>> What?
>> Talking about buying the dip. Would you buy the 350 to 210 day
>> on Oracle?
>> Yeah.
>> No, I would think that this is one of the stocks that would be at risk.
>> I
>> I would think that I would think that this one along with um I mean, first of all, this one's already showing the majority of signs of weakness. It's at the 200. So again, this one has already done what what what's interesting here is that this has already done what it looks like a lot of some charts are like this actually here now where it's already done the losing of the 20-day. It's already done the losing of the 50-day, right? and it's already made the entire like trek down towards the 200 day which by the way this trek is usually pretty quick and it was pretty quick. This is a typical movement and and usually when this happens the this piece takes a bit of getting its legs underneath it itself and this white line here remember that's my 20-day and it always starts with the 20-day. So this 20-day will catch up to the 200 day. It's what's going to happen. And and when this happens, that's when you'll be all right. And by that time, the 50-day will be over here. And this move will take you to the 50-day, which will get rejected. And then and then your 20-day will be catching up. And then your 200 day will be catching up. And if price continues, then all of these things will be very tight and then you'll be talking about an actual reversal. But to the person that was asking what a reversal really looks like, that right there is how it actually plays out. It's not it's not usually a V-shaped recovery. I think people get spoiled with a lot of the V-shaped recoveries that we've had recently. Um [snorts] that's not typical. This that what I just kind of drew out uh randomly is more typical. And it it looks a little something something like this. like just like this.
>> Okay.
>> Like there's one I just saw on AMD I was looking at. Oh yeah, a little something like this where you get up, you get hit, it comes back down, chop chop chop chop chop, but eventually you're back.
>> Do a lingo. Any any thoughts on this one?
>> Well, let's go. You got people finally thinking this is the bottom. But
>> what did we say?
>> Did we I don't Did we analyze dual before? We did.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> We did. Oh, no. I I said 120.
>> Oh, okay. [laughter]
>> I have 120. [laughter] Um because well if this I have 120 honey I'm sorry like cuz if this if this is the thing then the breakdown it's like one of those weird patterns where like if it actually goes then this weird the reason why people like this head and shoulders pattern so much is because it has like a 80% probability of hitting its its entire target which in this instance is here is the whole thing its entire target is 50% of that which is about 120 [clears throat] I think is how we have this this is from here I mean if I get you it's still about 120 no Um, no. It's not ready. This next move. No. Why would they? No. No. I can't. No. Cuz this is No, dude. Who said that? It was No.
>> What do you mean? Who? Everyone on Twitter is freaking like Dolingo. This is the bottom. This is the bottom.
>> There's no part of this chart that looks like it's
>> 570. So, I think people just want to believe.
>> They want to believe.
>> Done, you know. Yeah. Well, I mean, they wanted to believe in a lot of things, too. I mean, it's slowly go. I need to see that higher high and higher low just at least on a daily. I just I don't even have a higher daily high. I don't even have a higher low. Damn.
>> Yeah. There's like no one coming in to like no one gives a
>> Sorry, dude. I I will try but I cannot I cannot tell a lie. [laughter]
>> Okay, grab
>> grabby grab. Hold it in actually. Why did my order not get filled? Really?
>> What price? You did 5 540
>> 20
>> 520. Oh no, we didn't touch 520 today.
>> Ah, 528 at the lows. I have I have it working good to cancel or I mean extended hours too. What is that? 22. Oh my god. [laughter] Every time. Are you joking right now? [sighs]
>> That's hilarious.
>> It's not actually. [snorts]
>> Why are you being so nitpicky about five cents, dude? Like
>> me in the idiot. Oh wow. What a loser, dude.
>> All right. Are we going up or we going down? What's happening?
>> I've said 520 multiple times on this show as like this is the area. This is the this is the general area. Again, we still honestly want to see structure show up, but this is the price of interest if you So this big white line I just threw straight across. It's a it's an important area. So this was resistance. This is constructive. So resistance here, resistance here, support here, resistance here. This is the point where it actually broke out right here. Why it was 520. What a loser.
>> No, you're right.
>> I can't believe it. I mean, this was a very strategic [laughter] price order that I put in, dude. I wasn't messing around.
>> What the Wow. Like all the way back to Wow. I can't believe it.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> I mean, it might get back, dude. We get another 1% down in the S&P. It'll happen.
>> It might get back. I'm just gonna have to chase it, dude. [laughter] Oh, I do this to myself all the time. Just over precision is such a killer, man. Like, because I'm like,
>> I the dopamine you must get from being precise on certain entries
>> must be amazing as a tech as a technician. it it sometimes sometimes it's this like
>> like I've done a very I've done a couple of day trades nothing like you and like when you time it right and you make a profit you feel like you're on top of the world
>> because people spend time in their day working [laughter] and you just press a couple buttons and you go in and you go out and then boom you made profit like that's not easy to do. I have a lot of respect.
>> Wait, calling a bottom is one thing. Calling a a top is another thing. calling an entire bottom to top like pinpoint to pinpoint is
>> yeah that whole thing is like woo cuz then you have you're you're actually dealing with emotions too cuz like you human beings are greedy bastards [laughter] dude I'll tell you what and [snorts] you just want to you want to stay longer and you overstay your welcome that's the hardest part right there um
>> that's also why a lot of people suck at trading because it really is hard consistently to make profits Yeah. Yeah.
>> Even on a weekly or monthly basis, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm excited for the School of Against to drop. Actually, I've seen some some of the edits so far. They look pretty good. Like I I think it's going to help a lot of people.
>> You're using the new uh studio, right? Too.
>> No, actually, we're using this for the most part. That's why I'm wearing the same thing like every day cuz my partner's like, "Dude, you gota you got to keep it consistent." And I'm [laughter] like, "Wear the same clothes every day right now." Like, really? All right.
>> [snorts]
>> Um, so
>> 520 that's your level on this one.
>> Apparently it's 522. I mean just this general area. Can it go lower? For sure. But right around here accumulation time. Um, as as close to five as you can, but obviously over precision is a killer also. Um, you like the stock. This is where you start nibbling.
>> End of story. Okay, Google, you touched on it for a little, but any thoughts on the break?
>> I mean, oddly, okay, so Google ex it's overextended. Uh, but there is zero structure broken here. What what I will say is that so here's earnings right here. The way that I have a system of like, okay, not a system, but like there's a setup that we know is true is that you you you usually get one shot to to break the highs of a power earnings kind of move. So, if this was the big earnings move right here, uh you usually get one shot to actually make new highs. and and Google has had it shot
>> like three or four times, right?
>> Mhm. And it's failed to make new highs
>> literally over the weekend with the Birkshshire news. It had another shot.
>> And so what that means is it doesn't it doesn't mean anything really bad, but it means it's not going higher. And it and it does mean that you are at least minimum going into a uh a 45day hold, right? Lit literally. And so we are currently in about halfway through 45day sideways price action. So Google currently is in a perfect spot to start harvesting premium. Um meaning selling calls and probably puts, but but likely just selling calls right now. [clears throat] Uh what what we what I what what I do have and I would say uh what calls is more along the lines of like 200 plus um or sorry not 200 300 300 plus like 310 for like 45 days out 300s the 310 for like 45 plus days out. um uh if you in this instance if you lose it's 280 then then in fact Google's going to pull the full the full gamut back but that actually already happened to Google and and that happened right here so and it did actually pull the whole thing back which is the whole thing is right there and it pulled the whole thing back and it just took another shot. So, this to me uh the pullback has happened. It's actually already held the whole thing and it just took another shot. But this third shot, this was a lower high. This was another lower high. And so, I think this still chops sideways. just know that this is this is very likely in a at least a holding pattern and you're still frankly at risk of going with the rest of the market, but it's all going to start with that 20-day simple moving average. So, when you if you if it does lose, it's relatively strong now. It doesn't mean it's it's invulnerable, but if it does lose the 20-day simple, then then statistics say it's probably going to go to the 50-day simple, which currently is sitting around 255, that's all that that means as a standard pullback, and probably test this general area. Um, but as long as that's staying over the 20-day simple, this which is right about 275, this this full trend is like absolutely intact. Um it's just currently not going higher which right now this is definitively in a holding pattern um at the highs structure fully intact like fully intact. So this one is is bucking the trend definitive.
>> You if you you you would buy Amazon over Google just because Google's at all time highs. You know, that's like asking me, you know, a Apple is uh Apple is historically like the one that bucks the trend first, but as a trader, I also know it's Apple is historically the last just it's Apple is historically just the last general to fall.
>> Yeah,
>> it may have changed. I'm not saying that necessarily. I we don't know. It's it's got the best fundamentals on Google right now. I think so. Um, but if it if it continues to have the best fundamentals, that's fine. It the market will do what the market does. This still looks good. A lot of these stocks have good fundamentals. The technicals um are just okay here. They're they're they're a bit stretched. Um but it's not it's it's holding its own. Um it doesn't mean there there are the thing is that there are a lot better charts in the market than Google right now.
>> Yeah.
>> There there are just a lot better charts. So if I if I look across the market are would I rather put money net new money in Google or would I rather put net new money somewhere else? There are a lot of other places that I think that are better to hide out in if you were if you were to like say you know for lack of a better term in the market right now. Yeah.
>> I mean, even what was it? I saw like Warner Brothers. This is a good This is a good stock today.
>> It's not even biotech. Like, that's a big old stake today. I mean, that that's good.
>> It looks like Fairmont wants to give them 70 billion.
>> Yeah. Was that the news on them?
>> But yeah, I mean, there are a lot of goodlooking stocks out there. Lily, I think you mentioned like this. The biotech stuff is still hopping. I saw my Merc had like a 5% something move right now. I mean these we talked about this last week. This is this stuff still looks really good. Um all this said though uh I I will I will caveat this with uh you know every year this happens and value looks really good and I told my group this you know every year we come to this I I really want to I really want to root for like my fizers my you know your your J&J which I mean I you don't have to root for J&J this thing is freaking alltime highs [laughter] but um
>> Verizon Yeah, your value, your deep value. Um, and and what what ends up happening is that these will do good for a while. They really will. And then at a certain point, growth, big tech and the like end up catching a bid one more time, right? And
>> because people want growth at the end of the day,
>> because people are greedy and they want the returns of growth. And the returns of growth, the truth is, are just much better, right? They really are. And they end up selling their value for growth. And and and so these do good for a time. And I I love this merc chart. Um
>> by the way, in 22, Verizon went from 54 to 38. So
>> dude, right value names in in a bare market, too.
>> Look at this reversal, dude. You don't know this chart. Probably not. This is Regeneron. I sent this in our server like the regeneron my god if this chart sorry crack turns around this is something else first of all this is the setup that we're looking for super tight SMAs like broadening distance between them there are very good chart setups in the market today that we're always looking for just not in the same space that you're you're used to do a time check you got 30 minutes right now
>> dude I got to dip actually got a dip. Um,
>> they got a dippy dip.
>> I'm just thinking the time the traffic that's going to be there. So, if you want to stay on for like
>> No, I I still have to I want to get this I want to get this stuff out, right? This school again stuff. So, I got a lot of recording, but Lily, we covered I think it's good. I think you know these are these are kind of the things. It's fizer. I said it's interesting. It's got to get over 26, right? If it can if it it if it can hold over 26. Look this Fiser chart. This is teen up very tight SMAs. it's worth a watch. The narrative may have changed, but it has to get over 26 and trend then that can be a very very massive reversal. I mean like generational reversal and that's one where this is actually a very interesting setup but again maybe a little ways away from actually happening but imagine uh and and there are a handful like that sometimes near-term look I don't think you sell anything but do you do you hedge near dated? Sure. This week by itself as a standalone week I think is going to be very noisy like extremely noisy. I posted something um I don't know if you can pin it uh just just just now on on my ex that I think is like pretty this is my my thoughts honestly on the market is that like it's going to be really noisy with all the stuff that's happening right now and you you could get faked out in in either way right with early price action throughout the Okay. Uh, I actually expect bumpy bipolar fever dream like manic whipsaws and and um maybe some things end in a gut-wrenching despair, right? But fear, greed,
>> what prompt did you put into chat GBT?
>> I [laughter] I actually just I actually just said, "Hey, my friend Emit is always yelling, dripping, or we're dumping with every tick. Can you tell me what he will say?" But just ignore the noise, dude. Ignore it. Really, right? Because at the end of the day, you know, things like this 50-day simple moving average, what I posted earlier was that, you know, they act like magnets. And I posted something much earlier here. Uh, and and you may people may have not noticed this, but when I said act like magnets, I don't mean they act like support and resistance. They I mean that they act like magnets. This is meta, right? And so there's going to be time to react. This is magnets. They're not support and resistance. They get sucked and drawn into it, right? And so what what I mean to say is that there's going to be time to react. And I really think that this which is the spy chart, if that 50-day SMA, it's not like you have to sell everything around. I think that
>> you're saying this is not the time to panic.
>> No, I don't. I think if you do that now, you're going to be like really sad about it. [laughter] Like honestly, um I think that there are some high-f flyers. Like I really do like you know things like I posted a sand dischart. I think that some of the storage names are probably extremely overdone. I think something like a a micron is probably uh extremely steep. probably probably one of the most at risk charts out there possibly um and due for a probably fair correction even like a western dig probably great companies um but these are have yet to really come back. This is not this does not look like Google, right? So something like this does not look like that Google chart that we were just looking at. These are above their 20-day simple moving averages. But when we say steep and uncorrected, this is the definition of steep and uncorrected, right? The SD NK for whatever reason that the some of these storage name ones are looking
>> Sandis. I I could not believe that chart when I saw it yesterday. It's up 450% this year.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not we're not talking about like necessarily bad company or whatever [clears throat] like that, but um
>> you know, it's a company that was like this is like super micro at the extreme highs kind of thing. Steep and uncorrected. So, you know, it's been a good run. I think that something like this is something if you've if you've ridden this, these are the ones that if you try to let's not try to press the highs on these guys right now, right? That that's just as I look at the charts. The most steep and uncorrected ones are these for whatever reason storage names. Not my pure storage. I like pure storage, but this is not steep and uncorrected unfortunately. Uh that's that's been corrected. And some of these ones that have come down, you you don't want to press the shorts on them either. Maybe like your Oracle. this that oracle does not look like something that's going to be fun to short because a lot of the move here has probably happened and you'd be shorting what we would call the hole, right? And that's that's probably not a good idea either.
>> So, um, some look fine, some not so fine.
>> Guys, maybe we'll get Jason on later in the week. I know there's a bunch of I'm I'm sorry we didn't get to do our usual tickers. I just I really do got to go.
>> Um, maybe like on Friday if you're free in the morning. Now I'm on the side, so I'm not actually a bottom or a top anymore. Don't worry.
>> They're going to give me so much [__] for that analogy every time you're on. Now that's just
>> What was the analogy?
>> This whole double bottom nonsense. Like no escaping it now. No escaping.
>> Happy birthday, big sis.
>> Happy She Dude, I didn't text her the whole day. So like she's probably wondering like did
>> Oh, dude, you're such a bad brother.
>> No, because I wanted to surprise her. So I'm gonna surprise. Um there's Jason's Twitter. Please make sure to check it out. He has a discord, school of gains. He does a lot of private training. If you really, really, really are interested in getting good at TA, that's his link. Paper game
>> or TA trading, all that stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Please make sure to check it out. Maybe we'll try to get him on on like Friday, maybe at like 11 11:30, 45 minutes of some other TA.
>> Oh, in the live market.
>> Yeah, live market.
>> So, maybe maybe Friday we'll get him back on again and uh and then we'll keep going from there.
>> We did check in.
>> Yeah. Post post non-farm payroll.
>> Oh yeah, we get pay. Yeah, we get payrolls on Thursday. Okay, there you go. That's important.
>> See what we got. All right, man. All right, enjoy.
>> Thank you everybody. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market. Adios, guys. Bye everyone.
>> See you.