Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio, news. This is the Bloomberg Daybreak Huet podcast. Good morning. It's Wednesday the 15th of October. I'm Caroline Hepka in London and I'm Steven Carroll in Brussels. Coming up today, stocks rally on hopes for more Federal Reserve rate cuts as Jerome Powell points to a weakening US labor market. The United States and China continue to turn up the temperature on their trade war. Plus, a diplomatic entrance into a crowded field. A look inside the former US embassy in London that's been converted into a luxury hotel. Let's start with a roundup of our top stories. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell has signaled an interest rate cut is on the cards for October, breathing fresh life into markets rocked by trade fears. The US central bank boss pointed several times to the worsening jobs data when speaking at the National Association for Business Economics annual meeting. He hinted policy should move from being more tight to neutral. For the last few months, we've been able to maintain a restrictive stance because the labor market was still pretty pretty solid. I think that the data we got right after the uh July meeting showed that which which adjusted back all the way through May showed that the labor market has actually softened pretty considerably and puts us in a situation where the two risks are are closer to being in balance. Powell added he sees inflation gradually rising, putting the two sides of the Fed's mandate in conflict. Gold prices set a new record with yields on US treasuries falling to the lowest levels in weeks. Stocks moved higher after Powell's comments bouncing back from a dip driven by trade fears. President Donald Trump has said that the US could stop trade in cooking oil with China as tensions between the world's two largest economies reescalate. Trump cast the move as retaliation against Beijing for its refusal to buy American soybeans. Trump called it an economically hostile act that causes difficulty for US soybean farmers. Just hours earlier though, the president and US trade representative Jameson Greer had expressed confidence that friction with China would ease through ongoing negotiations. The IMF's chief economist Pierre Olivier Gorinas warned that the economic consequences of the trade war are already being felt. The tariff shock is here and it is further deming already weak growth prospects. This is clear even in the US. Growth is revised down from last year. The labor market is weakening and inflation has been revised up and is persistently above target. Signs that the economy has been hit by a negative supply shock. The IMF's chief economist unveiled a dim outlook for growth in the short and long term. He also pointed to ongoing concerns about global government borrowing, especially in Europe. American banks are reporting massive profits, but warning of trouble ahead. Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan Chase, and Cityroup all comfortably beat estimates in their latest earnings reports with a combined profit of more than 20 billion dollars. But CEOs from all three US giants sounded alarm bells about markets being too optimistic. JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond pointed to a pair of recent bankruptcies in the private credit space. My antenna goes up when things like that happen. And I probably shouldn't say this, but when you see one cockroach, you're probably more, you know, and so we we should everyone should be forewarned on this one. Diamond's warning about private credit drew a backlash from those in the space with Blue L Capitals Mark Lipshultz saying he was fear-mongering. Now to some breaking news. The Dutch chip equipment maker ASML has reported bookings for the third quarter of 5.4 4 billion, beating estimates. Net sales for the third quarter came in at 7.52 billion, so slightly below estimates of 7.71 billion. Investors have been focusing on ASML's outlook for next year for proof that chip equipment makers can capitalize on the AI boom as renewed trade tensions between the US and China add uncertainty. ASML saying that it will provide more details on the 2026 outlook in January. The company's shares have rallied 45% in just over a month to make it Europe's most valuable listed company. Francis Prime Minister Sebastian Lornu has won the backing of the Socialist Party, boosting his chances of surviving two no confidence votes tomorrow. The socialists who hold leverage in the lower house of parliament say they won't move to topple the new government after Loru agreed to suspend President Emanuel Macron's signature pension reform that raises the retirement age. The head of the socialists in the National Assembly, Baris Valow told lawmakers his party is taking the gamble to give the country a chance at a fair budget. We are capable of bringing down a government. We have done so twice. We have only one compass. The interest of the country, the interest of the French people. I recognize how much it costs us. We are making a bet. A risky bet whose outcome only the future will reveal. Boris fellow, the head of the Socialist Party in France's National Assembly speaking there. Mar Le Pen's farright national rally as well as the far-left have vowed to try to topple Laornne's government in no confidence votes tomorrow morning. Lawmakers have already forced two of Louru's predecessors, Michelle Bier and France Beru, to resign over their plans to rein in France's ballooning budget deficit, the largest in the Euro area. Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey has warned that the UK economy is performing a little bit under potential. Speaking at an event in Washington, he cautioned against threats from both above target inflation, but also a softening jobs market. Bailey told an event in Washington that focusing on productivity growth could lift the UK economy. We're putting a lot more emphasis on productivity growth really going forwards and that is a thing that fell off in the in the post 2008 period. Certainly I mean in all countries other than the US and of course even the US it's very focused on the tech sector if you look at the US US absent the tech sector looks much like the rest of us. Andrew Bailey speaking there. Meanwhile, Chancellor Rachel Reeves is also in Washington where she'll pitch the UK's economic stability to investors. On Tuesday, the IMF predicted Britain will suffer the fastest price growth in the G7 over the next 2 years and urged the Bank of England to be quote very cautious about further interest rate cuts. Those are your top stories on the markets. In Asia, the MSE Irish Pacific index up by 1.7%, the Nicay Tokyo 1.9% higher. So a big difference in tone from where we were yesterday. Euro stocks 50 futures also up by 1.3%. S&P e- minis on Wall Street are 4/10 higher as well. The Bloomberg dollar spot index is 210 weaker. So the euro trading at 11622. Gold prices 1% higher again today $4,183 at troy ounce. So those are the markets. In a moment we're going to bring you more on the market reaction to the comments from Fed Chair Jerome Pal. Plus, we'll also unpack what we have learned from the US bank earnings. But before that, something else has caught our eye in the luxury department, Stephen. Yeah, indeed. So, the new US or rather the old US embassy that is now a new hotel, the Rosewood Chancery has opened today. Uh, the renovation looks pretty impressive. The inside of the office building has been torn down to try and make it into um I suppose a more grand space. The the lobby now has the one of those criss-cross diag grid ceilings. The windows and the stone facade have got careful restoration as well. 144 rooms. Our colleague Nikki Xeen has been to visit it. H she she does highlight the spas being a particular highlight. The photo looks amazing of that underground swimming pool, doesn't it? But it doesn't come cheap. No, it certainly doesn't. And a quick look at prices. The cheapest night, £1,400 uh before the end of the year. Now, it didn't go into next year. Um, but if you're going, you will get to, for example, check out, which you can do without staying there as well, the uh famous uh eagle. So, this was the eagle statue that used to be uh looming over the building as well. It's now been moved, the giant gilded eagle to the rooftop bar. Um, and also you may bump into perhaps some visiting royals as well. Nikki says that during her visit, she spotted some embossed luggage being whizzed past her in an elevator as well. So, uh, something to look at as well. But it's a great read if you want to check out what uh the inside of this new addition to London's luxury hotel zenes look like. We'll put a link to it in our podcast show notes. Absolutely. Maybe that's your next spot when you visit London. Stephen Cal, who knows? Uh look, let's talk a little bit about uh our main story today. Wall Street's biggest banks uh are notching up record halls for investment banking and trading revenue for this earning season. The market isn't necessarily rewarding top performers, though. Let's get a deep dive into this with our reporter Charlie Wells. What results do we have so far, Charlie? And how is that translating into share prices? Well, the results have been excellent so far. And really, they are a reflection of this deal bonanza that we've been seeing. In that third quarter, there was $1 trillion in global deal volume. And we're seeing that translate to fees for these investment banks. If you look at Goldman Sachs, they had 42% increase in the quarter in investment banking fees. solid investment banking numbers coming in from the other major competitors and solid numbers on that trading front as well. These are very much in line or exceeding expectations, but we're not seeing that in the share prices. We actually saw Goldman Sachs slip yesterday. We saw JP Morgan slip yesterday. We saw an uptick for Wells Fargo. We saw an uptick for Croup. But in a lot of ways, some of this performance maybe was a reflection of the optimism that we've been seeing. Maybe a lot of the expectations are kind of baked into some of these share prices and also some commentary that we got some kind of mixed commentary from executives. Yeah. Warnings really being couched by some of what we heard from those CEOs as well. What did they say about where they see the US economy going in the months ahead? Well, there was, I would say, kind of cautious optimism for lack of a better term. I mean, when you hear Jamie Diamond talking about cockroaches, the potential in the credit market, as you guys referenced earlier in the program, I think that that gives a sense of some jitters, maybe some red flags that people are looking out for. And this is a reflection of other commentary that we saw from executives. So, Mark Mason at Cityroup, their CFO, talking about how the consumer is becoming a little bit more discerning. So, kind of being on the lookout for that. And David Solomon, the CEO of Goldman Sachs, had an interesting point about the AI race that we're in right now and how of course things are going well, but there could be divergence. So, some technologies that do win out and some that lose. Okay. So, what do we expect then from today, the other major lenders reporting? So, we're in what I like to call the eye of the bank earnings storm because we've had a huge slew yesterday and coming up, we've got more today and we've got Bank of America coming up. interesting will be to look at net interest income because of course we did have that rate cut just a few weeks ago so operating in a different rate environment um net interest income potentially changing there we've seen a little bit of mixed performance from the other banks and then Morgan Stanley arch rival to Goldman Sachs interestingly with Goldman they had a miss on their equities trading revenue it came in incredibly solid but just not quite as high as a lot of analysts had been expecting so could be a similar picture there okay Charlie Wells thank you very Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Daybre coming up after this. Okay, let's bring you more now then on what we have heard from the Fed chair Jerome Pal and how that is being interpreted by investors. Our markets correspondent Norah Melinda joins us now this morning. Norah, good morning. Talk us through then how markets have actually been reading and reacting to Powell's comments. He was pointing of course to the weakness in the US labor market. Well, certainly a lot to digest that we've been seeing in recent days here. I mean, of course, when we hear Powell, of course, he's the name that everyone likes to listen to as we're thinking about the details and parsing what he's saying. That's really the indication of what things may potentially look like moving forward here. So, if we take a look at what Jerome said yesterday, he pointed several times to the low pace of hiring and also noted that it may also weaken further. So, you did see some activity out in the market yesterday uh at the closing bell. So, we did see stocks end lower yesterday in New York City. Uh, but we also have traders that are all but surely pricing in a cut at the end of this month in October. So, you really are seeing people taking away what Jerome Pal is saying as a slight indication here that there could be a cut ahead. So, we're still waiting for the September inflation report. That'll come just before the next Fed meeting at the end of the month. How is that likely to interact with the calculations that policy makers are are making ahead of that meeting? Well, it's an interesting time period given the fact that we miss the labor data that always comes at the first Friday of the month. That of course due to the government government shutdown that has been ongoing here. So, it'll be interesting to see how they utilize this data, the inflation report that we will be getting. The only reason that we are getting the CPI report is because they use it towards some of the calculations that they make when it comes to US social security benefits. So they are recalling some people to come back and help get this uh print out on uh the docket here. But it's going to be an interesting time period as the bears and bulls are kind of pulling back and forth here in the market trying to get a good read on what the economy is looking like with little data to work with here. Yeah, absolutely. And so in terms of you know the news around the Fed, it's it's also the interaction with the trade issue between the US and China that is so important. Absolutely. you are seeing so many headlines flying back and forth. Of course, more recently, it's just been the battle between Trump and uh China here and just trying to find a sense of calm. So, you are seeing in the market a lot of people just trying to figure out how they can capitalize on this moment. We've been talking so much about the taco trade, which essentially means Trump always chickens out. So, we did see a lot of investors capitalizing on that moment back in April when we saw a lot of those tariff headlines here. So, it's about what they can do during this time period and how you can essentially position yourself in a moment of extreme uncertainty and volatility that's clear here in the market. This is Bloomberg Daybreak Europe, your morning brief on the stories making news from London to Wall Street and beyond. Look for us on your podcast feed every morning on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. You can also listen live each morning on London DAB radio, the Bloomberg Business app, and Bloomberg.com. Our flagship New York station is also available on your Amazon Alexa devices. Just say, "Alexa, play Bloomberg 11:30." I'm Caroline Hepka. And I'm Steven Carroll. Join us again tomorrow morning for all the news you need to start your day right here on Bloomberg Daybreak Europe.