All right, I get I have the green light so we can get it started. Hello everyone. You might have noticed that the the titles changed a bit from the one that we have in on the schedule. That's because when I submitted the talk, there's the MCP versus skill debate was still going on was a topic. I think now we settled on they're both different. They all have their own roles and now the I think the debate is more on the MCP versus CLI. So I thought it would be more useful to come and explain how we've wrote our Superbase skill and the lessons that we got from writing the this document cuz I've never spent more time writing a single document since I've wrote my master thesis, okay? So I know that writing a skill sounds simple, but it can be very complex especially when you have complex product like Superbase. For starters, I'm Pedro. I'm an AI tooling engineer at Superbase. I'm an MCP enthusiast AI in general. Feel free to connect me on LinkedIn and I'm also a co-founder of the Lisbon AI Week in Lisbon. We'll be on late October this year. And if we're talking about me at the moment, I usually prefer doing this on dark darker darker mode. I don't know how many of you prefer dark mode over light mode. The majority. I thought so. So let's do this presentation on dark mode instead. So we I think we can all agree that agents are already smart enough, right? They can do very they're very capable of doing mundane tasks by themselves. But when you present a task about something that they've haven't seen yet or you've updated since they were trained like your product for example, they need the right guidance. For for example, Superbase we noticed that they would usually either miss some some security pitfalls that we have like row level security instructions that they have to set to to basically not expose your app. They could just usually operate on stale knowledge on their training data and they're very lazy to and very stubborn to admit that they don't know and they do need to find fresh information. And also we would like to guide them on specific workflows that we think are the most optimized for agents on our products. So for starters, how many of you know or have written a skill before? Okay, so what I'm going to say is probably not new for the most of you, but just to get an introduction on skills. So skills are folders containing instructions, scripts and resources that agents discover, right? Progressively they discover. This is the main selling point of skills and they they have this envelope called front matter where they have the name and the description. This is how the agent is going to decide when to load the skill. Then they have the actual instructions inside the file the main file called skill.md and then optional bundled resources like scripts to perform actions or reference files that the main file can reference for more information that doesn't have to be loaded immediately to context. So we tested out at Superbase we experienced giving the same agent in this case was Claude Sonnet 4.6 the same prompt for a simple task. Like we had an app like a collaboration collaborative app and we wanted to create this new SQL view, right? On top of table that already had row level security enabled. So the users could only see the information that belonged to them. We gave we gave them just the the MCP on one condition and the MCP plus the the agents the agent skills. And the result was well the expected. If you don't know in Postgres, if you create a skill over a table on top of a table that has RLS enabled, if you don't explicitly pass that that flag over there the security invoker equals true, it will bypass the RLS. So basically the view will expose data that is not this exposed by default on the on the table. So the agent with the skill with the knowledge was able to get this this information implemented correctly and safely while the one that only had access to the integration to the to the MCP tool did not. So for this we decided well just like this we wanted to enable agents to know how to work correctly with with Superbase. So we decided to we're announced actually announcing today this this Superbase agent skill that I've been working on on this couple couple past of months and to make things official I'm actually going to try something. Wait. I'm going to live tweet it on stage. So it's live. All right. So what exactly is this skill about and what lessons can I share with you? So if you're building a skill for your product, you can build one like we did and happy to discuss the all details like this is free text text and we haven't achieved a a standard for it. So happy to to chat about it later. So to break down on some principles that we converged to. The first one is that don't duplicate information. Yeah, like treat skills as a document documentation for yourself and you will not duplicate your documentation, right? You already have documentation on your product. Just point the agent to it to the most up-to-date. You have to be very stubborn with the model to go to ask them to go search the the web or your documentation. Provide the guidance. Tell where to and how to find the documentation, but be very persistent with it to go for it. We also did a run a little experiments and this is still well as I said an experiment and yet to be it's we're still figuring out the details, but we also announced quite recently and you can see it can read it on our blog. We're we basically exposing our documentation through SSH. The main reason behind it is that the agents can now look for the documentation like it was a file system. So they're very familiar with file systems in general are navigating them finding files and information on using Linux based tools. If we expose if you give them this interface to also do this but remotely, our premise is that they will have easy ease to to navigate the the agent. So would also would love after the talk or during the the conference to see and to hear your opinions on this idea. The second principle that I get that I get I have for you is that if something can get skipped it will be skipped. What I mean by this is that besides newer information on searching online, so agents like fetching information online or tool calling it's expensive for for agents. So they mostly default to their training data. The same is true for reference files. We've noticed that even if when the the agent loaded the skill, it will even if it had reference files there, it will be very lazy to load them. And even if it loaded one reference file, if your problem requires more than one the information that it's more than in more than one file, it will most likely will not load two files, right? It's almost impossible and not not even starting on three or four. So you have to be very critical about what you put on your skill.md file from the beginning. You put information that is likely not to change like in our case a security checklist about Superbase that we didn't really wanted the agent to miss at all. So we decided this cannot be on a reference file. We actually started by putting on a reference file and he usually missed it. So we put it on the skill itself. So if you have any information that the agent can just not miss and like defines your product, go to the skill.md file. Do not afford it to put on on a reference file. And lastly, the third principle that I have for you when writing a product skill is to be opinionated. You know your product the best. You know how to work with it. You know how your users or you should know how your users are using it. Don't be afraid of guiding the agents on what on workflows that you think are the most effective when working with your product. In our case for example, managing a database schema, right? I have actually haven't asked this and should have in the the beginning. How many of you know Superbase and what Superbase does? Okay, for So for the ones who who don't know, we're basically a backend as a service. We provide a storage database, authentication and other uh features that you would need to create a back end out of the box. So, we provide as I said we provide a database and the agent can interact and manipulate your your schema, right? We found that this for our platform was the best workflow for the agents to efficiently manage the schema. So, in this case run uh direct DDL operations like change the schema freely on your um development or staging database. Once you're happy about it, we provide an advisor to our basically linked to give any uh security or performance issues that the database could have, fix them, and only then create the migration file. So, this will prevent the agent to create a migration file every time he changes the schema. We found this to be the best um workflow to manage the schema. So, for us it should be in the um in the skill when working with with Superbase. How we tested this skill? So, we're living a very interesting times where we now can test free tests. We we can now test um documents. We can now test documentation, right? Uh this would be uh completely bonkers to think uh years ago. Now, I've basically been testing a markdown file. And how did we do this? Uh through evals. Uh so, for those of you who don't know evals, evaluations for a short for evaluations, are basically uh tests that you can run mostly like you would run uh on your CI, uh but now instead of evaluating code you're evaluating an agent and LLM and its behavior, what tools it's it's calling, what's the it's reasoning, right? And so, we ran on an early stage we ran a set of six specific scenarios for Superbase. So, ongoing Superbase projects in different uh in different scenarios, right? And we ran it against four different uh agents from two vendors um in three test conditions. So, we wanted to test on a baseline, so no MCP, no skills, with just the MCP server, and with the MCP server plus the skill. All this was done based on a test completeness score four graded score uh the run on Braintrust. If you don't know them, they're around they're sponsors of this uh conference. Go um go to their booth and and talk about it. It's a very cool product. So, the results are uh are out here. Um the skills plus the MCP uh outperform any other conditions on every model that we we tested. We tested on on Claude Code for Opus 4.6 and Sonnet 4.6 and also on Codex for GPT 5.4 and GPT 5.4 mini. Uh so, I think we can conclude that it's pretty unanimous that the skills were actually improving the performance the test completeness score uh because they were providing the right guidance to to the agent. So, we had already the tools. We already had an MCP server. We just needed the right guidance so on how to operate with with Superbase. Uh it's agent agnostic. Uh most more and more agents are adopting this open standard on on skills. Um and currently as I said in the beginning the bottom line is not the the context, it's the guidance. So, if you can take something from this talk uh when building a skill for your product is that points for your single source of truth. Point to your documentation basically. Be opinionated. You know your product. Don't be afraid to to show it. And start minimal. Any model vendor, let's say whether it's that's Anthropic, OpenAI, on any blog post about skills, you will read start uh start minimal, start slow, and then iterate, expand, don't be afraid to create new versions for it. So, if you want to know more about it, we we actually wrote a a blog post. Uh it's live today. You can check it on my Twitter account on on Superbase um blog uh or you can just run this uh this commands and install your um install it on your project and start to to to to use them now. That's all. I'll be around and once again, thank you very much. I do have one more thing to show you. So, we're running a a giveaway. If you want to to have a chance to win a Mac mini, uh just scan the the QR code, uh sign up for Superbase, and good luck. Do I have time for any questions if there's any? Yeah. Okay. I I just had one thing I wanted to ask. So, since we're all moving into ranks, right? I mean I'm just wondering how much of a demand do you guys see on vector databases Superbase right now? Hm. Uh it's a it's an interesting interesting question. So, uh I mean it depends the the you you're asking about like uh how many customers are have been more and more as the as the days pass. Like um the use cases for for vectors are mainly for embeddings, right? Yeah. And semantic uh there are many use cases for for embeddings. The one that I'm most interested about is uh semantic search, right? That you could use to provide even more context. Uh for example, through the SSH uh exposing the docs through the SSH, you can now instead of naively uh let them navigate with the the bash tools, you can augment the tools already known bash tools into all providing some sort of uh semantic search. So, I would do see a very big potential on vectors. On our data, definitely customers have been exploring more this uh this solution. Thank you for the question. Yeah. Thank you for the talk. Very interesting. How do you distribute the skills inside your organization? Do you just pass them? Do you have a repository? Do you have a repository or do you have some package manager? That's That's an amazing That's an amazing question because uh currently one of the downsides or the I would say the the constraints of using skills is their distribution distribution system, right? Uh we're still finding the there's still some players trying to reclaim uh the either the registry or the way to distribute it. So, Vercel came up with the skills package. Uh we're seeing plugins, right, that you can bundle with MCP servers and other things. Uh but they are model specific. So, this is to distribute in general, skills in general. It's already a a problem for itself that we haven't solved it yet. Um Internally, we have uh we are packaging the skills on the the repos themselves. So, if you want to uh create a plugin, you just uh create a dot Claude uh plugin or a dot cursor plugin or whatever in that repo, right? Uh and then it's available or or it's discoverable uh if the if the the repo it's it's open sourced or you have access to it, uh you can use the skills package to to fetch it. So, yeah, this and this is how I've seen the other uh companies distributing the skills like a repo, a skill, trying to package the the skills into the the knowledge. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any more? I think we have time for one more. Yeah. Yes. I recently built self-improving skills. Should we do a collab? Sure. Let's talk after. All right. So, once again, thank you very much. It was a pleasure to be here. I'll be around. Thank you.