Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Monday, November 17th. We are live and we just went red. We were green in the futures. We were green last night and we kind of just went red literally 30 minutes ago. Uh I think there's a couple of reasons for why we're red that we'll talk about. Uh and you know just across the board. I mean the only thing that's really green is Google and that is because Bergkshire bought Google over the weekend for those that don't know. But we are indeed red and I think there's a couple of headlines that we'll talk about for why that's happening. Google right there up 3.2%. Google was pushing 300 last night. It was at 296. Unfortunately, it's going to be hard for Google to make those new all-time highs. Uh unless the broader markets are cooperating, and that's why you got Google going red or Google at least going down from where it was yesterday. Nvidia officially going red. 186.99. You're getting some pre- Nvidia earnings uh jitters, I would imagine. And so that's why you're seeing Nvidia kind of take a little bit of a nose dive right there. Down about 2%. It was up 2% yesterday after hours. So again, a complete 180 from what we saw last night. Apple right here down about 1.2%. Oracle down 1%. Rocket Lab down half a percent. Bitcoin back to 93. Look at that candle right there. It was at 95 like 25 minutes ago. Now it's at 938. This is after Michael Bur, not Michael Bur, Michael Sailor just disclosed that uh he bought another 8,000 Bitcoin for about a billion bucks, $823 million um over the past week. still not enough to hold up Bitcoin. Bitcoin getting a bit of pain right there at 9380. Then obviously Ethereum is probably going to be a hit as well. Ethereum, yeah, 3100 with that green candle. Ethereum got to 3,000 over the weekend. Bitcoin got to 92,000. So definitely going to be key levels to watch as we look towards the week to what happens with these stocks. And then Tesla right here falling below 400 down about 1.4%. The choppiness once again of the equity markets continue. I know it's only uh an hour into pre-markets and you know we've got about 30 to 40 minutes left until the market opens and this is the first day of the week but nonetheless you are still seeing some of that choppiness even from the futures last night. Futures were bright green. I mean we were up half a percent on the NASDAQ. I mean it was a pretty nice kind of momentum swing. It it and qu and honestly it didn't make sense why we had that momentum swing last night. I didn't think there was any major major headlines. But then again, none of these moves have made sense in the context of headlines. They've all just kind of happened throughout the past 3 weeks, and it's something that we all are going to have to navigate. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. Uh, Japan, I think, is also a big story that is important to discuss today for those that haven't heard about it. Uh, Japan is basically unleashing about 17 trillion yen or 110 billion dollars of stimulus into the economy. There's good things about this. There's bad things about this. They have implications on the Japanese yen carry trade. they also have implications on um Bitcoin and crypto. So, we'll talk about kind of this Japanese stimulus and why the country is doing it in the first place. Uh you've got macro updates in the context of data. So, we got a bunch of Canadian data this morning, which is important, but now that the US government is open, we should be getting more data this week. I do not believe we're going to be getting the jobs report this week. That should be coming next week. And so the anticipation of that jobs report is also going to be really important for the markets to kind of figure out exactly where they think the probabilities of rate cuts are going to go. Rate cut probabilities once again are below even where they were last night. Last night they were at 45%. Right now they're at 42.9. So until we get data that shows the labor market is struggling, which unfortunately is the data that the Fed's going to need because for some reason the Fed doesn't understand that the labor market is struggling. Uh, but you know, they're going to need to see that data for us to get like a meaningful chance in terms of getting that rake up. So, we got a lot to talk about there. And then we got Nvidia this week. We'll do a preview on Nvidia because that's also going to be really important. I mean, at the end of the day, Nvidia's got to crush it. I think Nvidia will crush it. You got a bunch of street upgrades across the board on Nvidia. There's there's really not a fear I think that a lot of people have of Nvidia crushing it. It's just a question if that's enough to get the market to stabilize and take that next leg higher. And maybe it is, maybe it's not. But this Wednesday, we're going to have those results and have a much better understanding of what's going to happen to Nvidia. Yes, Michael Sailor did buy Bitcoin this morning. Uh 8,178 Bitcoin for 835 million, 102,000 a coin, which look at 102,000. He probably thought that was relatively low and now unfortunately we're at 92,000, but uh you know, he continues to buy. So they now have 649,870 Bitcoin at $74,000 on average per coin. and they've acquired them for about $48.37 billion on uh their average for Bitcoin. That is what we've got today. Yen carry trade gives me PTSD. Yeah, we got to talk about it. I mean there are some there are some correlations between what Japan is doing to potentially uh increase what we've had before at least or what we did have before back in August. Japan key government panel member government must compile stimulus package sized around 23 trillion yen for spending tax cuts. See I reported 17 trillion apparently it's going to be much lar the headline yesterday did say 17 trillion was the bare minimum. So I mean if it is going to be more than 17 trillion the Japan is obviously deciding that it's time to stimulate their economy and and quite frankly a lot of this has to do with the um population crisis and the fact there's a lot of older people in their economy and ultimately they're going to have to pump money into the system to get the economy working again. So we'll talk about Japan and we'll see what it looks like going into what happens in the United States markets this week. All right, having said that, I think let's um let's get started. So, let's start off with some of the headlines this morning for why I think we're going red. These are just all my assumptions. I could be wrong about this, but let's go get off with it. I mean, here's the first one. I saw this like 30 minutes ago, and I think this is why we're I mean, this might not be the only reason, but I think this is part of the reason. Amazon Amazon kicks off a six-part US dollar high-grade bond sale. you know, seeing this type of stuff, it's annoying, but you also can't blame these companies for doing it. But nonetheless, it is what it is. I mean, when you see companies start selling bonds and tapping the credit markets, we saw Oracle do this, Oracle got handsomely cut from 350 to 220 for this. Uh Google did this, Meta did this, and now Amazon's doing this. Uh the reason I think this is triggering a lot of people is because one of the ways that the dotcom bubble collapsed was that there was so much not only vendor and circular financing which we're already seeing examples of happening right now. But a lot of it was done through the credit markets not through the free cash flows of the business and as a result that you know ended up being painful. Now the the the sort of nuance here is that it's freaking Amazon. Amazon can afford to raise debt and Amazon can meaningfully uh execute on that debt in a way that you know a lot of other companies can't. Amazon, right? They're up 0.25% in the pre-market. It's still green, but potentially will go red here. It was down 1% on Friday. And so, like, Amazon, Google, Meta should not have any problem selling debt. I mean, a lot of their debt is going to be due in 50 years, and their debt is yielding higher than 10-year Treasury. So, they have plenty of demand for their debt. It's just the broader perception and narrative that this debt is not going to meaningfully lead to an ROI. But if you believe the debt based data center buildout is not going to lead to an ROI, well then you would have thought that using their free cash flows to build data centers was not going to lead to an ROI. So I think if you were skeptical about the data center capex buildout in the first place, then you know whether it's debt or not, you're still skeptical. It's just the debt adds another level of concern when there shouldn't be because Amazon, Google, like these are companies that are not going to default on their debt, but it does add that concern to the market and I think as a result of that concern, you know, that's why you have some pain right there. So Amazon that is down and you know interesting stat on Meta. Meta did more capex this year than net income on a trailing 12-month basis. It's kind of crazy, right? So you do have a lot of investors also a bit scared that uh there's way too much being spent on capex versus the actual, you know, business profitability and that's why Meta has obviously been getting hit as well over the past couple weeks. Another piece of news on Amazon right here and this news is I think is kind of bullish. Uh Jeff Bezos launched an AI startup. He raised 6.2 billion uh and it is called project prometheus. The company is focusing on artificial intelligence for the engineering and manufacturing of computers, automobiles and spacecraft. I mean I thought this was kind of bullish because you know at the end of the day Bezos is coming back. He's going to be the co-chief executive. So he's getting back to an operating role. So he will be the CEO of this company. And at its core it looks like they're going to be trying to find talent. They've already got a hundred different researchers from um OpenAI and Meta to come join the company. And it looks like they're going to be building AI that is uniquely geared towards very high level tasks around spacecraft, automobiles. Obviously, Bezos has Blue Origin, so he's probably looking for how AI can make that company even better and more efficient. But, uh, it is cool to see Bezos come back. And, you know, a lot of this is his own money that he's raised to be able to start this new company. question simply becomes how much does the market like, you know, the idea of new startups into the ether when it comes to the AI race. And I think that's going to be a broader question that the market's going to have to answer. Nvidia right there down about 1.4%. Tesla down 1.3. Nebia is still holding on a little bit. That's up 1.3%. Oracle just went red. I just went red. Cipher went red. All your Bitcoin miners went red. SMCI is red. Coreweave is also down about 7%. Real quick stat for you guys as well. uh that includes Coreweave. Um so Bloomberg did an analysis of the top three largest hed hedge fund increases and we'll go over 13 apps in a second. As of 3Q, Nvidia was number one, Alphabet was number two, Apple was number three. Nvidia, Alphabet, and Apple. The three biggest decreases were in it, Salesforce, and Coree. So Cororeweave was up there and you know their debt to equity ratio is now surpassing 300%. You got a lot of people that are just afraid of what Core Reeve is doing with their debt. Um, but Cororey, in Salesforce were the top three sold names. Nvidia, Amazon, and or sorry, Nvidia, Alphabet, and Google were the top three added names. Birkchar being the most high-profile that we'll talk about in a second. BMR, I think we just got a update on how much uh Ethereum they have. Do we have this right here? Let's see. Uh, yes. 3.6 million Ethereum. 3.6 million Ethereum just came out right now. Uh, 2.9% of the entire ETH supply. As of November 16, 7:30, the company's crypto holdings are comprised of 3.559 ETH at 3120. They have a $37 million stake in orbs and they have 67 million of cash along with 192 million of Bittycoin. Uh Tom Lee, crypto prices have not recovered since liquidation events on October 10th and the lingering weakness has of the hallmarks of a market or maker or two suffering from a crippled balance sheet. When a market maker has a hole in their balance sheet, they're going to seek to raise capital or reducing their liquidity functions in the market. This is the equivalent of QT for crypto and has the effect of dampening prices. In 2022, this QT effect lasted for 6 to 8 weeks, and this is probably happening today. We do not believe crypto prices have peaked for the cycle, and this is covered in our November chairman's message. We look at five explanations for the crypto price cycle and conclude that the two have important explanatory value. Both of these suggest the crypto cycle top is likely 12 to 36 months away. Yes, this is a break from past cycle behavior. Okay, so I believe they had what, 3.2 2 million last week. So, does anyone remember exactly how much they had last week? Let me uh check real quick. I think that's a pretty significant increase if I'm not wrong. They had last week um they announced the CEOs last week. No, they had 3.5. Okay. So, they added 100,000. 100,000. Okay. So, about 100,000 more ETH uh they added to the pile. I mean, it's a decent sized buy. It's not a huge huge buy, but it is a decent sized buy. And unfortunately, Ethereum is just like I mean bit Bitmine's not going to go higher if Ethereum continues to be stuck where it's stuck. Ethereum right there 3118. That's down about 2%. Bit mine about 34 in the in the pre pre-markets. So yeah, it's actually just 54,000. You're right. They're I'm rounding up to 3.6, but it's went from 3.5 to like 3.559. So, it's about 54,000. HIMS also did announce a share buyback, that is correct. They announced a $250 million share buyback. Uh, I think it it makes sense. I mean, at the end of the day, HIMS is growing fast, they don't really need to buy back their shares, but they are shorted heavily. So, when a company is shorted this much and they're growing at the, you know, pay I mean, HIMS is trading at less than four times sales. So, it is kind of crazy how their momentum has died off. You would imagine that if the shorts are in control, then a buyback would at least help to potentially get the shorts to be a little bit more scared. So, I don't think it's crazy. that they're buying back a bit of their stock as long as they can continue to keep up the growth that they are doing as well. So that's what you got on Bitine and that's what you have on HIMS as well. All right, 13F. So what happened over the weekend? Well, we saw this on Friday. This actually happened in Q3, but it was disclosed on Friday. It was I think the biggest news of the weekend quite frankly. Birkshshire bought 17.8 million shares of Google. This was a very very very big deal. Um it's hard to explain how big of a deal this is. Birkshshire when they take a position in a name they take a position and they let everybody know they take a position. You have millions of people honestly probably tens of millions of people across the world that follow what Birkshshire does. Buffett probably didn't make the decision because he's retiring. It was probably other leadership at the firm like Greg Gable. But the fact that you have Birkshar leadership coming together and saying, you know, we believe that we need a technology play in the portfolio after really not having any technology over the past decade outside of Apple, which they didn't even consider was technology is quite incredible. And to me, it's kind of validating some of the AI trade. And the reason it's validating the AI trade is because Google's going to spend a ton of money on capex next year. Google's obviously growing because of Gemini and Whimo and all their bets around AI, Google search being uh enhanced through AI, AI mode, etc. Like there's cloud that's really growing because of the AI workloads that Google's contracting for. So I mean a betting on Google is a bet on AI. Now if AI went away, would Google go away tomorrow? No. But is there a world in which Sundar would even let the opportunity present itself that another company could take its lunch if they focused on AI more and Google kind of took their foot off the pedal? I don't think so. I mean, and you had that existential crisis for Google back in 2023 when Chachi BT was growing as fast as it was and a lot of people started thinking, hey, maybe I'm never going to use Google again. Obviously, that narrative has flipped and Google is now in a prime position to win. But I think a $5 billion stake, although it's only 2% of the portfolio, is admitting that we need exposure to something in the world of AI. It's admitting that this capex spend is not going anywhere. And it's also admitting that quite frankly, Google is probably one of the best and most diversified AI companies because eventually Google will stop spending on capex and all that money will go back to share buybacks and free cash flows. And Google's business is likely going to be resilient in the face of AI, if not enhanced, in the face of AI as being the world's largest toll booth for searchbased advertising. So, I think it's really nice to see Bergkshire uh invest in an AI company. I think we'll probably going to get more of these investments from other different funds. You're going to have a lot of people in my opinion that follow uh Bergkshire religiously that are just going to buy Google. I mean, the reason Apple became one of the most amazing stocks over the past 10 years is once Buffett touched Apple and everyone was like, "Oh, Buffett's given, you know, the Buffett co-sign," a lot of people started buying Apple and you know, they didn't sell Apple. So, in order to do this, by the way, Bergkshire did sell about 16% of their Apple stake. Um, which makes sense. You know, they've held on to it since500 billion dollar market cap. But it does make sense. They're transitioning into a company that can grow a lot faster. And I think this might be the start of a new potentially technological driven Bergkshire Hathway over the next decade potentially. It's going to be something that's exciting to see if they do do that. But you have them taking a stake in Google. S&P 500, right? They're still down in the pre-market. 670. That's down. 22% in the pre-markets. uh Ford Amazon strike deal to sell used cars online. Okay, so you have this deal that was in the rumors for a long time. It looks like it's officially happening. Ford stock flat in the pre-markets. Amazon also up a little bit. You can now buy used cars on Amazon. This is why Amazon is a mustold I think for the next decade. Amazon is it's not going away. And if anything, their margins are going to get better and better with AI, which is, you know, more net income. And they're still trading at the lowest EVA multiple across all the max seven. So, I still feel like Amazon right here is definitely going to be a hold for a long time. That's what you got on Google. Some of the other stuff in the 13Fs that were disclosed. Stanley Ducken Miller also bought Google. David Ter sold all of his UNH. Uh Peter Teal, I know this has been making the headlines as well, has sold all of his Nvidia. and basically 76% of his Tesla. He did take new stakes in um Apple and Microsoft, which was weird because, you know, if you're getting rid of the entire AI thesis from your portfolio and getting rid of Nvidia, why would you kind of buy two names that are also in AI? But I guess he wanted a bit more safety and they're probably not as volatile as Nvidia. But yes, Peter Thiel did take his entire Nvidia stake off the table. I don't think that's that crazy. I mean, I know a lot of people are trying to put the narrative together that if Peter Teal is selling and that Soft Bank is selling, then, you know, everyone's getting out of Nvidia. I think that that is one narrative and that's one argument. I also think a lot of these guys have been in these names for a long time and, you know, Soft Bank's been in it for like 10 years. So, eventually they're going to take some profits and it's not crazy that they're going to take some profits. Yes, Teal also sold 50% of his BMR. Now, you got to remember Teal got into BMR at $4.50. He was one of the original um backers of the like IPO of it or like the the reipo because it was already a public company but they kind of rebranded themselves and so I mean it makes sense right if you got in at 450 like it's you're you know you saw that thing go to 40 he's up 10x teal is not going to be the one to not take profits on something like that so makes sense that he took profits there and then you had teal also selling his embid st I think the broader question here becomes do we think the selling of some of these names by super investors because you know as teal sold Nvidia Nvidia was still one of the top ads in Q3 you had a lot of other people that bought Nvidia. So then the question just becomes you know do we think that there is a decent amount of sell pressure versus buy buy pressure in the context of their earnings and if you read any of the equity reports for what people are thinking going into earnings it seems like Nvidia is going to crush it and my fear is not with Nvidia earnings or that Peter Teal is selling or Soft Bank is sell like my fear is much more a question of the labor market which we'll talk about in a second but my my fear is more rooted in macro right now not really company specific earnings ever said you should buy Nvidia. Uh they expect Nvidia to deliver a beat and raise quarter citing channel check show that GB200 and GB300 availability is greatly improved yet demand still outstrips supply and that is the reason why Micron's higher that is the reason why Broadcom is higher. I mean this idea of demand outstripping supply in the context of AI capex continues to be very real. In fact, you know, talking about demand versus uh supply, Elon and Sundar this weekend had a conversation on Twitter. Elon says, "It's mind-blowing how much money is being spent on AI comput so fast, but still many orders of magnitude to go." This is because Sundar tweeted that they're investing 40 billion in Texas for data centers. And then Sundar says, "Between abundant sand, plenty of sun, and space, literally to put it in, we can do it." So you've got Elon wanting to build his own chip farm, and Sundar wanting to put data centers in space. I mean, you know, when we hear this whole conversation around bubble, which I've been hearing a lot more of over the weekend, that's fine. You know, that is a perspective that people can have and it's healthy to have that perspective. But then you see two of the CEOs of leading AI companies saying that we can't build these things fast enough and we're trying to figure out the capacity on this planet and we might have to go outside of this planet just to be able to build all these data centers because they think it is going to be that big of a deal. And maybe it will, maybe it won't. But that is the argument from, you know, some of the most important tech CEOs on the planet in terms of what they're thinking about when it comes to data centers. So that's what we got with Nvidia down about 1.5% right here in the pre-markets. Crypto still getting hit. Yes, crypto is down 9374. We talked about it last night in terms of what's going on. And you're probably going to keep hearing this argument about force deleveraging and structural deleveraging. I think it is a legitimate reason for why crypto is getting hit for all these perpetual futures contracts that uh you know have been introduced and we'll talk about Japan in a second because that also has an implication right here. Um a lot of these perpetual futures contracts unfortunately have allowed people to go uh you know from as little as 10x to as high as 250x on leverage. And when you're on 250x of leverage or even 100x of leverage, as you can see, there's also been weekly crypto asset outflows in the Bitcoin ETF funds. Uh even a 2% move will liquidate your entire position. So from that perspective, and we saw this on October 10th, you know, there was a 19.2 billion liquidation in crypto because Bitcoin had a $20,000 candlestick. And I mean, obviously that took away a lot of money from the system. As a result, Tom Lee's argument is there's plenty of macro or uh market makers that also suffered during that liquidation and they're now having to sell to recoup a lot of the losses that they have. Does that put crypto in a structural bare market? I don't know. I would say no. I I would say just like any stock that has a liquidation from a margin call or something like that, if someone's heavily levered into that stock, like it's going to create some short-term pain, but eventually the fundamentals come back in place. Uh with crypto, you've got to believe in a different sort of paradigm of fundamentals versus like a stock market fundamental thesis. But if this is a structural deleveraging and not the beginning of a bare market, then crypto should be okay. The problem is no one knows. And you got a lot of people that are starting to think that crypto winter is here, right? And that is pretty ugly. I mean, if you look at Bitcoin from November 17th last year to November 17th this year, Bitcoin's down, which is kind of crazy. if you just held it for a year. I mean, a 10 year would have got you a better return than Bitcoin right now. So, it's quite incredible to see this. And and the other reason why crypto's taking a hit is because unfortunately the Fed has not really given any level of meaningful clarity on a rate cut. Again, the probabilities for a rate cut are now below 50%. Bitcoin thrives on liquidity and and funnily enough, we've added more to the M2 money supply over the past six months than we have over the past couple of years. and um like M2 money supply going higher. If you put that on a chart with Bitcoin's price action, you know, Bitcoin's going lower. So, it's almost like more liquidity into the system is not really helping risk on assets right now. And in in order for it to thrive, it's going to need even more liquidity, but if we're not getting a rate cut in December, I mean, the lack of liquidity is going to continue putting some pressure on Bitcoin. So unfortunately, it's going to be one of those assets that's going to need a real narrative rebooting over the coming days. I don't think we get Bitcoin 200,000 by end of year. I really think it's going to be hard to get Ethereum 7,000. I would just be happy if Ethereum gets back to 4,000 and Bitcoin like stays above 100,000 at this point. And maybe that, you know, lack of uh sentiment is enough to kind of pump these things, but they're going to they're going to need to really like work to get back to their price action. And unfortunately, that is what we're seeing right now with Bitcoin. Quick thing on Apple and then we'll get into what's been going on Japan, which also has implications on Nvidia and Bitcoin. Uh, Apple iPhone 17 demand seems strong. JP Morgan reports that global iPhone 17 lead times remain unusually long, averaging 7 days in week 10 versus two days last year. The bank says this shows supply is still strong behind demand. The base iPhone 17 has the longest weights for the second week in a The iPhone Air saw a one-day increase in weight times while the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max stayed steady unlike last year's Pro models which saw shorter weight times at this point. Tim Cook is also likely stepping down uh as per next year early next year and the current VP of engineering is going to be taking his spot. But uh that is another thing about Apple and that's also another reason why maybe Bergkshire is trimming a little bit now that Tim Cook is stepping down. you're going to have a bit of a management change and so you have some people that probably, you know, want to see how the new CEO does before they buy back in. Apple right there 269 in the pre-markets down about 1%. Tim Cook did guide for 12% Q4 revenue growth, fastest growth they've seen in about a year. So if they are able to execute on that 12% growth, you know, that'd be very strong going into Q4 for Apple. Uh Amit, would you sell cover calls on grab for next year at $10? I think it's a little tricky picking 10 because although 10 seems far away and the covered call is probably going to use some good premium right here. Question is is the premium enough grab right there down about 1% in the pre-markets to like uh be stuck in it if it does make a move higher. I I don't hate that especially if you're fine selling at a double, right? If Grab actually doubles from 5 to 10, then that's an amazing uh price to sell at. But if you know, Grab ends up getting a lot of inflows based on the US markets not doing the best. I mean, there's a thesis for why that one could actually be a sort of safe haven next year. Uh, Ray Dalio added to Grab four and a half million shares. Howard Marks added to Grab, you know, a lot of these bigger funds adding their institutional holdings is nearing 87%. So, you are seeing more inflows even though the stock has not been cooperating. But yeah, I mean, look, if you're fine selling for 10 bucks, then I think that is a reasonable price to sell your covered collab. Yeah, we saw the Amazon deal. Amazon and Ford have signed a deal to sell certified used Ford cars through Amazon's e-commerce website. More and more opportunities for Amazon to continue selling uh different products online. All right, so Japan, let's talk about Japan and what's going on with Japan. So, we've got a lot of stimulus in Japan that has been introduced over the weekend and the stimulus is really important to kind of analyze why it's happening. Now, one of the reasons this caught my attention is because if you take a look at the Japanese 10-year yield, um, it's at its highest level ever. Now, why is it at its highest level ever? Well, the bond market is selling off a crap ton of bonds because um the cost of capital in Japan is slowly becoming lower and lower. And so they're demanding a higher yield to be able to say we're going to, you know, buy Japanese debt. Now, why is the cost of capital getting lower? Well, because Japan is stimulating like crazy. And the reason they're stimulating, I think, has to do with a variety of issues. So, here's a couple of kind of core headlines of how this is playing out. Number one is the stimulus itself is focused on tax cuts, energy subsidies, and the cost of living relief. This all sounds great, but the problem is that you're cutting taxes and spending more money than your central bank is trying to normalize policy by raising rates. There's a contradiction right there. The BOJ has been raising rates. They want to tighten monetary policy by raising rates. Remember, the reason the yen carry trade happened last year is because Bank of Japan rose rates by 25 pips. But the government is loosening fiscal policy at the same time which forces the BOJ to keep rates artificially low to avoid crushing the economy. The BOJ's policy rate is half a percent and that sounds positive but inflation in Japan is around 3%. So the real interest rate which is nominal minus inflation is actually negative 2.5. That means if you deposit money in a Japanese bank earning 0.5% while prices are going up by 3% you're down 2.5% in purchasing power. So what are people going to do? They're going to take their money out of yenbased assets, which is why the yen is getting hit this morning, and they're going to buy other stuff instead. Quite frankly, they might buy Bitcoin because that might give you a better yield versus the rate of inflation. Or they just might buy US equities. So the stimulus is actually guaranteeing that the yen gets weaker. A weaker yen means import costs go up, food, energy, materials, everything gets more expensive. The whole point of the stimulus was to help households with the cost of living, but the fiscal expansion is simultaneously destroying the purchasing power of the yen. Now, if the BOJ were to lower rates, this would make a lot more sense, but they are not doing that. So, that's where you kind of get that contradiction. And it's giving people tax cuts with one hand and taking away their purchasing power with the other hand. And that is also why bond yields are rising. The market sees this and obviously they know that it's unsustainable. Now, that's the bare case to this. The bullc case to what's kind of happening right here in the context of the US dollar is that um the yen carry trade is a strategy that essentially involves borrowing yen and then investing in something that's paying higher even you know US treasuries which are paying at a premium to the 10-year bonds in Japan which is 1.7% US is like 4.1% so you're getting a delta of 3%. So, one could argue that as the yen weakens over the dollar because of all this stimulus, even though the stimulus is kind of contradict contradicting itself because you're raising rates at the same time that you're printing money, which makes the nominal inflation continue to be negative, which again doesn't make it easy for banks to necessarily lend as much as they were doing in the past. Um, people would still be borrowing in yen and and buying US assets. So, it's one of those things that I actually think could be relatively bullish for Bitcoin and tech stocks because as the yen continues to get lower, there could be an argument that people just say, "Hey, I can continue borrowing yen and doing what I need to do." The 10ear right there at 4.13% slightly down, but still above 4%. But obviously, the dynamics of what's happening internally in Japan is weird because if you're going to be raising rates or keeping rates high and then printing all this money, it's not really the best form of stimulus. and and the actual number one reason they're doing this is once again this idea of affordability. I mean, you know, we thought it was an American sort of argument that has been coming up, but the reason that the the new Japanese prime minister, the first woman prime minister that got elected a couple weeks ago, the reason she's initiating this is because a lot of the Japanese people have been saying that life is becoming unaffordable in Japan. And as a result, all this stimulus is is trying to find a way to get costs to come down. Now, here's the real kicker here. If you can actually have a debt to GDP ratio of 230%, which is what Japan has, if you can have uh interest rate hikes at the same time that you're printing money, which usually you know doesn't happen that way, and if you can have the largest if you can be the largest owner of foreign treasuries, which Japan is, they own about 1.1 trillion of US treasuries, and you can get away with printing $110 billion, probably more than $110 billion. over 23 trillion yen and have it be effective. I think the precedent that sets for a lot of other countries is oh maybe we can do the same thing that Japan's doing which I don't know if that's the best precedent or a horrible precedent but uh Japan is doing another experiment right here. Again they are one of the most indebted countries as in a is in a percentage towards their GDP on the planet at 230%. By the way their 3Q GDP was negative 1.8%. This was the first negative quarter they had in six quarters. That's probably another reason that they're printing money is because growth is obviously now contracting. If they get away with this and it somehow is effective, which we'll see over the next coming years how effective it is, it's going to give a lot of ammo to I mean to the United States to say, "Hey, we can probably we can probably print more money as well and get away with it." Which is the macro argument to continue buying Bitcoin. Like I mean I'm I'm not suggesting that that that is like the end all be all but one that you could understand why people want to buy some type of asset that potentially is uh the answer to the debasement of global currencies at scale. Now granted that asset intrinsically is tied to all the stimulus of the the currencies and the uh debasing of the currency either up or down. So like and we're seeing Bitcoin not really cooperating with some of the more positive arguments. So you have to kind of grapple with that argument in and of itself. But at its core, if all these countries are going to be debasing their currency at the level they're debasing it at and just saying we don't care because the cost of living is too high and we need to get prices to come down in the short term in the short, you know, next two years. Maybe that has an impact in the next hundred years. Who knows what impact it has, but you do have the bull and the bear case for why people would want to buy Bitcoin in that scenario. Um Bet yesterday, speaking of affordability, he is trying to justify why prices are so high. Here's what he had to say about the cost of beef in this country.
>> But what is your take on what you just heard? He's expecting $10 uh meat.
>> Well, Maria, the Maria, the the the beef market is a very specialized market. goes in long cycles and you that this this is the perfect storm again something we we inherited and there there's also because of the mass immigration a disease that had been we've been rid of in North America made its way up through South America you know as these migrants they brought some of their cattle with them so you know part of part of the problem is we've had to shut the border to Mexican beef because of uh you know this disease called the screw worm. So we're not going to let that get into our supply chain. And again uh you know I don't want to focus the on one product. It's very important product and we are laser focused on on this issue and
>> so basic for that is illegal cows has been leading to a lot of the increase in beef. uh when he was asked about the tariffs in Supreme Court which we'll be making a decision in a couple weeks here is also what he said about the Supreme Court decision coming up. Let's say this in the strongest possible terms. I think that there are three points here is one this is one of President Trump's signature policies signature policies and traditionally this Supreme Court does not interfere with a president's signature policy. Two, this is an emergency authority which is AIPA. President Trump has successfully used that the one to as we talked about earlier, you know, on the rare earth problem. He threatened substantial tariffs on China and that made the rare earth flow. Two, uh, several numerous of the peace deals that he's negotiated, he threatened to put tariffs on the countries and that got us to the peace deal. Three, when we're talking about fentanyl, we had fentanyl tariffs. And you know what is more of an emergency than hundreds of thousands of Americans dying every year? No one had been able to get the Chinese to the table with these precursor drugs. And then three, I would push this back onto the Supreme Court. I don't think this ruling is going to go against us, but if it does, what's their plan for refunds? Because how is this going to get to consumers? Are they just going to h hand the some of these importers uh big windfalls? What what if the exporters have given big discounts already and then you're going to give a refund on the tariff? So they'd be making it on both sides. So I don't think the Supreme Court wants to wade into a mess like that.
>> Yep.
>> So we're going to see how this ends up playing out. Obviously, Bent, you can see a little bit annoyed right there about the Supreme Court decision and his argument is that the Supreme Court is not going to rule against the administration. We're going to find out in the coming days what actually happens. I'll put the red or green poll right here in the chat to see what people are thinking, green or red today. U and then on beef, you know, he's making uh a different argument for why beef has, you know, increased in prices. The administration did say over the weekend that they would be decreasing tariffs on beef, coffee, and bananas as with an attempt to kind of lower some of those prices. Again, coffee is up a lot because we tear up Brazil by 50%. Which increased uh the price of coffee. So those tariffs should be coming down and hopefully that helps on this affordability narrative. The the broader question I think for the administration is how they're going to communicate that to the broader public. And you know, as of now, they're trying a variety of different things. Here's Kevin Hasset this morning again on this idea of affordability.
>> I don't know. Is it Trump's fault?
>> Right. Well, I mean, for sure people still are trying to dig out from the big hole that was dug by uh the previous administration's policies. So, if you figure the typical mortgage payment uh monthly mortgage payment about doubled, uh if you look at a typical bag of groceries, the monthly bag of groceries cost about $400 when President Trump was uh leaving office last time and about $512 uh right about uh when President Trump took office. And and since then, it's gone up almost not at all. I think it's like $515, but it hasn't gone back to $400. And so what the Democrats are doing is they're saying that this runaway uh spending that we gave you guys uh that created runaway inflation is 100% your fault uh because you haven't fixed it already. And of course that's very economically illiterate and I don't think really many people in markets are buying it.
>> Well, I'll tell you Kevin, one of the reasons I think that people are and I'm going to highlight both sides. One of the reasons uh people feel like they're not keeping up is because real average weekly wages fell during during the Biden years because of the
>> inflation. That's right.
>> Right. So it fell. However, the president uh is constantly saying prices have come down. Now inflation is still 3%. It's still too high. Now oil prices, energy prices, there are certain uh things where they have come down. But when you keep saying prices are falling, that's not true. Uh because inflation is still it's the 3% is on top of all the inflation we had uh during the Biden years. So we got all that inflation plus an additional 3%. And we should I think you should admit that
>> a more a more precise way to say it though, Joe, is that purchasing power has gone up. And so real wages, that's W divided by P for our technical people in the audience, have gone up by about $1,200 this year. So, the way to think about it is that we've dug a $3,000 hole because of Biden policies and we've, you know, gained $1,200 on the way out already, which should give you a great deal of hope for the future that the wage increases that we're seeing will continue. And, uh, even if inflation stays positive, make it so that people feel way better when they go to the grocery store and to buy a car. You know, we we've reduced the cost of buying a car with the deductibility of interest. I mean, there's a million things that we're doing to fix this problem, but it's just kind of astonishing to me that the the cost problem is somehow being uh blamed on us. Now, think about it, especially with the Obamacare thing. So, Obamacare is 100% Democratic policy. It's always been 100% Democratic policy. What they did is they expanded the subsidies during COVID and then all those subsidies basically went right into the pockets of insurance companies and uh Obamacare insurance policies have doubled in price relative to normal policies. And so the fastest inflation in the economy is these big government subsidies thrown at Obamacare insurance. Think about it. It's kind of like if you give lots of uh student loans then the tuition goes up. It's that effect. And so now they're blaming President Trump for Obamacare as well. They should have fixed Obamacare in the first place. And President Trump had a plan in the big beautiful bill uh to give people some subsidies, but the Democrats didn't like it because the subsidies weren't going to their campaign contributors, the insurance companies.
>> It is going to be a large discussion I think in 2026. you know this this I I I did not see this narrative like I think when we were analyzing the Mandani election a lot of it was rooted in the context of the bifurcation of the economy and the the wealth effect right the the divide between the rich and the poor and how that led to a leader like Mumani getting elected in the mecca of capitalism which is New York what it created was S&P losing 670 in the pre-markets what it created was a broader argument around the concept of affordability and it it became a national discussion and the administration almost did a full 180 over the past two weeks and having to embrace this whole concept of you know being more affordable or creating a more affordable country and now it is the single biggest thing that Bent or Hasset or JD Vance or Trump are are talking about. So I think over the coming weeks and honestly months we're going to get a lot more insight into how they're thinking of affordability and then the American people are going to decide how affordable the country is. One of the only names that's green in the pre-markets folks is Google. Well, Google's holding on because it got the Buffett cosign. We got about a minute until the market opens. Nvidia tanking 2%, Palunteer, I think, is losing 170. It's very close to losing 170. Hoodie very close to losing 120. Kind of weird. Last night, we were blistering green. We were very, very green. And that flipped in the pre-markets. When I woke up, it just looked like a totally different market. And now it looks like it's getting worse. In about 30 seconds, we're going to see if this flips, if the bottom falls out, we continue to go lower. We have a little bit of a sort of Friday morning reaction or if this V-shapes into green. I'm not sure what exactly is the headline. Amazon did raise about 12 billion of bond sales today. So maybe the street just getting upset that some of the hyperscalers are continuing to tap into the debt markets. But you are seeing a bit of a reversal right here as we see some of these names going red into the market open. All right, here we go. Monday, November 17th, 9:30 a.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P goes down half a percent at the open. Half a percent at the open. 66918. We are red on the day. Bit mine down 2%. Grab down half a percent. Apple down 2%. Palunteer actually got a little bit of a bounce from the pre-market lows. It was at 170. Now it's at 171. Uh Robin Hood continues to go lower. 11955. Robin Hood down about 2.4%. Google 287. Google's getting the Birkshshire love. Google's not really tanking yet. You got everything going red except Google. That is all people piling in after Buffett has officially said this is going to be his next tech stock that he buys. S&P is still red. AMD goes down 2%, PayPal down half a percent, Nvidia 2.6% down on Mr. Nvidia as Nvidia goes red on the day. Pretty incredible. But you got Nvidia going red. 18540 on Nvidia. AMD right there 242. That's down about 1.2%. Nebi is actually green somehow. Neb is holding on to his green. Rocket Lab continues to go red. Um and Bitcoin right there at 94,000. Micron's at 248. That goes green. I that's down 1.64%. Cipher, that's down 3%. SMCI, that's down 2.8. Coreweave, that's down 3.7. Coreweave getting hit. Wow. Why is Dell down 7%. The hell happened to Dell? Goodness gracious. All right, Dell's getting hit. So, that one goes red. Dell right there down seven. Hims is down after initiating a $250 million buyback today. Nvidia right there 18575. That's down 2.3. Dell got downgraded. Okay, I'll check the downgrade in a second. That's obviously hurting Dell right here. They have earnings uh November 25th, so in about 8 days and we'll see what we get from Dell. Um that one continues to go red. SMCI is red. AMD is down 1%. Palunteer actually not really getting hit that bad. It was at 170, now it's at 17130. You got some green candles right there, even though it is a bit red. Grabs went green just now. Robin trying to recover a little bit, but still down on the day. Amazon goes red. Bit mine down 2.84% as Ethereum gets hit. Ethereum right there 3100. Google. Wow. 290. Google's pushing through 290. There you go. The goog is green. She's not going to go down just because the market's going down. Not when Buffett's taking a stake. S&P 670. Got S&P 670. That's not green yet, but it is bouncing from 668, which is nice to see. That hopefully will help Nvidia. Nvidia getting a little bit of a bounce right there. Uh, as that one goes green, XPv missed on their um EPS. They beat on revenue if I'm not wrong. That's why that stock is down 6%. Again, I don't know that much about the company, but they did miss on the bottom line. Beat on the top line. And I think that's why the stock's getting hit. AS 1.3. Rocket Lab's down 1.4. Micron 253. What a what a name Micron's been all year. I mean, just an incredible name. This thing was stuck at 60 for the majority of 2024 and then just broke out this year. So, Micron uh continuing to do well. I think they got another upgrade to $300 this morning as well from Rosenblot on more uh DRAM demand. So, that could be another reason that's up. Cory right there, that's down 2.5. And then Lemonade down 2%. Is hoodie still getting hit? Hoodie still getting hit. 118. I mean, this uh actually makes sense to me because crypto tanked over the weekend. I was quite surprised that Robin Hood was green last night in the overnight markets, but Bitcoin going from 100 to 94 and Ethereum from 33 to 31. I mean, it's good for Robin Hood in the context of volatility, they're probably making money off some of this stuff, but obviously crypto going down doesn't really help them. Coinbase is that's also losing 300. That's down 4%. ARM is up by 2%. Got ARM getting some green. And then Micro Strategy that bought another 8,000 Bitcoin this morning. They are below 200 at 19874 for Micro Strategy. Uh the world's highest IQ record holder, Young Hun Kim, says Bitcoin will hit 220,000 in the next 45 days. So the guy with the highest IQ on the planet, as per Bloomberg, says Bitcoin will hit 220,000 in the next 45 days. I really hope we can trust his IQ. over the next 45 days, but I don't know if it's really going to work out. Micron right there, that's up 3.79%. That's green. Cipher goes down. Bit farm still down 2%. New bank, that's up a little bit as well as that goes green. Yes, he is Korean. Correct. He is Korean. I mean, dude, if you got the highest IQ on the planet, like, yeah, help us out, dude. Like, tell us what's going to happen. You're the smartest guy in the world. Let us know what's going to take place. Maybe maybe he'll be right about Bitcoin. Oaklo below 196. SoFi down 1.3%. SoFi gets hit. Where does the S&P go if Bitcoin goes to 250,000? See, that's why I don't even like these price targets on Bitcoin because if Bitcoin were to somehow get above 200,000, I mean, it's not going to go there by itself. Like, it's it's a macro asset that has to correlate with the NASDAQ. So, I mean, you're talking about S&P, I think, well above the 7,000 range. I mean, we're talking about close to 8,000. If you have any level of a doubling on Bitcoin is it just seems rather impossible to me. Maybe it does happen, but I mean, you know, in the early days, Bitcoin was uncorrelated with macro assets as it became a global player that is impacted on global liquidity. I I think it's really hard for Bitcoin to have that big of a bull run and for the equity markets not correlate with it. I think people would just be happy if Bitcoin could, you know, even stabilize above 100,000 by end of the year. Ethereum right there 3150. I mean, even Ethereum going from 3,000 to 4,000 now is going to be a challenge. It's not going to be easy. So, all these crazy targets on Ethereum, I think people would just be happy if it gets back to where it was before. SMCI down 2 and a half%. Coreweave down 2%. Redcat down 1.4. New banks down. Big Bear. This thing was $8 last week. 595. A lot of these high beta names have been getting hit. Uh, Quantum goes down. D-Wave down 2.3%. O NQ up just a little bit. Regetti down half a percent as well. Nebas for some reason is holding green. I mean, look, I think Nebius's market cap compared to their earnings growth and their projected revenue guidance is kind of silly. Nebia at 21 billion, but um it is still a data center play, but you are seeing a little bit of divergence, right? I mean, you know, the re there's a reason Core Weeb's down and Nebius is up and a lot of it has to do with their debt profile. Oracle right there, that's also slightly flat. Tesla, are we getting any green? Tesla up. We went green on Tesla. Went from below 400 to to 406 was at 397 right before the market open. Now it's at 407. That goes green. S&P went green. Wow. S&P went green. Okay. S&P is greeny green. Tesla's green. Hoodie is trying to go green. Still at 119. Palunteer very close to going green. Grab just went green. Bitcoin just got a Dude, what a candle. Was it not? at just 93. No, it was at 94. Um, Bitcoin right here. Is Bitcoin at 96? I think Bitcoin's at Wow. Not 96 yet, but close. Goodness. All right. I guess potentially Google 291. Now, they might like, if the S&P is running, they're going to let Google run. They're going to let Google go. Uh, EOSC just went green. Cipher just went green. Dude, how many times has this happened over the past three weeks? We dump at the open, we chop around a little bit, and then we go green, and then we dump again a little bit later, and then we go green, and then either we end red or green. It's a coin toss going into the end of the day. But it feels like that playbook could be playing out again today. Elements going green, you got the healthcare names going up. UNH is green, Oscar's green, CNC is green. Netflix has officially split. Netflix is split uh $110 a share. Still a $470 billion market cap, but if you own a share of Netflix, you now have 10 shares. ESTs, that one just went green. Oracle very close to going green. S&P 67238. Uh VIX is still high. You're right. The VIX is still over 20 right now. I mean, we'll see if that comes down if we get a little bit more of a move in the broader market. Not everything is going up, but you do have stuff that's trying to find a little bit more of a bottom right here. Micro strategy also going green as well at 200.75. Yes, I got 10 shares of Netflix based on that one share I bought last week. That's why you couldn't even trade Netflix last night on the overnight markets because they were going through the split. Buy one, get 10 free. I mean, to me, it's a it's a hell of a deal that uh that they put out there. Micron. Wow. 260 on Mr. Micron. That's incredible, dude. That's incred Micron. What a name. Just one of the best semiconductor names all year. Literally one of the best names all year. Year to date, this thing is up 200% 197% for Micron. Google, are we at alltime highs? Google. Uh 29243 is the 52-W week high. 29243. So very close to breaking through those alltime highs. M I think you found the infinite money glitch. Yeah, dude. I think I found the infinite glitch. Uh Regetti right there 2564. Nebia is going green as well up 3%. Micro strategy that's up 1%. Arms up a little bit. And then Micron that's up four. S&P trying to actually make a move higher 67250. Pounder 172. Grab going green at 550. Bit mine also potentially going green at 34. Hims is green a little bit. And then Ethereum almost at 3200. Is hood above 120? Do we make a move above 120? Not yet. 11938. Very close. Very very close to getting there. AMD goes green as well. 247 as we continue to hold on to a bit of momentum. All right, so here's the question then. Here is the question for a lot of people. I'm curious what people are thinking because there were a variety of podcasts I heard this weekend that were just unbelievably bearish about the state of AI and it is. Uh, by the way, 53% of you said we would go red today. Here's the question. Do we have a Santa rally? Yes or no? I define Santa rally as S&P 7,000 or at least very close to 7,000. I mean, that would be a legit rally from these levels, which again, S&P is still up 15% year to date. It's not like it's in some horrendous territory. It's just some of these other names have been hit pretty bad, which is why people are feeling it. But you're not necessarily in a bare market this year. I think there's two scenarios. I think you get a Santa Claus rally if the labor market data is bad enough to justify a rate cut but good enough to not say that corporate earnings are going to be meaningfully hit next year and the Fed actually ends up cutting. Um I think the way we don't get that Santa rally is if the Fed looks at that data and says we don't care. we don't think we can cut, which again, it is unfathomable that the Fed thinks that inflation is a bigger concern than the labor market right now. Or they think that the labor market declines won't necessarily lead to deflation because if people don't have jobs, they're not going to be spending money. And boom, there's your argument, your natural hedge around inflation going down. Like I I I really can't believe that they care that much more about inflation at this stage of the cycle. But that's what the Fed presidents have been saying. And you got a bunch more Fed presidents talking today. Hey, I mean if they say some more hawkish things about a rate cut that could also potentially be an impact on market. But the fact that the probabilities are now lower than 50%. I think that's going to define it guys. I really do. I think that decision will define if we end up having because Nvidia is going to crush earnings. Big tech has already crushed earnings. It's not like we need Google to put up better numbers. They had a perfect quarter three weeks ago. It's it's part of the reason why you know Bergkshire probably realized that investing in Google is a good idea. Google right there 29224 as that's up 6% on the day I think it really comes to the labor market now not really the AI trade if we if it's not going to be a rate cut in December it'll be January well the problem with January is that we have to deal with this whole shutdown fiasco again which is also very annoying micron by the way up 5% now on the day there will be another negotiation starting January 30th or if we can't negotiate there will be a shutdown starting January 30th, which is only a couple months away. So that is also something where naturally I think the markets could be a little bit afraid, anticipating that into the end of the year. So that's something I think people are going to have to watch out for. Ethereum right there 31.88 is that was green. Yeah, the 13F filings were before Google earnings. My point is just like I think Bergkshire kind of, you know, I think Bergkshire has a lot of smart people that work there and they probably did some work on Google and they had probably had a feeling that Google was going to deliver some of the best Mac 7 earnings. I mean, I think objectively outside of Nvidia because we haven't had the earnings yet. The best Mac 7 earnings were Google and Microsoft was good. Meta was really good, but obviously Meta, you know, the capex guide is scaring people. Um, Apple was good relative to Apple's historical performance, but Google just knocked it out of the park. I can only imagine. I mean, when do you guys think Berkshire started studying Google? Because like like for example, when when Bill Aman bought Netflix, they spent a year in 2021 researching Netflix. He had like I don't know. I think I think he he had an interview at the time. I think he had like 25 to 30 junior level researchers at Persian Square just like day in and day out study Netflix before they finally made the decision to buy and then they ended up selling at the bottom. But nonetheless, they took a lot of time to uh you know make the decision. I think for the past year, Google has been thinking or Berkshire has been thinking of Google. Like probably since 2024, they've had a team of analysts just like trying to understand the business as well as they could. And then probably around that 180 to 220 price around Q3, they pulled the trigger of 17 million shares and they bought the googs and now I think they're in. I think they're going to be in for a long time. I really don't think it's going to be a quick flip and maybe they keep adding to the position as well. But it is unlikely for Birkshire to chase a name like that when it's, you know, approaching three trillion in market cap, which is what made it such a big deal, I think, over the weekend when it was disclosed. Coinbase right there, 274, that's down 3.4%. Gemini 3 is also launching this week. That's going to be very important. And you got a lot of people excited about Gemini. Uh, Dualingo 178. Wow, that's the lowest Dolingo's been. Right. I think that's the lowest of the year for Duolingo. By the way, here's the heat map. As you can see, the market obviously loves Google today. That's one of the only tech names that's green. Wow, dude. They really took Duolingo down to an absolute bottom 178. 2019, Buffett regretted not buying Google. Yeah, there are interviews with Munger and Buffett together talking about how they missed out on a business they really loved, which was Google. I mean, they had nothing but praise for it back in 2019 when they were asked about it. And five years later, they have made the made the purchase. I do not own Dolingo. Again, I have Dualingo in my stock draft ETF. I do not actually own the stock. If anyone actually read my deep dive, at the end of the deep dive, I concluded it's not a buy. and I gave my reasons for why. Um, but it is pulling down my stock draft ETF. Um, look, the AI narrative is still hurting Dualingo. It's just that simple. I mean, the numbers, if you looked at their last earnings, there wasn't really a red flag on their earnings. I didn't go that deep into it, but everything was up and to the right. The only red flag is investors really think that a Google translate or a chatbt is going to take away a lot of the moat, if you think there is a moat on Dualingo. I don't necessarily believe that's the case. After doing my deep dive, I think there is like a lot more to the to the network effects that Duolingo has along with their proprietary data set. But I don't want to be in a name that has that type of narrative, especially because it's Dolingo. Like it's not like it's not the most excit language learning. There's a lot of other things that have consumered businesses that have, you know, massive network effects that are benefiting from AI that aren't as basic to me as learning a language. And learning a language matters. S&P 673 high of day like that's important but it's not as important as a lot of other things in my opinion and so you know that's why I thought that holding on to this stock because it's not like the cheapest stock in the world and so if you're buying a stock that has a crappy narrative on it you got to really believe there's some asymmetric opportunity right there and you know that's why I just didn't want to hold on to dualingo Netflix did split do have the split on Netflix I ran that's also going green as Well, and that's up. Um, Tesla is Wow. Tesla 412. Look at that. Tesla was at 382 on Friday, dude. Tesla was at 382 on Friday as that continues to go green. Oh, close up 3%. All right. So, high beta making a little bit of a turn as well. Amazon, Google, or Meta could rep duplicate Dual Lingo in six-month period if they thought it was going to be profitable. Yeah. See, I don't really agree with that. I I I I think like once you really dive into Dualingo's business, what they've built is not necessarily easy to replicate, even though people think it's easy to replicate. In my opinion, it's there's a moat there and it's hard to replicate that. And that's why the lot of the big tech companies have not meaningfully focused on it. Um, however, the fact that they could replicate it and the market feels that they could replicate it, even though I don't think they would be that successful if they really tried to go after Dualingo. Um, like they would have some success. I don't think they would kill Dolingo, though. But the fact that the market thinks they could do that is enough to, you know, have this stock trading at 52- week lows. And sometimes stocks just have bad narratives. Case in point, PayPal, I mean this they are buying back 10% of the company, but Apple Pay and Cash App and Robin, you've got all these other fintech that are growing way faster than PayPal and you know are just one could argue a bit more innovative than PayPal and the narrative is making a stock that has some of the best fundamentals I've ever seen down 30% year to date. But nonetheless, that's why, you know, there are some opportunity costs in different parts of the market. They could have done that. But yeah, exactly. And Spotify, that's what I wrote in the deep dive as well. Spotify is like, dude, I I miss Spotify at 70 bucks because I thought big tech would just eat Spotify's lunch. Like the record labels already give Spotify a lot of [__] And then you've got Apple Music, YouTube Music that could easily take away. But there was something very special about Spotify that allowed it to sustain itself. I don't know if that exists with Duolingo. My gut tells me there is something like that. But, and this is kind of, you know, when you go deeper into it, it's not music. Music is emotional. Learning a language is cool, but it's definitely not a necessity. And music is not a necessity either. But people that really listen to their music and they have their playlist, I mean, they'll pay whatever you have to pay per month to keep everything in one place because music is a very emotional thing for people. That could be a bit of the nuance. Ethereum right there, 3200. In it is down 1%. In it was one of the top three names that was sold by hedge funds as of Q3. Nvidia potentially going green. 18875 on Nvidia trying to make its run back to 190. Tesla having a really good move. Tesla did get an upgrade this morning to four um no to 500 by Stiffel. Uh and they said 508 from 483. They said robo taxi progress continues in Austin and the Bay Area with management planning to expand 8 to 10 metropolitan areas by year end 2025. FSD14 appears to be working well. We note a potential pull forward of deliveries that could weigh on fourth quarter 2025. CEO Elon Musk remains optimistic on the long-term prospects of Optimus. Elon did say Optimus could solve poverty over the weekend. Uh and then they increased their IBIDA forecast to about 19 billion and their 2027 EBIDA estimate to about 21 billion. They say Optimus is worth 29 a share. FSD is worth 186. Rootax is worth 158. Core Ibida worth 134. When you add those together, you get $58 on a sum of the parts valuation. And that's why Tesla is going green. $415. Palunteer goes green as well. Robin very close to going green. Palanteer like 20 cents away from going green. It did hit 174. And Nebius pushing 90. Nebius as well. Going green. Up 6% right here. Google, is that a new alltime high on the Googs? I think that's a new alltime high. Yep. New alltime high on the Google. There you go, folks. 29390. Wow. On Google up 6%. Google just added $210 billion in market cap. 3.54 trillion on the Googles. Bitcoin as well giving you a little bit of a run at 95.4. I mean, okay. So, I guess as soon as the market opened and we tanked, you're getting a reversal right here. I would not be surprised if this reverses back down, but very similar to what we saw on Friday, right? Friday pre-market's ugly. 9:30 was ugly. By around 9:40, markets kind of pivoted. You're potentially seeing something like that today. Tesla right there. A lot of money coming to Tesla. 4:15 on the day. I talked about Bill Aman's tweet last night. We spent plenty of time talking about Bill Aman's tweet. It was uh quite the tweet over the weekend. So, shout out to it. Had nothing to do with stocks, but it was uh incredible dating advice. Uh Dell and Nvidia. Dell advances enterprise AI innovation with Nvidia. Okay, so you have a headline right there on Dell. The downgrade on Dell this morning is also upsetting the stock. Morgan Stanley cut them to 110. Huh. Dell right there down 5%. It was down seven. Um, yeah, they're basically saying we think they're going to have lower margins. We think they're going to have a worse EPS. Uh, they're decreasing their fiscal year 2027 margins by 220 bips and lowering their EPS targets by 12%. That's why they're cutting their price target by 23%. 144 to 110. That's what's hurting Dell right now. I I I I don't think it's A lot of people are asking about what do you think about Teal selling his Nvidia. I think people are reading way too much into it, particularly on Teal. I know he's a big name, but if you understand Teal's history of like selling stock, he sells stock a lot. Like he sold a lot of Meta before they became a $2 trillion company. He sold a lot of Pounder before they even became a hundred billion dollar company. like he is not a fan of holding on to stocks. So yeah, I wouldn't read too much into it. I mean, at the end of the day, you're going to have people that take their profits. Same thing with SoftBank. You know, they took their profits after a long time of folding. S&P high of day 67340. Um, but you know, maybe he's selling because he thinks 5 trillion is too much. That could be an argument as well. He thinks 5 trillion is unsustainable. If you look at Nvidia's earnings growth, trades at 27 times earnings for 2027. I mean, that to me just does not feel incredibly expensive or bubbish, but they've got to live up to the earnings growth expectations to continue holding on to this this price target as well. Quantum goes green. You're seeing a lot more risk on that's coming on to the market here today. And why is Beammen are down? Well, Ethereum obviously over the weekend did get hit. Is Ethereum going green today? No, Ethereum is still red. A lot of this is going to depend on Ethereum price action towards the end of the year to see if any of these crypto names move. I mean, same thing with Micro Shed and Bitcoin obviously. Oaklo going green as well. A little bit more risk on Appetite 100.65 that's up 3%. ESB's up 2%. They had earnings last week 1110 and then Amazon 233 that is slightly slightly red. Do you like Zeta or DLO? I don't know enough about DLO. I do think Zeta is cheap. Like objectively, I think a lot of the metrics on Zeta going up into the bright are exciting, but DLO had a great earnings. I don't know why they were down on their quarter. They had a pretty good earnings. Der, they're up about 1.1%. But I do think Zeta is relatively cheap. Soundown right there. That's down 1%. Open Doors is down two. Beyond Meat's up a little bit. Wee bowl continues to get just destroyed. Dude, this thing was barely holding above 11. Now it's barely holding above eight, down 2.2%. Big bear again, they beat on the top and the bottom line, but they're growing negative 20% year-over-year. I just it's hard for me to understand the excitement around a AI company that's not growing. I mean, the whole point of AI is to grow like like it's it's the it's the next industrial revolution and they're growing negative 20%. So, I think that's why that one's getting hit. But obviously, you know, it's very high beta momentum. So, if that comes back, you could have a a reversal. McDonald's right there 305 then Coca-Cola 7104 that's flat as well. Um, ESBET that's up 1.6. Bitcoin 94.6. Where is ETH? Are we actually red on ETH? ETH is no ETH. I'm seeing red down 1.1%. Very small candle, but little recovery from the low 3100s. Okay, so that's what we got on some of the price action. Let's see some of the other headlines we've got going on. See if we get any macro data today. We did have Canadian data. Let me pull that up real quick. Um, Canada CPI 2.2 versus 2.4. So, you got Canadian CPI year-over-year coming down. Core was 2.9 versus 2.8. A little bit higher on core. And then month over month was 2 versus 0.1. A little bit up month over month. So, you are getting Canadian inflation a bit more under control, which is not too bad. Um, we talked about the Japanese. They are printing $110 billion. So, that's going to be a lot more for Japan in terms of their stimulus, which could have an impact on the yen carry trade. I do have a video of that high IQ Bitcoin dude giving out his price target. So, I've never heard this guy speak. So, I mean, let's take a listen to him and have him give us a good price target on Bitcoin.
>> As world's high record holder, I expect Bitcoin is going to $220,000. In the next 45 days, I will use 100% of my Bitcoin profit to build churches for Jesus Christ in every nations as world's high.
>> Okay. So this is the uh the highest or the smartest man in the world as measured through the highest IQ and 220,000 the next 45 days. Dude, if Bitcoin I mean if he's right, we all got to give him a lot of praise. 220 in 45 days. That would be pretty well. That's my quant, dude. That is my quant. 94,628 on Mr. Bitcoin. Micro strategy getting a little bit of love. BMR still down 2.2 and then Nvidia trying to go green. 71% of you said yes, we are still going to have a Santa rally. So 71% still feeling rather optimistic that the Santa Claus rally will end up uh taking place. By the way, 60 Minutes did a great piece on uh Anthropic last night and I was watching some of it. And it was quite incredible. Anthropic has literally trained Claude to to be a business owner and manage a a vending machine inside of the headquarters. And it's kind of crazy how the AI was talking about like replicating a CEO, right? And having to deal with all the implications of um being a business owner. And at one point early on in in the journey uh of of starting this vending machine business, Anthropic actually like they shut down the business because they went 15 days without sales. And so the AI was like, "Hey, I need to shut down my business because I'm unprofitable." But they paid for some subscription that was still getting charged to the bank account. And the AI contacted the FBI to report an illegal cyber hack of their business based on this like $5 a month ancillary subscription that was still getting charged to the bank account. And it was just kind of crazy how intense the situation became based on uh based on how the AI was thinking of the business. So obviously the AI is not really good at managing a business because you wouldn't call the FBI for forgetting to cancel a subscription. But the point is it's getting better and better and better and anthropic is really focused on training and looking at the guard rails of how this is playing out. I mean it it just goes to show how crazy this AI is going to become over the coming years. And uh the other thing that you know Daario the CEO of Anthropic mentioned he's not backing away from this statement. He said 20 to 40% of white collar jobs entry-level jobs will be gone in the next 5 to 10 years. You know Sam Alman has not said anything like that because obviously I think Sam Alman doesn't want to scare people. Uh and you know Dario was actually one of the researchers at OpenAI in 2021. He left to start anthropic because I think he was and this is you know been said by many other people that left OpenAI. I think he was annoyed that Sam Alman was not optimistic enough or sorry pessimistic enough on the downside effects of what AI would do for society. So in the face of it hurting his business, you got the anthropic CEO clearly saying that AI will take away a lot of entry-level jobs and the implications for society is yet to be seen but he is saying that is possible. Micron right there 257 then Nebius 8854 that is green on the day um if AI can run a whole business it gets kind of crazy well the AI is getting better I mean because that was in the early days of starting the vending machine now the AI can like actually track their P&L statement actually do customer relationship vendor management I mean there's a lot of improvements that they were showing they've made but eventually it's going to get good enough to run its own business. It's going to get good enough to do a lot of things. Open Door down 2.8%. And that is something that I think is going to be really important for the entire market to kind of grapple with when that does take place. Um, retail and tariff update. Let's take a look at what we've got going on here. Again, Trump did um roll back a bunch of different tariffs. We have some of the construction spending data. Let's take a look at this and then let's get an update on some of the retail tariffs that we have going into this week.
>> Consumers into the holiday shopping period. I mean, this is a heavy week for for retail reporting. Starts with Home Depot tomorrow, Lowe's and TJX and Target on Wednesday, Walmart, the big one on Thursday along with Gap and Bath and Body Works, Dick Sporting Goods, which has been a good performer because we want to know what the heck is happening with the consumer. There are questions about affordability. their questions about auto delinquencies, you know, as we as we've seen in some of the data, questions about slack in the labor market, all of that. Perhaps why the the White House did go through with something we were we were looking for and they were teasing last week, which is tariff relief on certain agriculture products to try to make it a little bit easier at the grocery store. So, what's included in some of this tariff relief roll back? Coffee and tea, beef, bananas, oranges, and tomatoes, cocoa, and spices. And and these are some of the products where we've seen the heaviest increases going back a few years, but those price gains are cumulative. They don't they don't come down. And so people are still really feeling the shock of these higher prices at the grocery store. Interestingly, Bank of America put out a note saying who would be the winners in the consumer space of some of these tariff roll backs. Some of the companies that have had to deal with a lot higher costs on some of these these pro uh these products and coffee, Smucker, Craft Hind, Curig, Dr. Pepper, they say will be winners from this new policy. spices, McCormick, Toco, Hershey. So, some clear winners in the in the corporate space. And then, of course, the White House is hoping that that makes things feel a little easier for consumers, too. But obviously to our discussion earlier, inflation is is broad and and there are other pockets of it. They're worried about housing inflation as well. That's why they're pitching this 50-year mortgage rate, whether that works or not or whether that's feasible. You can you can tell they're clearly thinking about it,
>> right? In addition to direct stimulus, uh Besson once again on the weekend show is talking about the prospect of a $2,000 check, which kind of confusing. It might take the form of existing tax cuts. You're going to need Congress. There's been some push back there, but they're definitely on the affordability kick as you mentioned.
>> Yeah, they're going to need Congress for that. Is
>> they are going to need Congress for that. This whole 2000 dividend is not going to just get printed out of thin air. I mean, technically it might, but you're going to need Congress to approve the printing of it if it does take place. Amazon right here. Lows of days. Amazon potentially breaking 230. It did for a second. 229.81. But again, this affordability argument continues to be very important for the administration. It seems like they're focusing on this S&P very close to going red on the day. So, whatever little pump that we got about 10 minutes ago, potentially reversing. And that's kind of been the story of the past couple weeks. Going up, going down within about 30 minutes of itself. We talked about it this morning. I think this is the reason why pre-markets went red. And there's probably some other reasons, but I think the difference between last night and this morning was this headline. Amazon kicked off a six-part US dollar high-grade bond sale. They're only raising 12 billion, which is, you know, a couple pennies for Amazon. But, you know, they're raising money from the bond market. And I don't think the stock market likes to see these companies that pretty much financed all of this over the past couple years without the credit markets now tapping the credit markets. And you know, I was looking at some stats over the weekend. If we did not have the capex boom, Tesla still holding 415 that we had over the past couple years, like 50% of our GDP growth, and you know, some economists are estimating more than 50%, but at a bare minimum, 50% of that was capex. If we didn't have this capex spend, we'd be in a recession, at least in the United States. Like there there would be no exciting momentum. And and that's, you know, pretty obvious, right? like whenever you have any level of massive stock market boom or GDP growth, it's through some industrial investment. So all the AI capex stuff is is it makes sense for it to be correlated with that. But if that didn't happen, it just goes to show where the economy would be. And so that's why I think Nvidia is one of the most important earnings of each quarter now is because Nvidia is the the epicenter of all that GDP growth through capex being manifested. And that's why they've got to continue to put up good numbers. And I think Nvidia will put up really good numbers this week. It's just the labor market is a lot more important and I think that's what people care about. Austin says, "Other industries tap credit without a problem, but if tech companies do it, everyone freaks out." Yeah. Again, I I like I don't understand why Amazon raising 12 billion is scary, but nonetheless, the market hates it. If anything, the tech companies have the best balance sheets to be able to pay it off compared to other business models. market still doesn't love it right here. Um, why is Nebis down after every earnings? Every analyst upgraded the price after. You know, that's a great question. It's a question I asked myself around a variety of stocks. The the answer I think I can give is that Nebis is stuck in the data center bucket. And right now, the data center bucket because of Oracle's credit default swaps spiking 200 bips last week. I mean, it's just not pretty, right? You got a lot of investors buying protection because they think that Oracle or some of these other data center players are going to default on their bonds and that's hurting a lot of these other companies that are using debt to finance the data center buildout. Even if their debt profile is relatively strong like an Nebius, you're going to get lumped in to that category. ARM that's up 1% Micron that's still up 2.8. Robin lows of day 117. Robin Hood I think is going down because of crypto. That would be my bet right here. Bitcoin below 95 and then Ethereum below 3200. Rocket Lab, are we holding at least 40 on Rocket Lab? 4382. The lowest it went to was 41 last week on Rocket Lab. Now we're at 43. That was I think another concern a lot of us had on Friday is like was that a sympathy bounce that we got on Friday or was that anything structural and it really did feel sympathy like it just felt like the market was not going to let it go that low uh when we were at 663 but it didn't feel like there was some like you know amazing headline that got the market to feel super secure about the state of labor the state of data transparency the AI trade yada yada and so I think the choppiness continues until Nvidia earnings potentially and until we get some more of this jobs data which could flip the probabilities for a Fed cut from less than 50% to maybe above 50%. Wow, Nvidia loads of days. 18670 18670 10 a.m. slam every day. Yes, 7 a.m. for those on the West Coast. Look, the jobs data, by the way, I think we all know it's going to suck. It's not going to be good. But I think we just have to rip the band-aid off and like, you know, we have to like the market has to see how bad it is and then the Fed has to see how bad it is because the Fed apparently needs to be spoonfed like a baby the data. But once they finally see it, maybe that will be enough to say we need to cut rates. But that's going to take another couple weeks until we get that data. So far right there, 2735. That one continues to go down 1.65%. VIX coming back up. That's correct. VIX is going to big green. Is BMR below their NAV? I don't know. You have some people saying yes, other people saying no. I think it's closer to being below than it's not. Um, but we got to get this this share count update and we got to get an update on why they haven't staked their Ethereum. I think those are the two biggest questions B and our shareholders are looking for. It's like why aren't they staking yet? And there might be a legitimate reason why. I just like I don't think it's been properly answered. And then two, how many shares outstanding exist on this company so we can calculate some basic metrics. I think you're going to need those things to get a lot more people to like understand what's going on with the name. Google right here losing 293 but still holding 5% on the day at 290. Um, MSTR is below. I don't think MSTR is below its nav. Is it? You can go on their website and immediately find out because they have everything there. Um, no, it's at 1.19. That's for what I'm looking at. 1.19. It's getting close, but not below their nav yet. See, this is what BMR needs on their website. They just need something like this. just like lay out all the facts. Very simple. And then I think you get a lot more transparency. Granted, it might not be updated. So that's why you guys are saying it might be below one. I think we get jobs data next week. Next week is what we're looking for for this jobs data. And once we get that, we should have a much better understanding of kind of what's going on here.
>> That's key. Just as far as overall, you know, there is a lot of negativity and and certainly the consumer discretionary stocks have traded down into the holiday period. There is this great chart on holiday spend so far and again it's it's very early. It's not even Thanksgiving yet, but 2025 is the obviously the line that doesn't go all the way to the end. And and we're we're actually tracking pretty decently so far compared to last year and the year before. there's the spikes into the holiday of the last few years, which were strong years. Um, so if we can keep at this pace, all things should be okay and certainly better than feared. We'll continue to monitor things like that. But that's from from Bank of America, which looks at everybody's card spending data.
>> And I think NRF has had some pretty bullish forecasts too for holiday.
>> Yeah, NRF is is largely positive as well. I think the problem is a lot of it is being driven by the high income consumer. I mean, that's that's where the spending is done about half the spending in the in the country and they're benefiting from the higher stock prices and everything because we've done a lot of charts lately showing the the gap between high income and low income who gets hurt harder on inflation that does that don't participate in the upside of the stock market that get hurt harder when wages aren't going up as fast. So, that's been that's been the issue, but overall spending has held up because of that.
>> Indeed. Let's turn to the markets. Kind of mixed here in early trading. Our next guest has an op-ed out in the times today comparing the current US economy to a Jenga tower that's propped up by spending from wealthy consumers and AI companies. Joining us here this morning at Post9, former Bridgewater chief investment strategist Rebecca Patterson is back. It's great to see you, RP.
>> Good to see you.
>> So, Jenga doesn't sound too good. Can you talk about it?
>> Sure. I mean, the Jenga tower could keep getting taller before it topples. We know economic cycles eventually it topples. What what spurred me to write this is when you think about the supports for the economy right now as you just said AI and the high-end consumer it's kind of it right where small businesses have gotten hurt
>> by the way she's right about that I mean AI and the high-end consumer is what's propping up the economy there's I don't even think there's a debate around that there's not that much going for this economy besides you got this massive AI spend and then you have the wealth effect that's leading to people buying stuff because their stock prices have gone up over the past couple years.
>> They're 97% of all importing companies in the United States. So, they've gotten hit by tariffs. They're cutting headcount. They're getting harder hit on sales. Um, all companies are cutting back on labor generally. So, that hurts consumption, which puts even more pressure on the high end. Um, so you're you're seeing more of the supports for the economy just getting wobbly or being pulled out, which means that we're riding on a very narrow support, which at the end of the day is AI directly and indirectly. If it holds up next year, there's no reason why it can't. We're going to have another okay year.
>> So asset prices staying high, affluent customers, and the AI spend. Can any of those things go away and we'll still be all right?
>> No. No. That's the problem, right? So if the AI capex hits constraints, whether that's uh power constraints, labor constraints, what whatever it is, um that would be a big shock to the stock market given that they're driving so much of the stock market. Stocks come down that affects the high-end consumer's ability to spend. Even if AI is fine, let's say there's something else that causes high-end consumers to get more cautious. Maybe the Fed doesn't cut as much. Maybe it's geopolitical. It could be anything. if they get more cautious and aren't buying equities or decide to take some profit that pulls down the stock which hits AI companies big in a bigger way. Right? So all of these things are linked together and you need all three of them to stay firm for this party to keep up.
>> I would add a third one. I've been trying to make a point which is the Fed and and easier policy. The Fed has the same data that we do showing that the pillars what's propping up this economy is AI spend high income consumer. Therefore, how do they justify not cutting interest rates where the rest of the economy is hurting and weakening?
>> Yeah. I mean, you guys watch this just like I do. The labor market, you've got mixed signals, right? The Challenger and Gray layoff announcement report was scary. I mean, that was the worst report we've seen in a couple decades. But then you look at weekly jobless claims and they're okay. So, how how is the labor market just softening and we have less hiring or is there something more sustained and dangerous that could come?
>> Less hiring. Why wouldn't they make policy easier in that environment?
>> Well, because inflation is still a point above where they want it to be and they don't want to lose inflation credibility. And as we go into next year, we already know we're going to have higher electricity prices, higher medical prices, um, higher insurance prices, and companies are telling us they're going to pass through more tariff prices next year despite Trump's latest moves on food and stuff. So inflation, it's not clear. I mean, I know Jefferson, I believe, came out this morning and said, "Okay, we're making progress." I don't think the Fed is convinced that we're we're on a steady track to get to two, which is why they're so
>> But isn't it easier to reverse course on inflation and stop cutting or raise rates if they have to on inflation than if they lose the job market?
>> If we hadn't gone through 2122 with inflation getting away from the Fed and them having to to adjust, I think I think that would be the reaction. I think because of that instance, they're probably a little more scared. I don't want to use that word because more cautious about taking that step now.
>> Look, I think there's some fair points right there. I think 1,00% she is correct that the economy is being held up by asset prices that have appreciated which a lot of us here are the beneficiaries of and that's why we've potentially made different purchases which have helped fuel the economy. Um, and the reason those assets have appreciated is because of two letters A and I. If anything breaks on those two narratives, aka asset prices go down, even if AI stays strong, you're going to have people probably not spending as much, uh, and and that's not going to be subsidizing the lower-end consumer that's not or that's already not spending. Um, and then if the actual AI trade gets hit, which you know that I really am not as concerned about just given the data, given the earnings guidance we've seen, obviously that could hurt stock prices and then it results in the same effect of not spending as much. So those are two really important parts of the economy. It goes back to this whole bifurcated argument, but we need the data to have any level of reasonable analysis on how bad it is. Because as she said, even if the jobs report is bad, but jobless claims, for example, are nowhere near recessionary claims, which is around 350,000 a week, if we're still stuck at around 240, 250, that means the labor market is weakening, but it's not deteriorating, which justifies a cut, but it also doesn't justify a panic because unemployment is going to like 7% anytime soon. you know, we're still only at four and a half% front play. I think the number one thing though is if the Fed is really stubborn about this 3% versus 2% inflation target, then you know that creates a lot more complications on if they're actually going to give us this cut. Rock Lab continues to get hit right here. Rockab 4363 got to 4360 at the lows. That's down 4%. Tesla somehow holding on to green. I guess the market got excited by some of the upgrades this morning, but Tesla is still above 411. Um, Fed President Jefferson says, "Do not think crypto and other innovations will influence the Fed's ability to do monetary policy as long as the Fed keeps pace with what firms and households want to do." Yeah, you got a lot of these Fed presidents that continue to be pretty damn bearish on a rate cut. I just can't believe it flipped this quickly, dude. like it flipped so quick like less than three weeks ago robing a low of day is 117 we were all looking at a guaranteed December cut and I know pal came on the FOMC and he said hey you know don't expect a December cut we're still looking at all the data but it went from we're looking at the data and all of us being like okay sure we get it you have to look at the data to like yeah we're likely not going to cut and they haven't explicitly said that but that's basically what they're saying and I guess you're going to need some pretty important and data to switch their mind. But dude, I I S&P 7000 without the cut is just tough. Is it possible? Yes, it's just a little tough. BMR down 4% right there. And then again, you know what? What are the reason why I think asset prices have really taken a a bit of a breather over the past couple of weeks? It comes down to this idea of a fundamental shift in the economy around the lower-end consumer really starting to make people wonder. Is it enough to expect the earnings growth that we've seen over the past two years if more and more people say we're going to stop going out to eat or we're going to, you know, not take out a personal loan because we can't afford to pay the interest on it or we're going to go delinquent on credit card debt. I was showing these charts last night and you know these charts have been pretty consistent over the past couple months. Unfortunately, delinquencies are rising and there's no way to kind of deny how much they're rising. And again, it's on the lower end of the consumer. These are percentages of balances that are 90 days plus delinquent. As you can see right there, 12.4% of credit card balances are 90-day delinquent, high since highest since 2011. Auto loans hit 5% 90 days delinquent. That's highest in 14 years. And then student loans 10% delinquent, the highest since or the second highest since 2020. Like I don't know how the Fed looks at that and says we inflation's the bigger concern. I mean this in and of itself is deflationary. If you have a lot less people putting money into the system and obviously a lot less demand because of the delinquencies on existing loans, you're going to get a natural decrease of prices. Now the tariff stuff complicates it and that's why Trump is pulling back some of the tariffs which is fair but obviously I think this is the biggest issue in the macro right now. Pounce right there 170 and then Google at 289 on the day. Tom Lee better leave the country soon. Oh man, look, when you're a public figure and you publicly pitch a name and that name gets hit by 50%, obviously you're going to get a lot of [__] for it. I just think they need to be more transparent about basic things like how many shares they have outstanding. I mean, I I you know, at the end of the day, people can blame whoever they want, but they have to blame themselves for their own decisions, which is fine. It's just I think a little bit more transparency would help. And then, you know, he needs to be right on this thesis that crypto is deleveraging right now, which is why you're seeing the pain, not that we are entering into a structural bare market, which I don't even think Tom knows. I mean, you know, like at the end of the day, everyone's just making their best guess using the data that they have. Um, and his argument is that it's a structural delever, not necessarily a beginning to a bare market. And at the end of the day, yeah, like you know, crypto is volatile. So, crypto being volatile is going to lead to volatility up or down. Um, Tom Lee buys a one-way ticket to Mars. Oh my gosh. Google right there, 289. That's up 4%. We're not seeing a ton of weakness on the indices. S&P is down 27 cents. I mean, there's nothing real there that's going down, but some of these other names are still getting hit.
>> Rebecca, I feel like we could have made this illusion to Jenga Tower any number of times over the last 25 years. I mean, is there anything in particular that distinguishes this period from others where we might have similarly said, well, it's relying on one or two different things or three different sectors and not broadly speaking sort of a a robust economy. Well, I think we've had some big market pullbacks that were the result of similar Jenga towers. So, when you think about the the fracking and the shale revolution buildout for the oil market and we had huge spending and then suddenly they were borrowing too much and investors said, "Wait, we changed our mind. We don't want production. We want strong balance sheets." That was a a baby Jenga tower collapsing. I think
>> although it didn't necessarily impact the broad economy as much as perhaps AI making a change in 100%. But I agree that was more of a sectoral issue that had some implications for parts of the economy. I think what makes this one a little different is the degree of the concentration. Such a small number of companies driving the overall market and the reliance on that high-end consumer. Again, it's more degree. We've always had inequality. We've always had disparity, unfortunately, between higher and lower. But I think the degree of that disparity when 10% the top 10 income earning cohort owns 87% of the stocks that's pretty extreme.
>> You're right. A lot of the charts, the bubble charts are rails in the 1880s, telecom in the 90s, shale and AI and it's all
>> I think if if we're looking for optimism, what gives me optimism that we could have another year of tower building, so to speak, is that the leverage story for these AI companies is fairly nent, right? Most of these companies still have really good balance sheets. the amount of debt that's getting issued. It's getting a lot of headlines, especially some of the structured stuff, but at the end of the day, we're not talking about huge leverage in the overall system. So, that gives me encouragement. The amount of buybacks certainly is a case for optimism. The tax refunds that consumers will get next spring. Now, that's tactical. It's a couple months of more consumer spending probably, but it's consumer spending. So, so I'm not saying the tower is going to collapse tomorrow. I'm just saying whenever you have a concentrated support for an economy or a market, that should be kind of the yellow flag to start thinking about risk management.
>> Does any of this explain the underperformance of XUS stocks this year, which is the worst in a very long time, several years.
>> The underperformance of the S&P versus XUS MCI, however you want to look at it. I think part yes I think there's I think there's an element there just because the valuations of US companies had gotten so high investors are looking for better value elsewhere and then you had some stimulus partly thanks to President Trump right he lit a fire under Germany he lit a fire under Canada a number of countries to do more and I think that's the valuation plus some more stimulus in certain economies and steps in those economies have made their equities look more attractive and the AI spread your bets why is the Chinese market doing so well? It's the AI companies. Why is Germany doing well? It's SAP, you know, Netherlands, it's ASML. So, Korea,
>> right? Exactly. That's right.
>> Is there going to be a tell in this market, Rebecca, that says, uhoh,
>> time to get out.
>> Well, somebody's really starting to pull that block out from the tower. Yeah. Is it going to be the bond prices of certain companies or I don't know. I'm just curious.
>> I don't know. People looking at Bitcoin, you know.
>> Yeah. Well, bit, you know, I was looking at Bitcoin. I don't know is the answer to your question. If I knew, God bless. I could, you know, tell us be killing it, man. Without a doubt.
>> But I think Bitcoin is one to watch actually because look, Bitcoin itself is not going to bring down AI. But a lot of the same retail investors are in both things. And to the degree that levered bets in crypto are causing margin calls and they have to take profit elsewhere to cover those, all else equal, that's going to be a drag on some of the
>> 100%. I mean, at the end of the day, if you're leverage crypto, you're getting margin called. You might have to sell some of your Nvidia to deal with the margin call and you know that could be creating pressure on the broader US stock market
>> tech companies.
>> Yeah, Bitcoin bouncing off 929 this morning, but
>> it's been a big move.
>> Yeah, very big. Was uh what 126? Yeah, just a few
>> few weeks.
>> I think that's a real story, dude. I think people are le the the idea of these perpetual futures contracts and the overall um S&P going green. By the way, again, all of the interest of leverage that has gone into crypto. I mean, I've never levered up a crypto contract. I I barely understand the dynamics of a perpetual futures. Like, I think I understand at a high level, not at a like serious level to actually, you know, go leverage long on a contract. people that have been super leveraged on that if they got liquidated or they got hit with a margin call because they thought ETH was going to 7,000 or Bitcoin was going up like crazy. I mean, obviously, they're going to have to make up for the money somehow. Now, do I think every retail investor is trading pers? No. But there's significant more activity in the retail investor space uh at the intersection of crypto over the past four years. And so you probably have a lot more people that are at least interested and they dabble in it. Maybe they have a couple winning trades and then they get, you know, a little arrogant and they take on some more riskier trades and then they get margin call and they might have to end up selling some of their Amazon or SoFi to be able to to deal with that. So if I right here down about 1.6% Amazon 230, that's down 1.6% as well. It's deleveraging just like how the yen carry trade caused the wide sell off. Yes. Now the the problem is the yen carry trade was done within two hours. Like literally the yen carry trade finished within a couple of hours. Like we barely were we were down 10% on the S. I remember that day we hit 507 on the S&P. That was a 10% move intraday for like two minutes and then it was just a straight V-shaped higher. This crypto deleveraging has lasted for almost a month and a half. I mean, you could say it started on October 10th when you had that $20 billion liquidation and then since then it's just been down, down, down. So, I guess some deleveraging events take longer than others, but it doesn't feel like the yen carry trade because that happened and then you moved on. This one just feels like there's more and more, in the words of Jamie Diamond, cockroaches that are popping up and, you know, that could be creating some more pain. The good thing is ETH's held 3,000. It almost broke that yesterday, but it's held in. And then Bitcoin at least holding 90,000 I think is something that is more beneficial than not. Tesla right here, high of day 417. That's up 3%. That's up 3%. I don't know why Nebius and I are ripping today. Honestly, you would expect them to be down when Nvidia is down, but they are old. I mean, maybe the Google $40 billion Texas data center investment. uh maybe that Amazon raising 12 billion of debt is kind of bullish for some of these neo clouds. So you could just say the data center trade is getting some love today but I don't think there's a specific reason. Now Coreavee again the debt profile on core versus nep fundamentally different but that one getting hit as that one's down. The other big news story over the weekend and I haven't fully dived as deep into it as I need to. I'll try to do it today, but the Fed did have an emergency meeting with a bunch of different banks. Uh, and the Financial Times reported it and to the extent of what I understand from that emergency meeting, it was more about concerns around liquidity and the broader solveny of liquid assets in the banking system. And a lot of it hinges on the idea of do banks have enough money to be able to handle any cracks in the system. Um and again the reason I think that these meetings are taking place and you know the Fed kind of they did it in an emergency way where they didn't have to like fully announce it. So, it's kind of under the radar. But the kind of point of the meeting, I think, is that the Fed is seeing the same data that we're seeing, which is um uh audit delinquencies, credit card delinquencies, and student loan delinquencies being at their highest level ever. Remember JP Morgan, I was looking through their earning statement last last week. Their their their credit for provision losses was um uh 3.4 billion. The market only expected them to come up with three billion. So they allocated another $400 million in case they have to take losses on default loans. Now if they didn't allocate those extra 400 million, they would have been in line with expectations. So the market wouldn't have hated them and they would have boosted their earnings by an extra 400 million bucks. But they decided to be more cautious because as for Jamie Diamond, he thinks there's a lot of cockroaches in private credit and there's a lot of loans that are not necessarily being given to the right people. um and you know he's a bit more cautious on kind of what's going on in the broader credit ecosystem. I think it's it's worth you know and I will try to do as much research as I can over the coming weeks diving into kind of what's going on with the credit ecosystem. I I I don't, you know, the article didn't say that this is 2008 or anything crazy like that, but they did say that there might be loans being given out across the board that probably shouldn't be given out. And that in and of itself could cause some fears in the broader economy. You know, not fears to the point where the markets just completely collapse, but definitely fears where, you know, markets don't go up as they were over the past couple of months as easily. So, I think we're going to have to see. But, uh, that Jamie Diamond cockroach comment, I mean, as soon as that comment came out, you had markets go red. And since then, that comment really has stuck with a lot of people. And now you have a lot more people thinking about what's going on in private credit. Cory right there still down 2%. Tesla 415. Bit mine down 5% on the day. Are we at extreme fear? Are we actually at extreme fear? Yeah. And then, yeah, the Fanny May not requiring credit check anymore to buy homes. I mean, that's not exactly true, but like there's rumors out there that Fanny May is going to really loosen credit requirements. You have the fifth year mortgage. Like, you have a lot of this [__] that's just like it's not smelling good. Like a fifth year mortgage really like no. Like in any we are at extreme fear. We just went to fear 26. We were at extreme fear for a second. Any basic economic analysis of a 50-year mortgage would tell you that it's not worth being in debt for another 20 years, especially when most people are buying their homes now at an average at an average age of 40, not 28 like it was two decades ago for $200 less on your monthly payment. Like, in what world does that make sense? $200 less on your monthly payment, an extra 20 years of interest. Like, it is so stupid objective. Like who actually thinks that makes any sense? But the fact that that's being floated around is really getting a lot of people to call BS on, you know, some of the things that are going on in the economy and obviously some of the things that are going on with the affordability argument. Yeah, it's very lone sharks. Agreed. So I think those are all the reasons. I mean I mean are those are at least some of the reasons for why we are seeing a narrative shift in like the sort of bull market momentum and then crypto going down doesn't help right as a risk on asset granted the AI trade I think is very real. Nvidia earnings are very real. The progress we're seeing in AI is very real. So you have a lot of things that are combating that. It's just they're again this sort of bifrocated economy going back and forth against each other. And the lynch pin of all this is the freaking Fed. if they can just cut and like give a little bit of relief to consumers and to businesses but because that seems unlikely that is the issue that we're seeing right now. Here is uh one of JP Morganists and here's his argument for why we are not in an AI bubble.
>> The US economy is gliding into year end in a pretty good environment right now. Corporate America seems to ab absorb the tariffs pretty well. The consumers doing pretty well. We do expect the Fed to come in and cut rates in December. That would be a nice tailwind as we head into 2026. And the one big beautiful bill act hits.
>> Right. Okay. Here's a timing question though and I've been talking all morning about this uh study that I looked at a chart actually came out of JP Morgan one of your analysts put together showing if you put money into the market at I think it was 23 or 24 times uh price price to earnings ratio historically 10 years later you'd look back and you'd say that you only were really um benefiting in terms of a was I think it was up 2% uh on an annualized basis your return or down 2% was somewhere in the it was it was one of those scatter graphs uh charts. Have you ever seen those?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, the question is where we are right now in the cycle. If you if you were to put money in the market today, whether in an index or something else, and then you and I were to go and have breakfast together in a decade from now,
>> I think you're going to look pretty good. I think you have to appreciate that there are some secular changes underway. Technology, of course, is a big one. You have to look at demographics. the 1991 burst are now the largest demographic. They're 34 years old. They're dominating earning, spending, and saving. You've got, I think, a pretty stimulative macro environment. On the fiscal side, pretty much every government is borrowing and spending. And in the US, you've got easing central bank accommodation and probably some regulatory tailwinds as well.
>> So, we've got Nvidia coming up this week. that seems to be like, you know, the thing everybody's focused on. Would you be doubling down on the Mag 7 or the Mag 10 or whatever you want to call it, or would you be doing something else?
>> When tough question, but I think you have to look at where the money's going. And right now, every company we talk to, and we extend a lot of credit into the system, everyone's gearing up for capex next year. They're looking to ramp up some hiring. They're looking to build out whatever they're doing in AI. They see the effectiveness of it. They want to spend in that area. And of course, they're going to spend at the biggest producers in that space.
>> Do you worry about the credit issues that we you said extending credit into the market and and given the capex spending, there is a question about capex spending and whether it's actually too much in this space
>> given the economics of the folks who ultimately are going to have to pay for it. I think this is one instance where you can look back at the dot era and recognize that a lot of money will be spent in areas that will be fruitless and a lot of money will be spent in areas that will bear fruit. But so what's the lesson though of the do if you we go back to 199 you know seven 8 n what is the lesson of what an investor is supposed to be doing if that if that is the correlary
>> the lesson of the dot is there was a bubble it burst we don't think we're in one now for AI but companies didn't stop spending on Wi-Fi the internet and technology can you imagine if every company out there said I told you so look at stock valuations down. I'm not going to invest in this. It's a hoax. Ridiculous.
>> Bob, I want to thank you for coming in this morning.
>> Always a pleasure.
>> Again, the sort of macro tailwind argument is intact. I think no one's arguing with that. It's a question of the short-term volatility and you know, that's why we're seeing a little bit of that volatility into the markets. Here's the update on Google and Birkshshire as well. By the way, Hood 5% down 11634 really getting hit today as crypto continues to get hit as well. value invested stock picks and Alphabet at nearly 29 times forward earnings might not immediately come to mind as a potential target for the firm. However, as my colleague Yun Lee points out on CNBC.com, Alphabet is actually trading at a lower multiple than many of its AIdriven mega cap peers such as Microsoft, Broadcom, and Nvidia. The Alphabet investment is unlikely to have come from Warren Buffett himself, who is stepping down as CEO at the end of the year. rather it may be either Todd Kums or Ted Wesler who spearheaded the decision. The stake is a sizable one though, 17.9 million shares worth about $4.3 billion at the end of the quarter. It's up 19% over the first six weeks of Q4, thanks in part to that nearly 5% move today. Google's parent company is now a top 10 Berkshire Hathaway holding and the firm's biggest new tech position since its original Apple investment. Alphabet, Amazon, and Apple together comprise about a quarter of Bergkshire's $267 billion stock portfolio. Berkshire maintained Amazon in the quarter, but did pair back Apple by 15%. However, it still remains Bergkshire's top holding worth about $60.7 billion at quarter end. Just a reminder, guys, these positions as of the end of Q3, and they may have changed in the six weeks since then. Uh, you know, it's funny Leslie, we were talking about or Mike was referencing code two, which you also obviously have been covering with the with these 13Fs increasing, but it Alphabet not having been part of I think a report they put out earlier, even though they're not a sellside firm obviously, but you know, in terms of their top 40 and now now it's clearly a buy there. Any sense given I know you just spoke with Philip Lefana delivering alpha in terms of their change of heart? Yeah, he didn't mention um Alphabet specifically in the conversation we had at Delivering Alpha last Thursday. However, in terms of AI and its kind of broader impact, he did express concerns about the impact that AI might have just economically. It was something you were talking about earlier on the 9 a.m. whether it is a real sizable job replacement, what that means for society large. Um so those were some of the main concerns he had about AI. But in terms of Google, visav other AI plays, he didn't exactly get into that discussion at DA, but more kind of from a macro standpoint where he he was focused on with AI.
>> All right, Burkar continuing to buy the googs and that one still going green on the day. Tesla holding on. S&P again is flat. Bit mine and Hood getting hit the worst today. Uh SoFi potentially going below 27 as that one continues to go down. than Amazon right here 230. Zeta down 4% Nebas holding on. Nebas I ran Tesla green in the high beta. Micron also going a big green everything else basically red. Google as well obviously green because of Bergkshire. Um yes Bergkshire also owns Amazon. They bought that a while ago. It's just not as big of a stake as as Google Paliner 170. Yeah, Paliner holding. I mean, look, Paliner again trades at a very aggressive multiple. And so, Paliner is still green. I a lot of these names again, Hoodie, I know it's down a lot from 150, but it's up 195% year-to date. It's the best performing stock on the S&P 500. Same thing with Palanteer, down from 220, but it's up 127% year-to date. So obviously it sucks if you you bought it super super high but then the question just becomes you know was that a good buy and you know at least from my perspective I've not touched hood above 125 because at some point it just became like all right it seems like a lot of momentum here but not really fundamentals backing it up and the earnings were great but still at 150 you know you need time to grow into that same thing with pounder at 220 you need time to grow into that and so I think the best thing over the next year is a lot of these names just kind of stay oscillated within a range It's going to suck for portfolios that are heavily allocated to them like myself. But it is healthy. You know, it's not healthy for Hood to run up to 170 next year for no reason or for Palenteer to go to 300 for no reason. But I think them holding their multiples and just staying in these ranges is also not horrible. Nvidia right there 18776 is that goes green. Doug says hood is a gap filled down at 101. Okay. So, as I do think it hood doesn't deserve to be at 150, I also think it really doesn't deserve to go to $100. So, like the question then becomes, what's the sweet spot for the street to keep it at? And I guess we're going to have to see. Like there are prices where things get stupid up or down. And so, I think at, you know, 117 to 120, that's a decent run after the S&P inclusion on hood. I think that's relatively normal for it to stay there. It did stay there for a couple months until it had that run uh a few weeks ago, but you know, getting to below 100 would be I think quite aggressive. Micro strategy right here, 197 and then Oaklow 100.4. Um, what else do we have? Orbs, is that up today? Orbs, I have not fully understood ever. That's up 8.3%. I mean again I I think biometric engineering of like identity matters. I don't know if it matters that much. So I've never fully understood the orbs thesis but that one is up a little bit today. Nvidia trying to go green on the day 18764 down about 1.3% and then SoFi still down 2%. What do you think of Weeble at 8? I just really don't like the narrative on Weeble. It's cheap maybe. But, you know, if the street's not going to respect Robin Hood's growth by taking away its premium, I I don't know if they're going to love Weeble's growth. So, yeah, it could move. It definitely is a heavy retail trade. The institutions are not deep into Weeble like they are in Hood. What do you think Weeble needs to do to see growth like Hood? Well, again, Hood became a financial institutional powerhouse this year, and I think that's only going to increase next year with the with the advance of of banking. Weeble is just a trading app at the end of the day. Like, and so they need their trading volumes to be really good. And if you look in their earnings, they're not that good. I don't know why people think Weeble is that like the options growth was 8% year-over-year. We're in a massive bull market and they're going 8% on options. How does that make sense? Like why is that attractive to people? So, I think Weeble would have to do a fundamental transformation. And I don't think it's in their DNA to be like a full-on Gen Z millennial institutional powerhouse for finance. I just don't see that easily happening. Then again, it's, you know, approaching three four billion dollar market cap. Obviously, that could be enough to get it to move higher. M once BMR reaches its 5% goal, what then to stake and cause the share price to explode? So, the only thing that will cause BMR to go higher is the price associated with Ethereum. I mean with with Ethereum's price so the the the the premium associated with Ethereum and so I don't even think staking is relevant to be honest. I think what matters is the long-term bullcase on Ethereum which more and more every day all I see is a good thing. I mean still stable stable coin supply on Ethereum is 167 billion out of 350 billion. You're seeing more and more financial institutions choose Ethereum but the price isn't cooperating. I think the broader question should be why is ETH down with all the progress we're seeing on for Ethereum versus why is BMR down because BMR is down because ETH is down right and that I don't fully know that I don't fully know BMR is following a law compared to ET yes I mean that and that is the compression of their MNAV which happens when people get annoyed with the trade right we saw this with Micro Strategy for a couple years before Micro Strategy did the 30x that it did like when Bitcoin was in the gutter and Micro Strategy was acquiring. Micro Strategy was not always trading at a premium to NAV. They were just forgotten. And then once Bitcoin made a move, then everyone started caring about Micro Strategy. So I think, you know, obviously the same thing theoretically could play out for Bit Miner. Uh they should say, you know, it's worse than 120 119. Let's make the dips fun. That's actually hilarious. That's true. What's worse than 120 117 on Hood is 116. Escalator up, elevator down. Look, I think we're really going to need I mean Doug made a good point as well in the chat that the implied move on Nvidia is 300 billion in market cap. So about 7 to 8%. Obviously you have a lot of algos getting ready for what Nvidia earnings will look like and you have the VIX trading around that as well. So whenever you have Nvidia earnings week, the entire market stops and waits to see what numbers Nvidia puts up. I just think a really good Nvidia quarter with no um guarantee of a Fed rate cut might leave us in the same position because it's not like this is Nvidia Allah 2023 where we're trying to figure out if AI is real like like that is that narrative is done with like AI is very real. Everyone knows about that. Now it's about can they sustain the growth. The question becomes, can the underlying economy sustain itself even if Nvidia is growing at the astronomical levels it's growing at? I think that's what the Fed is more concerned about. That's probably what the market's more concerned about. Like, I really don't think this selloff over the past couple weeks or choppiness has been the the AI trade being into question. I mean, in some portions with the debt financing, yes, but I don't think anyone's questioning Nvidia. I think they're questioning can people get a job in the world in which Nvidia is growing at 50%. That to me I think is the the biggest issue. Uh Tom Lee put out a new Bitmine video. Let's actually pull that up. I didn't get to watch it yet. They did say that was up there. Okay. So, let's pull this up. Let's listen to a little bit of what he's saying here as well. Olympics, FIFA, you know, the World Cup, rugby, etc. So let's switch to monetary policy liquidity. That could explain things. You know, whether it's the Fed cutting rates, quantitative easing. I think those are in the near- term definitely important factors. But do they explain the four-year cycle? We could look at M2 supply and see if that explains four-year cycles. In other words, is there a monetary cycle of four years? Well, the reality is if you look at the peak of Bitcoin prices, it has not been affected by Fed liquidity. So, I don't think that's the explanation. Well, let's talk about retail margin debt. Now, this could explain something because we know retail investors were buying Bitcoin in the early days and they continue to, but they're not the only source of flows today. As we can see, a lot of this is institutional money, but you can go to FINRA, hit the margin debt, and this is what the chart looks like. So, I mean, I think it looks a little cyclical. In fact, if I overlay this with Bitcoin's price, they do look somewhat related, but here's the thing. The peaks don't match up. Bitcoin enters a bare market even as margin debt is still going up. Um, so I don't think margin debt really explains Bitcoin's peaks. So that gets us to copper versus gold. Someone on Twitter posted this named AO BTC analyst and I thought it was interesting. This is saying is there a copper gold ratio marking Bitcoin's relationships? Here's why that's interesting. Copper versus gold is a measure of industrial activity versus a fixed monetary base. So when industrial activity is peaking, that's a high copper to gold ratio. Could that signal a peak in Bitcoin's prices? Well, let's overlay that chart. And if we look at the peaks in that ratio, in fact, it does correspond very well with the peak in Bitcoin prices. So I think that this is actually very explanatory. But look at the current ratio. It's not signaling a top. And let's think about ISM manufacturing along that same line. ISM is really the most important measure of US industrial activity. When that index is above 50, the economy is expanding. And when it's below 50, it's in contraction. So the business cycle peaks are marked here. Current reading is 48.7. So the ISM says we're not solidly in expansion territory. And of course
>> Tomley's talking been talking about this ISM argument for a long time. And we've been below 50 for a while. For us to peak in the like of our top to be made, you've got to be massively expanding. And we've been contracting. We've been getting close to 50, but not expanding at the level at what you would imagine would be a peak. So he does have an argument there that there's a lot of business activity yet to be done before you could say that there's some big top.
>> Nowhere near a peak. Well, how does that compare to Bitcoin's price? If you look at the peak in the ISMs, they do correspond really well with Bitcoin's peak in price. In fact, four or four times the major highs in Bitcoins corresponded to an ISM high, but ISM is not signaling a top currently. It's still well below 50. So, here's our take. I think the having cycle worked in the past, but I think there's too many things that are four years. The monetary policy cycle really doesn't explain the four-ear cycle. It explains Bitcoin in the short term, but not on a four-year basis. The speculation cycle doesn't really work because it only explained one of three margin cycles for Bitcoin. Um, but this gold versus Bitcoin versus copper, yes, it does seem to to really be explanatory and it's telling us we're not really near a top because industrial activity isn't peaking. And then finally, when it comes to the business cycle, IM, I think it is actually quite explanatory and again, not a sign of a top. So, our takeaway is the Bitcoin price cycle actually seems to follow industrial activity in gold. And the message currently is, how I wouldn't be giving up on Bitcoin and assuming the price has already peaked. Well, let's talk about Ethereum for a moment. Now, Ethereum uh is continuing to trade in this large base as we're highlighting here. But as you know, crypto suffered a massive liquidation on October 10th and we pointed out that the languishing of crypto prices in the past two weeks since October 10th has the signs of a market maker or maybe more than one having a problem with their balance sheet. That means they need to raise capital. They're of course not taking risk and providing liquidity to markets. And of course, that means sharks are circling because they know there is price vulnerability. They are going to try to force prices down because that would create further problems and and that's where the asymmetry is until the market makers fix their balance sheets. That takes time. Sharks are circling. But this is the message to me. I just wouldn't be using leverage. I don't think this means crypto is broken. And in fact, as you can see on Coin Market Cap's crypto fear and greed index, we're at an extreme fear reading right now. These are levels that you saw at the April tariff lows. So I I don't think this is a time to be panicking. And of course, positive things keep happening on the blockchain. This is Ethereum's block space at an all-time high. Who are stable coin creations on Ethereum at an all-time high and many crypto experts are talking about why Ethereum is really where a lot of people are building. So, um, this takes me back to this fact that I think Ethereum in 2025 is having its 1971 moment. Many companies are building projects on Ethereum and most of the value in terms of tokenized assets are taking place on Ethereum. And that tells me that Ethereum's price to Bitcoin ratio should start to get to its at least its 8-year average and probably get to an all-time high. And that means that if Ethereum gets to its 8-year average price, that's about 12,000 Ethereum. So Ethereum is really undervalued currently. And if it gets to the 2021 high ratio, that's 22,000 Ethereum. And of course, if Ethereum becomes the payment rails of the future, that's $62,000 Ethereum. So you can see Ethereum and its current prices is drastically undervalued. And that gets us to the third topic, which is tokenization. Now, you've heard a lot of people talk about tokenization, but I want to explain why it's a huge unlock. Okay, Larry Frink says we're at the beginning of tokenizing all assets. I mean, he's talking about stocks, bonds, and Vlad at Robin Hood is saying the same thing. Now, there's five reasons why tokenization is important. Okay, it's fractional ownership. It reduces cost and efficiency for managing securities. Therefore, it's better for the investor. It allows 24/7 global trading. You get a lot more transparency and security. And hopefully over time you get increased liquidity. So what does this mean? Well, it means that in 1971, Wall Street was in its earliest stages of innovation. We are here today 2025. But tokenization on Ethereum is going to take us into the future. So what is tokenization? Let's just take a Rembrandt painting to illustrate. And to tokenize it, we can break it into its components. And in theory, someone could just say if they're doing fractional ownership, they just want to own this part of the Rembrandt. Okay, that is fractional ownership. But you can also factoriize on the blockchain. And what does factoriize means? Well, it means taking the painting and then breaking it into its base colors. Okay? And therefore, you can do that with a business. Let me give you an example with Tesla and unlocking Tesla by factorizing it. You can time tokenize Tesla. That means you can buy the earnings on a specific date of a future. You can product tokenize. You can buy the present value of a specific product stream. You can even geographically tokenize. You can buy the present value of a regional portion of Tesla's sales. or you can financial statement tokenize. Now, why am I pointing this out? You need liquidity to create these, but you also need smart contracts, a lot of good technology, and a lot of good code. And that's what's happening on the blockchain. So, here's an example of time tokenization. Tesla's stock price is really the sum of all future earnings. And we know that, for instance, Elon's going to get a 10-year pay package worth a trillion dollars if he delivers value for Tesla's shareholders. Well, what does that mean? That means that you may only want to buy Tesla's earnings in 2036 when he gets the payoff. Well, that's an example of time tokenization. Now, there's a second way to look at this, which is product tokenization. Tesla is comprised of the of the present value of its various streams of EV, robo taxi, prime robots, FSD, solar, and of course, the future, which is Elon's brain. Someone may only want to buy Elon's brain and therefore a tokenized Tesla is a bet on that versus everything else. So, you get the picture. And finally, on digital asset treasury fundamentals, we've talked about this. I mean when you when you pair that together with prediction markets obviously you know I I had no idea prediction markets would become as big of a thing as they've become but if he's this is the first time I've heard tokenization of various different elements of a business which you know with increased liquidity you would have a lot more people trading that stuff but you can already bet on things on poly market for you know two three years in the future I mean if that becomes a massive market along with all the other types of things you could tokenize real estate private credit etc I think that's why you've got people like Vlad getting very excited about tokenization as many times so I'll cover this quickly. There are many ways to increase Ethereum per share you know issuing stock at a premium using equity link securities income from operations earning staking rewards and acquiring other debts and crypto. Ethereum treasury companies are crypto infrastructure businesses. Ethereum is a proof ofstake blockchain. Ethereum generates a staking yield and staking is securing the network. So it is an important function that one would do by staking. And of course eventually stablecoin issuers and those tokenizing real world assets are going to want to stake ETH because they're going to want to have some governance and that's again providing network security. So as you look at our road map we are getting involved with community.
>> All right, that's his argument. Not a lot of people are going to care about all that analysis on a day like this. But nonetheless, you can tell with the amount of research and analysis that Tom is doing that there is uh a pretty sophisticated reason for why he got into this. Will he be right? Time will tell. But obviously, as ETH gets hit, you know, people don't want to hear even anything if the stock price is going down. Google right there, 289. Dell, that's down 6% on the downgrade. Spotify, that's up a little bit. Hoodie bouncing off 116 on the lows, got to 118 again. And Tesla still holding strong, dude. I mean, S&P and Nvidia are red. The fact that Tesla's having a 3% day is really incredible. really really incredible. So Tesla right here continuing to go green. Amazon, did we actually go below 230? Wow. They're taking away everything. They're taking away the freaking 20% AWS growth. They're taking away the OpenAI AWS deal. They're taking it all away. And again, a lot of this I really really do think a lot of this comes down to the labor market and we just need more data to have a better understanding of it. I did this poll on Twitter. I'll show you guys the results and then I'll ask the poll right here in the chat just to kind of get a a read on what people are thinking. This poll got 14,000 votes. So do the same poll right here in the chat. But what what are we thinking for 2026? So three options. Do you think we have um a bare market 10 to 20% down, a bull market 15 to 20% up? By the way, 67% of you said we will have a Santa Claus rally or flat. If we had to pick, what would you pick? Let me pull this poll up in the chat. bull market or flat most people. So 41% of people said bull market and the next highest was uh was bare market is cooked an option. Oh my gosh, dude. At the end of the day, if the earnings are good next year, we don't have to have a crazy crazy bull market, but we don't need to have a disgusting 20. Remember 2022 again to remind people the Fed was hiking. Number one, we cannot forget that you had rates go the highest they've been in 40 years. That was not good for equities. And then number two, you had all this overhiring and glut and fat from COVID from from just like companies that had all this demand because people were staying at home. They had to overhire that they had to get rid of in 2022, which meant the earnings ended up declining. Those were two macro headwinds for the economy. I would imagine 2026, we don't have the Fed raising. Now, the Fed cutting, Fed not cutting might be potentially just as bad, but at least they're not raising. Number one, and then number two, earnings growth is very strong. Now, the labor market could decimate that, but if that's not going to be decimated by the labor market if it's bad, but not horrendous, then you know, Meta, Google, Amazon, they should be able to continue to grow earnings at a pretty accelerated pace. which is why I don't think it has to be a cooked uh bare market type scenario, although obviously it's possible. 415 on Tesla. The majority of you right here voting for bull market. 40% say bull market, 22% say bare, 39% say flat. Tesla got an upgrade. I think that's why it's potentially going up today. But I think that's like the extent of the reason. Um, again, Elon said some good stuff with Ron Baron over the weekend when he had his uh his keynote. He said that uh Optimus could solve poverty, which would be kind of crazy if that happens. And then they talked about Cyber Cab, the nextG chip. I mean, they talked about a lot of stuff, but I don't know if that's enough of a reason why the stock is up. Tesla right there at 415 on the day. Nebus is at 87. That's still up 4%. BMR down 6% on the day. You're seeing an obviously compression of BMR relative to ETH because ETH is not down 6% on the day. ETH is down 3%. Um but ETH trying to hold on to 3,000. Bitcoin well below 94 folks. It was at 95 20 minutes ago. So that went back down to the 93s and then Nvidia at 186. Any thoughts about Steve's tweet about the AI bubble? I think Steve is 1000% correct. I'll link his tweet for those that haven't read it. Um, you know, when you look at the numbers, it's really hard to say we are in an AI bubble. It just really is. And this is not based on narrative. It's not based on emotion. Like, you know, me and Steve have gone through the numbers a million times on the stream, but if you if you read this tweet in the chat, the EPS multiples just don't look like they're in a bubble. I mean again Cisco peaked at 185 times earnings. Nvidia is at 50 right now and Nvidia is growing at a much higher volume than Cisco. So it really begs the question why people think here's a clip I played last night that I also thought this was you know really important but the idea of what's different between now and the dotcom bubble particularly around the technology buildout that's taking place
>> of being a tech investor during the um the year 2000 bubble which was really a telecom bubble and I think it's really helpful to compare and contrast today to the year 2000 um you know first I think uh Cisco peaked at 150 or 180 times trailing earnings Nvidia is at more like 40 times so valuations are very differently very different most important however is that the year 2000 internet bubble or telecom bubble was defined by something called dark fiber um and if you're a veteran of of the year 2000 you'll know what that was but dark fiber was literally fiber that was laid down in the ground and not lit up. Fiber is useless unless you have the optics and switches and routers uh that you need on either side. Um you so I vividly remember, you know, companies like Level 3 or Global Crossing or WorldCom would come in and they say, "We laid 200,000 miles of dark fiber this quarter. This is so amazing. The internet's going to be so big. Um you know, we can't wait to light these up." At the peak of the bubble, 97% of the fiber that had been laid in America was dark. Contrast that with today. There are no dark GPUs. All you have to do is read any technical paper. And that one of the biggest problems in a trading run is that GPUs are melting. And there's a very simple way to kind of cut to the heart of all of this. It is the return on invested capital of the biggest spenders on GPUs who are all public and those companies since they ramped up capex have seen call it a 10point increase in their ROIC's. So thus far the ROI on all the spending has been really positive.
>> I mean I think that's a reasonable point right dark fiber versus GPUs. There are no dark GPUs. In fact there's not enough GPUs to get out there into the world because they continue to be used. S&P by the way losing 670. Wow. That was very quick. It was holding 671, now 669. I'll see if there's any headline, but that one going red right there. Um, you know, until we see evidence that GPUs have more supply than demand, I think that continues to prop up the broader argument that the capex spend will continue. What happened right there? Did Trump tweet that was basically low of the day, right? Yeah, low. Well, not low of the day. Very close to low of the day. Uh, let's see. By the way, uh, okay, Trump did tweet. I don't know if that's okay. He said, "I will be strongly endorsing any against any state senator or house member from the great state of Indiana that votes against the Republican party by not allowing for redist redistricting for congressional seats in the United States House of Representatives. Democrats are trying to steal our seats everywhere. This all began with the rigged census. We must keep the majority at all cost. Republicans must fight back. I don't know if that's enough to move the market, but Trump did tweet last night that he is encouraging the House to now vote for the Epstein files to be released. He is encouraging the House to vote for the Epstein files. So, it's a full 180 from uh his statements over the past couple of months on this Epstein thing. And uh he said, "House Republicans should vote to release the Epstein fires because we have nothing to hide and it's time to move on from this Democratic hoax perpetuated by the radical left lunatics in order to deflect from the great success of the Republican party."
>> I don't know why he pivoted like that. It obviously begs the question like if you're going to release it now, why don't you just release it five months ago? But that was the statement last night. So, I think the vote is tomorrow on this uh Epstein thing in the house. And then we're going to see when it comes out. 66 69 on the S&P. We are very close to lows of day at 668. And we're going to see what plays out there. There you go. 668.97 on the S&P. Well, that's another headline that's there from Cactus and I I heard this last night as well. Technically, Trump opened up an investigation, right, on Bill Clinton and Reed Hoffman and all these guys. We covered that last Friday. So, legally, when you have an investigation open, the DOJ does not necessarily have to release every single file, even if the House would subpoena them to release it. So, you know, one could argue that maybe some of the stuff is going to be held back and it's not fully going to be released given the ongoing investigation. But, you know, we'll get more details on that throughout the week when the vote actually comes through. 66945 on the S&P, losing 670, just hit 668 for a second as that one got hit. Robin Hood down 5% on the day. Amazon down 2% and Pounder still down 2%. Uh here's the professor and some of his thoughts on what he thinks is going on with the Fed.
>> If you take out the AI, the MAG 7, you're really closer to 20 times earnings. And I've written that 20 times earnings in in the market today given, you know, interest rates, liquidity, etc. is the right ratio. So the question is, is AI priced too high or not? Now it, you know, obviously it's, you know, it's almost a third of the S&P. I'm not saying if it if it goes down, you're going to go down on a on an index, but you have to admit AI is is a revolution uh unlike anything we've seen in our lifetime. Um and uh you know, could bring benefits that we don't even know about at this point. You know, I think the the biggest risk uh on AI investing may not be whether it works or not. I think it's it's going to be worked, but can it be done much more cheaply? Uh, do we need a trillion dollars of data centers? I remember when we got when we went back to the dot boom and bust, what really caused the bust was they figured out how to put a thousand times more data through the fiber optic uh uh cables uh that uh they were laying. all of a sudden, you know, the multipplexing uh and all those companies that said, you know, we're just going to, you know, wire the universe said, you know what, we we don't need that much. Um, is is there a possible, and I'm just putting this out here, a way to to get AI without spending the hundreds of billions of dollars on these centers, but AI, no matter what happens, is really going to totally transform our economy. You know, professor, we uh how many times have we called Professor Seagull a permabole? Uh Andrew, you have you have lived your entire life with with that moniker. And I think you could speak to to this professor.
>> If the Dow was at 780, you know, that's that's when I remember. I think I was in Maryland's trading class. And and so maybe I'm I don't know. My muscle memory is if it was at 780 and it's now at 47,000 being a perma bull has has been the right thing to do. And I know perma bears there's guys that were interviewed at by baronss every week they were perma bear.
>> Can you speak to that? Perma bears are always in fashion.
>> They're always in fashion. Permabs if you're wrong once you're going to get written up all over. Why why does it work that way where it's so fashionable to be a a perma bear and I'm I'm not going to mention any names but they know who they are. Yeah. Yeah, but they can always uh you know being a
>> there's one perfect
>> you you know Joe my publisher when I when I publish stocks for the long run said Jeremy do you know that bearish books you know cataclysmic books doom and gloom books out sell optimistic books by five to one um about the past you're not that wasn't a predictive true go ahead sorry I mean it Just people think if you're an optimist you're you're wearing panglosian glasses road color you just you don't get it. People who are optimistic don't get how bad things really are. Um I heard you you know I mean we're talking about
>> hey he's right about that dude. I see it on Twitter as well. I mean like if you're more bearish than not you tend to get more attention especially when things are already down. Uh so I mean there's a fair point to that argument. The question is going to become is there a logic behind being super bearish? And I think that's what the market is trying to figure out right now as well. S&P officially new lows of the day 66850 starting off Monday going red. Dude, you thought we had a little bit of relief on Friday and we did, but goodness continues to be ugly right here. As we start off Monday morning, Google still holding on. That's your pocket of safety. Uh, Duolingo Wrecked down 5%. AMD down 2%. Micron, a little bit of safety right here. D-Wave down 3%. Apple down two. Apple tried to hold on to 270. Bitcoin. Wow. Potentially below 93, folks. You got a potential 93,000 or below $93,000 move. VIX is up 9% on the day. That is correct. I mean, again, a lot of these names are getting hit as the market gets hit. Like SoFi below 27 to me looking at their earnings given it was 32 last Wednesday. It's not like SoFi got into some bubble. I mean, like they're not telling me 3250 on SoFi is a bubble. Like I could understand if it got into the 40s or 45s, but you know, Robin at 150 I think was obviously extended and I think most of us agreed on that. So didn't get extended. 3250 is not an extension on SoFi. That's that dramatic. SoFi is just getting, you know, blocked into a bunch of the banks that people are afraid of potentially having bad credit. That's why it's getting hit. BMR obviously you got people running for the hills today on this one. 3171 down 7.8%. 8%. ETH is struggling to hold 3K. That's correct. That's going to make it harder to dilute to buy more as well. Uh Brian Armstrong, Coinbase CEO, says crypto market structure bill is nearly done with only 10% left before it clears committee by Thanksgiving. That is bullish for the FDIC and the introduction of those crypto bulls or the crypto bills. Mid, did you sell your hood spreads? Yes, I sold my hood spreads back in May. I probably sold them too early to be honest, but I sold them back in May. So for Hood now, I just have stock. I don't have any options. The only options I have going into next year are Grab with some debit spreads, which potentially I might sell half of those by the end of the year and just put it into the stock. But no other actual options going into next year, at least leaps, I guess. Um, Nphase 52- week low. Solar's getting hit as well. Wow. Nphase low 28. Goodness. Let's listen to Stacy from Bernstein. He'll give us an update on what to expect for Nvidia this week. But that is the thing that I think the market really is now paying attention to on Wednesday.
>> Effectively, I mean, he put a slide up right behind him that effectively said numbers next year are way too low. I mean, he talked about $500 billion in orders C for Blackwell and Reuben cumulative across 25 and 26. And if you kind of back into what that implied for next year relative to where the numbers are. I I mean, he was basically telling everybody numbers need to go up. They're they're they're too low. So, I even think those announcements were were fine. Clearly, you know, there's been some nervousness in the space and nothing's really been able to hold on over the last month or two, but um my guess is when when Jensen talks on on on Wednesday, like hopefully that can help. Maybe that helps put a bottom under things um depending on how he sounds relative to what what he was saying.
>> How far can he project Stacy into the future? Because isn't that where the real questions are about when all this growth starts to flatten out?
>> Yeah. And and and certainly but I mean he's he's got some visibility at least on on his order path. And so we'll see if those orders, you know, get fulfilled or not. But I mean even the numbers he put up that would basically imply we don't get any more orders between now and the end of next year. So if anything else in this environment is there's probably an upward bias even to what to to to what he to what he said. So yeah, I I I get the general nervousness. You you know, this is this has been the story since it started, right? I mean, just the numbers have gotten so big
>> so quickly. Everybody else everybody just wonders how sustainable it this can possibly be. And I mean, I'll say the same thing that I've said many times like at some point like I'm sure there will be some kind of an air pocket or a digestion or something, but but it's it's not now. And it hasn't been now. It's not this year. It's doesn't seem like it's next year. And I mean like even all the the stuff with OpenAI doesn't even start to ramp until the end of 26. So if that keeps going, it's probably not 2027 either, right? I mean clearly the stocks may react like earlier, but just in terms of the the spending trajectory right now, it still looks um full steam ahead, I think.
>> Yeah, it's obviously the key question is how equities price in that second derivative or price ahead. Um you must have a view, Stacy, on this debate regarding depreciation schedules and accounting. What what should what should viewers think? How how should we think about that?
>> Yeah, you bet. So, there's been a lot of worry that, you know, that hyperscalers maybe are using too long of a of a depreciation lifetime for these GPUs. They're mostly saying six years. And a lot of people are saying I three and these things do not turn into like dust after three years. They're very usable. And if you if you actually look at where they're pricing, they're they're pricing older generation stuff at actually very attractive levels. If if you just for example were just look at the cash cost of running even these older GPUs, they're much much lower than the rental prices that they're getting for those GPUs. So it it's still very attractive to run them. I personally still think it's a it's a function of demand. Like right now there is so much demand that it is very very economic to keep running these older GPUs as long as you can. And and we're seeing you know six years maybe even more. I think the way that breaks is if the demand is no longer makes it viable, then you would want to push more to the new stuff that's more efficient. But frankly, if if demand rolls over to that extent, then you know GPU depreciation lifetime is going to be the least of our worries.
>> What about competition?
>> Doesn't that keep coming up too? I mean, now that we're starting to see big deals by Broadcom, by AMD, Qualcomm is in the space now with data centers. Is that is that a threat to Nvidia's dominance? I mean
>> there's all this is semiconductors and it's a huge market. There's always competition. I I would say at least Nvidia is doing a really good job of investing and and moving the goalpost pushing the envelope, right? Everybody else is still trying to play catch-up. I still feel like worrying about competition is the wrong question. Like right now I think the question is still is the market in front of us still large or if it or is it not? If it's still large, then there's room for for for multiple winners here like lots of Nvidia and Broadcom and all these others can still do very well. And if the opportunity in front of us is is not good, then everybody is screwed, right? So, I mean that that is the question. We're not in a hopefully we're not in a mature saturated market yet, right? I mean, so that's the question. Do you believe the opportunity is still big or is it not? I still think it's big.
>> You got Stacy right there not concerned too much about this depreciation argument, uh, which I think is fair. I mean there's other things that matter a lot more in this Bitcoin right here did touch 92 again 93,130 bouncing back above that but still red on the day hoodie basically low 11580 again I think the hood draw down is nothing fundamental it's just crypto it's the market's thinking that crypto volumes are going to go down which I thought they would be down in October because October Bitcoin was flat but crypto volumes were up in October so I don't know if the market necessarily has it right that just because crypto is going down the volumes will be down. Um but you know if it is down in Q4 then that's why you see Hood taking a beating right there. Amazon 230 that's down 1.72 and then SoFi down 2.73. I think with a lot of these names you know for people asking like are these dip buys? It really comes down to your timeline as well and your position size, right? Like on Hood, if you've been buying this thing since 30, 40, 50 and you think 2026 might not be super bullish, 115 is probably not the best dip by because you're buying at 115 because you think it's going to go higher. I mean, if 2026 isn't as bullish as 2025, you know, Hood might not have the earnings growth that gets you a move back up to 150. Granted, if you don't have a position on Hood at all and you know, you've been waiting to buy this thing and you don't want to wait until it goes to 100. That's basically me with Meta, right? The reason I bought at 620 was like, well, I don't want to wait for it to go below into the 550s, which who knows, that might end up happening. But, um, at some point, you got to nibble, right? And you're likely going to be wrong when you nibble, but like it's inevitable. It's very, very hard to time the bottom. So, I think it depends on your position size, your conviction, and then where you think 2026 is going to go on buying these names. Like if you think crypto is done for the next couple years, then BMR is not a buy. Neither is Micro Strategy. Neither probably is Hood or Coinbase because although I think Hood is way more diversified, that's obviously going to affect them next year. Is it risky to buy LEAPS now? I personally don't think LEAPS make a lot of sense at the moment. I mean, LEAPS makes sense if you really think by like 2028 or end of 2027, whatever time frame you're going for, you think a stock is going to be significantly higher than what it is today. I I just think the broader market is expensive, right? And I know things have taken a haircut, but still, you know, a lot of these names are up a lot year to date. Now, like a SoFi that hasn't broke out like crazy, does a SoFi, you know, $35 leap in Jan 2028 sound crazy? No. That's kind of reasonable in my opinion. But then again, you know, you just don't know how 2026 is going to play out. And so it could seem cheap based on your conviction. It could seem expensive if you think SoFi takes a bit of a breather, but a lot of it depends on kind of where you think it's playing out. Would you sell puts on SoFi? I mean, you know, these are levels that I think are relatively I think 24 to 25. So hasn't seen below 25 in about two months. So I think that 24 range is at least you're getting some bang for your buck. I don't hate puts there, but I'd rather be a put seller than a option buyer in this type of volatility. And the volatility could lead you to getting assigned on those puts, but at least you're getting a better deal than, you know, buying the option itself. Um, what else? What else? What else do we have? Tesla still holding its green. That one's holding on. By the way, Jensen answered some questions from analysts. Tesla still 416. Just incredible for Tesla uh at their UBS financial investor day. This was last week when he was specifically asked about Nvidia versus Custom AS6
>> with you and maybe how some of your conversations with these same customers would sort of form your view in terms of how competitive custom will be to you. Thanks. You
>> know, first of all, just because something gets built doesn't mean it's great. Number two, um if it's not great, all of those companies are run by great CEOs who are really good at math. And because these are AI factories and it affects your revenues, not just your costs. It affects your revenues, not just your cost. It's a different calculus. Every company only has so much power. You just have to ask them. Every single company only has so much power. And within that power you have to maximize your revenues not just your cost. So this is a new game. This is not a data center game. This AI factor game. So when the time comes that simple calculus as I was using yesterday that simple math I was showing yesterday still has to be done which is the reason why so many projects are started and so many are not taken into production because there's a there's always a another alternative. We are the other alternative and that alternative is excellent not normal excellent. As you know everybody's still trying to catch up to Hopper. I I haven't seen a competitive hopper yet. And here we're talking about 40x more.
>> So Jensen, you know, defending that like the custom ASIC solutions that people say are so amazing aren't horrible, but they're not even as good in his opinion as the most, you know, generalized version of Nvidia chips, especially the ones that are, you know, not catching up to Hopper. Yeah. Yeah, Jensen, that's pretty damn optimistic. And that's why I think Stacy says earnings are going to be really strong. Um, as the guidance for Nvidia has also been really good as per GTC last week, but I think the macro economy is going to matter a lot more than just the earnings. Nvidia right there 18660 on the day. How's Applied Digital doing? They had a bond sale as well that didn't go that well. That's up a little bit on the day. Their bond sale didn't fail, but like there weren't as many buyers for their bonds. Wow. They were issued at 97 cents on the dollar with a 9.25% coupon. I mean, Wolf and Cipher did it at 7.7%. So, they had to give an extra 2%. Applied Digital is going to be paying 217 million on the bonds every year alone. Some of these names, dude, they're not really getting great financing terms. They're not like Meta or Microsoft that are actually or or Amazon or Google that are able to get decent pricing. And that's another reason why the data center plays have continued to get hit. Would you sell calls into Nvidia going to turnings? I mean, look, for Nvidia to get a move back up to like 205, 210, I think you would have to have such a good quarter and such a good macro. So, like, yeah, I don't think selling calls are crazy. I mean, like the $200 call going into earnings is not wild to sell. The question is how, you know, good of a beat and raise do you think Nvidia is going to put up? And if we get macro data that leads to a rate cut that then kind of gets everything going in the right direction, does Nvidia kind of keep compounding from there? So now granted I don't I mean what what do we realistic or put in the chat what do you realistically think Nvidia ends the year at from a price perspective like realistically I'd be happy if we end the year at at 195 and you know do I think 210 is possible? Yes. Do I think 180 is possible? Yes. But I think like 195 would be nice. Uh and I don't think it's super super crazy. I don't think it's too low too high. But I think a lot of it depends on like is the market ready to cooperate with an Nvidia at 5 trillion by end of year. Wow, people are way more bullish than me. Okay, Doug says 235. I I don't know if 235 is happening. Remember, Billy has 25 billion shares outstanding. Every dollar it's an extra 25 billion in market cap. I mean, dude, I'd be happy if we end the year back at that $200. Like, look, S&P 7,000. Yes, Nvidia is probably closer to that range. I just think once we get the labor market report, it'll give us a lot more clarity on where it goes, but I think 195 is bearish, dude. 195 is up freaking 50% for the year. Like, I think that's actually pretty damn bullish now. 175 180 it's like okay you're not really you know expecting Nvidia to make a big move by end of year but 195 is just getting back to where was that all of September which I think most people were happy seeing Nvidia holding the 190s in September S&P getting a little bit of a move higher trying to go green again this is part of the choppiness of the past couple weeks BMR bouncing off 31 now at 3240 Nebas trying to push 90. Where's hood? Are we trying to push 119? Hood 11745 up from 115 every day. Dump Vshape, dump again, Vshape, and then by the end of the day, it's either a little bit more of a dump or a little bit more of a flat to greenish Vshape on the day. Tesla winner of the day. Look at that. Tesla trying to go back to 420. It's leading most of these names. That means Google should be pushing 290 again. Google 288 trying to go up. We've been spoiled. We have absolutely been spoiled. 100% been spoiled, dude. But like like does like I don't know even know if we can trust this little mini Vshape we're getting because it could be followed by another little downturn. Like it has completely ruined the trust of people thinking that okay that was the bottom. It's like, nope, you can get whipsaw right back down. Now, in the face of this, again, we shared these charts last night. Institutions are buying stocks and they're buying it at some pretty aggressive rates. Hedge funds and honestly, retail investors have tend to be tended to become net sellers. Um, so with the institutional inflows that are coming in, especially as dip buyers, it kind of goes back to that argument that Tom's making about chasing towards the end of the year. Institutional investors bought US equities in 60% of the S&P 500 declines of at least negative 1% this year. It really would be hilarious if because the tootses missed March and April, they're playing all these games to try to get stocks to get to levels that are reasonable enough for them to buy going into end of year. Like that is the most optimistic kind of like, oh, they're just messing with everybody and they're scaring people out of their their stocks. The more pessimistic scenario is there's a real issue in the labor market and that's why people are scared. And I think over the coming days at this point, someone said the jobs data is out Thursday. I think you're right about that. I'm going to try to get confirmation. But if the jobs data is out on Thursday, then we should know this week what the labor market is looking like. That should give us a little bit more clarity on how this is playing out. Uh let's get some updates on the Fed and liquidity. And this has to do with some of the repo markets and the stress on those markets as well. volatility in the past several weeks and it has gained the attention of market participants and the Federal Reserve. A New York Fed official confirming to CNBC over the weekend that President John Williams quietly convened a meeting with representatives of most of the 25 primary dealers, urging them to continue using the Fed's new standing repo facility, which was put in place in the wake of the pandemic to serve as a backs stop for these kind of volatility increases and liquidity crunches. The repo rate used to finance trillions in treasuries. You never hear about it. It's the plumbing of the system. Doesn't usually move unless the Fed moves, but it's been far more volatile lately. A potential sign of a lack of liquidity. Volatility has come down since the surge at the end of October, but it's remained elevated, and there could be more to come. Among the reasons cited for this stress, the decline in the Fed's balance sheet, maybe removing too much of that liquidity, the rebuilding of the Treasury's general account, strong bill issuance by the Treasury, and banks being reluctant, for whatever reason, to lend right now into the repo market. Fed hoping that by urging dealers to use this new facility, it can avoid an intervention, but it's untested. and Bank of America warning in a report that there will be new challenges coming from the settlement of massive amounts of treasuries in the next several weeks and the end of the month and the end of the year when you know guys we have these regular scrambles for cash and liquidity.
>> So should we be worried at this point or or reassured because they're on top of it early?
>> Uh do I get a third choice on that one? Sarah, I would say we need to we need to watch it. We need to watch it. It may be that all this stuff smooths right over. We want people to be aware of it. Um, it has not affected equity funding to this point. That's a a good development. It could be that the Treasury bringing down the general account. Remember, it ramped it up and uh as a result of uh coming out of the uh the the uh the debt sealing debate or the debt sealing problems they had. So, that could come down that could add some cash to the market.
>> This was basically the emergency meeting they had on Friday. It's not as big of a deal as some people have been making that emergency meeting, but it's more so a question of just making sure liquidity continues to stay strong. And you know, the Fed wants the banks to continue using the repo rates that they've been issuing. But, you know, the labor market, I think, really is going to depend or is going to define how much of these things potentially become an issue. And that's what the market's trying to figure out. S&P just went red after going green, but you do have a little bit of move right there. Tesla 420. Don't know what's causing the move on Tessy, but something's causing it. 41922 on Mr. Tesla made. Aren't these moves of consolidation pullbacks great for the market's health? Yes. I mean, look, that is another thing that we talked about last week, but it's great to, you know, say again, a lot of the consolidation is pretty healthy as much as it's annoying, and it brings new buyers in. It allows share prices to stabilize. Like, yes, Hood's not at 150 anymore, but it probably never deserved to be at 150. So, consolidating around that 115 to 125 range is good, even if people are annoyed about that. And that's healthier to get the next leg up. Also, what's healthy is this rotation. You know, we've seen tech have outflows over the past two weeks and healthcare and defensives have inflows. That means that Google, Amazon, Nvidia are not the only reasons for why the stock market's up. You have other names participating. So it is annoying because a lot of people are afraid that the lack of data in the labor market are causing the weakness which you know could lead to more weakness. But if that's not as big of an issue, if it's more so just like prices need to stabilize, um then it's actually pretty healthy and it's more broadening up. But obviously I think a lot of that will be proven right or wrong as we get more data. S&P 671.22 is that screen. Palunteer. Palanteer cracked below 170 for a second. Now back to 17265. Again, dip buyers are very strong on Palunteer. People want exposure to this name. And you have 63% earnings growth. You're going to have more and more people that are willing to buy. pounder at their 172 as that continues to go green. Seth, thanks for the super chat. Do you think Tesla's going up has anything to do with Elon's tweet regarding Bill Gates and short covering over the weekend? Um, no. Just because I think Tesla is a lot more complex than an Elon tweet at this point. I mean, Elon sometimes can control the price with his uh his tweets, but a lot of the times it's a lot more stuff that goes into it. However, Elon did say for those that missed the tweet that basically Bill Gates is going to be screwed if he's still short Tesla. So, could that lead to some excitement from people being like, "Oh, I want to buy Tesla because like, yeah, sure." I don't know if that's enough for a 3% move on a almost $2 trillion company. Um Tesla right there 420 3.9% up on the day but he did explicitly say that if Bill Gates is still short Tesla he should be afraid. So obviously Elon is very excited about the trajectory of Tesla and he bought a billion dollars worth of stock at 380. So, you know, he did put some of his money in at the the lows of the year. Um, or at least the lows of the past couple months. We are in extreme fear. We're back to 18. Dude, we are just wobbling on this fear and greed every day from fear to extreme fear. If anyone's trading extreme fear up and then fear down, going long extreme fear, short at fear, it's probably been working really well. Bill Gates sold his Microsoft shares to cover his short. Well, so I that's a theory that's out there. First of all, we don't fully know if he's still short Tesla, so we can't conclusively say that he sold Microsoft to cover his short. That would be hilarious. But I am confused why the hell he sold 65% of his Microsoft. That's weird, bro. In the well, it's not his Microsoft, but it's the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation um stake of Microsoft. Like 65% like I understand taking some profits, but it's a more than 50% reduction in one of the leading companies of AI. And all he did was sell. I mean, there's no buys at all as for the 13F. So, I don't know. I thought that was kind of weird, but maybe there was a reason for that. Yeah, extreme fear for like a month in crypto. That is true. Got to the lowest level it was at yesterday's. Bitcoin still holding 93. Bittycoin Tesla 420.21. Bitcoin 93.8. All right. A little bit of rebound trying to get to 94. All right, folks. I think that is it for the day. Uh it's about 11:40 right here. Didn't even realize it was 1140. SoFi down 1%. S&P again is flat. We'll see on the market close how flat it continues to be, but 4 cents away from going green. 67158. And then Hood down three. Pounder barely down. Tesla pounder down half a percent. Tesla up. Tesla's the story of the day up 4%. Bitcoin trying to make a move back to 94. Nvidia also down 1%, not that crazy. And then Google got the Birkshshire stimulus and that's why that's up 5%. Maybe there's some news on Tesla coming out that the market might know about. Maybe there's something we got to keep an eye on. But obviously, if you're holding Tesla today, you are definitely definitely liking the price action. 28875 on the googs Tesla 420 hood 117 and then pounder 173 on the day. Yeah, maybe the flying car. Maybe that's coming out. I mean, that would be He did say there would be an event by the end of the year. So, if we do get one, that'd be kind of crazy. All right, word of the day. What do we got? I'll be back on the close. We have no earnings today, so nothing too crazy. We're just going to take a look at kind of how these markets play out as we get into the end of November. Word of the day is saritic. Sabaretic. Luxuriously self-indulgent, devoted to pleasure, comfort, or refined sensuality. Often used to describe an extravagant lifestyle or taste. I've never heard of this word before. Subaritic.
>> Subaritic.
>> Okay. Whatever. Whatever. Subaritic. He lived a suboritic life. Fine wine, tailored suits, an apartment that looked like a design magazine. All right. Well, JPAL's making sure that none of us live sub, how do you say this [__] again? Subaretic.
>> Subaritic.
>> Subaritic. JPAL is making sure we don't live suboritic lives. And uh you know that's that's that's how this market is playing out at least right now until we get into video earnings. So that's what we got going on. The NYC meetup will be suboretic. Yes, we will try to make it subreetic. I said this last night but uh New York City meetup is likely going to be happening in January. Don't hold me to the date, but we're looking at January 25th. That'll be a Sunday. I will have details probably in two weeks. And uh this is going to be a lot more formal. We're renting out a venue, food, security. So I'm working with a team and we're going to try to make these meetups just a lot more of an experience. So even if we do enter a bare market, which I don't think we are, but if we do, you know, I think community is going to be important next year. And regardless, I think, you know, people really enjoyed the meetups we had last year. So we are going to keep it going. So yeah, likely January 25th. I will have details in a couple weeks. There's going to be limited to about 300 spots because I think that's the max we're going to be able to handle. But we're finishing up finalizing the venue and then we will get these meetups in place. So I I will I will try to let you guys know at least two months in advance. So if anyone actually wants to buy a plane ticket or make a trip out of it in New York, then you can meet up in New York City at White Castle. Well, JPAL better make sure it's not a white freaking castle. That's That's all we got to say. But it should be fun. It should be fun. So, I'll have a lot more details in a couple weeks. And um then we'll keep going. And then obviously LA's on the list, Singapore's on the list, UK is on the list. I'm working with like a legit team now, so I think it'll be a lot easier to actually manage and plan these meetups. But yeah, New York should be the first one and January should be the day. All right. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I will see you guys on the close. We'll see where the market reaction goes. Again, relatively flat on the indices. Tesla's going green. Hood's down 3%. Palenteer down about half a percent. Crypto trying to bounce a little bit. So, at the close, we're going to see how these prices play out. But that's kind of what we got for market open. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.