Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Last weekend
We used two videos
Analyzed the book "The Courage to Be Disliked"
Problems
Many netizens also commented in the comment section
Shared my sincere and profound thoughts
At that time we said
The book emphasizes teleology
It's actually very simple and crude.
You can also say
It is a low-cost means of psychological comfort
The reason why we say low cost
Because it doesn't require you to consider the real politics,
Constraints of history, economy and social structure
You don't need to trace your personal history.
Analyze the causes
Just need to point out
Your misfortune is your own fault.
But you can rewrite your experience from the present moment
To achieve inner transcendence
This is indeed a simple and rapid growth theory.
But this theory can easily become a tyranny against oneself
When it is used on others
This often constitutes a very severe criticism
It is especially worth considering
Although the author Ichiro Kishimi said
I can't let go of Adler's ideas.
But if we take his book
Compare with Adler's "Inferiority and Self-Awareness"
It is easy to find that the two ideas are very different.
Adler explored early memory,
School, Parents, Adolescence
How does it affect the human mind?
He analyzed a lot of
Real problems beyond individual psychology
Arguing that society should be for individuals
Creating healthier growth conditions
But never claimed
A person can overcome all trauma with courage alone
We know
Due to Japan's huge influence on China in modern times
The Enlightenment and Liberalism as understood by the Chinese
This was largely learned from Japan.
Or
After being recounted, processed and interpreted by Japanese scholars
The psychology popular in Chinese society
There are often traces of Japanese individualism
But it may also make Chinese people more interested in freedom and independence.
There is a deeper misunderstanding
So this video
Let’s continue chatting
The spiritual origin of the courage to be hated
And how Japanese individualism influenced China
Before the video starts
Say it again
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
We say that many Western ideas were introduced to the East.
Often undergoes great distortion
even
The meaning was interpreted as being completely opposite to the original idea.
Many people may attribute this to
These scholars are not well-educated and do not study hard.
Actually, I think
The exchange of ideas and debate has limited value
No philosophy is purely rational.
But an embryo with emotions
One's philosophical view
Seemingly the product of rational thinking
But in fact
Often comes from his emotional structure and life experience
Especially the part he failed to realize and integrate.
Many philosophers have been thinking about their lives
They are all echoes of my early experiences.
It's just more complex language and logic.
Wrapping Up
for example
Foucault's strong critique of disciplinary power
His interests in homosexuality, medicine, and prisons
And the deconstruction of concepts such as truth and knowledge
and suspicion
With his father, a doctor who was particular about discipline and control
A deep relationship
And if a person
Failure to integrate one’s own emotions and experiences
Even if he is exposed to some very new ideas
However, his inner experience
This idea will also be reflected.
Distortion and reinterpretation
Although he may have adopted new discourse
But the kernel may not have changed.
For example, some people come into contact with existentialism
It only exacerbated the sense of meaninglessness of life.
because
He has been experiencing a state of emptiness for a long time.
For example
We mentioned in this video
Pol Pot came to Europe to study when he was young
The result became more crazy
Intellectuals from Eastern Countries
The reason why we can always draw inspiration from Western philosophy
Deciphering the colors of saintliness
To a large extent
Also because
Their upbringing was indeed harsh.
I have never felt the spirit of humanity and fraternity.
Therefore, the key to growth is not to read more
It is a continuous and in-depth self-exploration
And understand and discover your own hidden life experience
Often more than abstract philosophical debates
Can lead a person's growth and progress
Then in "The Courage to Be Disliked"
Behind the seemingly rational thought
What unique life experiences does the author have?
And experience?
In fact, when I was reading this book
I've always had a feeling
Even though the author has been emphasizing that trauma does not exist
With courage, people can overcome trauma in an instant.
But I always feel
Behind this seemingly independent and strict thought
It hides huge pain and trauma.
There are many similar rhetoric
For example, "Freedom is being hated by others"
“As long as people exist, they have value”
When we savor these words
You will feel
He was not motivated by genuine confidence and optimism.
It's better to say that there is a kind of faint despair and sadness
As long as we understand the author's own experience
It is easy to understand this
Actually
Ichiro Kishimi's life is not only far from freedom
Even very depressing and unfortunate
In The Courage to Be Disliked
There is a conversation like this:
The philosopher said: I have had a bad relationship with my father since I was a child.
There has never been any real dialogue or communication
My relationship with my father deteriorated after my mother passed away in my 20s.
The young man asked: Why is your relationship with your father not good?
The philosopher said:
I was often beaten by my father when I was a child.
I only remember being beaten and running under the table.
He was dragged out by his father and beaten severely
And this is not a one-time
But many times
The young man said this became a kind of psychological trauma
The philosopher refused to admit this
He said
The reason why I always think of the memory of being beaten by my father
Precisely because
I didn't want to have a good relationship with my father.
Why?
Because if I bring out this memory of being beaten
I can make my life unsatisfactory
Blame it on the father
I can avenge my father.
That’s why
As long as I change my purpose
Then I can mend my relationship with my father.
Young people still don't believe
The philosopher said that this is still a problem of separation of topics.
My father may not even remember beating me.
but
When I decided to repair my relationship with my father
What kind of lifestyle does your father have?
How does he see me?
It has nothing to do with me.
Even if the other party does not want to repair the relationship, it does not matter
The question is whether I have made up my mind
The relationship card is always in my hand
actually
When I first saw this passage
I felt an incredible indifference.
This seemingly calm and rational attitude
Behind it is an unfathomable fear
That is the fear of facing one's true pain.
It is also a defense mechanism to cut off emotions
It is an escape rather than a transcendence
And this
This is also the true experience of the author Ichiro Kishimi himself.
Ichiro Kishimi was born in Kyoto, Japan in 1956.
Due to some setbacks
He didn't complete his doctorate until he was 31
He didn’t get his first formal job until he was 40.
Why did his life start so late?
Because his main focus
Focused on taking care of parents
It can be said that
He has lived his whole life in bondage to his parents.
According to public reports
During the period of working in the institute
His mother fell ill due to a stroke
He spent 18 hours a day at his mother's bedside
This caused his studies to be delayed.
After working for three years
Too much fatigue and stress
He had to resign
Do some less intensive part-time jobs and write books at home
At the age of 51, he suffered a myocardial infarction
This forced him to stay at home.
So he couldn't go out to work for several years.
later
He felt that he could finally go out to work.
My father has Alzheimer's disease again
Loss of memory and ability to take care of oneself
So Kishimi Ichiro started taking care of his father again
This care lasted for more than ten years.
In his other book
"Learning to Protect Aging Parents from Adler"
He recorded a lot of details about caring for his father
For example, cooking for my father every day and cleaning the toilet
Except for sleeping time
I stayed with my father almost all day.
In this book
He said he often recalled his childhood
My father beat me
But he reiterated
I don't hate my father because I was beaten.
It was because I didn't want to be close to my father.
I used the beating as an excuse.
I often recall the experience of being beaten.
He concluded
Because you don't want to associate with other people.
You will think that the world is dangerous and others are enemies.
He also believes
When children and parents argue
Parents always forget easily
This shows that parents want to maintain a good relationship with their children
The children are always worried
There is a psychological shadow
This shows that the children have made up their minds.
Not maintaining a good relationship with parents
Only then can I search for available memories from the past
Help them make up their minds
That's it.
I think we actually understand.
What Ichiro Kishimi said
What does courage and freedom mean?
On the surface, he praises subjective initiative
But this dynamism
It seems to be only reflected in
Adaptability to traditional power structures
He did not point to any meaningful resistance
and reflection
It is better to say
It is a gentle and wise discipline for the victims.
Why can't a person
What about blaming your father for being violent towards you?
as well as
Why mend the relationship with your father?
Is it unconditionally valuable?
Kishimi did not question these assumptions.
Instead, use psychological language
Rationalize these patriarchal and Confucian ethics
That is
If your father hits you
You can't blame
That is your deepest desire to avenge your father.
If my father doesn't change
It doesn't matter
You can take the initiative by separating the topics
Your parents beat you for your own good.
No matter how bad your dad is, he is still your dad.
This is consistent with the "Book of Rites" saying "Parents have
Be humble and cheerful, and give advice in a gentle voice
"If you don't accept the advice, you will be respectful and filial."
It can be said that they are completely connected
Even if the parents are wrong
You also need gentle advice
If parents don't listen
You have to be more respectful
Continue to advise when your parents are happy
In short, parents have the natural right to be exempted from responsibility.
The children must bear the responsibility of reconciliation.
This idea and the author believe
Even if the leader issues the wrong order
It is a truth that subordinates also have to bear responsibility
In fact, a person can certainly do something out of free will.
Choose to reconcile with your parents
Choose to repair your parents' relationship
However
When a person
Still under established ethical pressure
and social and cultural disciplines
He has no real independent choice.
If he were to try to choose freely
Then we should first try to refuse to repair
and the freedom not to forgive
Speaking of which
We can actually understand
Why Kishimi Ichiro
Read Adler or Plato
After so many years of reading
But he proposed such a strange philosophy
Need to know
He is a PhD student specializing in the history of Western philosophy.
It can be said that
I have been reading Western philosophy and psychology all my life.
This is not simply a matter of not learning.
This is precisely because his trauma is too deep.
If a person
I haven't really touched my deepest emotions.
Not really seen and heard by another soul
He does more reading
It can only stay at the surface level of understanding
Maybe even philosophy.
Created a more sophisticated defense
Philosophy and Psychology Core
It is never just a knowledge system
It is the state of human existence and life experience
certainly
This isn't to blame him.
Just try to learn from his life experience
To understand his ideas
In fact
It is precisely because his life was too rough and unfree
So "The Courage to Be Disliked" became a bestseller
Maybe in his life
For the first time, I felt the joy of being recognized and seen.
In 2015, he was interviewed by Chosun Ilbo.
Criticism of Japanese media
No coverage of his book
The fact that it became a bestseller in Korea
This shows that he did not do what he said in his book.
Just enjoy the moment
Don’t care about others’ recognition and evaluation
On the contrary, he longs for recognition from others.
It's better to say that it's because I'm too eager but can't get it for a long time.
He developed a value of denying recognition
Only by courage
It can overcome all psychological defense mechanisms
In fact, in the book that protects parents
He also said that he wanted to work hard.
But it happened that my father was sick
I also feel that taking care of my father is very painful.
But it's a matter of course
So I had to sacrifice myself
Learn to protect your father
Build a good relationship with your father
if
According to his logic in The Courage to Be Disliked
There is no such thing as natural law in the world
All the difficulties people face are their own choices.
There is nothing you have to do.
When you convince yourself with the truth
When I had to take care of my father
In fact, you are evading your responsibility.
His thoughts
This huge inconsistency between life
It's actually a product of compromise.
His life reality
It is the concept of family obligations and filial piety.
And the pain and loneliness that shroud
He has long lacked external recognition
I have also suppressed my emotional needs for a long time.
To compensate for this shortcoming
He developed the following logic:
“Although I haven’t lived a truly free life
But I can tell others
Freedom is not caring about other people's opinions
You can choose to transcend all trauma with courage."
But this is just
He has been unable to break free from filial piety for a long time.
And after the shackles of trauma
In order to maintain a little psychological sovereignty
The mythical story constructed
This is actually
Also China
Or a characteristic of Japanese individualism
For example, constantly emphasizing
You have to accept that you are an ordinary person.
Live in the present moment
Don't dwell on the past
Learn to separate topics
Don't care about other people's opinions
Don't be too self-conscious, etc.
These words sound like they call for freedom and power
In fact, they are just using a set of psychological rhetoric
To rationalize the indifference they suffer
Alienation and loneliness
It's teaching you not to expect to be loved anymore.
This East Asian individualism
It is completely devoid of the grandeur of Western individualism.
Universal and transcendent spirituality
For example, in Rousseau
The self is man in his natural state
It is the pure subject before the corruption of society
In Kant
The self is a rational legislator
The source of moral law
In Nietzsche
Self is a rebellion against fate
A re-creator of value
In short, the self in the Western context
There is a force that expands outward
To impact the world, to create meaning,
The existence that changes destiny
In the individualism of China or Japan
The human self is a thing that needs to be hidden.
Something to soothe and dissolve
It seems to be a
Let the parties fall into misfortune for no apparent reason
Trouble Maker
A person who keeps pretending to be traumatized
A black box to evade responsibility
Rather than needing to be understood,
Empathy and the development of personality structure
Let’s talk about this for today
We will continue to discuss this topic in the next episode.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!