Hi, David.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thank you for for being with us. And and and first um congratulations on uh the Nobel Prize. I I I know that um all of us at TED were really elated to see uh your work celebrated and recognized in in that major way.
>> Yeah. And in fact, much of the work that I talked about in my uh Nobel Prize address was supported by the TED Audacious project. So I'm grateful, very grateful to Ted as well. I'm excited to be back here.
>> It's definitely meaningful that TED could be part of uh your journey in that in that really important way and part of this important work. And we definitely want to get into all of that. Um but uh before we talk about the Nobel Prize and sort of where things have gone since uh 2019 when you joined us um as a speaker and and as an audacious grantee uh I think it would be helpful to sort of set the stage with uh some background on your work sort of detailing the the science that uh was recognized here um connected to proteins. So uh so you've you've referred to proteins as the workh horses of all living things. Um you said in your talk in fact that almost everything that happens in biology happens because of proteins. They do everything from transporting nutrients to repairing damaged tissue to supporting our immune system. Um and your work of course has been focused around creating new proteins. Why has this been such a challenging thing for humanity to accomplish? Well, for many many years, scientists studied the proteins that exist in nature, and they um I think they they seemed almost like these sort of magical elephant runes passed down from, you know, billions of years of evolution. There was they were really special. They're very different from anything that occurs in the outside of biology because they have these very precise properties. they have these exquisite functions and so the notion that you could design new ones that would do new things was really quite foreign. Uh and when people tried to do it it was um it it it was very it was very difficult. So uh it was both that they seemed almost unattainable and that the attempts that were made were not successful and that even thinking about the methods for even how you would go about designing a protein with the new function didn't really exist. Um so uh so I think there were there were a number of reasons why it it didn't happen you know a much longer time ago. And of of course the the groundbreaking thing that you've done, the Nobel Prize winning thing that you've done is um is using a computer program to design proteins from scratch. Can you talk about how exactly you did this?
>> Yes. And in fact, there's been a very big uh uh transition between 2019 when I gave the TED talk and today. So we began quite a few years ago to try to understand how the amino acid sequences of proteins determine their three-dimensional structures. And just as a little bit of of of background for um so everyone's on the same page. The genes in our genomes each encode a protein. That's what they do. And the way they encode that protein is by specifying the sequence of amino acids in the protein. And once that sequence is known, then that specifies what the three-dimensional structure is. And so when I first began um at the University of Washington, we studied how proteins actually fold up from their amino acid sequences to their threedimensional structures. And we studed studied that experimentally. And as we began to learn more and more, we um we developed computer programs to to mimic that process and to try to to to be able to go from take a sequence and predict the structure. And then after we had been doing that for some time, uh we realized that we could go backwards, not go from like in biology from the sequence to the structure and the function of the protein, but instead start with a new structure and a new function that don't exist and work backwards towards to an amino acid sequence that would encode that new protein. The difference is that in the biology case there, the proteins are encoded in the genes in our genomes and the genes of all living things. In the design case, it's a completely new protein. So, it doesn't exist. There's no gene that exists. So, we have to make a synthetic gene, a synthetic piece of DNA that encodes this new protein. Once we have that synthetic piece of DNA, we can put it into a bacterium and it will produce the protein and we can see whether it actually does what we designed it to do. So the first class of models we developed were traditional physical models where we sort of tried to describe all the interactions between all the atoms in the protein and um how those interactions guide the protein to fold up and we might made quite a bit of progress which I described some of which I briefly described in my 2019 talk. Now since then we've completely switched over to developing AI based methods for protein design and in these methods we um we take the many many examples of protein structures which have whose struct proteins whose structures have been determined by uh scientists really over the last 50 years and there are about 250,000 of these structures now and so we can learn by training AI models on these structures. We can develop methods that actually will generate new proteins with new structures and we can condition this process on the on a specification of the function we want to create. So for example with and and our methods are are very similar to image generation methods. So whereas you might say um to Dolly or an image image generation program uh generate an image of a giraffe walking on a horse or something absurd like that and you would get an image something like that that represents that. In the same way we can um specify to RF diffusion the design protein program we have uh created. We can say design a protein which binds to this virus and blocks it or binds to this cancer cell and stops it from dividing and the program will generate a new protein and then we make it in the lab and see whether it actually does what we designed it to do. It's incredible and and it seems like there are seemingly endless applications for this and in 2019 you shared a few of them and I'd love to to talk about about those um that you shared in that talk but also am really curious to know what excites you today when you think about applications for for this.
>> Yes. So many of the grand challenges that I described in my 2019 talk, we've we've really made huge progress on and now gone beyond. Um but I'll highlight one example. I spoke about vaccines and um during the pandemic uh my colleague Neil King here at the Institute for Protein Design actually developed a vaccine for COVID which um is approved for use in humans. It's the first denovo design medicine and he's well on his way to making advanced vaccines for many um different viruses including influenza. Since 2019, we've gotten into as as the methods we've developed have become more powerful, we've expanded the range of applications quite a bit more broadly. Um for example, sustainability is a new emphasis. So, we're working on new proteins to break down plastic and other other pollutants and polymers. We're working on new ways to fix carbon and remove uh methane from the atmosphere. And we're working on green chemistry approaches to enable the synthesis creation of molecules without using toxic solvents and um in much lower energy uh ways. So the that the grand challenges seem very ambitious at the time, but as the methods have progressed and with all the brilliant people who have come here to work on solving them, we've actually been able to go well beyond now and tackle new problems as well.
>> It's incredible and it it seems exciting to think about all the ways that this could improve life for for really all of us in in different ways. and and you mentioned the sustainability work which was something that you touched on very very slightly in your 2019 talk and it sounds like that's really ramped up uh since then. How did you begin to think about sustainability work as a potential use case for this? One of the advances that we've made since 2019 is in developing methods for for designing proteins which can make or break chemical bonds. This is something that happens in in nature. There are many proteins which do this which catalyze chemical reactions. And now that um we've we've mastered that we can that we can design proteins that will break bonds. problems like plastic degradation or breaking down other toxic compounds in the environment uh become really they start to becoming things that can be approached and it's particularly interesting with compounds that that weren't present during evolution like forever comp forever chemicals pas compounds there was never any evolutionary pressure for nature to develop um to evolve proteins to break down such compounds and Uh so there's a lot so so there are many problems we face today and this is sort of a general theme in in places where nature was already trying to optimize heavily to solve a certain problem there's not really a need for us to design new proteins but in areas where um either because we live longer so things like neurodeeneration are more of a problem or because we're putting new things in the environment like plastic or PAS compounds uh those are the places where there's a huge opportunity for protein design because we already know from nature that uh proteins can solve a really can solve almost any problem. And so for protein design it's the problems that nature didn't have to deal with because you know humans didn't you know people didn't live as long or because uh they hadn't polluted or heated up the planet for example. Well, it seems like that work is is obviously very necessary and I'm interested to also hear what other sorts of uses have revealed themselves in the years um since you joined us. It seems like sustainability of course, health, medicine. What other areas um have been sort of surprising places that you've been able to to find protein design can be helpful?
>> Yeah. Well, one area that's related to sustainability is um that that's also become more pressing since 2019 is trying to design to make crop plants more thermo tolerant because you know temperatures are rising and it's very important that major crops like rice be able to grow and um uh thrive at at higher temperatures. And so the one of the things that we've been become very good at with protein design is to make proteins more stable. So, we're excited now about applying those methods to to problems like uh uh making plants um uh thrive at higher temperatures. In other other areas are um in technology, we're very excited about um sensing and sort of intrigued by, you know, the ability of a human or a dog to smell and distinguish between many many different compounds. So that the way that a dog does that with um is with um proteins, receptors in its nose that can respond differentially to different compounds that are in the environment. And we we're now designing uh synthetic proteins that can respond to many many different molecules and uh so we're very excited about building things like an artificial nose. um towards that end and um for more general technology applications, we're learning how to interface proteins with um electronics because then you can have a more direct coupling of a readout from a designed protein to something that we can um quickly um read out on a cell phone for example. And one example of that is um our we're designing um proteins to sense um compounds in the environment that are embedded would be embedded directly in silicon nitride chips. And that's again a problem that nature never had to deal with because uh proteins in nature were never interfacing with you know with electronic devices. Um and we've made quite a bit of progress there. How do we ensure and and what role do you see yourself playing in in ensuring that that what you're creating is accessible and available to a wide range of people?
>> Yes, I think we we start off on um with the methods we develop. we make those uh widely available and um so that's start we're particularly interested in enabling protein design in in countries where there isn't as much um you know advanced infrastructure for you know largecale drug screening for example because with protein design really cuts down the cost in making uh proteins that to deal with uh with a with a challenge for example if you are a farmer in um in Africa for example example, and you're dealing with a new type of of pest, say a fungus or an insect. Um, we want to empower scientists and researchers in the country that has the problem to actually use our methods to develop uh their their own solutions to those problems, which may be pretty local. Um as things um as things uh come out of here uh the um we um well we work u one of the things that we do is we when we license um uh things that we have created uh to um to other entities we always require that uh there be a um a carveout for um for global health applications and that's something that the the Gates Foundation is um uh pioneered and so we try in every way we can to make sure that things we develop will be as broadly applicable as as possible. Um I think you know it's a challenge currently that goes well beyond protein design to um to to motivate the the world to put the resources into ways of combating things like you know global warming and um uh and you know the accumulating plastic um it's there's been a lot of talk but it's going to take a lot of resources too and we can't really control that. I'll give you an example of something that I am disappointed in. During the pandemic, there was a lot of talk about how we needed better methods for rapidly creating ways to deal with pandemic uh viruses. Um and uh and immediately after the pandemic or during during the end of the p pandemic, there were even some initiatives started to work on sort of faster approaches to um develop u uh ways to protect against new pathogens if they emerged. But within six months of the pandemic ending, the the world kind of forgot about it. So um the the um so there are there are some issues with the sort of the the the the way that the the the pull from the outside world in different areas is different depending on how much profit can be made which is a little bit too bad.
>> So keeping people's attention focused on this is yeah uh the seems like the the challenge of of of your work. Um, well, I think this is also a really nice segue to talking about the Nobel Prize, which is a great way to sort of put focus on this incredible work you're doing. Uh, so late last year, of course, you get word uh that you've been awarded uh the Nobel Prize in chemistry. Can you tell us about how you received this news and what that um experience was like? Yeah. Well, it was very exciting and um um got the phone call and then I think what I remember uh the most that day was um uh when I came into um the lab and we had this huge party here and um that was really really special. And then in Stockholm that um I think we um I I really felt that the work that the prize was a celebration of the work of you know the many people the many brilliant students and postocs and others I've had over the years who uh contribute to all the things that you know end up going into the Nobel Prize winning work and that I actually talked about in my talk and so I want to we we asked people uh to former colleagues to come and then I think we actually set a record there 185 people who um uh who came you know uh who former colleagues, former graduate students and postocs, mostly former almost all actually former trainees at one level or another at different times and um uh that was really special. I think we we we set a record and this really hit home to me um when I uh gave my talk uh my Nobel speech and then uh you know when you're up there on stage you can't really see who's on the audience and then when the late lights came on I saw that there was a quarter of the room the whole there was this whole big section which were all former graduates and postocs from you know many years back up till the current and that was really really special and um I think it made it clear to me or I guess I'd always known it but I was really impressed upon the that you know for me really you know the scientific advances are one thing but really training and mentoring all these amazing people or going on to do all these really amazing things is really I think that's that's the most important thing I do and um uh and so anyway that that and then in Stockholm we had a number of really fantastic parties with you know all these 185 people including you know family and extended family and it was it was really wonderful.
>> That's great. Um well David I don't think you'll be surprised to know that we're getting tons of questions uh from the member community and so I I want to start to bring some of those to you uh to integrate into the conversation. Uh we have one from Les B uh who asks how do you see technologies like crisper and gene editing intersecting with your AIdriven protein design? Could combining these tools accelerate the development of targeted therapies or sustainable biological solutions?
>> Yeah, it was a wonderful it's a great question. Um yesterday I had a very long conversation with the world's experts at Chrisper um uh in uh Jennifer Dana's institute at Berkeley and we're going to we're going to join forces just as um uh uh uh suggested by that question um for the problem of sustainable agriculture. We can design new proteins but then they have to get into the plants and um so we can improve say plant thermal tolerance um uh we can we can design proteins that in principle could in plant improve plant thermal tolerance or or um uh protect against uh uh uh funguses like wheat blight but we need to get the proteins in and uh crisper and uh the IGI are really experts at that so I think this is a perfect time to partner in many areas. Lachlan F um is curious about the pros and cons of your scientific work um being either a completely open source like Openfold or proprietary like Alphafold um and can both of these options accelerate progress and and possibly maybe limit public benefits as well. Yeah, I'm a big believer in in making everything open and uh I think you you know we find that people build on what we create and uh also it's you know as scientists really the one of the goals is to really have broad impact and the more you share uh the more impact there is and I think that's also held for the um uh the the people leaving my group to uh who are starting their own group. We've stayed there now over a hundred former graduate students and postocs who've left my group to start their own labs in the US and around the world and we've um I've encouraged them to keep working in this area and so now we have um this amazing community uh we have yearly meetings where everyone's working together and everyone everyone meets and and shares what they've done and uh things just have moved really really quickly. So I think in general have having everything open is um is is is really a big advantage. Now if you're at a company there's that has to be moderated by the fact the company needs ultimately to make money and so there are different constraints but at a public institution like the University of Washington or really in any university I think uh making everything open is is the right way to go
>> and we've just we've seen that really from the beginning uh we made well even for our earlier generation nonAI software called Rosetta we made it widely available and that just created this whole community around it which really been wonderful. I mean and that's and that speaks to something that um we're seeing a lot uh from the community which is are just questions around how to ensure um that the proteins you're designing and just as we think about just AI and technological acceleration in general that it remains in the best interests of humanity um global peace kindness how do we safeguard against um misuse uh in a world where some people are you know there are some bad actors and looking to use things for
>> yeah that's a that's a very good question and we are um let me first give you an overall framing for it and then I'll tell you about specific actions we're taking. The things that are are really dangerous that the types of pathogens are like viruses like the 1918 Spanish flu or Ebola um which obviously can cause death and destruction on a huge huge scale. Those are extremely complex um uh um things um and because they have to do many many many different things and even um even with the advances in protein design, it's still very challenging to uh to make a protein that that has one function whereas a virus has to do many many things. And so if you want to cause death and destruction on a large scale, you don't really the the design methods don't help you. you just go to nature and you can you can you know make remake the 1918 Spanish flu. Um and so what what the protein design methods are really good at today is blocking um uh blocking u for example viruses um either uh you know pandemic viruses or or new viruses um uh the idea of making a synthetic virus is still well first of all there's not really any reason to do it because virus I told I said at the beginning that um that design is very powerful where there hasn't already been extensive evolutionary optimization. So for viruses there's been extensive optimization for really rapid spreading and uh infection. So um the the first point is that the if you want to bad for bad actors there already are many many bad things all around all all the way around ranging from you know things like botulinum toxin to major viruses and I really think the primary role of protein design will be to protect against these threats and new threats. But of course it is possible that um a bad actor really has their mindset to try and create something new and dangerous. So we had a workshop at the University of Washington um uh a year and a half ago uh to that was um uh that we convened together with the National Security Council um in the White House and we uh convened a panel of experts uh to really think about this problem. And our conclusion was first of all that the current generation of design methods did not pose a threat compared to the huge threats that already are present in nature. Um but second that the way to control things and to make sure and is was to um was through the the synthetic gene manufacturing step where you go from the computer to the real world and as I said earlier that's a key step in this process and that's the one where having like um gating and control or at least logging we we concluded will be really really important um and so we are urging DNA synthesis companies to keep track of everything that's that they're making so that in the event uh that there is a suspicious outbreak somewhere in the world, you can quickly track where the DNA came from if it was synthetic rather than um being of natural origin.
>> Excuse me. That's great. It seems like there is um some thought to how to create this responsibly as we're enter feels like a really a brave new world. um and that there you believe that there are more benefits um to pursuing this than the risks that are presented
>> right and that's very clear so far I mean the um I mean there's huge numbers of beneficial things have been done I mean even in the area of pathogenic disease you know I described the vaccines the antivirals and um uh so the um yeah I think the upsides far outweigh the downside the other thing we're doing is we are setting up sort of a um a a committee that's that's reviewing new software as it's created to make sure that um to to vet the rel to make sure that there aren't um unforeseen consequences. I would say overall the um the risks if you think about AI and biology compared to AI generally I think the immediate risk from AI more generally in the form of of computer viruses you know things that you don't have to instantiate in the real world but that work in software um we're already seeing uh problems there and then of course we're seeing more broader problems have you know with with employment and AI replacing people I think those are probably the places where AI's is going to be really a pro problem a negative um rather than AI in in the biological realm.
>> Well, when you think about the the future um and sort of where this is headed uh we we have a question from Nicholas uh D uh if if you see a future where computational design of proteins could potentially displace approaches like evolution or will it never reach those heights? No, I think I think that um already with problems like like antibbody design, antibbody generation, antibodies are really kind of the the pharmaceutical industry um uh antibodies have been a mainstay and generally the way that antibodies are developed now. It's either from um um sort of pulling antibodies out of an individual or immunizing an animal or screening through very very large collection of r very large random libraries for an antibbody that has the right property. I think those will be displaced by design because you can be much more intentional and design an antibbody that not only binds to the right place on your target to have the effect you want but also has all the properties needed to really be developed as a drug. So I think more and more we're going to see random selection, random sort of library screening methods which are kind of emulating evolution where you know evolution is also all random mutation generation and selection. We're going to see that replaced by um uh by intentional protein design. And that harks back to what I said in my TED talk where um uh where I I sort of made the point that um you know human technology outside of biology um uh you know you start from first principles if you want to build a bridge across a river or a flying machine um you don't go looking for a log that has the right shape um but you actually construct it for first from first principles and so I think now that's becoming more and more a reality throughout sort of bio about um biotechnology
>> and when you you think about your your work um in protein development you know so we we're so much of what this conversation has been focused on the things you said in 2019 and um when you gave your talk what do you what do you foresee you know in six years from now um when we speak again uh where do you think things will be what do you believe be focused on
>> I think predicting the future of science is far harder than predicting the structure of a protein or predicting the weather tomorrow so I I think it's I predicting how fast uh science will progress is a famously impossible challenge. Um but I can say broadly speaking six years from now I expect to see um uh medicines of many more medicines approved for use in humans. I expect to see you know solutions to major problems in really across the areas that um uh that I've described. And then I also anticipate that we'll be working in the field will be working on problems that I haven't even mentioned I haven't mentioned today because I haven't thought of them. So, uh, things are changing so fast that, um, I really, what I really hope most is, you know, we're solving problems I can't even conceive of now.
>> That's wonderful. Um, well, David, I feel like this has been a wonderful um, conversation and uh, just really grateful to you for for joining us. We we have had so many member questions, so thank you to the members as well. Um, thank you so much, David, for sharing all of this.
>> Yeah. Oh, thanks thanks to everyone who's listening and contributing questions. It's been great. Thanks to Ted for organizing this. And I just want to thank again all the amazing students and posttos and others I'm working with now and in the past who really made all this work possible and who have actually done all the work really. [Music]