Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Thursday, November 6th and we are live. This week has actually been a very fast week in my opinion. Does anyone else feel like that? I felt like last week was like felt like a year going through a week. Maybe because we had so many things going on. I cannot believe it's Thursday. Tomorrow it's the end of the week and it's Friday and we're done. But we had pound your earnings on Monday. You have Hood yesterday which we'll talk about. I mean it's just been a wild week and it feels like it's gone by very quick. We got a bunch of different headlines to talk about. A lot of different macro stuff is happening. uh you have a variety of different things happening in the AI sector. Jensen went to London yesterday and made some comments and uh he said some stuff that really got a lot of the analysts freaked out and then he had to clarify his stuff and so we'll talk about what Jensen said. Open AAI also was at some conference. They said some stuff that really freaked out the market. They had to clarify what they had to say. So we're going to discuss everything going on in the world of AI with Nvidia, Jensen, etc. Uh we had a lot of earnings yesterday. Some of them were good, some of them were bad. Robin Hood, it's up there as one of the best quarters I've seen in Q3. And likely over the past couple years, we'll talk about Robin Hood's quarter. We also had some quarters that weren't the best, like a Dualingo, which look, the quarter was decent, but there were some things that weren't that good. That stocks down 20%. Door Dash down 15%. ELF down almost 25%. I mean, you got a lot of these consumer names that really either put up the numbers or they didn't put up the numbers and they said something their guidance that wasn't really the best and the market is obviously not uh not giving them the premium today. So, we're going to talk about that. We got a bunch of different names that reported this morning. D-Wave, Oscar. So, we're going to get through all that and go through all those earnings, but we have a lot of earnings to cover. Uh today after the bell, we are going to be live and we were also have a lot of earnings. Uh we are gonna have Soundtown, Airbnb, Trade Desk, I rent. I know everyone cares about Iren. I'll be listening to the call for IN Archer, SMR, DraftKings, O Open Doors today. Oh [ __ ] Okay, today's going to be wild. Affirm Square, MP Materials, Monster Energy Drink, Pelaton, uh, Abselera, and a lot of people like that one. Sweet Green, Wind Hotels, Dropbox, Texas Roadhouse, US AR, another rare earth company. We got a lot of stuff, a lot of stuff today. So, we're going to be talking all about earnings as we get into the market close on Thursday for today, and we'll keep going from there. On top of that, uh I recently invested in a startup. I was telling you guys about this crypto-based finance startup. I'm going to have the founders of that startup come on at around 11 a.m., so towards the end of the market open. Uh they just announced their equity race today by one of the leading VC firms in Silicon Valley. So, very grateful to be part of that. Again, the only reason I got to invest is because I debated one of the founders back in 2016. Have not talked to him in 10 years. Uh but he hit me up on LinkedIn a couple weeks ago and pitched it to me and that's why I made the investment. So uh we'll introduce that startup to people and you know their growth is like 20x in the past three weeks. It's kind of crazy and so given you know we're all in the financial ecosystem I think it is important to kind of look at some of these up andcoming names and uh potentially they're going up against the big dogs like the coin bases of the world when it comes to crypto. So we'll do that interview as we get towards the end of the market open as well and we will keep going from there. All right, here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. Let's get started. Did you invest in Teis's startup? I don't even know that Teis has a startup, but no, this is someone else from uh honestly from high school, which is it's just kind of crazy, dude. It's a small world. It's a really small world sometimes. I mean, if this guy builds the next billion dollar crypto company or it could go to zero, which is very likely because 95% of startups fail, you might get to be a part of it. So, we will talk about that as well. All right, let's get started. Robin Hood, Robin Hood, Robin Hood, Robin Hood earnings. Uh, let's do a couple minutes on Robin and then we'll get into all the different macro stuff we've got going on. What can I say about these earnings? These were some of the most phenomenal earnings I've seen. Um, honestly, and obviously I'm biased here because these are two of my biggest holdings, but Robin Hood and Palanteer put up, I think, two of the best quarters I've ever seen in stock market history. And I'm not trying to be hyperbolic here, like I'm really not. I I think I tend to be pretty objective on these names. But if you look at these earnings, if you actually actually go under the hood and see what they've done, it is just incredible. They're growing revenues at a 100% year-over-year, 1.27 billion. Net income is 271 million. There's a 50% net income margin, 50 cents on every dollar becomes profit. 61 cents of EPS up almost 300% year-over-year. Adjusted EBA is up 177%. Gold subscribers almost 4 million. And then platform assets 119%. The stock is flat. Uh, and this is something that I said yesterday that the stock would probably be flat because a lot is baked into it. Uh, it's up 240% year to date. Could I imagine it pops today when the market opens and we get a ton of volume? Yes, because that quarter was just really good. But even if it doesn't, again, it's understandable. And the stock actually dumped it. We got to like 137 as soon as the earnings came out because, you know, the alos kind of take control when these earnings come through. But if you really look at the earnings, my goodness, this was just an unfathomably good quarter. And and the reason why the quarter was so good is because the operating leverage that Robin Hood is creating is something that I don't think we've ever seen before. Honestly, the only two companies that are that are that are doing it like this are Hood and Palinger. They are able to grow the top line at an unbelievably accelerated rate while also managing the bottom line to become more efficient. And that's the holy grail of any investment is like can you grow the top line and the bottom line in the same way while being able to make sure that the operating leverage of of of the business overall has a trajectory for growth. At the same time they bought back a million shares. They increased adjusted IBIDA. They kept OPEX relatively flat. Net income is up. And the biggest stat that I think some people are overlooking and my biggest concern actually for Robin Hood going into the end of the year was that they've had easy comps for a long time. aka they had to beat 637 million from Q3, which is relatively easy to do. They did 1.27 billion, so they beat by over 100%. Next quarter for Q4, they've got to beat a billion dollars of revenue. It's really hard to grow a 100% because then they would have to put up like $2 billion of revenue, which might not be the easiest thing to do in Q4. They disclosed that their October numbers on uh equities, options, prediction markets, crypto, etc. was better than the entirety of Q3. I'll say that again. their October numbers were better than the entirety of Q3, which means even if November and December are a dud, they are, which they're not going to be given we're seeing momentum in these two months, we are likely going to see a massive beat going into uh Q4 or even if it's not a massive beat, it's definitely going to beat a billion dollars. They're not going to have any problem being able to show growth, which I was actually concerned about is like could they actually show the growth? But they've accelerated the business in such a way that they brought in so many new accounts, so many new subscribers, so many new higher level accounts, and you can tell their net deposits. Take a look at that. $20 billion in three months came to the platform. I mean, you look at a lot of the other fintexs of the world, they're not bringing in 20 billion. They're barely bringing in $3 billion because it's really hard to bring over money from JP Morgan and Bank of America into a small niche company like a Robin Hood. But they've figured it out. And that 20 billion includes a lot of large accounts. Their margin interest, aka the amount of people that are paying interest to borrow money from Robin Hood, went to $153 million, up from 114, 16 billion on their margin book now, which is an all-time high. And the reason that's also really important, number one, it shows that there's a risk on it, appetite in the market because people are willing to borrow money and pay interest on it. But number two, a lot of wealthier, high net worth individuals utilize margin. And as a result, if you're bringing those accounts onto your platform and they're borrowing millions and millions of dollars and they're paying interest on that, you know, for Robin Hood, that's a very, very good deal. And as rates come down, that likely is only going to accelerate because the cost of capital will continue to get cheaper. So, I mean, there's a variety of different things to look at in this earnings call. I'll probably do a separate video on it to go deeper on it, but from margin interest to prediction markets to the October guidance signaling that it's better than the entirety of Q3 to record transaction volumes, record net interest revenues at 456 million. And then this slide right here that I thought was really important. They are taking market share at scale. If you take a look at this right here, uh they now have 1% of the equity markets, 7.4% of options, 1% of crypto, and 1% of margin that it's barely penetrated. I mean, over the next 10 years, this is going to get well above 10% in my opinion when we're talking about a global market share of all these different products. And in my opinion, and I tweeted this last night, I think they're setting up the tr the the foundation for a trillion dollar market cap. I really do. And and I I I say that not with a lot of hesitancy. And I know people are like, "Wait a second, JP Morgan's only at $800 billion. How are you saying, Robin, it's gonna be a trillion dollar business?" That's a fair point. I'm not saying it's happening overnight. I'm not even saying it's going to happen over the next 10 years. What I am saying is the level of innovation that we are seeing from this company, the level of trust I have in management to just ship more and more products, expand into new verticals. Case in point, prediction markets did 2.3 billion contracts in all of Q3. In October, it did 2.5 billion contracts, 25 million, boom, right to the bottom line in one month. Robin had entered this market less than a year ago. And they weren't even the first entrant. Poly market and polishy already had the lead. So it's like like I just and banking's coming next year. You got all these AI services coming next. I I think there's so many verticals that they are going to expand into that I think over the lifetime of covering this company, they will be over a trillion dollars. they will be the beneficiaries of the largest wealth transfer we've seen from boomers to millennials. And I think the the macro tailwinds along with the company specific execution is kind of making this blatantly obvious that it's going to get to a trillion. Now, that doesn't mean buying it at $143 is going to be good in the short term because Trump could tweet something and then 2026 could be a bare market and then hood falls 50%. like anything could happen. But the point is if you really do have a long-term trajectory on this, I I I think it's a quality generational company that is going to a trillion dollars one day and very very excited based on the earnings that they put up. So that's what we got on Robin Hood. Uh we'll talk more about it throughout the entire show, but uh if you're a shareholder, I think you got to be happy with this. Again, same thing like AMD, they had a phenomenal earnings. Stock was relatively flat. A lot is baked into a lot of these equity prices as we're getting into Q3 earnings. you're just not going to see a ton of momentum because the street has to really ask themselves, can they give more of a premium to something that has a premium, but if the growth goes up and the stock stays flat or the stock comes down, the multiple goes down, which is also really good long term for the stock to consolidate into the quality of the multiple that it has right now. So there you go. That's what you got on Hood and I think they absolutely crushed it. I'll play the video of the question that I asked them a while ago because Vlad had a little bit of a long answer. So we'll listen to it later uh so we can get through some other stuff. But I essentially asked him about tokenization. That's the other thing I didn't talk about too much. I think this tokenization thing we all are really not understanding and in fact the startup that I invested in when we're we're going to interview the founders in a couple hours. Uh they are also in this tokenization world and like basically I asked Vlad to say hey can you speak on how big the opportunity is and for all my open door bulls he mentioned real estate. Uh he mentioned private credit he mentioned a variety of different assets outside of just equities that can scale on the blockchain. And when you think of assets coming on chain, that's why I'm super bullish Ethereum, but I'm also super bullish on the company that can become the the the toll booth to collect all the trading volumes on those assets. And when we think about trading volumes in the traditional financial market, it's as Larry Fin said, almost $4 half trillion dollars that coming on chain and increasing more liquidity to everyone because you don't need to have a bank account to now trade these assets or be registered with some broker. You can just have a a wallet address to be able to trade them up and down. That's a really big market. like we're talking about many many tens of trillions of dollars that market is. Robin Hood is not going to get the entire market, but if they even get four to 5% of it, that's going to be a massive business for them. So, as a result, very excited for Hood. I think they absolutely crushed it and it seems like that earnings power and growth trajectory is going to continue as we get into the life cycle of their business. All right, so that's what we got on Robin Hood and that's what we had yesterday. Let's get into some of the other headlines. So, a couple of different things that we got going on. First of all, OpenAI, actually, let's do earnings. Let's do earnings real quick. Let's just look at some earnings results and then we'll get into some of the headlines around uh AI. So, we have a bunch of earnings this morning. I'm not going to go super deep into them. I'm just going to give you guys their topline results and we'll see how their stocks are doing and then we'll keep going from there. First of all, let's get into uh D-Wave Quantum stock that had earnings today. I believe they beat on the top and the bottom. Let me pull this up. D-Wave, yes, they beat by 29% on revenues. or sorry, EPS uh beat by 23% in revenue, 3.73 million versus 3.03 million expected. They lost 5 cents versus 7 cents. Revenue is up about 100% year-over-year and EPS is up 58% year-over-year. That's what you have on D-Wave, ticker symbol QBTS, that stock is flat. So, beat on the top of the bottom. Stock is flat. Again, stock has had a really good year. So, stock being flat is not that concerning. Again, a lot of these stocks just have a lot baked into them given they had a really good year so far. but they did beat on the top and the bottom and you've got D-Wave going slightly green as we get into the pre-market. Uh Warner Brothers, these guys are potentially going to be bought out. Uh missed by 50% on EPS, missed by 1% on revenue. Obviously, not in the best operating shape as a business. There are very uh there are very large rumors that Netflix or Comcast is going to buy them out. These guys are also flat and you know, they're not really putting up earnings that you would think that a public company that is going to survive long term is putting up. So, Warner Brothers missing the top and the bottom. Potentially will get bought out. Madna pharmaceutical, they beat by 76% on EPS, beat by 17% on revenue. MRNA, that stock is up 7%. By the way, at 11:00 a.m., Trump is going to be making an announcement. That announcement has to do with drugs. We're not going to be watching it um because it's not about the economy or anything like that. It's about Trump RX and Ompic and stuff like that. So, I really don't think it's going to be that interesting to watch. So, when you guys see that Trump is going live at 11:00 a.m. to make some important announcement, again, if you really want to watch it, you can go to the White House channel, but it's not going to be anything that's as serious for us to care about as investors. It's more so about um the Medicare coverage for drugs. Data Dog, they crushed it. They beat by 20% on EPS. 55 cents versus 46 cents expected. 885 versus 852. Again, more software companies continuing to put up revenue, which is really good because you want to see that AI is a tailwind for a lot of these businesses. EPS up 20% year-over-year. revenue is up 28% year-over-year. They're actually having the best performance in the pre-markets. Look at that. Up 19% right here, which is not too bad for Data Dog as that one goes green. Now, Celsius, I was confused. Their stocks down, but they beat by 50% on EPS. 42 cents versus 28 cents expected. 725 versus 715. Uh Tanner was drinking an Alani new drink yesterday, which now Celsius owns. Um that stock down 15%. I don't know why it's down 15%. It's kind of confusing. I mean, when you beat EPS by 50%, there's got to be something management is guiding for saying that's really troubling people. ELF beat EPS as well, but they talked about tariffs and the street got kind of worried about that. So, not sure why Celsius is down. We're going to have to go deeper into their numbers. Um, but we'll we'll see what's happening there. Oscar beat by 9% on EPS. Lost 53 cents a share versus 58 cents, 2.98 billion versus 3.08. They missed revenues by a little bit. Oscar was up and then it came down. Now it's back up 10% on the day. It did get to like 1950, I think, then it fell to 17. Now it's back at 1879. Again, I don't know all the nuances of Oscar's business. I know that they're in the healthcare space and those ACA subsidies are going to be very important for them long term. But um Oscar right here did beat on EPS, missed by 3% of revenue. Stock is up 10%. I mean, a lot of these stocks also have been like pounder went from 205 to 188. It was at 188 last week. Oscar was at 1950, now it's at 1870. It was at 1870 basically over the past month. It's been consolidating from call it 17 to 19. So a lot of Robinood, you know, Robin Hood was well over 150. Now it's at 143. I mean it was at 148 on Monday. A lot of these stocks are just staying in a range even if they're crushing earnings and they're able to withhold their multiple, which to me is as a shareholder um you should be grateful for, right? That they're able to at least hold their multiple and they're not getting crushed because this market will crush your stock even if you do put up a good earnings. um even if they're not expanding the multiple which again as we get towards the end of the year a lot of us have had a good year at this point you just want to kind of maintain that momentum and that seems to be the trend as we get into the end of Q3 and today we got a lot of earnings and so we're going to see what happens there IN will have earnings today they absolutely have been crushing it in terms of performance on the price yesterday they touched $80 overnight they're at 77 right here uh I'll be covering IN live and we'll see what numbers they put up obviously that Microsoft deal really began to rerate the company but 77 right here basically at all time highs as we're green in the pre-markets. So, that's what you had on earnings in the pre-markets today. Now, yesterday we had a lot of different earnings. Um, as you can see on the lefth hand side right here, Duolingo, my goodness, 189. I just want to give a big thank you, a very big thank you to the Green Owl. Uh, and my thank you is not on behalf of myself. It's on behalf of Matt Money because in my stock draft, you know, I just want to let the Green Owl know that Matt Money is very grateful for the fact that I am never going to recover and even have a chance even after having Pounder Hood, Tesla, AMD, and Nebus to be able to win this damn draft. I just So, that that's my message to this stupid green owl. Uh, your boy's going to be down well over 50% when the market opens. And as long as Rocket Lab and AS don't [ __ ] the bed, Matt's going to get away with this. Like, I'm at 41% right now. Matt's at 36. If Dolingo doesn't recover, there's no chance. There's no chance you could have great performance. Unless these names go up by like another 40 to 50% each, it's going to be hard when you've got one stock down more than 50% dragging down the portfolio. Matt's going to have to do really bad for for me to have any chance. So, there you go. Duolingo. I mean, I don't know what's going on with this stock and uh I don't personally own it. When I did the deep dive on it, for those that actually read towards the end of the deep dive, the conclusion was I can't buy the stock. And the reason is I can't buy the stock is because of the narrative of the AI overhang. I spent a lot of time in that deep dive towards the end of it actually explaining, look, I think there's a moat in regards to the metrics. And look, it's hard to say there's not a moat when you look at these metrics. DAU's all-time highs, MAU's all-time high, subrevenue all-time high, paid subscribers all-time high. But there is a narrative and that narrative actually infiltrated itself in terms of some of the numbers on Dualingo yesterday when um they didn't give I believe bookings a guide for Q4 and their percentage of paid subscribers as a percentage of overall revenue went down for like the fifth quarter in a row. So I don't know is that indicative of not having a moat? Maybe. I think the long term you're going to have to see like is there a mode or is there not a moat but what I what I do understand is that when a business is firing on all cylinders and every single metric is at an all-time high and maybe one or two metrics are not the best or there's not like an accurate guide on them that the street is looking for but everything else is good and the stock gets hit by 30%. That to me is a narrative issue more than anything. I don't know if that's a fundamental issue because you know when you beat the estimates and you you're consistently profitable you are putting up good earnings. It's either the multiple is way too high and the street can't stomach it app by the way crushed earnings. They're up 5% right here. Or the narrative is so bad and we saw this with Google for a long time until Google was able to change the narrative with the DOJ. Uh and maybe you're seeing that to an extent with PayPal right now. The narrative is so bad that Dualingo can't overcome and as a result that's get hit. What about buying Duolingo right now? Well, so now it's below the 200 day moving average. Now you know the multiple has compressed dramatically. Now it looks a lot more attractive. The the problem is now you're bottom fishing. And if you're bottom fishing, you have to understand that you're bottom fishing with the intention of buying a very high quality business based on the numbers that we've seen at a multiple that is compressed because the street doesn't understand it. So essentially, you're calling BS on what the street is doing right here by taking it down 27%. I have not looked at Dualingo enough in terms of this earnings to be able to say yes, like uh the street completely has it wrong. My gut reaction is I think 30% is a bit aggressive of a haircut. But nonetheless, I think you would have to really be convicted on it because there's a lot of other opportunities of a lot of other names that just don't have that narrative. A lot of other names don't have Dualingo's growth, but a lot of names have um a narrative that is not as ugly as Dualingo has when it comes to AI. And as a result, I think that's why it's something to really think about. Here is the CEO of Duolingo real quick just talking about some of these bare market or bearish concerns about Dualingo and then we'll keep going from there
>> of the competitive land landscape. Uh uh you know I think people you know people say things like uh the two things that people say about the competitive landscape with AI are number one why would anybody want to learn a language with Duolingo when you can just learn it with ChachiPT. Um okay uh I you know we're not particularly worried about that. Um, you know, the we've said it before, the main thing that uh that we do really well, not only do we teach well, but the main thing that we do really well is keep people engaged. And in order to learn a language, you need to be engaged for years. Really, it takes years to learn a language coming every day. And we need to keep you engaged, actually doing it. And not only that, we also need to have curriculum for years for you to do that. So, you know, with chat GPT, you can go there and you can ask it to teach you a few words here and there, but you know, it's not like you can have really curriculum for years um uh that that that teach that. So, we're not particularly worried about that aspect. And then the other thing that people uh you know have said that they're worried about is oh well nobody's going to want to learn a language because um you know the we're going to have simultaneous language translation and okay um also not worried about that. Um, you know, I I believe in 100% of the Google IO conferences over the last 10 years, they have showcased simultaneous language translation. They do it every single year and it's good. It works. Uh, but this has been happening for the last 10 years and we have not seen the desire to learn a language go down at all.
>> So, essentially saying look uh we don't see our demand going away. other big tech competitors try uh to say like language learning is coming or language translation is going to commoditize the necessity to learn a language but we haven't seen anything happen. I don't know if long term that's going to be how it plays out. I want to say their network effect is going to be strong enough to withstand it. And I do think at this valuation it's starting to get more attractive. But if you're buying this stock on a nose dive on a potential falling knife, you just have to be ready for the narrative overhang which might be the best riskreward, right? When the narrative is so bad and no one wants to touch it, but it also might be a falling knife. That's one thing that I think everyone has to to think about. S&P 500 just went red. Trump just tweeted, "2025 Thanksgiving dinner under Trump is 25% lower than 2024 Thanksgiving dinner under Biden, according to Walmart. My costs are lower than the Democrats the Democrats on everything, especially oil and gas." So, the Democrats affordability issue is dead. Stop lying. I don't know if that's the tweet that just got everything to go a bit red as we're seeing some red candles right here, but you do have Trump saying that Walmart's report on cost for Thanksgiving dinner is uh positive for the Trump administration, 25% lower than Thanksgiving under Biden. Again, I don't think that's why S&P just went red. Maybe there's another headline. I'll see if there's anything else. But that is the Trump tweet that you have right there up. Nancy Pelosi just announced her retirement from US Congress as well. Maybe that's why we're going red now. The street knows that we don't have the greatest trader of our lifetimes trading anymore. Maybe that's the issue. Maybe that's the issue. All right, S&P 500 going red right here. Let's talk about the other reason why we might be having a little bit of a red market, and that has to do with what happened with Nvidia and OpenAI yesterday. So, let's get into that real quick before we do that. Um, Door Dash as well didn't have the best earnings. And so, so we we'll cover again all the other consumer brands that didn't do the best. Dualingo was one of them. Door Dash was more important to me. They're down 11% right here. And then ELF, they they they beat on the top or they missed on revenue. They beat on EPS, but they said tariffs are an issue for them. And the Shre took them down 24%. I don't fully understand why. I haven't gone that deep into their earnings, but nonetheless, they're getting hit. Honest as well. I didn't look at their earnings at all, but Honest got hit by 18%. So, Honest Ef Duolingo got crushed yesterday. Now, Door Dash, this was just really weird. Door Dash on their earnings uh basically said they're more concerned about user growth than monetization. And they said it in a weird way. They said, "We wish there was a way to grow a baby into an adult without investment or to see the baby grow into an adult overnight, but we do not believe this is how life or business works. Instead, we attempt to invest in a way that manages to milestones, allocating an appropriate amount of time and resources at the right stage of development. And uh we expect to invest several hundred million dollars more into new initiatives and platform development into 2026. I don't know where you know not every company can throw in these metaphors like Alex Karp does in order to be able to like resonate with shareholders. This this metaphor or analogy was was kind of a a dud to me. But um I think they were trying to cope with the fact that they missed on earnings and that demand for a $27 burger that theoretically would cost like $8 if you just drove two miles and got it yourself. Uh might not be as high. And we're seeing this with Chipotle. We had some commentary from McDonald's the other day. Kavas said the same thing. I mean, you just might have some stress on the lower-end consumer that's not able to afford paying these types of prices. Door Dash did miss did miss on EPS. They beat on revenue, but they did miss on EPS. So, you got Dash right there down 11.5%. Lyft actually had a great earnings. They were up 5%. Joby, not a bad earnings. Dutch Bros was up 1.2%. But everything else kind of was down after hours. Now, ARM had a good earnings. They were up 2%. Qualcomm as well. They're down 2%, but they had a good earnings. There is a rumor that uh SoftBank is thinking of taking uh Marll private and just buying them out, which is kind of crazy. Marbell right there is up 6% on that rumor. Not sure if that's a true rumor, but there were reports there by the Financial Times that SoftBank is thinking of potentially taking these guys out. And then Snapchat, the reason they're up 20% right here is because they have a partnership with u Perplexi. Perplexi is going to be paying them $400 million a year. I don't know how the hell Perplexi has $400 million. Like that like the revenues are 50 million. I guess the revenues have increased exponentially for them to be able to pay Snapchat 400 million, but they're going to be the default AI in Snapchat. AI Snapchat also is buying back 500 million of their stock. They did guide lower for DAUs, but this new AI initiative where Perplexity supposed supposedly is like uh something that should be very accive to shareholders and that's why that stock is up 17%. So that's what you got on Snapchat. All right, Nvidia and OpenAI, let's talk about that. So, uh, yesterday was really weird because Jensen and Sam Alman said some things that the street just didn't really like. Uh, Jensen at a conference in London basically said China's going to win the AI race. That that's in a nutshell that's what he said. Uh, and the streets started freaking out and they started selling off the stock and then Jensen four hours later had to comment and say, "As I have long said, China is nanconds behind America in AI. It's vital that America wins by racing ahead and winning developers worldwide. Aka, Jensen double down on the thesis that wait a second, I'm not going to take back what I said just because my stock is down five bucks and it just lost 120 billion in market cap. I'm gonna double down and say, "Guys, no." Like, China is very close to America when it comes to AI capabilities. And uh if we just let them keep doing what they're doing, we're all going to be screwed because we're not going to have a meaningful way to fight back against China. Now, why is Jensen saying that? I think we all, you know, can read between the lines, he wants to be able to sell into China. And right now, he doesn't have the ability to sell into China. In fact, he has a great relationship with Trump, but Trump is like on uh the side of his advisers like Marco Rubio that are saying we shouldn't be allowing Nvidia to sell these high quality chips into China. So, Jensen right here is obviously trying to save the company a little bit and say it's not fair for us to not be able to sell into China and if we don't then China's eventually going to beat us. Is that true or not? I don't know. But nonetheless, that's what got the street word yesterday. And then OpenAI came out at some conference and they basically said, "We are seeking government backing to boost AI investments." Now, we're going to listen to what the CFO said to clarify because this thing went viral and it was not good publicity for OpenAI. But the quote was uh from the CFO. This is where we're looking for an ecosystem of banks, private equity, and maybe even governmental. federal loans guarantees would really drop the cost of the financing, the CFO explained, enabling OpenI and its investors to borrow more money at lower rates to meet the company's ambitious targets. Obviously, this got a lot of people worried because everyone and when I mean everyone, I mean the the people that are not, you know, super super deep into investing if you're just kind of looking at it from a third party perspective. And even the people that are super deep into investing, although we're trying to rationalize it to ourselves, the the question continues to remain, is this unsustainable to say they're going to spend 1.4 four trillion dollars, have all these spending commitments, and not really have the the cash flows to be able to put up for it. Uh, it already is screaming. It's very bubbish. And now you're saying you want the government to be involved in backstopping these loans. It's like, you're not only going to take Broadcom, AMD, Nvidia, and Oracle down because you basically intertwined them in this web to make sure you're too big to fail. Now, you're going to make sure the US balance sheet is part of the entire AI revolution to make sure that it can't fail either. The CFO clarified on LinkedIn, I want to clarify my comments earlier today. Opening eye is not seeking a government backs stop for our infrastructure commitments. I used the word backs stop and it muddied the point as the full clip of my answer shows. I was making the point that American strength and technology will come from building real industrial capacity which requires the private sector and government playing their part. As I said, the US government has been incredibly forwardleaning and has understood that AI is a national strategic target. I think that's a little, you know, PR to try to cover up the quote. The exact quote was, "This is where we're looking for an ecosystem of banks, private equity, and maybe even governmental." Now, maybe she wasn't super serious about the governmental parts of this, but remember Sam Alman a couple years ago said he's trying to raise $7 trillion to be able to build out the AI infrastructure that he needs to do. So, the idea that, you know, the Trump administration would come to him and say, "Hey, you want some cheap debt that we're going to be able to collateralize via essentially the US military and make sure that everything works out?" I'm like I'm sure he would be interested in having that conversation because again they cannot get compute fast enough which is either super bullish if you think this AI revolution is very real and like OpenAI is just going to grow like crazy and it makes sense for them to spend this much or it's super bearish if you think there's not going to be a massive ROI and that you know this is inevitably going to lead to some type of bubble. But uh that is part of the concern that you had over the past 24 hours. I don't think it's that big of a deal. I mean, at the end of the day, if you're invested in this market, you've got to believe that AI is real and that it will eventually play out. But those Jensen comments, I think he knew that it was going to hurt his stock, but he had to make a statement publicly about what's going on with Nvidia and China. And he's obviously pissed off because he knows that they could grow so much more. They could sell to China, but they don't have the ability to. And then OpenAI saying that they need the government, you know, potentially just gets people a bit more worried about how good the quality of their laws are. And that's what we got there. So, that's what we got from OpenAI and Nvidia. We're going to see when the market opens kind of how the street ultimately reacts to it. But that is what we have now. The Supreme Court started hearing uh comments of tariffs yesterday. Here is what Trump had to say on Fox around what's going on with the Supreme Court and these tariffs.
>> Yeah.
>> You're saying you're happy with what you came out of.
>> If I didn't have tariffs, we wouldn't we were right now the entire world would be in a depression because, you know, that wasn't a threat against us. That was a threat against the entire world. I did this for the world. But still,
>> Trump has uh said this decision is going to be life or death for the United States. Now, my understanding of the decision is that it's not coming out till January. I don't know if I'm wrong on that. They started hearing the comments yesterday, and I was listening to a little bit of the audio uh from from the uh the meeting with with uh with with the people that are suing against the Trump administration versus the Supreme Court justice who are listening to the arguments. And there are mixed reports. Some reports are saying that the Supreme Court justices are more on the side that it's unconstitutional. Other are saying that they're looking at the different rules and regulations that the Trump administration used to pass this through executive order and they're on his side. So, I don't think we know. But from my understanding, we're not going to get a decision until January. If it ends up happening before January, then that that is very important. I'm going to try to get some clarity on when exactly the Supreme Court will make their ruling. But if it's before the end of the year, that's a big deal because that could affect markets dramatically if somehow the ruling ends up going against Trump. I mean, if the Supreme Court says these tariffs are unconstitutional, uh, from a couple of different articles I was reading yesterday, Trump would have to pay back about a trillion dollars of money because a lot of money has been collected over the past couple months via uh, these duties and a lot of those deals that were hinging on the tariffs, aka Europe's investing 750 billion into natural gas in the United States because Trump was going to tariff the crap out of them if they don't. Like, well, that goes away because now there's no more tariffs. And so there's a variety of different things that hinge on this. I'm leaning towards the Supreme Court is going to lean in his favor, but if they don't, obviously there could be some issues. Jobs data, we got some third party jobs reporting this morning. We don't have the government open, so we don't have the BLS, but here's some of the reports from Challenger, which is a third party firm that's looking at layoffs and hiring in the country
>> from like a cough or a or a sneeze or whatever. But announced corporate job cuts, Andrew, in the US surging past 1 million so far this year with 153,000 new layoffs announced just in October according to Challenger. That is the worst October since 2003. Here are the numbers. October up 153. That compares with September. That's 100,000 more than September and 100,000 more than this time last year in October 2024. Andy Challenger commenting, "Some industries are correcting after the hiring move of the pandemic, but this comes as AI adoption, softening consumer and corporate spending and rising cost drive, belt tightening, and hiring freezes. Announced layoffs don't always lead to actual cuts and could take place from attrition. But the report puts in perspective what we've been reporting here day after day, week after week. series of marquee announcements unveiled in recent weeks across US industries including UPS, Amazon, Target among others, Paramount, Rivian, all these companies there. Government has been responsible year to date for 308,000. But look at that tech 141. That could be where you see a lot of the AI, maybe some in warehousing, but a big chunk of that going to be um uh UPS as well as potentially some hit from reduced uh u uh flows of trade. Retail's up there as is services at 64,000. You take out the Doge cuts, the numbers a bit better at 800,000, but still well above last year.
>> So, that is what we're looking at for cuts. The uh exact quote right here from Challenger is that US employers announced 153,000 job cuts in October, 175% year-over-year, the highest since October 2003. Employers are setting cost cutting and AI as the primary drivers of these cuts. Now, we don't fully have the government open, so we don't have all the other BLS data in terms of jobless claims and jolts to be able to verify a lot of some of the third party data that we're getting. We did add 42,000 jobs in private payrolls yesterday as per ADP. Um, but it makes sense that October we had 153,000 job cuts because uh we we heard all those announcements, right? Amazon, UPS, I mean, a variety of different companies came out and said that they are officially laying off people. And we spent some time last week looking at the the many videos of people on social media that legit got laid off like it happened and those layoffs are now factored into the economy. So the fact that they're cutting uh the fact that they're setting cost cutting and AI as their primary drivers again is one of those arguments for why I think it is inevitable we are going to get a December rate cut. Probabilities now are 69.1% a little bit lower than 70% from yesterday. It's hard to imagine we don't get a cut with Jerome Powell looking at what's going on in the labor market. Not to say it's some cataclysmic labor market that we're in, but we are in a labor market where obviously we are seeing some pain. And to deny that would be uh just not looking at the data. JP Morgan this morning said that the market is rocked by headlines that layoffs are spiking due to AI. The market is weighing a weaker labor market and potential spending versus evidence on the efficacy and ROI of AI plus productivity gains. And so when you look at what uh uh Chipotle said, when you look at what Door Dash said, when you look at what a bunch of these other consumer brands are talking about ELF in regards to having some issues with the consumer, they're they're not explicitly saying the consumer is in a horrible situation and you guys need to prepare for the worst, but they are saying we are seeing signs of weakness. And I think going into 2026, we have to weigh the massive level of capex that is being spent against the level of consumer spending or lack of consumer spending versus the earnings growth. And then you put into the picture of inflation and interest rates and that'll give us a little bit better of understanding of what to expect in 2026. But right now there are some mixed narratives going back and forth and uh that's definitely not something that we can deny. Navius has opened up a UK data center. That is correct. Nebius is getting some love right here in the pre-markets again. Iren has earnings today. I told you guys yesterday that Iran and Nebius are like having like real beef on X. Uh it's it's it's worse than anything I've seen before. Yesterday, dude, some of the tweets I saw this this is getting like this is getting violent metaphorically in terms of these people going back and forth, the Nepus Bulls versus the Iron Bulls. And uh I don't know. I I I I I don't know why it's so triggering for people, but uh you got plenty of people saying that Nebius is trash and that IN's Microsoft deal is way better than you have the Nebus bulls coming out saying I is a failed Bitcoin miner that pivoted because they had no other business. Like there's there's just so many insults going back and forth. I think both will do well over time if this AI data center theme continues to hold up. Corey right there up about 1.3% as well. It is down from 140 earlier in the week, but yeah, Nabius opening up a new UK data center. I don't think that's bearish. And so it's nice to see Nebius was at 108 yesterday. So a nice little recovery to 120. It is down from about 140 based on what we had uh a couple of days ago. Sam says the thing wrong there's nothing wrong with a little competition. I own both. Yeah, if you own both, you own both, which is not too bad. Yes, ESPN is partnering with DraftKings. I saw that piece of news. Uh DraftKings right there up 3.8%. Obviously, DraftKings is starting to get more invested in sports betting and the overall predictions markets to be able to make their broader suite of offerings a lot more enticing for consumers. Now, ESPN has worked with DraftKings for a long time, but this time they entered into a multi-year agreement. DraftKings will become the official sports book and odds provider for ESPN. That seems like a relatively big deal in my opinion. But you got DraftKings right there up about 4% still down for the year. Google right there is up a little bit at 287 and then Palanteer that one is flat. Uh two updates on Palunteer. You did have a new announcement from Palanteer. They partnered with Stagwell to launch a new AI marketing platform built on Foundry and their marketing cloud. It lets brands unify data segment audiences and automate campaigns with privacy safeguards. Currently piloting at Assembly wider rollout coming. Stagwell sees hundreds of millions in revenue potential as adoption scales. I've never heard of Stagwell before. Uh but their stock is doing well. 43% up. I would imagine because of this Palanteer partnership. I don't know if they had earnings. Someone let me know if they had earnings, but uh I think that the street likes that they're working with Pounder. It's a 1.24 billion dollar company up 42% in the overnight markets or in the pre-markets and it looks like Paler is helping them out. Uh on top of that, Alex Karp had a new interview. Here's a one minute clip of him on Axios talking about why people don't like Palanteer.
>> Many, not all analysts. The analysts want to do what I would call I don't know the journalists that you don't hire do. They've got a frame. That frame is the frame that was developed in the 50s.
>> So thinking too small, too rigid, too.
>> So So yes, but then there's a thing that frame does not allow you to disambiguate between weak, medium, weak, strong, and baller product. Weak, medium, strong, baller culture. uh weak, medium, uh that and and to the extent and then
>> and you're saying you're baller.
>> I mean, I'm that's what the market seems to be saying. I don't know. I'm just modest over here. You say the analysts care about X. What I'm saying is way upstream of that that are assumptions that they control that at the end of the day come down to who they like and don't like.
>> And they're saying they don't like you.
>> Well, of course they don't like me. But you know why they they didn't like me? Because it's not actually not just in fair. Not the analyst. Honestly, I actually in some ways aligned with analysts cuz but it's like here I am somebody who should be you know you know like whatever should not be where I am. I'm having a lot of fun mostly. We have the most baller interesting company on the planet. I'm not ashamed of that. We're rolling out. We're defending Western values. Uh we are completely meritocratic. It's not I'm not the person that should be having this much fun.
>> There you go. That's what uh Karp had to say. Some people like it, some people don't. Nonetheless, that was his argument around why the analysts don't like Pounder and you know why Michael Bur may be doing what he's doing. By the way, I mean again, Bur, we we talked about the numbers yesterday. I was going through a little bit more of the 13Fs. First of all, one thing to understand that's really important, he he Bur never updates his 13F early. We are in 13F season. We're getting a lot more 13Fs that are starting to be released. I think in the next week and a half, we will get all the updates from all the major investors. I think the reason Bur released it early this time is because he wanted to show people that he is betting against Palenter and Nvidia essentially chips and ontology. He's betting against the AI revolution at scale and uh I think he wanted people to know that and that's why he put it out early. I also think he was getting crushed on either the short position or the put position and he needed some publicity to get people to be afraid and you know maybe that's why he put it out but so far those two stocks relatively strong. I mean, at whatever price he bought it at, if he's not out of the position, he is probably underwater on it based on getting in in at the end of September. And so, from that perspective, we're going to have to see what ends up happening. But so far, he is down on that position. We got about one minute until the market opens. Real quick macro stat right here that I thought was also very interesting. Take a look at this. ETF investors bought the crap out of the dip over the past couple weeks. The weekly uh year-to- date inflows every week for this year has been 47 billion. That's almost $10 a day. Same with the monthly, about $8 billion a day. As you can see, the S&P 500 right there. V, QQQ, IBV, those are the top ETFs. IWM is number seven. Number eight is SMH with the semiconductor ETF. So, you're seeing year-to- date inflows, massive, even on dips. And if it continues at this pace, 2024, you had about 1 or not 1.01 trillion. I think we're on pace for about 1.25 trillion, which would be a record year for ETFs. if they end up going the way that they are going right now. So, regardless of the choppiness of the market to start October, you do have people buying the dip and we're going to see if that continues towards the end of the year. All right, thank you everybody for being here. It is Thursday, November 6, 9:30 a.m. The snack market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 opens up red on the day 67656. Again, we had a lot of earnings yesterday. So, we're going to see how some of these stock prices react as we get into it. As you can see right there, the S&P 500 is indeed red. Robin Hood goes red 2.39% down about 3%. Pound right there, 186. That also goes red. We're seeing red across the entire board. Nvidia somehow is holding green. Uh you got S&P 500 right there that's up or that's down. AMD is down. SoFi is down. Grab is up a little bit. We'll talk more about Grab in a second. Google right there 284. Reddit is down about half a percent. Amazon's down half a percent. Meta is down a third. Salesforce is down too. PayPal is down half a percent as well. Elf is down. Legend is having a hard time loading. Okay, there's a lot of load on Legend. Let me pull up Weeble because these charts are not loading up. Uh, but you are seeing some red as we get into it. Dualingo 27% down on the day. 27% down. Bitmine's down two. Pounder's down one. Rocket Lab's down one. AMD is down two. SMCI is up a little bit. Rivian down 1%. Pinterest is up 2%. Zeta had a great earnings. They deserve to be at 20. This was at 16 a couple days ago. Uh, absolutely crushed earnings. And Zeta right there, that's at 20 bucks. Tempest is down 3%. Axon down 1.5. And then HIMS, that's down half%. Bitcoin right there 102.6. Where are the Q's and the NASDAQ? The Q's are down.34. ELF 24%. Door Dash 13%. Google's green. Uh Amcor is down. Tesla goes down. The shareholder meeting is going to be happening today. So that's going to be very important as well to see what happens with Elon getting this compensation package. I think it'll pass overwhelmingly. My guess is 7030, but I do think he will get the votes. Open Door is down 1%. Big Bear, Big Big Bear AI below $6. That's down 2.3. Um, NQ's down 1%. Verizon's down a little bit. Oracle, wow, Oracle 247. Dude, Oracle was at 230. Um, Oracle was at 230 before the earnings in September. So, it's it's not that far away from where it was. It did go to 350, back down to 230. Cororeweave is green. Molina is green. Uh, you got some of the healthcare stocks that are green. I down 4% again. And Iran got a big pump yesterday, so not that crazy to see Iran take a little bit of a dip. How about Cipher? Cipher is down 4%. That was also up about 13% uh yesterday. Celsius down 20%. I don't get it. If anyone's a Celsius bull, let me know if you know why this thing is getting hit by 21%. They beat EPS by 50%. I'm really not sure why. I don't see the broader macro reason for why the market's taking a dip right here outside of the Supreme Court case. I mean, I'm seeing some headlines come across the screen that the market might be worried that Trump will have to pay back all the tariff revenue that he collected, which definitely wouldn't be good, but I don't know if that's enough to get us down. Pounder recovering a little bit back to 187. Where's Hoodie? Are we dumping on Hoodie? Hoodie is 138. It is indeed taking a bit of a dump. Down 3% again. The quarter was exceptional. I think the theme of this week has been, hey, companies can put up good earnings. that doesn't mean their stocks have to go up. If their stocks are already up more than 200% in the past nine months and so sometimes you got to just take it with a grain of salt and remember that if you really are investing and not trading it then you're hoping that the earnings trajectory is in the right space even if the stock price is not really cooperating or going up even more based on a good earnings. Amazon right there is down about half a percent. Ricardo Libre down about 3%. Meta back below 630. I called someone up yesterday to talk about Meta. I have a lot of thoughts on Meta. So, we will talk about Meta in a second and uh I'll give you guys some of the things I'm thinking about. Nvidia right here 197 that's up 1%. Nvidia somehow going green with the rest of the market going down. BMR are we below 40. BMR is very close to going below 40. There it is below 40. That means ETH should be tanking. ETH is not really tanking. ETH is 35 to 33 is not really a tank there. But that is hurting BMR. Data dog up 20%. That getting some green. Um, Elf and Duolingo again still getting hit. Let me know if anyone's buying the dip on Elf, Duolingo, or Door Dash. Those are the ones that are getting hit the worst. Elf still down about 25%. Dualingo down 27% 189 on Duolingo. Uh, Google, where's the Googs? Google is Google's holding up. So, Google and Nvidia. Oh, there was a piece of news on Google today. Uh, Google is announcing a new chip in their TPUs uh that will be available very soon. I believe it's called Ironwood. It's available in the coming weeks and this is a new TPU. One could argue that, you know, Google's really leaning into their chip business and potentially that could be threat to Nvidia. Maybe not in the short term, but over the long term and that's why Google potentially getting a premium right there. 286 on the Google Store Dash down 15%, pound share 187, SMCI 42 4217. Um, I see a couple people saying they're buying ELF. Does anyone know what happened with EL? The only headline I have is they said tariffs are affecting the business and as a result of that the street took them down, but you know the earnings didn't show that tariffs were affecting the business yet. At least not in the moment. Qualcomm that's down 2.5. Rocket Labs down that's down one. Pounder just went green. Figma had a great earnings. Their stocks flat but absolutely incredible earnings over a billion dollars on a TTM run rate basis on revenue. Uh so I mean Figma I think crushed it. Robin Hood getting hit again just was a good quarter. Stock's not cooperating with the quarter, but stock is also up a lot year to date. Door Dash again down 14. Then Q's are down almost half percent. Micron is green. Micron wow 240. That's basically alltime highs on Micron. Marll rumors are SoftBank wants to buy them out. That one's up 3.4. See a lot of people saying they did buy ELF. Tesla again. Tesla pumped a couple days ago going into this um shareholder meeting. It might pump going into it. It might dump going into it. But I think the only thing that matters for Tesla today is will Elon's pay package get like affirmed voted for. And I I think like objectively it's going to be very hard to see him not get this confirmed. So I think it should be okay. Celsius now down 22%. My goodness. Honest I did not look at their earnings. Uh I'm going to look at that real quick. honest right here. Down 27%. I would imagine biodegradable diapers are not that affordable right here uh for the average person and that's why that's getting hit. Um the company has stagnant revenue. They're talking about the weakness of the consumer. This quarter was the first quarter where gross margins wow decreased and the guidance was cut to the downside. Goodness gracious. Look at this fullear outlook. negative3% to flat margins four to 6% update of 21 to 23 million on net income. That is ugly. It's not the best guide. And it goes to show again whether you own it or not these consumer names. Now again, this might be specific to honest, but nonetheless, you're seeing a little bit of a trend in some of these consumer names. Duolingo, no one's really buying the dip. No one's really buying the dip on Duolingo. Trump will be announcing weight loss coverage for Medicare today at 11:00 a.m. I'm not going to watch it when he's live. So, when he goes live, we're not going to watch it. It's It's really not that important. He's going to be talking about weight loss and it's not about the economy. That's already confirmed. I looked at multiple sources. If it is about the economy, we'll switch over to it. But it's about weight loss. It's about Trump RX. We already watched it two weeks ago when he announced it with RFK. So, when he goes live, it's really not something that's super important. But that is the announcement from the Oval Office he'll be talking about today. Astera, that's down half a percent. Tempest is down 4%. Axon down one. Axon is recovering uh from 560 at the lows. We know Tanner picked it up at 564. So, he's up a good 10% right here at 630. Bitcoin 102.6. Beyond Meat is up 9% today. Okay, Beyond Meat's getting some green. SoFi getting some green, up one and a half. SoFi's been stuck around 28 to 30. Breaking above 30 would be very nice to see. um grabs up a little bit right here at 2% and then Meta goes down at 1%. Oscar, great earnings. That stock is up 10%. And then Lyft, great earnings yesterday as well. That stock is up 7% as well. So that's why we're getting uh that's why we're getting some green. The VIX is cooling off. That is correct. We had a little bit of a VIX spike when the market opened. still up for the day. It's up 12% over the past days. Only 8 minutes until this open or as we've opened, but you do have uh a bit of a cooling off. Hood getting clobbered at 136. Again, here here's the thing about Hood. I think uh I think the one thing the street might be a little scared about because I I really don't think there's any reason for the stock to be down based on those earnings. Like there I mean quite literally I could not find a single red flag like something that was just like glaringly like oh they messed up on like everything was just exceptional. I think the street's thinking if we enter into a bare market or if we enter into a market that's not as enthusiastic uh because of AI, because of layoffs, because of capex going down, whatever narrative you want to give to it, then Robin's business is going to suffer. And what I got from the call yesterday is like, yes, that's probably true. Uh, however, I think Vlad is really positioned the business to be anti-yclical, aka he's setting up the verticals of the business. It's not going to happen overnight, but I think over the coming years, he's going to be able to make sure it can withstand any macro. And so Street might be taking it down for that fear, but uh I think if you're long-term, there's a lot of things that Vlad's working on in the background to make this business very resilient. Ethereum right there 3350. BMR back above 40. Data Dog still up 19% and then Google at 286 on the day. Where are the Quantum stocks? D-Wave goes down 5%. OioQ up half a percent and Regetti down 2%. So you got some of the quantum names taking a bit of a dip. D-Wave and INQ did beat on the top and the bottom for their earnings. Oaklo is down 4%. This is the lowest we've seen Oaklow in the past month. 118 was the low during the October draw down. It's now at 116. So, this is the lowest we've seen Oaklow. Same thing with Big Bear. This is the lowest we've seen in the past two months. Um, how about SMR? That one's down 3% as well. MP materials, rare earth stocks, that one's also down 1%. So, you're seeing some of those names get hit right now. Nebius, are we still holding 120 119 for Nebius? Why is AET down? I don't know. Aet and uh Alab, they both had pretty good earnings. I mean, like like they both beat on the top and the bottom. Networking solutions seems like there's plenty of demand that's not slowing down, especially given, you know, the rise of data centers and how much that demand is implicating the the trajectory of their earnings potential. So, not sure why these are getting hit. Maybe I got to look through the actual earnings call to see what they said. Robin Hood getting smashed down four and a half% right here. And then where is Rocket Lab? That's down 1.2. ESTs is 6951. That's down 1% as well. That's down 1%. Do you have thoughts on Verdive? I don't have any specific thoughts on them. I think they already had earnings and they crushed uh another data center play. I mean, the thing about Verdive and Vistra and all these names, again, they they've had a pretty good run over the past couple years. I mean, Verive's up 57% over the past year. Year to date, it's up 60%. Past five years, it's up a thousand%. So, I know I sound like a broken record, but a lot of these names, they they're just up a ton. And the earnings are good, but even with earnings really good, the fact that they're not losing their gains, I think, is more important than they're not making new highs, which is just something a lot of people have to deal with as they continue to consolidate. Google right there 285. Kratos also had good earnings a couple days ago, now at 78. AMD, good earnings as well. That stock's down. That stock's down about 3%. Could you imagine if Hood didn't crush? That's a good point. In this market, if you don't crush, I mean, if you if you crush and you go red, I can only imagine if you don't crush, what happens? So, you're seeing a lot of the pain that's happening right there. JP Morgan sees Bitcoin price reaching about 170,000 within the next 6 to 12 months. All right, that would be nice if we could get up to 170. that would definitely help everybody. Um JP Morgan right there putting out a 170 target. Galaxy actually came out with their price target for Bitcoin and they said they think it's going to go to 120 by the end of the year. Uh but their target was 185. So they released or they decreased their price target for the end of the year. Tom Lee from my understanding still thinks that that we can go to 200. Uh I think it's going to be a little tough to get there, but nonetheless that is what he thinks is possible. S&P, we got to be down like half a percent, right? Robin Hood 134. We got to be down like half a percent today. 0.2. All right. So, we're not down half a percent yet. 670. So, we did hit 680 yesterday. 676 is where we are right now. What do you think about the Snap partnership with Perplexity? I think it's really good for Snap stock. I don't understand how Perplexity is financing this, but Snap selling off already because it's Snapchat. It was up 20%, now it's up 11%. I just don't trust Snapchat, dude. I don't trust their management. I don't trust how they think of shareholders. I know they announced a $500 million buyback. I would rather them figure out how to get profitable than buy back their stock. Um, so I don't know. I don't know what a Perplexity partnership should be doing for them in any meaningful way that's accreative, but it's a good headline and Perplexity loves it because Snapchat has billions of users. So, Perplexity gets to I think it's way better for Perplexity than Snapchat. But, nonetheless, it is helping the stock make a move. 817 right there. That's up 11.7%. On Snapchat, BMR getting hit. Yes, BMR is getting hit 3982. That's down 3%. And then Nebius right there, 11890. That's up 1.6%. Okay, Meta and Gra. Let's talk about Meta and Gra. So, I had a conversation last night with a really good friend and I want to give you guys some takeaways from the conversation and we'll keep an eye on some of these stocks as they continue to go red. Definitely a little bit of a choppy morning. Seeing some yuckiness across the board, but then you got Palenter and Google that are going green. SMCI trying to go green. Pinterest trying to go green. Up 5% after going down 20% yesterday. But you do have some red across the board. Okay, so I called one of my friends, Sebastian. Some of you guys may know him. He's actually the person I consulted with when Robin Hood was $8 and we stayed on the phone for like five hours. It was like 4 am at night in December to try to 2023 to try to figure out, hey, like should we buy Hood? and we both concluded, yeah, we should buy Hood. Uh, now I bought a lot of it. He bought a lot, but he sold when Hood was 12. So, a little bit of a mistake. He ended up getting back in at 40, but you know, a little bit of a mistake at the time. Um, but uh, you know, I I really trust him. He works in private equity. He really understands like numbers and DCF models and all that stuff. So, he was the person I consulted with when Grab was at uh, uh, four bucks. And we we both decided, hey, you know, is there an opportunity here? Can this thing get to $10? And his biggest position is also Meta, which I found out about yesterday. Okay, Meta right there getting crushed at 62533. That's down 1.66%. So, we had a long conversation. It was one of those conversations where I really wanted to pick his brain and see what he's thinking about, especially because we were both aligned on Grab 10 months ago and I wanted to get his update thoughts and obviously I also wanted to ask him about Meta because, you know, if his largest position is met, I'm curious what he's thinking about. So, a couple minutes on Grab and then we'll get into Meta. The basic thesis on grab right here that I wanted to ask him for is look the stock is flat although the earnings trajectory is good. Stock right here up 1% at 570. And you know someone asked yesterday admit why is the stock going down even though the earnings are good. And I gave a bit of a Sam Alman response of like well if you don't like the stock you could sell it. And you know I was I was kind of annoyed that I even made that response because it's like that's not the right response right the response should be something deeper than just hey if you're annoyed at the stock you should sell it. And I don't know, I that's it's it's not in me to give like a grumpy response like that. But I but I was getting annoyed and it was not even annoyed at the question. I was getting annoyed that the stock itself that I've been in for the past year is up 20% but I think it should be up a lot more based on the earnings trajectory. And so I called up Sebastian. I'm like, "Bro, are we missing something? Are we really missing something here?" Because, you know, I just snapped on a question and I usually don't snap on questions. And obviously the question got under my skin and it annoyed me. So, I want to know like are we missing something in this thesis that is such a glaring red flag that we need to look back on the thesis to figure out are we wrong? Are we actually wrong on this? And is that why I got so annoyed by a relatively basic question about hey why is the stock down even though the earnings haven't been good. And so we went through the numbers again. We spent an hour going through the numbers again. He put out his Excel sheet. He said let's look at everything. Let's compare it to Uber. Let's look at what's going on. Let's see. Are we messing up? Are we just fundamentally missing something that the street is seeing before us? And uh is that what's going on right here? We concluded the answer is no. And again, we spent a lot of time going through this. This is not hindsight bias. We're not in this for the emotions of of being long a stock. Like if we think we're missing something, we we get the hell out because there's a lot of other places to put our money. We've really looked at the thesis and we said the only part we might be being a little bit aggressive on is giving it a higher uh EV to Ebida multiple. So we're assuming a 40 EV to Ebida multiple and that's how you get to $10. Uber trades at 25, but then we looked at their actual earnings. Uber is only growing IBIDA at 30% and they're trading at a 25 multiple. Grab is growing Ibida at 60%. So to say that they shouldn't get a higher IBIDA multiple, maybe you don't give it 40, maybe you give it 209 or 32. That still gets you to about $859 even if it doesn't get you to $10. Or at minimum it gets you to $758. Even if it doesn't get you to 10, which is still about 35 to 40% upside from here, which is relatively decent. If I told you a stock was going to go up 40%, you would be interested in in at least the thesis of that stock. And so our conclusion for here is very simple. We are going to wait until Q4. We're going to wait until Q4. And the reason again we we look deep into this is because we think management needs to give a massive guide pounder getting to 190 right here in Q4 for this to make sense to have any chance of surpassing that $910 range in 2026. There's a lot of tailwinds on the fundamental thesis, but if you're in options and you need a certain strike price, obviously you might want to add more time to be able to get to that stock price if the ability for the company to execute on their growth trajectory doesn't manifest itself. And then obviously the street can't continue to give it a multiple. So at its core, the conclusion is we're going to wait until Q4. We're going to see the guide. if the guide is not as good as what needs to happen on uh the the multiple for it to expand, then you get out of the options and you hold the stock. And we both kind of concluded the stock should be in a really good situation just given all the tailwinds that you know we've spent a lot of time talking about over the past year. But obviously the options target at $10 might be aggressive if like they're not able to get to that growth. But in terms of actually looking for a red flag, we just didn't see it. Nebia's getting a nice reversal right here. Wow, look at that. 118 to 120. Not bad. You got some data center plays going green. S&P is also potentially about to go green. Snapchat from 811 to 842, that one also gaining about 5%. And then Hoodie trying to bounce off 134, but still at 135, down about 5% on the day. At its core, we could not find the actual red flag. And from that perspective, I think the thesis is sound. However, I'm also going to stop obsessing about it because it was almost like I was beating my head against the wall yesterday thinking, what is going on? And quite frankly, we kind of reflected on this at the end of the call. That's usually when something happens, right? You ever see that meme of the guy who's digging for the diamond and then he gets all the way closer to the diamond and he just needs to keep digging more and then he turns away and the diamond was right there. Like a lot of times with stocks, you know, you bang your head against the wall, you know that the earnings are going in the right place. You know that the market understands the thesis even if the price is not reflecting it. You don't really give up at that moment unless there's a thesis breaker. You just have to exercise some more patience. And I think it's not just on grab. There's a lot of different stocks for people here that are not really moving in the direction they want to move even though they're seeing earnings inflection and that might just be an exercise of patience that needs to take place which is I don't think the worst thing in the world. Uh Rock Lab right there 5544 down 1.4% and then Robin Hood still 4% down on the day. MP materials that is also slightly flat. Chime Tanner loves this thing. I mean he loves it so much he was freaking talking about this on the Robin Hood earnings call yesterday. So you know that he's getting bullish on this one. 1822 that is down 4.7%. after their earnings as well. So, that's my conclusion on Grab. Again, uh basically some self-reflection on my part is I don't want to snap at questions about, hey, why is the stock going down? But obviously, I am annoyed just as much as a lot of people that the earnings are going in the right direction, but the stock's not cooperating. So, all I can do as a human being is go through the numbers again, ask myself, am I missing anything? If I'm not, then the only thing I can do is be patient and wait. And that's kind of uh the conclusion on this. One final thing I'll grab and then we'll talk about Meta. There was a darkpool order yesterday for 43 million shares. What is a darkpool order? A darkpool order usually is conducted by institutions to not be seen by the market makers or by you know the general public when they are executing a trade. We don't know if it's a buy or if it's a sell. We don't know if it's a buy or if it's a sell. 43 million shares yesterday at $5.64. Either someone bought it or someone sold it. I don't know. Based on the option flow that I've been looking at over the past couple days, I'm leaning towards a buy because the put call ratio is getting stupid. There's like two million calls open. There's like 100,000 puts open. But if it's a sell, then maybe it's institution. If it's a buy, maybe it's a major accumulation. I guess we're going to find out as these 13 Fs come out. But that is one thing that we saw yesterday in the dark. Okay, Meta. Now, Sebastian also has Meta as his largest position. I didn't know about that. He told me that yesterday. And so I said, "Dude, do I buy the dip? I already bought a little bit at 659. My question now is that should we continue buying the dip? His answer unequivocally was no. Do not buy the dip on Meta. That is what he said. I will give you guys why he said that. That is not my perspective fully, but I I tend to I'm I'm leaning towards what he's saying given that he's owned this thing since like $200. So, he understands the company pretty well. But here's his perspect and this is his largest position. By the way, Robin Hood is his third largest position. Uh Amazon is his second. Meta is his first by the way. Robin Hood getting demolished. 13363 down 6%. Rocklap down 2.7. AS down 1.79. Palunteer going red. Look at that from 191 to 187. What type of nonsense is going on this morning. Losing $4 in two seconds. Like tons of choppiness. S&P now low of day 675 is what you're seeing right here. Okay. Why did he say to not buy Meta? Very simply put, he said the street is completely justified in taking this stock down because Meta has not shown that they can do anything in their business to generate an ROI outside of advertising. And his argument is that they did 72 billion of capex this year. They're going to be doing notably more. So let's just assume 90 billion of capex in 2026. His argument is reality Labs is losing money. The glasses are a dud. Zucks already showed people in 2022 that he's willing to spend money and the only reason he pivoted was because the stock fell to $88. And at that point, you have to do something, right? But his argument is Z doesn't give a [ __ ] about you or me, especially because the stock is now up well above $88. So, you know, if people question his shareholder returns, he'll be like, "Dude, like stock's up 8x. If you didn't sell, that's on you. He's not, you know, he's not going to be crying for you in the casino that you didn't sell when the stock was higher." And so, he's going to spend like crazy. And Sebastian Sebastian's argument is Google and Microsoft and Meta that are spending almost the same amount a little bit more than Meta but almost the same amount that Meta is spending. They have something called a cloud and that cloud is generating a lot of freaking revenue. Dolingo, by the way, still down 27%. Meta does not have a cloud. Meta has advertising. And the biggest thing that pissed him off on the call and again he's been a long-term shareholder of Meta and this is the thing that really ticked him off is that Zucks kind of like said on the call to a response to a question about Capex that oh if we have leftover GPUs we'll come up with our own NeoCloud data center and we'll provide services to like up andcoming startups that need some type of cloud servicing if we have excess capacity with GPUs. And he was just like this guy has no plan. This guy has absolutely no plan. He doesn't know what he's doing with AI. He's hiring, you know, all these different researchers, giving them billions and billions of dollars for what? What exactly are you going to create with that, right? Like, you're not going to compete with Chachi and Gemini. You're not going to win the consumer LLM race. The glasses is stupid. The VR AR thing is dumb. You're losing money on reality labs. No one wants to go to the metaverse. So, the only thing that's left is advertising. And by the way, Sebastian is a big holder of app loving. He loves ads as a business model. I love ads as a business model. Ads is a great business model. Great margins. But is that why you're spending hundreds of billions of dollars to make the ads better? It's really hard to justify that from his perspective. BMR at 3935 that's down 5%. So his argument is it wouldn't hurt to wait another quarter and see what management has to say because although 15% down on Meta on an incredible company obviously is attractive. I mean if this thing gets anywhere near the 550s it becomes very attractive. But the way it gets there is if Zux continues to give these types of guides on capex that leaves the street basically in the woods of not fully understanding what the hell is happening with why they're spending so much on capex and what result is going to come from the capex. Snapchat right here up 16%. And so I think that's a fair point. I mean I don't think it's crazy. Now could Meta reverse overnight and this all be seen as a nothing burger? Sure. And that's fine. And and yeah, then you missed out on the dip. You have to ask yourself how much risk are you taking buying this if it were to collapse further. Uh not only just because of you know the macro reasons Trump says something 2026 we get a little bit bearish little choppy yada yada but also Z has a couple quarters of not actually giving you an argument about what he's spending this capex for because someone in the chat tell me what is he spending it for? Like it was a realization I had yesterday when I was listening to this guy. I was like he's spending it on ads. Nothing else is working in meta in any meaningful way. like nothing. And I would love to know, you know, if anyone thinks there is something, but literally nothing outside of advertising. Robin Hood is getting hurt so bad. I don't know why Robin's down. I don't think it deserves it, but Robinet's getting hit right here. And so, I think it's a fair point to wait. Super intelligence. Okay. But what does that mean? Because when I think of super intelligence, I think of, okay, he's going after AGI, which means he's going after like building the best intelligence of the world that people will use on a daily basis. No one uses meta AI. And I know some people use Meta AI, but like it's not like GPT or Gemini. Like if I have a question, I'm not going to Meta AI. I'm not going to Instagram to ask my question and mistakenly typing something in that gets me onto WhatsApp Meta AI. Like I'm going to chatt Gemini or Grock, right? I I personally don't believe in the glasses. I know some people do. I think the glasses are just not going to pan out. And Sebastian, by the way, he said the same thing. He thinks the glasses are just not going to be the next form of computing. Maybe they are, but that's a hell of a risk you're taking to think that you have to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to build classes, right? So then, so then what is he spending it on? I mean, it's a legit question. It's a very legit question and uh he kind of changed my perspective on it, which is the other three have a cloud. That cloud really matters. Dway, by the way, down 7%. Meta does not have a cloud. So all the capex and GPUs they're spending on has to result in ROI for their business, not ROI for another company that's licensing AWS or GCP's cloud because essentially Google just has to provide the the infrastructure for the workloads of AI to be run on their cloud. They don't actually have to to monetize some brand new product. Although Google has Whimo and Atronic and they're doing all these different things and Microsoft has co-pilot and the OpenAI partnership, Meta has advertising. Big Bear down 5%. And so from that perspective, I think the conclusion is maybe maybe you wait on Meta. Maybe you wait. All right. Why are we dumping? I don't know. Grab is green. Snapchat is green. It looks like those will go red pretty soon because everything else is going red. Nebus is barely green. Lyft is green by 6%. Oscar is green. It lost 10% now up six. And Marll is green on a rumor with SoftBank. And then Micron's green and Google's green. Everything else is pretty red. Emit owns Meta, right? Yes, I own some Meta, but I have not, you know, BTFDed on the dip. Uh, I was planning to, but this is why sometimes you got to have a conversation and like have your views challenged, especially from someone who, you know, who owns this and he's owned this for a long time. So, he's he's not trying to be overly bearish because, you know, it's your number one position. So, I appreciated the objectivity, but I think I think waiting a quarter is not crazy. I think waiting a quarter is not crazy. All right, so we are red across the board. Healthcare is down, finance is down, tech is down, retail's down, energy is up a little bit, utilities are up a little bit, consumer services are up a little bit. Trump didn't tweet anything for everyone saying this is Trump uh outside of this this Democrat Walmart 25% tweet. Um maybe the Supreme Court thing is causing some pain right here. That could be one of the reasons. Average on bet is 659. It's a very small position, 659, but uh you know, obviously I've been thinking of adding to it, but I don't know, maybe I think waiting is not horrible. Uh Robin at 131. My goodness, they are taking her down. Again, I do not think this is earnings related, guys. I really don't. I think this has a lot more to do with just the macro today. Although, I don't have a good reason for the macro. My buddy's average on meta is around 200. Sebastian's average is around 200. Um, let's see if we have some headlines here. We have Greer talking about the tariffs. He's the US trade representative. Let's get some of his thoughts and see what he's thinking about the Supreme Court decision as well. Well, if it doesn't go the way President Trump wants, uh, you know, he loses a lot of the flexibility uh that we believe Congress granted him to deal with these emergencies we're facing, right, of the of the trade deficit, the loss of manufacturing, etc. Uh, and then and then what's next? Well, then, you know, as as Justice Barrett pointed out, there there's the question of of the of the funds. I think some of that is an open question. Um and so the Treasury Department will have to you know figure out what that means and there might even be more litigation on that point. Uh and then of course you know tariffs are going to be part of the policy landscape and the justices all signaled you know a lot of additional authorities there are out there. You know we continue to be confident in this case. Uh but believe me tariffs will be a part of the policy landscape going forward.
>> Okay. So the administration is trying to assure everybody that tariffs are going to be a part of the policy landscape. The Supreme Court will have the official decision. Um, let's see if I can pull this up right here. When will the Supreme Court rule on Trump's tariffs? Um, they decided hearing it yesterday. See, what I'm looking at right here is saying they're going to rule on it in the next week, which is totally different from originally what I heard, which was going to be in January. I think that's also why the market's freaking out if we are going to get a response on these tariffs pretty soon. End of month, right? Yeah, end of month. I think that's why the markets are freaking out. I think the markets are just like there might be a lot of other reasons, but one of the main reasons might be, hey, we don't know if these tariffs are going to last. And if Trump loses the conservative justices, you know, then we're talking about the people that he appointed disagreeing with his policy perspective, that could get a little ugly. That could definitely get a little uh a little ugly right here. Microsoft bleeding. S&P is down officially more than half a percent. Microsoft. Wow. Below 500o on Microsoft. Below 500o on Microsoft. Micron going down. All right, folks. Today is today isn't everything going down day. And obviously M Robin is getting hit really bad. If everything's going down, pounder 183. Grab is somehow holding green. I expect that to go red pretty soon. Same thing with Snapchat. I mean, I know they had a decent earnings, but S&P's down 1%. Usually everything gets hit with it. Big bears down five. Wow. Oaklo down seven. Oaklo worst we've seen. Oaklo since I mean worse than we've seen it in October. Down seven and a half%. Some of that high beta momentum definitely getting rocked today. Google 284. I'm surprised Pounder is able to hold 188 to be honest. Or 187 or no 183. Well, yeah, tech. Oh, no. Pounder's down more. I thought it was at 187. 183 is definitely a little bit of a hit right here. Um, it's been holding 180 this whole week. So, a break below 180 would be a more aggressive uh draw down on the name. Q Dwave is down 6%, but IO and Q's green. So, I guess a little bit of a difference at least in how the earnings are being interpreted by the market. ELF down 33%. Who's buying ELF? Is ELF a big name? Do people like people like this stock? Like I know it's in the makeup space and I don't know. I feel like I know it was seven like five years ago and and they like went really viral and the stock went up a lot, but is this a name that people actually like trade? Because there were so many people talking about ELF yesterday in the chat. I'm like, "Guys, it's makeup." Like, like like, "Why do we why do we care so much about makeup?" But E.L.F. is down. Visa right here down 1%. Bloom Energy down two. And the Royal Caribbean down 1% as well. Coinbase down four, almost below 300. Amazon losing all of those AWS gains with OpenAI in terms of that partnership that we got a couple days ago. Robin trying to bounce off 130. Uh and then pounder trying to bounce right there at 183 to get some momentum. Um Nebius 116. Nebius just went red. I ran. What about that one? Still holding 70. Down 6% but still holding 70. I own a thousand shares of E.L.F. and it's down. E.L.F. Budget is a makeup brand. ELF lowered their guidance that says some of their customers canceled orders after a pricing charge. Yeah. Well, that's the reason why ELF has been getting hit along with the the lowering of guide the uh the the argument about tariffs increasing their pricing which is why customers had to cancel. Uh VIX by the way up 2% right here at 1840. Is that worth 30% down though? Like I don't know. Is that worth 30% down? Dualingo still down 27%. Did anyone buy the dip on Duoling? Oh, where's the stock draft? I don't even want to open that [ __ ] dude. Where is the stock draft today? Hood and Dolingo getting crushed. Okay, let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Oh, wow. Still in first place. That's crazy, bro. I'm down 60% on Dualingo. Still in first place. What is hurting Matt? Oh, I guess it's Dutch Bros that's hurting him the most. 31% still beating Matt by 6%. Dutch Bros, I guess, is the thing that's taking him down. Dutch Bros at a good earnings. Is that stock getting hit today? Dutch Bros. No, it's down 2%. I guess his entry is just a bit higher, but it's down 2% right here. Tanner's at 20%, Steve's at five, and then Chris is at 5.9. All right, even with Dolingo, we are holding on right now. But 60% down is pretty aggressive on Duolingo. Whereas HIMS, Hims is down five. Hims is hosting an event next week, some like virtual event uh for launching some new products. And then Celsius down 23. Oh, wait. Does Matt own Celsius? Oh, yeah, he does own Matt is still green on Celsius, though. He's still up 5%. But he does have Celsius in this.
>> What do you think about Take Two? I think Take Two needs to put out Grand Theft Auto 6 uh for the stock to really get any love. Like I don't know why you would buy Take Two until you're sure Grand Theft Auto is coming up. I don't know enough about the business, but that is like what everyone cares about, right? Like that is GTA 6. So I feel like that's the catalyst. And I guess you try to time when you think that officially comes through. Zeta, that's green. Zeta. Well, it's red. It's It was green. Now it's red. 1933. And then Nvidia. Wow. Nvidia, dude. 197 to 192. Oh, AMD's got to be getting hit. AMD, I'm going to guess, is at 245. 241. AMD. Wow. Okay. So, now I see why we're really getting some pain. The biggest chip companies. I guess we didn't click on Nvidia for the past 10 minutes. Nvidia getting hit bad. Okay, so the question now becomes why? Again, we talked about what Jensen said yesterday at the London conference about China. I mean, is that enough to sell Nvidia? Maybe. Definitely enough for uh for people to maybe get a little worried. I don't see any other crazy macro head. Let me see if there's something else that's happening. Uh again that Supreme Court stuff we talked about the government shutdown thing is really yeah I mean look that's really important as well. Um the the uh air traffic control and the TSA is getting ready to essentially cancel flights as per reporting going into next Friday if the government continues to be shut down. So that is obviously not going to be help helping traveling season. I would imagine airline stocks are probably getting a little hit as well. U yeah down 1.5 then Delta down half a percent. What did Jensen say about China? He said China is uh going to beat America in the AI race. And look, he probably doesn't believe that's going to happen soon. But the reason he said it is because he's trying to send a signal to the administration that is, hey, like I know you guys care about national security, but like the stock needs to go up and for the stock to go up, we need to keep growing. So can you please let me sell to China? You know what's other, you know what's also really interesting about this? Nvidia is 8% of the S&P 500. Nvidia, forget being 8% of the S&P 500. It is the epicenter of why this stock market has been so good over the past couple years. Like everything flows from Nvidia. Guess who owns Nvidia? The entire country. Like everyone's 401ks is one would argue reliant on Nvidia. And and that is very scary that one company is the lynchpin of the entire country's 401k. But at its core, if Nvidia doesn't grow, you know, I know Trump cares about national security with Chinese chips and stuff, but like I mean, if you want people to continue to be prosperous and Nvidia is the reason for like if we can't sell to China, I wonder what that means for the entire market and as a result everyone's portfolios because even if you're even if you're super not exposed to Nvidia, market crashes, your your best your best hedge is cash And so at that point, you've got to be majority in bonds or money markets to be able to avoid that. Because look, is Nike somewhat of a good hedge against Nvidia? Is Verizon somewhat of a good hedge? Yeah. But it's not like those stocks aren't going to get hit if we have a market collapse triggered by Nvidia. Like everything's going down if that happens. And so I think there's a just a variety of different issues that could take place if you know Nvidia gets hurt which is also why you know I think a lot of people are calling BS on this entire market and I'm not one of those people but you have people saying that one company is responsible for everything. I think if you do some due diligence to that company and to the the sector that they are responsible for it, it becomes very uh clear and apparent why this company is getting the the the trillion dollar valuation, the multi- trillion dollar valuation that it's getting. But you do have people some people saying, I don't want to play that game. I just don't want to play this game of vendor financing and debt. And that's another thing about Meta. You know, they're not using free cash flow anymore. They're using their debt. One of the reasons they're using their debt, by the way, they have to continue buying back their stock because if they don't keep buying back their stock, that share price is going to, you know, really start to see some pain. And so part of the reason they're issuing these $30 billion of bonds, which they have well over 3x the demand for, is because they need to make sure they have enough cash to continue doing those buybacks in order to fund their capex um ambitions. You know, it starts making people think a lot about what exactly is going on with how they're thinking of AI. Dwave getting a recovery. It was down seven, now it's down two. So, you're starting to get a little bit of recovery. Amit, we are losing a ton of money with no realistic answer. These companies keep crushing earnings. So, why are they tanking? Again, my best answer is that a lot of these companies, let's take a Celsius for example, were up a lot going into these prints. Celsius is still up 67% even after this 20% decline. And Celsius is a metaphor for a lot of these companies. So, as Benny says right here, I hate this as much as the other guy, these two words, but you got to zoom out because if if if you talk to any professional money manager, any institutional money manager on if they could pick one stock and go up 70% in a year, I mean, they would take that bet any day of the week. They probably would never do that because obviously they have to hedge and they have to manage risk. And that's why they never get those types of returns that retail gets because retail is brave enough to say, "Hey, I'm gonna go long and energy drink for 10 months and see what happens." But okay, Celsius is not up 80%, it's up 65%. You can't complain about that. You just like you can't it's not like Celsius was up 10% and now it's down 20% for the year. And so this is where the zooming out becomes really important to get some perspective. Same thing with hoodie. As much as I hate that it's down 10 bucks today, um, at the end of the day, it's still up 220%. And so, it's hard to be super ungrateful about it. Nvidia trying to get a little bit of a bounce off 191. Little bit of a bounce off 191. Institutional profit taking potentially. I've seen mixed charts on this. I've seen a couple of charts that are saying institutions are actually leaning into the dip. Not sure exactly which one is true, but yeah, I mean maybe on a day like this you might have that are potentially taking some of their profits. It also could be retail profit taking to be honest. You have retail that got into AMD at 180 saying you know what 240 is good enough for me. I'm out and they could be taking some profits. I ran right there down 6% on the day. Dash right here down 16% as well. Do you think all the FUD from Buffett warnings have an impact? No. I I don't think the Buffett indicator is necessarily FUD. I think there's probably some big Twitter accounts that like are building an audience off being there. There there are You guys got to be very careful about the content diet that you consume. There are many accounts on Twitter. I know a lot of people get their financial news from Twitter that are literally building an audience off fear. And why is it easy to do? Well, number one, human instinct, you know, tends to be interested in things that can scare you. Number two, the stock market is the easiest place to generate fear. because like it's people's money, right? So, if you can say, "Hey, this successful investor has an indicator and this indicator uh suggests that the stock market will fall 30%." I mean, you're going to get a lot of attention when you do that. So, I don't think that's enough of an impact to have a massive, you know, uh draw down on the market by these Twitter accounts. But, yeah, it definitely gets a bunch of retail investors looking at these charts and then seeing these accounts and then thinking, boom, you know, I should book in my profits and and leave if the Buffett indicator is flashing red, which maybe that's the right thing to do. But nonetheless, I think there's a lot of things to counteract the Buffett indicator. One thing to counteract the Buffett indicator is that Buffett doesn't invest in any of these companies. Birkshshire is not really performing that well this year. And the reason for that is because they're not in any of these names. The reason other people are crushing it, the reason that tech is crushing it is because you've trusted this AI revolution and you believe that there is going to be actual earnings growth. And we're seeing that earnings growth. But that doesn't mean you're going to have red days in the, you know, in the middle of that. Bubble talk is the epitome of fear talk. That is correct. That's also fair. Um Tom Lee was on CNBC yesterday. He thinks the crypto leverage is a bit overdone and he thinks eventually this stuff is going to die out. Um you know his main argument is just that there is a lot of leverage in the system and that it is healthy for some of the leverage to leave. But that doesn't mean that the overall thesis for crypto is not necessarily intact. here is some of what he had to say yesterday about this
>> often be an early sign of of stress but it also takes place when there's window dressing so it it and banks are doing window dressing at the end of month so
>> uh I I am kind of watching it but I I think those funding stresses have eased and of course it hasn't spilled over and reflected in what should be building stress in either credit markets or or in bank equities and so I I would just say that it's an anomaly And it may be due to the shutdown, but yeah, it's worth watching.
>> Okay. Just the fact that we have had this deleveraging event, if you will, in Bitcoin, I mean, what what do you watch to know that that's washed out? And I guess perhaps just as importantly, has this been playing out the way it has previously in the market? Uh yeah, in some ways I mean I think we have to go back to two different episodes you know uh 2022 when FTX uh collapsed and then in 2020 when we had the COVID shock and in both cases uh those were really widespread deleveraging events in crypto because as you know in crypto there is typically a lot of leverage. the one the October 10th deleveraging was the biggest in history and that means there are still ripple effects being felt even two weeks later. Um there has been a DeFi protocol streamer that that actually reported a pretty sizable loss and that created further ripple effects and that's what happened yesterday along with this thing called the balancer hack. Uh so I'd say it it's probably still a couple more weeks. The good news is there aren't a lot of bodies floating to the surface, so it doesn't feel systematic, but it it's going to take some time for confidence to come back and I think that's why crypto took it so hard in the last couple of weeks.
>> I don't know too much about this balancer hack. I haven't done a ton of research on it, but apparently uh it definitely was not the best for the crypto markets. And you know, the hacking stuff is not unique to crypto. I mean, it's it's been happening for a long time, but this was specific, I think, to Ethereum, if I'm not wrong. And so that also could have been a reason why Ethereum took a little bit more of an aggressive draw down over the past um over the past couple of days. ETH right there 3340 right now. Um so yeah, Tom's basically saying leverage has got to get wiped out. That is kind of the core argument that he's making. And yes, he did say I don't see any bodies yet. So he's talking about how aggressive this might be. Um, couple other headlines. Trump may have to refund tariffs to companies if Supreme Court rules against the administration per Bloomberg. That's going to be a big deal if that does happen. Um, the balancer hack. Couple other updates on that. Uh, Ethereum had 70 million that got hit. Bass and Sonic at 7 million. And then other chains lost about 2 million. The attack targeted bouncers V2 launch and liquidity pools exploiting a vulnerability and smart contract interactions. Preliminary analysis on onchain investigators point to a maliciously deployed contract that manipulated ball calls during pool initialization. Okay, so that could be explaining some of the crypto draw down that we're seeing right here. Take two 256 that is also up about half a percent on the day. Yeah, I mean I guess you could point it out to, you know, I know these are not the best reasons and I know people, you know, when you're losing money, it's it's it's very emotional and obviously it's very annoying uh when you see the portfolio go down and you I I this is what I was saying in April like in April people just wanted a really good reason for why it was this bad or sorry in March. in March because there was no real reason in March when we were going through it. But the reason ended up being that the market was getting ready to price in massive tariffs and then we had liberation day and although everyone was down a lot we all had a little bit of closure of like okay we understand why we're down it's because we have the you know massive tariff increase that we've never had in 40 years and um or in more than 40 years and like almost 100 years and so as annoying as it was at least we understood why the market was down whereas in March we just you know it just kept going down every other week. I think people are annoyed over the past couple of days because like you just don't have a real reason. The China stuff with Trump is resolved. I mean the the you know Nvidia just had a massive GTC. They announced all these different partnerships. Like you're not seeing that glaring re the shutdown is one reason but the markets didn't care about the shutdown for the past three weeks. So maybe the market's caring now about it. But it hits people aggressively when they don't know why they're losing money. I think a lot of people can handle losing the money. you know, emotionally it's annoying, but like overall you can handle it if you're long. Not knowing why is the issue and the no reason is very very annoying. Having said that, and again this goes back to the question of just like you know like what is what is the reason for why we're losing money? Uh what was the reason for why portfolios were gaining so much money, right? Like that and and that's that's also you know going back to this zoom out thesis. It's also very important to understand like when Robin was at 150, why why did it go to 150? I can't give you the best answer for that and we've been talking about it for a while. When AS went to 100, why did it go to 100? When Oakl went to 193, why I mean like there is not an easy why outside of momentum, uh, FOMO, you know, things that are not really fundamental. And so when the portfolio was hitting all-time highs, when these stocks were going to all-time highs, the question becomes, was it justified to be at all-time highs? maybe. But if it wasn't, then that money was theoretically if Robin had never went to 150, you wouldn't be down now that it's at 132 and the psychology of losing all that quote unquote money would have never happened because you would have never seen that money go up, right? And so I guess it's a little bit of a psychological trick to tell yourself, well, maybe that money was never real in the first place, especially if you didn't sell, which I didn't sell any hood at 150, so it was definitely not real for me. Um, which means now at these levels, it's a lot more realistic in terms of where the price is, which hopefully is not the the worst way to kind of allow yourself to think about it. Um, getting a little bit of a Vshape, folks, very little. Do you think Hood's multiple is fair? Now, I have to go through the numbers. I actually didn't look at the updated multiples with the growth, but I would imagine on a 7% downturn with a 271% EPS multiple still probably aggressive because stocks at $130 billion market cap, but it's probably way better than what it was yesterday now with the new quarter. So, when I go through the numbers, I'll take a look at some of this momentum. BMR right there down 4%. Grab officially goes red 562. Rocket Lab down four. And then Arista down 2%. AMD is getting hit. AMD 242. And then ELF still down. ELF not getting that much of a recovery. Still down 33%. Galaxy again, you know, Galaxy put up a great quarter. The stock got to like 45 4592. This is one of those names where you ask yourself, did it deserve to go to 4592 or was that just in the moment of momentum? Galaxy Now year to date, by the way, even after the draw down from 45 to 30 is still up 70%. Which is just not something that anyone can be too upset about unless you bought it at 45, which then again, you're upset, but it's also just like, well, you bought it at a bit of an aggressive multiple. And by the way, I've done the same. I've bought stocks at aggressive multiples as well, and you have to end up dealing with the ramifications of doing that. But it's not like the stock is down 40% year to date, you know? It's like it's like if it's still up a lot, there's there's plenty of people that are long the name that are not really bag holding it. They're probably not that upset even if it's down and as a result it's just the nature of being able to navigate those positions. Robin right there 132 circle this is another classic example circle IPOed at 30 got to freaking 298 now it's at 105. I am bullish stable coins. I don't fully understand Circle's revenue model especially because they have a 50% rev share with Coinbase which is why I stayed out of it. But if you bought at 250 and now it's at 105, obviously you're upset, but it's still a 3x from the IPO. For an institution that got into this at 30, I mean, this made their whole year a 300% move on an IPO, especially if they sold anywhere near the 150s, 170s. So, it's just one of those things of like how upset can you be at the market for taking some of these stocks down a little bit. Although, I do think there is some macro thing going on that we don't know about. I still don't have a reason for why we're seeing all this red. You know, maybe it could just be, and again, I hate to say this, but alos on a Thursday in November, just bringing everything back down and consolidating some of the gains from October getting a very slight V. We're going to see if that has any momentum to hold on to, but I don't see the full-on macro reason outside of maybe the Supreme Court. I mean, you're coping with the zooming out stuff. I mean, you could say it's cope, but I I really I really do believe in it, dude. Like, and I think I've been saying this for the past couple weeks, like I cannot be upset as a Hood shareholder that the stock is down 7% when it's up 200% this year. I just can't. So, you know, I I hate saying zoom out, but at some point, you have to say zoom out because that earnings, I think it should be trading at like 155 160 if you're really going to give it a premium for growth given the quality of the earnings that they put up. But if they don't get that premium, I can't be upset because the stock's not at 30 bucks. They've already gotten a pretty big premium throughout the rest of the year.
>> Sounds like cope to me. I guess it is cope. But no, I I do think that some of these names like as again I don't know this company that well. Did it deserve to be at 100? I don't really think so because I mean at the end of the day there's no revenue. Okay, it's not at 100, it's at 70. Okay, so what? This thing was at like freaking $2 in April of 2024, you know? Like year to date, AS is still up 220. It was at $20 in January. It was at $30 in September. Like it's like at that point it just becomes a lot more greed. You know, when people say, "Why is it not at 100?" And that, you know, it is what it is at that point. I think at that point you got to be able to analyze it on a long-term basis. Micron right there at 240. That one also up 1%. Um, CNBMP up 11%. Cambium Networks, small market cap. So, you got some of those names going green. Are the banks up today? Let's see. Bank of America. Yeah, we're green. JP Morgan, we're green. SoFi is red. XLF, the banking ETF, is red. So, you have a couple banks that are green. Other banks are kind of getting hit. Um, what else? What else? What else do we see? We had that US employer headline as well. 153,000 jobs that were cut in October. I mean, maybe that could be a headline that's hurting the market. S&P now losing a little bit of that Vshape right here, going back to 674. Our Trump is speaking at 11:00. Again, guys, it's not an important announcement. We're not going to watch it. It's about drugs. Like, there's really nothing that we need to watch about it. It's about the weight loss stuff. So, we're going to have a guest on the show at 11:00 a.m. new startup that just raised some money crypto finance based. It'll be really cool to talk to them, but there's just nothing we're going to hear from Trump. And if RFK is there, then you guys can thank me for not listening to No RFK. It's just it's a little tough to listen to the guy when he's talking and he's probably going to be there yapping about the weight loss drugs, but we'll see the impact that it has on some of these companies. Hims right here down about 4%. Him's down 4%. Yeah, Novo and Lily might be impacted by what Trump is saying, but if the headline is the same as we saw two days ago, I mean, Trump saying anything, I it might move the stocks, but it should be baked in theoretically. It's about the OMPIC being included under Medicare coverage. Novo's down 2%, Eli Lilly is up half a percent. Like, yeah, this was announced back on Tuesday, so don't know if it's going to have a massive impact. Maybe on HIMS it has somewhat of an impact. Him's down four. Even HIMS, dude, I know HIMS as a momentum stock has been annoying since the 60s. Hims is still up 65% year-to date. So, it's just hard to complain about it. Now, Dolingo, I think you can complain about Dolingo. Anyone complaining about that is allowed to complain about it. The stock is now down 43% year to date and at one point it was 550 bucks. This one just rug pulled everybody if you were in it. So, Yeah, this one's ugly. But some of these other names, even with the draw down, are still pretty damn green. Uh, Amid, do you know what time the Elon pay package results came out? I think they do the shareholder vote live at around, guys, it's at like 5:00 PM. No, no, it's at It's like 8:00 PM Eastern, right? Does anyone know exactly when it happens? I think it's at around 800 PM Eastern. and then we're going to see where it goes. Um but but but that's when we're going to know like what they vote for and you know what ends up happening on the on the meeting. There's also the XI vote. That's also really important. So those are the two things, the pay package and the XAI vote. Those are the most important things today. Where is Tesla? Tesla are we still holding 450? 452. 452 on Tesla. Starts at 5:00 pm, 3 pm central. Oh, starts at market close. Okay. So, we'll keep an eye on it then during market close. Salesforce 240, that's down 5% as well, getting hit. PayPal down 1.3%. Uh the the Jerick Isacman of Shift 4, he officially got nominated by Trump yesterday to be the director of NASA uh or sorry, no, the the secretary of transportation. So, he's leaving the company for sure. Uh, that stock right here up 3% did lose that 76 level and he'll be leaving leaving the company as well. Shareholder meeting 3 p.m. Central. All right. So, at market close, then we'll take a look at what's going on there. Cororeweave. Wow. Core getting nuked. 107. This is the lowest we've seen it in a minute. Yeah, dude. This is the lowest we've seen it in a month. 107. Last time we had 107 September 12th. It's been two months since we've seen 107 on Corewave. Nebius actually holding up way better than Core Weeb today. Nebus 11561 is that one's getting hit. Centress also had a lackluster earnings. Yeah, that's fair. I mean, that's probably hurting some. Wow. Centress down 16. I knew they missed, but I didn't I didn't see the stock at 16% down. Goodness gracious, dude. I think yesterday when I saw it was like down 3%. I was like, okay, not the best for nuclear, but like, okay, that's what's hurting Oaklo today. Now I know why Oaklo is getting hit. Oaklo down six. I mean, if Centress, which is a real company with real revenues, re real earnings, is down 17%. Oaklo in the same spot that has none of that. Obviously, that's hurting them as well. Um, Amid, I know why the market's crashing, Pelosi is retiring, and people don't know whose trades to follow. Yeah, I I agree with you. I think that's actually the best reason I can give you today. It's more intellectual than talking about zooming out. It's a much better reason. Let's get some coverage right here on Tesla and then we'll keep going from there
>> of what he believes the future is. And that's where the growth will happen.
>> Yeah. Now, you're right. Actually, I'm glad you pointed out the XAI potential investment there as well. Um, and XAI last valued. I'm trying to remember where I last did the story in terms of where they're taking in money. But, Phil, as for the vote itself, kind of surprising. We haven't gotten any leaks. I guess last time it did leak and they were perhaps upset about that. Uh, it's going to be Vanguard and Black Rockck that certainly make, you know, make the
>> make the the uh the key decision here, I guess. Um, seems hard to imagine though. I don't know. Do you have any any betting going in?
>> I think it passes, David. That's just my my my sense. Uh, look, as much as there are people who are not crazy about the excessive amount of this package, if it's allin, people also sit there and say, look, you hire a CEO to advance your company and grow your company. When the package was passed in 2018, let's see if we can call up a chart from January of 2018 of Tesla. Take a look at what happened when they had that first package. David, you and I were on the air talking about this and more than a few people said, "Oh, come on. There's no way he's going to hit all of these targets. He hit them." And look at what happened with shares of Tesla. You are rewarded if he meets the metrics that are laid out.
>> Phil, do you think there's going to be a backdrop of credits and subsidies and support policy-wise for humanoid robots the way we saw for EVs?
>> That would be interesting. I I don't think so. But look, I mean, there's a lot of things that I didn't think we would see in this country uh in terms of policies, you know, a few years ago that are now what we now have accepted. So, I don't think so, Carl. I would be surprised. But, you know, it's so early in terms of the development of these robots.
>> By the way, David, you you reported a month ago XAI 200 billion value.
>> 200 billion, right? Check your story. I wanted I just want to make it moves around a lot but yes around 200 billion for XAI.
>> Um Phil while we have you got to talk about the the airlines because the FAA is ordering what what is unprecedented right a 10% cut in flights at big airports due to the shutdown. How is this going to work?
>> You're going to see the small airports really are going to feel the biggest impact and impact I should say. Remember it is the volume of flights. It is not the number of people that the FAA wants cutbacks on at the largest airports. And if you look at the largest airports, generally speaking, it depends. It varies by most airports, but generally speaking, 10 to 15% of the flights they handled they handle are regional jets. So a city like Witchah, Kansas, where I once lived and worked, and I love Witchah, they have a couple of flights a day, three flights I think, I think, uh, from Witchah to Dallas. That may go down to one. uh a city like Greensboro, North Carolina, same thing. They instead of having three flights uh into New York, they may go down to one with a particular airline. That is the easiest way for the airlines to cut down on the volume of flights for the air traffic controllers, but you're not going to hit the bottom line as hard. You want it you want as many people on those flights that are still going. So, the larger aircraft to to the most part are going to be exempt from these cutbacks. There's going to be a meeting today uh between the airline executives and the FAA and DOT to map out what's going to happen and then you'll start to see this. I I think this is going to go relatively smooth, guys. I do not think that this is going to cause uh a world of problems because look, it's not fun if you're in one of those smaller cities and you you had a flight that was booked and now they're going to put you on another one. But that's where the airlines are likely going to make the cuts in terms of flights.
>> But the air but the air traffic controllers are working unpaid, right? They've been working unpaid since October 1st. They're having to work.
>> Yep.
>> Yep.
>> It's It's ridiculous.
>> They they are. And that and that's and and that that is why rightfully you see the FAA saying, "Look, some of these guys are not showing up at work. Guys and girls, you know, they're not showing up at work because they've got to pay their family's bills." And so therefore, they may decide, you know what? I'm going to take a job doing something else. I just need some money coming in. It's hard to know how much of that is actually happening versus how many people they are continuing to show up. The vast majority are, there's no doubt about that. The vast majority are continuing to show up and do their jobs. But Sean Duffy said yesterday, I can't fault somebody if they've missed a couple of paychecks for going out and saying, "I got to get some money. Bring it in. I I'm not
>> Look, the scary part about this, I talked about this a couple days ago, is that that Breaking Bad episode where an air traffic control worker is not feeling the best because of something going on in their personal life and then they end up doing a bad job uh when it comes to managing these flights. Oaklo now down 8%. If you're not getting paid, you know, you're definitely not going to feel the best, especially if you're missing back pay and you're working without pay. I mean, they're only human at the end of the day. SoFi getting wrecked down 4% right here. S&P almost down 1%. New intraday low on the S&P 672. If you're not getting paid and you're going to be cranky, grumpy, like there's like it's just human nature at the end of the day. You don't want that type of uh attitude on people that are controlling and helping manage really big uh planes in the sky land correctly and navigate the airs 30,000 feet up in the sky. Like it's just it's not a good situation. D-Wave down six. Nike down half. United Airlines down two. Robin Hood's about to lose 130, folks. My goodness. There you go. Lost 130. 129 admit. No way you should be referencing any TV show or movie. You have zero credibility. First of all, you guys know Steve last night didn't know who Ned Flanders was. Do I get any credit for at least knowing who Ned Flanders was? Steve was like, "Who's Ned Flanders?" Because we say Tanner looks like Ned Flanders. And Steve was like, "Who is that?" Like, do I get any credit on actually, you know, knowing the Simpsons? Second of all, okay, just because I don't know Napoleon Dynamite doesn't mean that I don't have movie credibility. I actually think the lack of movies I've seen gives me a greater appreciation for the movies I know. And so, quite frankly, I think I'm a better movie connoisseur than a lot of people because I think when you watch so many movies, it kind of crowds out your judgment. And I'd rather go deep than wide. Like depth over breath. Google just went red 283. So, I do think there's an argument for why I'm actually a lot better than most of the other people that have seen a ton of movies. Poundier loses 180. Ugly day. Bounced off 17950. Ugly, ugly day, folks. Real red is what we're seeing today. We haven't seen hood at 129 in a while. So, does this deserve to be below 29? I don't think so. But again, they're gonna they're going to crack with the rest of the market. D-Wave down six. Microsoft down one. Is it a buy the dip? Look, everything this year has been a buy the dip, right? The question is, I guess being really selective on the size and quality of names you get into. Tesla down three, losing 450 right there. 448. Again, everything this year has been buy the dip. But the question becomes, is the government, look, here's the here's the two reasons to not buy the dip right now. When is the government going to reopen? Because I think that, you know, we just heard everything about the FAA that that could be an issue affecting the markets. And then number two, I mean, dude, is the Supreme Court going to legit make Trump repay all this stuff on tariffs? Because if that's happening, which I really don't think that's happening, maybe I'll be dead wrong about this. that I you know you know the Supreme Court justices are supposed to be super constitutional and they're not supposed to think about everything else that's affecting the world just supposed to you know be the the letter of the law. I think that's BS. I think the Supreme Court officials understand that if they were to reverse this the level of economic impact it would have on the world would be massive and I think some of them are going to really think before they make that decision on if they want to contribute to that. By the way, Salesforce down 7% 236. So, those could be reasons to maybe be on the sidelines uh and kind of wait. The reason why the the the October 10th dip was so easy to buy is because it was a Trump tweet about China and it was so easy to be like, "Okay, we've seen this story literally three months ago. We know what's going to happen." And all of us were right. Within four days, that's Sunday. Not even four days. It was a Friday was the tweet and then by Sunday afternoon Trump said that he's probably not going to put the tariffs and that he's, you know, looking forward to meeting with Xi in South Korea and then the market reversed. Right now, I don't think we have a definitive reason that will be easy enough to say, oh, as soon as this happens, then the market recovers. However, throughout the year, that kind of hasn't mattered. like whenever you had a one or two percent dip, it was just buy and you didn't really have to worry too much about what the reason was. So, I think there is a reason to buy right here, which is just that has been the trend all year. The reason to stay maybe off the sidelines and protect some of the cash is just be like you don't know exactly the reason and until you find out and if it's the Supreme Court stuff, maybe you just want to wait until you see some answers. I think those would be the two perspectives on buying or not buying. Um, if the court reverses tariffs, this puts the US in the worst possible position amongst other countries that uses tariffs on us. Yeah. I mean, look, I I I don't know the constitutionality of these tariffs. But I I don't think the Supreme Court is going to rule against them. I think it would just be a very aggressive ruling that would basically basically this entire year's progress from Trump, every single deal and all these different things that he's been touting, it all goes out the window. it all goes out the window if they rule against it, which I think would be pretty tough to see. Matai says it's possible we don't get a scooter SCOD ruling until next year, maybe as late as June if they want to delay as long as possible. Yeah, I think that's worse. That's that's a massive level of uncertainty that we wouldn't have that we that the market would be under for months if we don't end up getting conclusion on that. Now granted again, how ugly does this stuff have to get? Pound it right there. It's down from 200 to 180. Robin Hood from 150 to 129. I mean, I do wonder how much more pain the market is ready to give these guys. There's a little bounce that they're all putting up right now. Nvidia, though, when's the last time we were below 190? Um, it was what, two weeks ago? No. Yeah, two weeks ago, right? It was below 190 was at 190 was around October 28th. Below it, yeah, about two and a half weeks ago in the 184s, we are at 191 and Nvidia kind of decides everything. So, if we break below 190 right here, then we got to see how much the market's ready to bounce off, but it's bouncing on 190.3. 190.3. Ugly day. Ugly, ugly, ugly day. Uh, the VIX is up a little bit. Oh, wow. We got another headline on Meta. Not the best headline for Meta right here. Reuters. Meta is earning a fortune on fraudulent ads. Meta projected 10% of its 2024 revenue would come from ads from scams and bad goods. The social media giant internally estimates that his platform shows users 15 billion scam ads a day. Um yet still charging a premium for ads. Okay, I don't think this is brand new news like the market has always known that there are some ads on Meta that are not the best in terms of like uh the legitimacy of the companies that are running them. But this report says 15 billion. It is a day. It is a bit aggressive. Meta right there. Down 2 and a half% 619. This is what you have. Gold. Yeah. Where's gold? We didn't even look at gold. We didn't even look at gold. I don't really use Facebook anymore, so I don't see ads. Sometimes I see them on Instagram, but I don't remember the last time I bought anything off of a Facebook or social media ad. But again, it's still a massive business. Uh, gold is down a little bit. 39.82. It's not really getting hit as bad as the markets. 3982, just below 4,000. So, not too bad. Pound right there. Just above 180. Uh we got Goulsby on. Let's listen to Goulsby. See what he has to say around how the Fed is thinking about rate cuts in the labor market.
>> We're real time information and so we supplement by 11 different sources. And to me, most of the labor market indicators that we're getting show a lot of stability in the market. And when we were getting the government data, they showed a lot of stability. The one number that was not showing stability that showed pretty substantial deterioration was total payroll job creation. But there's a question mark on that that we should be a little careful overindexing on payroll job numbers as an indicator of the business cycle. When immigration there's a huge question mark and you don't know what's happening to population growth. So, I still think the there's mild cooling, but this labor market indicator reading that we that we put out from the Chicago Fed that shows the unemployment rate is basically unchanged except for a tiny increase that came from the workers who are not working because the government shutdown and at the that the hiring rate shows a lot of stability and the layoff and vacancy rate also shows a lot of stability. That's what it feels like on the labor side so far to me.
>> Okay. There's a different way to look at it, which is not what does the numbers say now and what was it before and how the change is, but where the risks lay and what do you say is terms of what the the downside is there greater downside risk to the job market and how does that compare with your assessment of the risk when it comes?
>> I'd say a little uh I I'd say there's a little more danger. It feels like mild cooling. Um, the hardest thing that that among the hardest things a central bank has to do is to get the timing right when there are moments of transition and try to figure out the through line of what's happening. That's why I still continue to think that there's a lot of stability and we're in an unusual environment which is this low hiring, lowfiring environment. The beginnings of recessions and business cycles are not historically low hiring, low firing. There tends to be low hiring when there's high firing or when the economy is booming. The reverse it is characteriz characterizes periods of high uncertainty when businesses pull back and they have both low hiring and low firing. And when I'm out here in the Midwest talking to business people in the Chicago Fed district, I still hear a lot about that. We don't know what the rules are going to settle down at. We might still get deals on tariffs.
>> All right. So, still some concern about the labor market from Goulby. Not really ringing the bell that the labor market is uh broken, but rather saying that there's not a lot of stability on the hiring portion of this market. which obviously indicates that, you know, we could be seeing some deeper weakness in labor. S&P low of day, folks, 671, below 670. We're going to see how bad it can get. Nvidia, did we lose 190? Did we lose 190? We lost 190. 189.95. 1895. Um, as that one continues to go down, where's Apple? Apple, I imagine, is getting hit. Apple, no, Apple's green. Wow. Okay. So, again, there's a little weirdness to this. Apple's green. Uh, Lilyy's green. Shift 4 is green. Bank of America is green. Lyft and Oscar are green on their earnings. And Marll is green. Pretty much everything else is getting hit. SMCI almost below 40. Cava's below 4%. Rivian. Rivian popped yesterday up 20%. That one's down. Axon down 2%. Beyond Meat somehow is green today. And Meta, yes, getting wrecked right here. 620. Um, I'm moving to Singapore today. Dude, the cool thing about Singapore is that there's no capital gains tax. I believe that's why you're saying that. Um, so you can buy and sell and navigate all this stuff without to worry about the taxes. But you know, if you don't, then obviously tax lost harvesting is something in the states that we have. Uh, do we have fear and greed? What do you guys think? We're extreme fear. No, we're at fear. Dude, this index is weird, bro. We were at extreme fear yesterday. We're worse than we were yesterday. Now granted, we are very close to extreme fear right now. But still fear at 26. Sweden also has no capital gains tax. Yeah, dude. That that is pretty like my uncle brags about it all the time because he can just get in and out of stocks and literally never care about the tax implications ever. VIX, by the way, up 6%. All right, so you're getting a little bit of a spike on the VIX. Not a real, you know, double digit spike, but enough of a spikes to obviously get the market to get down a little bit. Why would you need tax loss harvesting? Well, I'm sure there's some positions that people are down on this year that I mean, put in the chat, what is a position that you're going to tax loss harvest. For me, it's Misti. That's probably going to be a tax loss harvest. Now, it's only 500 shares, so it's a relatively small position, but Bitcoin has not helped. Micro Strategy has not helped, and that's why this thing has gotten hit. Um, I think that's the only position I have to tax a lot. I mean, I don't think there's Yeah, I don't think there's anything else. We're not at alltime highs anymore, but definitely not down on another name to the point where it needs to be harvested. Down on BMR, but I'm not going to harvest that. I mean, still up on the adjusted cost basis of 34. I think for BMR, you got to you got to give it time. You got to give ETH the thesis or time for allowing the thesis play out. Now, if we end up in a crypto winter, I mean, obviously everything is going to get wrecked, including BMR. But if you avoid that, then it's more so a question of that having the time to play out. I see a lot. Wow, a lot of people are saying BMR. Yeah. All right. If a lot of people want to tax loss harvest that, that might be a choice. I see a couple people saying Palunteer. VIX is actually 11%. Is it Uh, oh, you're right. Yeah, you're right. VIX is 11%. Yeah,
>> Google Finance was a little behind. Yep, you're right. Okay, so VIX up. So, we do have a double digit spike on VIX. That makes sense for the S&P going down 1%. Makes also sense for Nvidia, which regained 190, bounced on 18,945. Again, below 190 is very psychological. So, holding 190 is not too bad. I'm going to tax loss harvest met at 640. See, here's the thing. like is down 20 bucks on meta enough to harvest it or do you just DCA at that point or do you think it's going to 500 and you want to get out before you know it goes lower? I don't know. But like with Misti I mean I don't know if it's going back up anywhere near it was back in May and April. So that's why I think you kind of just get out of those. Can you tax loss harvest BMR and buy ETH? I mean, yeah, you could of if that if you if you've lost confidence in BMR and you just want exposure to ETH and obviously you can sell the Treasury to buy the asset. My thing here is just if you do that then it's because you don't want the volatility of the treasury which is totally fine but if the asset goes up I would imagine given how uh the velocity of the of of the treasury has been to accumulate the asset you would probably get a move on BMR as well especially since a lot of these other ETH DATs are dying out because they just don't have the ability to raise capital but yeah I mean if you don't want the volatility of BMR then buying ETH itself is not horrible. AMD down 8% today. Wow. Okay, this one's getting hit way harder than Nvidia. 236 down 7.7 on the day. Yes, I will cover the Trump announcement at 11:00 a.m. I felt like I didn't need to because it's about weight loss drugs, but I think there's like almost a hundred comments saying they want to see the announcement. So, we'll listen to Trump talk about the fat loss drug. Again, I really don't think it's going to be that important of announcement, but we'll take a listen to it. And then we'll have 50% of you guys hate every word he says, and then the other 50% love every word he says. So, it'll be it'll be super uh super entertaining. You put on Trump at 50% hate him, 50% love him and it's just it's like America in a YouTube chat going back and forth and then I'm just sitting here like trying not to show any emotion up or down because as soon as I do it's like oh amidst a commami oh no amidst MAGA. It's like you can't win. You can't freaking win. You can't win. Speaking of uh politics, we do have this one clip from Trump yesterday uh talking about what is it? What was he talking about? Uh Mumani. So Mumani put out this video uh asking his supporters to donate to the campaign because now they are funding the transition. Um so you have Mani basically saying, "Hey, for those that voted for me, we need your help to be able to continue funding what we're doing to officially become a mayor." This is what Trump's reaction was yesterday. to Mandani speech.
>> You know, I'm so torn because I would like to see the new mayor do well because I love New York. I really love New York. When I left New York for Washington, New York was doing really well, but there were some bad signs. The bad sign was a guy named Delasio. So, the signs of Delasio, that was the beginning and it was bad. Uh, this one we're going to look for a thousand years communism has not worked. It just communism or the concept of communism has not worked. Uh I tend to doubt it's going to work this time.
>> Did you see his victory speech?
>> It's literally never working.
>> Yeah, I thought it was a very angry speech. Certainly angry toward me and I think he should be very nice to me. You know, I'm the one that sort of has to approve a lot of things coming to him. So, he's off to a bad start. You know, I'm so torn because I would
>> it is going to be quite interesting to see how Trump and Mumdani go against each other over the uh over the coming years because look, you need to work with the federal government. New York City is the finance capital of not just the United States, of the entire world. And so obviously the United States government plays a big role. I I think I think the answer is like 2.3% of the entire GDP of the country flows through New York City. So he's got to have a relationship with the government of the United States. The question is how is he going to navigate that and I think over the coming years we're going to kind of see S&P 500 right there 671. Pound here loses 180 178 178.99 down 4% loses 180. Aid probably leans more independent. Yes, that is my political leaning. You guys can believe me or not believe me, but I'm really not super left. I'm really not super right. I try to think for myself. There's some parts of the right I agree with, some parts of the left I agree with. I I I really do try to be down the middle and, you know, ask myself, hey, like, does this make sense to me, and that's how I kind of think politically. So now, my sister, my sister, I didn't tell you guys the story, but and we'll switch to Trump whenever he goes live. I don't think it'll be live at 11 because they were never live on time. So it might be like 11:20. Um my sister calls me as soon as Mamani wins two days ago. And she was like, "Oh my goodness, Mamani, we have a brown Muslim mayor of New York City." I'm like, "Bro, you don't even live in New York. Like you don't even freaking like she all she's all excited." I'm like, "You don't even live there." She like, "No, but I'm so happy he won. This is a, you know, revolutionary moment in time." And and so I just I just asked her a simple question because my my only retort to her was like hey look his policies are about uh taxing the rich and you know objectively the only you know there there's a lot of different concerns I have with the Mani campaign in terms of the promises that they have. Obviously I do think the representation of a brown Muslim mayor matters. It doesn't matter that much to me just personally speaking. I care more about the results of your policies not the color of your skin or the religion that you represent. Uh, I know a lot of people that really do care about that and that's totally fine and that's fair. Uh, given I lean more towards the markets and understanding how [ __ ] works. I I am just trying to figure out how the heck is he going to get free buses and free universal childcare and all this stuff. So, I asked my sister, I said, "Hey, like like how is he going to how's he going to pay for all this stuff?" It was very simple question. She said, "Oh, he's going to tax the rich." I said, "Well, wait a second. Like like Governor Hogal already said she's not increasing taxes on the rich. he's he's he's basically a state assembly man as the mayor of New York City. He has no power. He has to work with the governor of New York to be able to to increase the taxes, right? Like that has to happen. And she was like, "Yeah, well that doesn't matter because the rich have to pay taxes." And I was like, "Okay, so how much should Elon pay in taxes?" And she's like, "He should pay as much as I" was like, "How much do you think he should he should pay at least $3 billion?" I was like, "Go ask Chad because she loves using chat." I was like, "Ask how much Elon just paid in taxes." As of 2021, Elon paid 11 billion in taxes. 53% tax rate. And so I asked her and and she didn't have I was like, "You don't have to believe me. You can believe your your chbt that's telling you right there by the way. S&P potentially losing 670 right now, down about 1%." I was like, "Is 11 billion enough or like does he need to pay more?" And she was like, "No, that's a good number, but still he shouldn't be this rich. Isn't his net worth like 450 billion?" I was like, "Google it. What's his net worth?" She Googles it. She's like, "Oh, it's like 450 billion." She's like, "That's crazy. There's no way someone should be worth$450 billion." I was like, "Okay, do you know where the $450 billion comes from?" She's like, "What do you mean?" I was like, "Like, how does how does he have $450 billion? Like, it's a lot of money, right? Where does it come from? Does it, you know, like does it come off a tree? Like, where does it go?" She was like, "I don't know what you're talking about." And I was like, "You realize that most of that money, 200 billion of it is Tesla stock, right?" She's like, "Okay, so why? Like, what do you I was like, "You realize for him to pay more in taxes?" I was like, "How much do you want him to pay?" She's like, "He should be paying at least 20 billion." I'm like, "Cool." So, he has to sell 20 billion of stock, whether it's SpaceX, Tesla, whatever it is, cuz I was trying to tell her he doesn't actually have 20 billion liquid in his Bank of America account. Like, that's not how it works. And she's like, "Okay." And I was like, "So, you realize if he sells 20 billion of Tesla stock, the same stock that you own, that stock's going down." And a lot of people that have Tesla in their 401k, as for the S&P 500, the S&P 500 is also probably going to take a bit of a hit because the stock will, you know, go down if he sells it. And she she was like dumbfounded. She was just like, "Okay." Okay. So, I was like, you realize like like when Donnie says he has to tax the rich, the rich have to get the money from somewhere, which means they either have to sell their uh stock, sell their equity, sell their assets to be able to fund the taxes, or they have to fire people in their business to be able to cut on the cost, which means it could have a net negative impact economically for workers. And that's when she was like, "Oh, maybe I don't want him to to pay that much more money in taxes." Like, it was a full transformation as I was watching it as when I was on the phone with her. She at the end of the day she still agrees that Elon's too rich and he has to pay more taxes. But at least she kind of understood Robin right there 130 that he doesn't actually have $400 billion. Like that's not real. That that's all locked up in an asset and if that asset goes down then that 400 billion goes down as well. So I don't know. My my only concern for her was just wanting her to get her to think about the reality of a lot of this stuff. And I'm going to be very curious over the coming years like how does he implement policies that actually funds his agenda because I think that is going to be the biggest obstacle for him to be able to do this. And by the way, it's not just Democrats. Like there's Republicans that have had plenty of different ideas that they wanted to get out into the world and they don't have the funding for it either. Right? This this not unique to Democrats. A lot of any politician that promises something whether it's this or that or free buses or a bunch of tax cuts to be able to stimulate growth like they need to be able to have a plan to execute against that. And if he is able to do it and it's successful, he should get all the cr all the praise. But if the plan doesn't necessarily manifest itself, that's where I think there's a lot more questions about how this plays out. Tesla losing 450, that's down 4%. Nebius 113. Pounder back to 180. Got a recovery off 178. And then uh S&P 67120 got a recovery right off 670 as well. And as we're talking about taxes, US House Speaker Johnson, I am less optimistic about the shutdown ending. All right, there you go. You're just not getting a lot of good news on this shutdown. Very little green candles. Very Maybe when Trump speaks that changes it as well, but we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see how this plays out. Most people that want socialism or communism usually don't understand how it works. Yeah. And look, I mean, I know I I don't look, I understand Mandani gets painted with this whole communist thing. I don't actually think every single thing he's trying to do is seize the means of production. I know that's, you know, he's talked about that in the past. I don't literally think he's going to make capitalism obsolete in New York City. He's trying to reform the structure of capitalism in a way that makes it more friendly to working-class people. And that's why he got elected because at the end of the day and this is what Peter Thiel who sent a a great letter to Mark Zuckerberg and Mark Andre five years ago it's a very and you know Peter Teal is no socialist either but the the thing he said is that hey when kids are straddled with all this college debt and when they can't find a job it would behoove us to try to understand why exactly they are leaning towards the ideals of socialism versus just being the angry adults who think the kids are stupid and they don't understand the problems with socialism which by the way I think I'm a you know I'm very explicitly a capitalist. There's many many problems with communism and socialism. By the way, I used to be a communist when I was a senior. I was a Bernie Sanders card carrying communist. And then, you know, things have changed. I kind of grew up. I started paying taxes, started a business, realized that maybe that's not the best political philosophy. So, I I would say I I try to understand that side very well. But at its core, the reason Mandani won is because you've got a unaffordable city and a lot of people that care about two things. Number one, they care about rich people not being as rich as they are, aka the the wealth inequality gap. Number two, they care more about identity politics. I mean, because I could talk to my sister for hours about how the tax system works. She loves that a brown South Asian Muslim man is now the mayor of New York. Like, she loves it. She absolutely loves it. And there's a lot more people like her in New York City, in particular New York City, that also love that. I have evolved a bit in my beliefs and I kind of don't care that he's brown or Muslim. I care more about the policies. I really do. And as a brown guy who's not Muslim, but I am brown. Do I feel some sense of pride that a South Asian is the mayor of New York? No, I don't care. Like I care about like can he actually execute on his promises? Like that that really doesn't that doesn't make me excited at all. For my sister, you know, she's over the moon about it. And I'm sure for a lot of brown people in New York that they feel so represented and they feel great and that's fine. I just have evolved from that mentality that that doesn't do much for me that he's brown. It's like, okay, cool. He's brown. Now what? Like like how is he going to get a lot of the the green that he's talking about funded in a meaningful way? But it it would behoove us as investors to understand why people are feeling the way they're feeling around socialism. And I think that's why you've got more and more people leaning towards that side, especially based on the nature of wealth inequality. Robin right there, 13163, that's down 7%. Dwave still down 4%. Nike basically flat on the day. Nike being a little bit of a hedge. Take 2 also being a little bit of a hedge as that's green. Micron is green. And then Microsoft now low of days at 497. Um yeah, Microsoft low of days 496 still down. That's a weird dude. Microsoft last time we saw this was like three weeks ago as well. They had a great earning. So obviously you're seeing something happen in the AI trade from Microsoft and Nvidia getting hit together. My sister is not Muslim. She's My sister is not super religious. I mean, she is religious, but not she doesn't I don't think she has like a specific religion she abides to. But no, it's she she she I mean, this, you know, she voted I told you guys she voted for Harris because she wanted a woman president, you know, like this is this is this is the stuff that some people deeply care about in this country and I can understand it. I just don't personally align with those views. But it was just so funny because it was like 10 p.m. I was watching the acceptance speech and she calls me and she's like so ecstatic and that's why I started asking her some questions about just like how do you think he's going to do all this stuff and you know she didn't really have answers for that and that's when I realized she doesn't care like she genuinely doesn't care. She cares more aboutity of who was elected and it's one of those things where that's likely the case for a bunch of different people in this country. Not for everybody, but that is something that people care about and that's America. You can't hate those people. Those are still human beings. You've got to learn to, you know, even if you disagree with them, that's the whole nature of democracy. But that is part of why he was able to win New York. Uh Trump is not live yet. Still waiting for Trump to go live. We do have Johnson. Let's listen to a little bit of him and see if he can give us any coverage on when he thinks the shutdown is going to end. Amal, but then Chuck Schumer decided to throw a big wrench in the in the middle of the machine because he wanted to show a fight against President Trump because he needs political cover from the against the rising radicals in his party. I mean, that's pure and simple what this is about. So, it never really was about any particular issue. It was about the Democrats trying to show a fight and now they've gotten themselves into the longest shutdown in US history and it's serious business for serious people.
>> Do you think um Mr. Mr. Speaker, and let's take let's take some Democrats uh at face value with what they say. They say that they they're really concerned um about the expiration of the Obamacare pandemic subsidies and that that you know if if they knew for sure that Republicans would would negotiate in good faith after they reopen the government that that if they had assurances even from President Trump, they would do it. That's only about $40 billion. Why do we keep hearing 1.5 trillion and and you know why would you use the leverage which Democrats have because you need a super majority. Why would you use it to put all that other stuff uh in there if all you really wanted was was you know a way to get a year's worth of these subsidies that's only $40 billion. Would you have agreed would would Republicans have agreed to that or not? Not even that would have been okay with Republicans. Well, what you're highlighting there is the entire point of this. When we say it's a shutdown about nothing, if you pulled a hundred Democrats between the House and Senate, you get a hundred different answers about what this is about. That's the thing. It never was about one particular policy or argument or discussion. We all knew that the OB the co era Obamacare subsidy was going to lapse at the end of December. That is the the expiration date that the Democrats themselves put on it when they created that big subsidy. Okay. that we we knew that we were going to have to debate and and uh arm wrestle about that through October, November, December. That was always on the calendar. Everybody in the building knew that in both parties. They tried to glob onto that and make that the issue of the day because they think that sells with voters. Okay. Um yes, the appropriations process was going forward. Yes, we're going to have to talk about healthcare and and sort all that out. But when we say the 1.5 trillion, that is the actual counter offer that they put on paper and filed in the Senate. is still sitting over there as their counter proposal. 1.5 trillion in new spending on a on a 7we stop gap funding measure. I mean, it's just madness. And included in that, yes, go read the the bill. They they want almost $200 billion to be returned to uh healthc care benefits for illegal aliens. They want to send
>> It's just the same back and forth, dude. Whatever side of the aisle you're on, it's just the same back and forth. Schumer blames Johnson. Johnson blames Schumer. And meanwhile, air traffic control employees don't get paid. Like, at some point, there's going to need to be a solution to this, but right now, we're not really seeing the solution manifest itself. Trump is still not live. He's going to be alive. He's going to be live soon. Um, Suchin just tweeted, "Why the hell are we so red?" Same question that I have, Suchin. No one really knows. S&P trying to get a little bit of a bounce at 671, but still red. Siege, thank you for the $20 chat. Have you considered doing a deep dive on toast? I have not looked deep on Toast. I know Josh Brown loves this one. Um, yeah, I wouldn't be opposed to looking at it. Uh, I just have not actually taken the time, but thank you for the super chat. Can definitely look deeper into the numbers. I think they had earnings yesterday and they beat on the top and the bottom. Is the stock up? Stock is down 5%. Now granted, everything's down, but the stock is down. Uh Diego, thanks for the super chat. Would you close covered calls on Hood Nvidia that are up 30% asking for a friend? I mean, it depends on the strike and the expiration on them, but uh like if you have a covered call for Hood at 150 expiring, I don't know, in a month. I mean, I probably wouldn't close that because maybe Hood doesn't get up to 150 in a month. Now granted, if you think this is a perfect opportunity to kind of redo your covered calls, maybe roll them down or kind of just pocket some premium and wait for a bounce, then yeah, that's fine. But closing covered calls really depends on do you want to write new ones at a different strike or do you think this the the pain has happened enough to the point where the stock can now bounce and uh you're ready to take off enough gains that you you have on the cover calls. So, it really depends on, you know, where you think the trajectory is going, but 30% is not horrible to close it off here. Uh, Chef Mike, did you see a report that October 2025 saw the highest number of layoff announcements since 2003? Yes, we saw that. We covered that in the morning. That could be part of the reason why the market's getting hit. Uh, it probably continues to reinforce the idea of a rate cut, but yes, we did see that report from Challenger this morning. Yeah, I think this is your headline right here. record job cuts, shut down, being at all-time highs. You put all that together, that's creating some of the pain that we're seeing right now. But what Johnson said is true. Look, he look I really don't care. He could be saying something that's true. Again, I you guys know me. I'm not the political guy. I don't care if he's right or Schumer's right. My agenda is not to be on the side of Johnson or Schumer. I care more about the country and I care about the economy and right now you got a lot of people that are struggling on this. The experimented gives a super chat says have me on to debate you on this. You'll lose. This is the thing. I don't want to debate about politics. I don't need to debate about politics. I I don't care about politics. That's what I'm saying. Whenever we put Trump on on the stream, you know, 50% of the chat gets emotional, 50% of the chat hates him, 50% loves him. I don't need to debate this with I'll debate about a stock. I'll debate about the macro. I I don't I don't care to debate about identity politics or, you know, communism, socialism, like that's that's not interesting to me because at the end of the day, those are super political oriented topics that I don't get anything out of from being right on. And this might this goes back to Schumer and Johnson. Like both of them want to be right. Schumer wants to be right for his party. Johnson wants to be right for his side. And at the end of the day, who suffers? Everyone in the middle. Literally everybody, which is the entire country. All of us. And so if you know if you're not becoming a political pundant that needs to win your side of the party's arguments uh debating them in some public manner to try to get brownie points like that that to me is it doesn't matter because there's there's no dopamine I get off being on Johnson's side or Schumer's side. The only thing you get is the the bragging rights of saying one side half of the country is wrong. It's like, okay, to some people that feels great. To Ben Shapiro, that's awesome. You know, to Hassan [ __ ] that's awesome. But to me, I just want the market to go up. So, I don't give a [ __ ] I'm just like, yo, can we end the shutdown so people can get paid so that they can continue to spend on products and services and companies can put up earnings? Like, can like that's what I care about, but that is obviously not what's happening right now. Yeah, when the politics move the markets, that's when it affects us. Look, and honestly, if you ever want to have a career in politics, you have to pick a side. I feel like it's I feel like it's almost impossible, and I would love to be proven wrong on this, but I legit think it's almost impossible to be an independent and have like a centrist vision of the world because the way political media works is that you only you're going to isolate 50% of your base. So to get that other 50% you have to lean in to the MSNBC or CNN if you're a Democrat, if you're a Republican, you got to lean into the Fox because they have all the audience. They have all the viewers. It's it's it's very complex the media apparatus of politics in this country. Uh because if you want to access the distribution of audience, you have to plate to their beliefs and ideologies. And if you're in the middle, they're just not interested enough in you. You're going to get some people that think a reasonable, sound third party candidate that's in the in the middle uh is someone they can align themselves with. That's a very small demographic of the country. Unfortunately, most people are uh a bit more tribal, you know, in the context of human nature and they're going to pick left or right. I mean, literally Blue Sky, that entire platform, you try to be conservative on Blue Sky, it's not going to work. Like, it's like every single I was I was scrolling through it the other day when Mdani won. It's just like it's just every and then you go on Twitter, certain factions of Twitter are just like super right-wing. So, it's like it's a polarized country and the way to get people's attention is to lean into that polarization if you're trying to be a politician or build a political brand. And I just think that's a very depressing life if you've got to isolate half the world or half the country to to be able to speak about the stuff you want to speak about. It's not the most fun way to go about it. Pound here 179.80. Where's Iran? Are we still holding 70 70.3? It's down 7%. Uh, let me pull up that Peter Teal email because I said I would show it. Um, oh yeah, Chimath tweeted it. And again, this is coming from Teal who is an Einran libertarian, but he says,"I certainly would not suggest that our policy should be to embrace millennial attitudes unreflectively. I would be the last person to advocate for socialism. But when 70% of millennials say they are pro- socialist, we need to do better than simply dismiss them by saying they are stupid or entitled or brainwashed." We should try to understand why. And from the perspective of a broken generational compact, there seems to be a pretty straightforward answer to me. namely that when one has too much student debt or if housing is too unaffordable then one will have negative capital for too long and or find it very hard to start accumulating capital in the form of real estate and if no one has any stake in the capitalist system then one may very well turn against it I think this is literally what happened in New York too many people are saying they don't have a stake in the game and the game doesn't work if every if the game of capitalism does not work and we've seen this throughout history if people don't think they have a chance to win the You got to have that's the whole concept of the American dream, right? You have to have a chance to think you can win. And if soon as you start thinking you don't have a chance, all hell breaks loose. Simple example. Well, Walmart's a greedy corporation that makes tens of billions of profits every year. I've got nothing going for me. If I steal some food from Walmart, it's barely going to affect Walmart's bottom line, but it's going to feed me at night. So, why the hell should I care about the greedy shareholders that are making all this money off Walmart stock when I can't eat? And so you take that uh logic to the extreme and you you magnify it and proliferate it across tens of millions of people, it could result in basically the death of capitalism because then you have everyone that just says none of this stuff matters. That the sort of social contract of not stealing stuff and like respecting private property. That all goes out the window. And it's happened many times in history. Many, many times in history. And so I think that's how the market's definitely trying to figure out exactly where New York's role now is in that trajectory of of this thought project that might be happening. BMR right here 3850 losing 7% on BMR. That one is also getting hit right here. Why is the market down so much? What happened? I do not have a good answer for you unfortunately. I know I'm supposed to be the guy with the answers, at least to deliver the news. I do not have the best answers. Uh headline right here, flight capacity to be cut by at least 10% at busiest national airports this Friday if government shutdown is not resolved. Okay, shutdown news continuing to catch up to the market. Where is Bitcoin? Trump's still not live yet. Bitcoin 101.5. That one potentially losing 100,000. Pelaton recalls 833,000 bikes. Really? Holy crap. Pelaton down 6%. Really? They have a recall on bikes? Oh my goodness. Pelaton recalls 833,000 more bikes over seat issue. Two injuries reported. Dude, this stock is already been in the gutter. That is a That's not the best best headline. Are there even 800,000 bikes sold? That seems unbelievable. That might be. That might be. Do you think Steve cares about the dip today? Okay, guys. Again, every time I love Steve, but every time he says, "I don't care." You can't I mean, like, if I just said I don't care, there's not really much to analyze there. So, I love Steve and I love that he doesn't care. And long-term, yes, none of us should care. But in the moment, I think all of us care because we want to know what's happening because we're junkies and we keep up with the day-to-day and the markets. I mean, if you don't care at that point, there's no point to even cover the markets. Like, we're not going to cover the day-to-day. At that point, you just buy stocks and forget they're in your brokerage and wake up in 20 years. So, yes, long term, you shouldn't care. And when we call in Steve and he says, "I don't care." I know people feel good. But at its core, you know, especially as your portfolio start getting larger, you do want to understand how to manage risk, see what's going on, see if there's any trades you need to make, which is why people keep up with the markets every day because they kind of care. But I will be live with Steve tonight. Chris might join us. So, I wanted to do macro Thursday with Chris. It's been two Thursdays, but we have earning season. So, uh Chris might join us tonight and then we'll talk more macro. If we skip call today to do macro Thursday, I think you guys will actually kill me. So, uh we'll be listening to IN um SoFi down 6%. Netflix kind of going green. US posts in a register order cutting China fentinel tariff to 10%. United States announces temporary suspension of China's reciprocal tariffs and regular order. Okay, so the US is actually executing on the deal they had with China or at least the framework of the deal. United States has announced a reduction in the tariff on China's fentinel to 10% following a previous decision made by the Trump administration. That's good. United States announces temporary suspension of China's reciprocal tariffs in regular order. Okay, so that's actually great news with China and still Robin losing 130, Irene losing 70, AMD losing uh 240 at 236, BMR at 3830, and the S&P very close to 669. Um, okay. So, the China stuff is definitely not a bit of an issue right here. Um, are there some Russia headlines? Um, Russia has expressed a willingness to give Venezuela hypersonic missiles to defend against US attacks. I don't know if that's the reason. That is a headline. Russia has expressed sign uh a willingness to to give Venezuela missiles. I don't know, dude. Is that really why the market's tanking? Because Russia is going to give some missile missiles to Venezuela. Really? Well, by the way, they haven't done it yet. They're thinking, at least the headline says they're thinking of it. I mean, look, if they do that, then basically they're saying that Trump's targeting of these cartels is illegal and they want to protect Venezuela from from doing that. I don't know if that's enough for seeing this pain, but it definitely doesn't help when you have a headline like that. I read that headline yesterday. Yeah, I read something about that yesterday as well. That's why I'm also thinking this morning. I don't think that's the real argument, but maybe it's part of it. Russia can't even ship it. There's a blockade on South America. Yeah, I have not done a lot of work into even researching that, but I don't think that's the headline, guys. I really don't. Oaklo, though, 10% down. You know, one could also say a momentum flush out is happening. And that's not just down Oaklo. That's on a lot of different names. That's on a lot of different names. Momentum flush out. Obviously, Oaklo is getting hit a little worse than other names because there's no revenue or earnings, but nonetheless, Tesla losing 440, that's momentum flush out. Palenteer losing 180. All of that is momentum flush out. And maybe that job that we saw this morning as well. Joe Hall, thanks for the super chat. Love your shin, man. You don't know how my life has changed since I found and subscribed to you. Love the channel. Joe Hall, thank you for being here. appreciate it and thank you for being part of the channel. Uh Fatel, thank you for the super chat. I just like to say thank you for the time and effort you put into this. I and many others stay up to date with everything that is happening in the market through you. Very well spoken, clear and to the point. Fidel, thank you for being here as well. Deeply appreciate it on days like this when we see some bloody red. We kind of we kind of all have to be together to try to navigate what's going on. But uh look, the the fun days where we all see a lot of green, you got to go through these red days to get there. It's just this is one of the more aggressive red days we've seen actually in a couple weeks. To be honest, I don't think we've seen this much red since around October 15th. So, it's been about two and a half weeks since we've seen this type of red. Him's down seven. So down seven as well. So down seven as well. Fed's bar says that progress on inflation has been made, but there is still more work to be done. Okay. So, you got some of these Fed officials. I mean, that's not bearish for him to say that. Where's UNH? Is UNH holding 320? UNH 324. 324. I think there's a two true concern about jobs recession. That's why we are seeing this pain. Yeah. I mean, look, we've been covering this for the past couple days or past couple weeks. The Amazon 30,000 layoffs, the UPS 48,000 layoffs. That to me was the first signal. And then when I started binging all those Tik Tok videos of seeing re real people lose their jobs, that made it more real to me. Having said that, a real labor market issue means we're going to get a lot more rate cuts, which is good, but it's also not great if earnings go down because people don't have jobs. Not to mention the government shutdown. So, a lot of governmental employees haven't been getting paid. It's just the market didn't care about that for the past month. Again, the October draw draw down was because of soybeans and rare earth exports from China. All that to my understanding has been resolved. So it's almost like the market decided it needed a new reason to get concerned. And maybe that's labor market. If job cuts really were bearish right now and the consumer would suffer, why is Apple still not down today? That's a good point. I kind of don't know. Apple going green is a bit confusing. You're getting some people trying to find safety in Apple. Uh well, there was a headline that we didn't talk about because it was on the market close yesterday. Uh Google and Apple teaming up to power Gemini or power Siri with Gemini. Uh that would be more money coming to Apple theoretically as they monetize AI. I don't know if today is a day where the market cares enough about that over some of the other macro stuff, but definitely bullish Google and should be bullish Apple long term if that plays out. They don't need a reason to take down the market. That is also true. We are up a lot for the year. You might not need a meaningful reason to take down this market. Let's see if we can get some more coverage here. Trump's still not live yet. Um, yeah, let's talk more about some of these consumer brands. Ralph Lauren also had earnings. Let's get some coverage there and see any updates on the state of the consumer. I did have a chance to speak this morning with the CEO, Patrice Lube, about what he's seeing. First on tariffs, he did tell me that nothing has changed since August, pointing out that the company did expand gross margins even in the face of tariffs. The company is dealing with the tariffs, he says, by pulling back on discounts. He said they did that meaningfully and still grew more than 16%. they are taking some selective price actions but also pointed to the diversity in the supply chain and his ability to negotiate with some of their suppliers around the world. Also in the quarter we talked about how Ralph Lauren found itself in the spotlight for a number of cultural moments which has been part of Lube's strategy when it comes to ramping up marketing. Things like engagement of Travis Kelce and Taylor Swift both wearing polo the US Open Wimbledon Selena Gomez's wedding they were also both wearing Ralph Lauren she and her husband. Um, and finally, as we enter the holiday season, Lube said that we have the confidence to increase our outlook for the top and bottom lines, adding that quote, "All of the recruiting efforts that the company's been making have brought in even higher income, younger consumers." And Carl, if you're looking for a read on the luxury consumer, strong and healthy, because that is where this company SKs and he said he has seen no change in behaviors from consumers right now. And that goes for North America, Europe, Asia. Yeah, they're still growing 30% in China at a time where other retailers are not growing. So, they're they are taking share and they've really elevated the the value perception here of this brand.
>> Yeah. Uh attacking the high-end was a smart move
>> and that was before any of this bifurcation really began.
>> True. And also they they've diversified in terms of product like they not everything you know they have the Ralph Lauren they have the polo they they have purple label you know they have sort of a diversity across but yes overall skewing toward higher income and really reaching out for those younger higher income customers too.
>> Uh really shows the uh the difference between some other names and specialty and apparel today. Close to session lows here. Let's get a news update with
>> Okay, so you're basically seeing them say that the higherend consumer is doing okay, which doesn't matter too much for the economy because we need to care about the lower-end consumer. But nonetheless, that is the argument you're seeing. Are we buying the dip here, guys? Is this a buy the dip now? Seeing a little bit of green. Could this be the reversal? Could this at least be a signal that maybe we've had most of the pain? I know we still have Trump talking which could definitely have any impact. Is anyone nibbling on something at all? Pounder 179, Hood 130, Grab 558, Amazon 243, Meta 622, BMR 38. Not going to lie, SoFi 2820 kind of looks attractive. Not gonna lie. I mean, they had a monster quarter. Do they deserve to be I mean, they were just at 30 like 25 minutes ago. Don't think SoFi is that ugly right here. And again, SoFi's multiple like Hood has a much more aggressive multiple than SoFi. So, I can understand why Hood is more volatile. It just trades at a aggressive premium. SoFi has been stuck between 28 and 30. Um, bought some Hood. ELF. Okay, I don't know enough about ELF. I I like it's it's hard for me to go bottom fishing on ELF. 30% down. Is Dolingo still getting hit? Dualingo is still down 30%. All right, I'm going to start off with 100 shares of SoFi. I'm going to do that. Screw it. Let's do Let's add to the SoFi bag. bought at 2650 then at 29 before earnings. All right, 2822. 2822 just bought 100 shares of SoFi. 2822. I feel like when it rebounds to 30, selling the weekly 35 call, it's not the best premium, but it's also not horrible. All right, so we nibble at SoFi. Um, I have enough Grab. I wouldn't mind selling puts on Grab. This is a great day to sell puts. Stocks are red. If you want better prices, I mean, I have plenty of grab, so I don't think it's crazy to What are the put premiums paying? Uh, November 14th, sell put 550 is paying you 10 bucks. What's the return on that? Uh, it's about 2% in what um, a week. I'll I don't hate that. I don't hate that. All right. I'm selling two grab puts right there. It's a very It's not a lot ton of premium, but if I have to be forced to buy at 550 in two weeks, I'll do that. All right. Two puts filled for grab. Very little premium. Nothing crazy. I have enough shares, so if they're going to give it to me at 550, then might as well. Why don't you sell the puts on SoFi? Well, I think this the the covered call premiums on SoFi are way more attractive than grab. Grab barely has any premiums, but I'll take 2% in a week if they're going to give me that. Uh, so on SoFi, I'd rather buy now, wait for a little recovery because it was literally a 30, you know, 35 minutes ago. Like this thing, I don't think this rationally is going below 30. I think this is just alos. So if we get any bounce, you can sell the call on SoFi closer to 3031 and that might be some decent premium. BMR here at 3840 and then AMD 237. That one getting hit. What else? What are people buying? What are people buying? Dude, I have a ton of BMR. The thing about BMR is again like I have a position in it and I feel like I feel like I'm overweight be like I have enough exposure to it. So it's like when I think about like first of all it's super volatile and I know it's super volatile going into it. So when you have Amazon trading at its lowest multiple and Meta down 15% it's like do you lean more into the volatility? Like I'm already pretty leaned in. And so that's why I'm just I don't know if it makes sense to keep dcaing on something because I've already have enough. Like I built out most my position in September when it was at 4142. That's why my average is 46 and then adjusted cost basis is 34. The question is how deep do I want to get into it? And the problem with getting super super excited about it is just you just don't know when Ethereum is going to make its move higher. And so if you're already leveraged, like I think you have to expect a quick recovery on Ethereum. And the crypto charts look disgusting, dude. I don't see a quick recovery on Ethereum or Bitcoin happening anytime soon. And if it doesn't, then it's like, all right, obviously BMR is not the best bet if Ethereum's flat. So that's why it's not the most attractive. Now granted, now BMR puts have way better premiums than anything else in the market, but that just depends if if ETH can hold these levels. Spy, did we just lose Did we just lose 670? We lost it for a second. 66977. Uh, Rocket Lab. Okay, so I am the guy who does think Rocket Lab is a bit expensive in terms of its multiple. I know a lot of you guys think it's cheap. I know it's down from 65. I don't know if 5176 is the best price to pay for this. I know it's down 8% on the day. But I do think Rocket Lab trades at a pretty aggressive multiple. Again, I can buy Paliner trading at an aggressive multiple because I understand Pounder a lot better than Rocket Lab. Rock Lab, I'm not sure. Like, realistically, put in the chat. Could you guys see Rock Lab at 40 if things get hit? Like, could or is this like max pain? I don't know if I could answer that. Like, I I I I feel like I could see 40 pretty easily if we see some more pain because it's, you know, trading at a pretty high multiple. I mean, as freaking was at 100, now it's at 70. Like, same thing with Hoodie. As much as I love Hoodie, I understand why it's getting hit right here. You guys are hoping for low30s, dude. I thought I was bearish. People are saying low30s for Rocket Lab. That's a 50% retracement, dude. Let's not forget that would be a 50% retracement. you see anywhere near the low 30s that would be okay that yeah my average is 26 if we're we're going back to 31 I'd be a little bit more interested back then I don't know if low 30s I don't know if I agree with that I think I think 40 is where I sink max pain low30s is just erasing the entire year at that point says I want $5 bound here why is hood being hit again hood is a proxy for the bull market. So no matter how good the earnings were, if the bull market is being questioned, which obviously stocks are getting annihilated today, you know, you're going to have uh the proxy for that bull market get hit with it. Nebas right there down 4%. Pounder down five, Oakllo down 10. Um meet Kevin sold his plane, did he? Did me Kevin sell the jet? Did he actually sell that $13 million jet or 20 million, whatever he paid for it? Oh [ __ ] he sold the jet. He sold the jet. He said, "I finally woke up and sold the jet for more than I paid for it." Why? Because let's be real, you could buy five Bitcoin or a $500,000 house every two months if you cut the expense. Okay, so I think we're actually in a bare market now. If you got people selling their private jets, I mean, that's like that's goodness gracious, bro. It got that bad. He had to sell the jet. Goodness. Well, he sold he sold it for more than he paid for it, so at least he made a profit. I'm just seeing his tweet right now that he said he sold the jet. I mean, okay, there you go. I guess look, I mean, I I would never buy a jet, but at the end of the day, I think, yeah, I mean, having a liability like that, one could argue it's not really that much of an asset. Getting the cash out of it probably makes more sense. Nvidia losing 189. Look at that freef fall. Palunteer freef fall as well. 177. The grab puts were 550 for uh November 14th. 550 for November 14th. Senator Josh Holly has introduced a bipartisan bill that would require companies to report AI related job cuts. There's already legislation, I was researching this yesterday, that companies have to report when they're about to do a mass scale layoff. Like there's already a law that says if you're going to lay off a certain percentage of your workforce, you have to announce it before you do it. So, I guess Jos Holly wants to make it more in the context of AI specific, which I don't think is horrible. I mean, we should get some more clarity around what companies are laying off specifically due to AI. But nonetheless, you are seeing some of the labor market get hit. Bitcoin right there potentially going to lose 100. Trump is still not live yet. It's 11:40. They said 11, so it's probably going to take some time, but uh Bitcoin is getting hit. This is all because Michael Bur, you know, it's something you can't discount. Absolutely. Could be because of some of the fear that obviously Bur has indeed created. Uh let's get a little bit more coverage on Google and then Trump should be live in a bit.
>> Opening access to its most powerful AI ship yet. It's called Ironwood. And as it leans harder into custom silicone, it is very much becoming a core part of its cloud strategy. Now, the chip was introduced in April for internal testing, but is now moving into broad availability. And this is key because cloud wars, they've officially become chip wars. And if you don't have your own silicon, you are already playing from behind. Now, Amazon has Tranium, Microsoft has Maya. But analysts say Google's in-house chips have an edge on the competition. part of why they've been winning business from rivals. Just in the last few months, Google has landed cloud contracts with OpenAI, Meta, and Anthropic. Now, Mizuo points to the distinct cost and performance advantage of TPUs. And Alphabet CEO Sundar Pachai said as much on last week's earnings call, bragging that TPUs have been one of the biggest drivers of cloud growth over the past year, and that demand is only accelerating, which is why Google's investing heavily to scale. The optics help, too. TPUs are the hardware behind Gemini, Google's in-house AI model, which has gained major traction this year. It now powers everything from Android to search and reportedly just landed the prized Apple deal to run Siri's upcoming AI upgrade. Now, for months, the big question was whether OpenAI or Anthropic would win that business, and now it looks like Google did. And with Google Cloud revenue up 34% Q in Q3 and $93 billion in capex planned for the year, the company's betting big that in order to win in AI, you have to control the full stack and that starts with your own chips. Guys,
>> Mac, any ideas on what kinds of features we might get out of Siri uh as a result of this Google partnership? I think that people are looking for any sort of upside in Apple's AI strategy because to this point, I mean, 10 years ago, they had the advantage in the voice assistant market. Uh Amazon and Apple were leading there, but it's been a real disappointment since then. So you've seen this uh you know imminent upgrade teased and year after year they keep pushing it back and I think that I you know to your point Carl we haven't been able to confirm that Google is their partner but people just want to see something more uh because at this point the tech is so nent compared to the likes of what we're getting from you know live conversations from uh chatbt or from a lot of the deployments we've seen with Gemini but I think that looking at some of the capabilities that Gemini has rolled up rolled out in the last few months including their video generation capabilities. There are high expectations if Gemini is indeed the partner uh for this Siri upgrade.
>> So, super bullish Google. Uh obviously market doesn't care about it on a day like this. Trump's still not live yet. We are still dropping, still in freef fall. Haven't really seen too much of a bounce. There you go. S&P low of day 66970. Um, but I mean look, it's it is very bullish for the future of Google, especially if they continue to lean hard harder into the TPUs and potentially don't have to be as reliant on the GPUs from Nvidia. So that is important. Uh, is this good for Ian? Well, I see this I don't know enough about these Neoclouds on if Google's TPUs is a potential tailwind for them, but this one is down 10% on the day as the S&P down 1.4%. Nvidia, where is Nvidia? 188. All the momentum from last week on GTC has been lost for Nvidia as that one tries to establish some type of base. Obviously, um uh what was I going to say? Um the China comments yesterday were not the best. By the way, the White House stream is up. It's not live yet, but the stream is up. So, we will go to the stream as soon as it's up. We'll see what Trump has to say. Nvidia again is down. ETH down 4%. ETH, where is ETH? 32. Aid, are you not getting into Neoclouds? I am really trying to do my due diligence on the Neoclouds. I did a deep dive on Nebus. Uh, so I I think I understand that business. Not like an expert or anything, but enough to be able to, you know, understand what I'm investing in. I ran is a company I want to do a deep dive on. Every time I think of pulling the trigger though, I just think Why would I not buy Nvidia? And and Nvidia is not the same riskreward as Ian or Applied Digital or Cipher or Neo or Nebius. But it's also like I don't have to worry about them begging a hyperscaler for a deal because again the one thing I concluded from Nebas is that if they don't get deals from hyperscalers, the rest of the business is not that interest is not that interesting. Like like a lot 10 is not that interested. these like it's cool parts of the thesis but what's interesting is this data center stuff which means they have to get more deals and yes Nvidia is already worth 4 trillion and Nepius is uh 30 billion so the upside should be there if you believe in the broader thesis but then I you just have to be so freaking convicted that these guys are going to win and I just don't know if I want to stress that much about these neoclouds getting a hyperscaler deal every couple months to justify their revenue growth That's the only concern I have about these. I don't think these are bad companies at all. I just think if you're positioning the portfolio to be exposed to them, you have to understand exactly why they would go up or go down. Power is the bottleneck, not the chips. That is fair. That's a fair point. That's what I'm saying. They have more upside than Nvidia, but they also need to I mean, dude, we had Mike Novagrats on, right? He literally said the same thing. He said, "You really got to understand if you're going to bet on a Bitcoin miner that completely threw away the Bitcoin mining business to do this, you have to understand the management team. You have to understand how they're doing it, their land capacity. There's and shout out, you know, the Irenbles really did their work when this thing was $10 and they deserve these gains. I didn't do that work. And so now the question is, am I willing to do that work at 70 to to really take a position or on Nebius at 120?" And I'm not fully sure about that yet. just not yet. David says, "Maybe you should buy Zeta." Dude, I I will be looking into Zeta. I actually saw some of their earnings. Uh they were good numbers. I will be probably doing a deep dive on Zeta. I think the numbers were legit. I don't have a position in this, but I do think Zeta is one that's worth looking at. So, probably in a couple weeks, I'll give you guys some answers on some thoughts on Zeta. Okay, let's listen to Kathy talk about Tesla this morning. Trump should be live probably in like 5 to 10 minutes as the stream is up. But here's what she had to say about the the compensation package
>> meeting today. We are awaiting
>> will it take to launch uh and scale humanoid robots. So it's a very big story uh run by the most productive human being and visionary human being on earth. So uh we think he deserves this pay package and if he if he delivers 41% compound annual rate of EBITD growth. So that's bottom line uh for the next 10 years uh that will put Tesla in rarified territory. Never has a company anywhere near this size done anything like that. And that a lot of other people along.
>> Amen. I find the I find the argument against the P. I mean, look, I understand why people don't like the package. There are people who feel that they're being held hostage, and I get that, but the truth is he doesn't he will not get paid unless they get paid. And so, I've been surprised. Have you talked to actually any of the, you know, governance firms like ISS or Glass Lewis or any of these pension funds uh that have been raising red flags?
>> No, I haven't. Uh I do think uh I mean we we we don't think ISS and Glass Lewis are doing the right kind of research to understand to put into perspective what this company is doing and therefore uh what a compensation scheme uh should look like actually pay pay for performance align align company management with shareholders long term. uh right now we have uh shareholders uh very short-term focused and that has made management teams very short-term focused and it's a big problem for this market. Uh Tesla is doing things the right way. Uh and uh I think this is a very important vote. When you look at the valuation of Tesla and just your projections for the company, how much of the math for you is about robo taxis versus humanoid robots and whatever else comes after that?
>> Right. Well, uh, so we have a 2030 price target of it's it's published, it's out there, uh, 2600. Uh, hasn't changed in quite some time. uh 90% of that valuation is a function of robo taxis. Uh we have very little for humanoid robots and we're doing the research right now to understand how difficult it will be to scale uh humanoid robots. The problem uh or the humanoid robot problem complexity uh is multiples of robo taxis. Um, now we think Tesla is in the best position because it's already
>> Trump tweet the Democrats will terminate the filibuster in the first hour if and when they assume control or power. Republicans have what the Democrats want. We should do it now and have the greatest three years in history. So, he's talking about getting rid of the filibuster and uh you know, the the the response to that has been, well, you know, then the Democrats will be able to do whatever they want, but Trump's argument is we can keep them out of power if we get rid of the filibuster and keep control. So, that's what he just tweeted. Given tweeted a minute ago, I imagine he'll be live soon, but still not live yet.
>> A robotics, energy storage, and AI company with uh robo taxis. So, it's a good part of the way there, much further than most companies, I would say. Uh, and so we have very little in that 2600 for humanoid robots. To the extent, uh, humanoid robots evolve faster than we're expecting, uh, then that price target goes up.
>> I have a want to want to switch gears for a second to some of these comments. You and I have talked about AI for a very long time. We've talked about AI in the US versus this sort of AI, I don't know if we call it a war that we're in with China. I don't know if you heard some of the comments that were recently made just in the past 24 hours by Jensen Wong who runs Nvidia. He was quoted in the Financial Times effectively saying that he thought that China was ahead uh oddly enough of the United States and then he sort of walked them back a little bit online. Where do you think the US is relative to China in this moment?
>> Um, I think we are ahead. I mean, we we monitor large language models and um have been very impressed since Deepseek with China's progress and surprised. And I think one of the reasons is they've gone the open-source software route. We forced them to do that. Our software companies stopped selling into China because of IP theft. Uh so they went the open source route which is which is um very fastm moving and you had president Xiinping shift from uh common prosperity the the slogan common prosperity to new productive forces which was all about technology. Uh so we think they're this is command and control as always in in China.
>> All right so Kathy continues to be bullish AI which makes sense. Uh, we got a headline. Jamie Diamond says it's better to play in stable coins than miss the opportunity. That's nice to see. Mr. Diamond is leaning in. He said something similar to this at the uh, Middle Eastern Financial Summit. Bitcoin getting a bounce off of 100.2, just touched 101. Apploven still green for the day. S&P also getting a bit of a bounce. Um, you can see right there from 669 to 670. Grab getting a bit of a bounce. SoFi, it was at 2780, now it's at 28. So, you're getting a little bit of green right there. Nvidia also bouncing off 187. Uh, there will be no federal bailout for AI. Trump AI official on X. Is that David Saxs? Did Sax say that? That's basically them saying we're not going to tell OpenAI that you have unlimited funds from the government. Oh yeah, that's Sachs. Sax says there will be no federal bailout for AI. Uh the US has had at least five major frontier model companies. If one fails, other will take its place. That said, we do want to make permitting and power generation easier. The goal is rapid infrastructure buildout without increasing residential rates for electricity. Okay. You know, Saxs, by the way, best friends with Elon. Uh, quite frankly, I don't think he cares too much about OpenAI. So, I mean, you do have people in the administration that aren't necessarily best buddies with Sam Alman. And he has a point. If OpenAI fails, others will take its place. Now, granted, the problem is a lot of these public AI companies like Broadcom and video, Oracle, etc. got in bed with open AI, not with XAI or anthropic, it's with OpenAI. So again, I do think OpenAI is becoming too big to fail, but nonetheless, a lot of other models will be out there potentially that can replace some of their momentum. Ethereum right there at 3270, Nvidia 188.6, but they can switch. Well, can they? Oracle has a $300 billion cloud computing contract with OpenAI. Is XAI gonna give Oracle 300 billion? You know, AMD basically has a hundred billion dollar deal with OpenAI. Like, is Anthropic going to give them a hundred billion? Like, the problem is a lot of these companies market caps are because of the perception of OpenAI giving them this revenue. Because here's the thing, if if if Elon was going to give Lisa Sue 100 billion, they would have done a deal like that already. The reason Sam Alman is so aggressive to do it is because I think he's trying to show the market that we are the winners. And for us to be the winners, we need the most amount of compute. For us to have the most amount of compute, we need to get these deals locked in regardless of if I can pay for it or not. But it will be the prerequisite foundation for me to solidify OpenAI as the deacto winner. The question remains, well, like, yeah, you want to be the winner, but like, is there going to be money in the pursuit of winning to actually pay for all this? But obviously, if these companies are not getting deals from other LLMs that are like these foundation model companies like like Grock or Anthropic, then, you know, there's a reason that OpenAI is in the mix for this. Apple still green 271 robbing a 10% down. Dude, that that little V like the tiniest of V's that we had just went back down. SoFi right back to 2780. Hood right back to 128. AMD right back to 236 237ish. Meta got up a little bit above 621. Now it's right back down as well. Where's Palanteer? 176 on Palunteer. Down from 182 this morning. Yes, I'll be live for Iran on the close. Justin, Tom Lee, and Sam Alman working at the same McDonald's. You know, got to have a got to have an AI powered McDonald's powered on stable coins. So, it's very important for that to take place. Ugly, ugly stuff today. And again, I still don't think anyone has a full reason. I know we've pontificated about a variety of reasons, but there's not that uh core headline that everyone can point to. Maybe it's Supreme Court, maybe it's shut down, but we still got to see. Let's get back to Goulsby and get some more of his thoughts on rate cuts and the labor market. Right now,
>> we need to figure out where we are before we're going to reach an equilibrium. So, I I think there's still that that uncertainty hanging over us.
>> Does that uncertainty and that lack of understanding where the equilibrium is make you reluctant to continue the rate cutting cycle that the Fed appeared to be on? May maybe I mean the it I think there's a subtlety that that is asymmetric when you turn off the data like we have and that is we have a bunch of indicators from the private sector and from the Chicago labor market indicators etc about the job market and we have very little private sector information about inflation. So when the government is shut down, we're not getting the official statistics. If there are problems developing on the inflation side, it's going to be a fair amount bit of time before we see that where if it starts to deteriorate on the job market side, we're going to see that pretty much right away. So that makes me even more uneasy. Maybe maybe I'd say with frontloading rate cuts and counting on the inflation that we have seen in the last three months to just be transitory and and assume that they're going to go away.
>> Mr. President, what are the the indications or the the the worrying parts of our current situation that would cause us to think that the labor market is softening? And by that I mean I know we've had tariffs. I'm not sure that's really enough to do it. I don't the uncertainty from tariffs and what that does to businesses. Maybe that could play into it to some extent. But you look at earnings and you look at the stock market and you look at things like that and I'm trying to figure out why we would even be predicting that jobs would be weakening. We could be totally wrong.
>> Jobs would deteriorate. It It's an interesting question, especially when we're getting the GDP numbers coming in as strong as they are. consumer spending strong and if growth is that strong,
>> look into the abyss. There's nothing there. Unless maybe AI is putting people out of business or something.
>> Yeah, but look, you you could have in the short run if technology and productivity growth accelerated even more and and it's been pretty high in the last two years. if it accelerated even more in the short run that that might replace their their need to hire labor. But that really wouldn't be the business cycle. I think it would have to be a you've seen this cooling. The hiring rate is pretty low. That's the weakest part of the job market. And and everyone knows that and feels that. If you look at new graduates especially, they're feeling it's it's hard to get hired in a job. And so the deterioration of the job market, if it weren't sudden, if it were tied to consumer confidence where you you've seen consumer confidence hasn't been that high, uh maybe it would be rooted in that. But I I think there's been a lot of stability in the job market and it's the unemployment rate is objectively low and the layoff rate is objectively very low. both of those that that would be very unusual for for the beginning of a recession.
>> So he's making the same argument that a lot of us have been making, which is that the recessionary triggers are not as obvious given the types of data we're seeing. Nonetheless, uh the broader markets are still dealing with navigating how they should think of a labor market, how they should also think of a um labor market that is impacted by AI because then you have this whole sort of low hire economy even if it's low fire as well. And the only answer the Fed has is rate cuts. That's it. Again, we're getting a little bit of a V again. There you go. There's that green. Trump's still not live. They're an hour late, but you got a bit of a green right there. Senior Trump official, two deals will announce, Eli Liy and Novo Nordisks. Okay, so we know that deal is going to be coming soon. Um, wow, mortgage rates actually down 6.1 6 or 6% over the past couple weeks. So, that's good. Seeing a little bit of decline in the mortgage rates. Hammock says, "Expect faster economic growth to bolster jobs in 2026." Cleveland fled. President says Beth Hammock's comments and prepared text. Hammock not obvious monetary policy should do more at this time. Okay. So her argument is GDP growth will continue to be strong, which is basically what Bent has been saying as well. We lost 670 on the S&P. We got it for a second, then we lost it. As soon as you lose 670 on the S&P, all the like SoFi got up to 2815, right back down to 2803. Like they're all moving with each other at this point, and they're either going to gap up and make a make an intraday bottom, but it's really hard for them to do that. Or they're heading lower. Trump's live. Let me see. Oh, he's live. Okay, going to Trump. Get ready for a war between the Trump haters and the Trump lovers to happen in the chat, folks. You get to see it live on the market open in the chats. I hope everyone enjoys. Here we go. Trump's live.
>> Eli Liy CEO David Rick's a friend of mine. We've worked long and hard. He and I got this whole thing started in a way. And Novo Nor CEO Mike Dustar for joining us today. Great talented people. They make a lot of money. I looked at the money, but they're entitled to the money because the companies are doing very well. Along with Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Secretary Howard Lutnik, do you take any of this stuff, Howard?
>> Not yet.
>> Okay, good. CMS Administrator Mez, he doesn't take it. Food and Drug Administrator, Commissioner Marty McCary, and Director of Medicare Chris Plump. And we have Steve, where's Steve? Is he here? Head of public relations for the White House. He's taking it. The United States is just 4% of the world's population and consumes only 13% of all prescription drugs. Yet, pharmaceutical companies make 75% of their profits from their American customer. I would say that's not so good, right? That's not exactly great. To address this chronic unfairness, I signed an executive order earlier this year, instructing my administration to do everything in our power to implement most favored nations drug pricing. Something that has uh been helped greatly by tariffs because when nations refuse to do it, we should have put this in the case yesterday. I just say, "Well, if you're not going to do it, we're going to charge you a like amount of tariffs." And they immediately say, "We'll do it." which means that Americans should pay no more than the lowest price offered anywhere in the world. So that you've heard for years the disparity where you'll pay $150 for a pill in New York and you'll pay $10 for a pill in London. Now you're going to pay $20 both because the world is a little bit bigger than the US so it goes up and EMD Serrano have agreed to drastically lower their prices for American patients. And today, Eli Lily and Novo Nordisk are joining the phenomenal list of the most exciting announcements. I mean, nobody's ever had announcements like and this has to do with other pharmaceutical products also, but we're covering this today because it's such a big seller. I guess it's the number one selling thing there is today. These are two companies that behind the groundbreaking weight loss drugs that have helped millions of Americans struggling with obesity, live better, longer lives, everything else. These are the two companies that really broke ground. Until now, neither of these two popular drugs have been covered by Medicare for weight loss, and they've only rarely been covered by Medicaid. They've often cost consumers more than $1,000 per month, and some a lot more than that. Americans have been spending as much as 520% more for Zepbound and 1,400% more for Wiggoi than patients in Europe. Think of that. 1,400% more than a patient Europe for the exact same box. And that ends starting today. The other countries are not happy with us now. I don't think they like me too much, Bobby, but that's okay. Eli Lily and Novo Nordisk are committing to offer Zepbound and Wiggoi at most favored nations rates for American patients. This will slash the cost of Wiggoi from $1,350 a month to ultimately $250 a month. $1,350 to $250. Did I do a good job? They don't write about it. You know, they like to not write these things and reduce. Do you think anybody you think Biden could have done this? I don't think so. And reduced the monthly cost of Zepbound from $1,080 to $346. In addition, they're both committing that future GOP1 weight loss drugs taken orally, which are currently under development, will be sold at no more than $149 per month. It's a massive. Think of that. You go from 1300 to $149 a month. We anticipate these new versions will be coming out in a very short period of time. All of these drugs will be available directly to the consumer at trumpx.gov. Trump. They want to use my name. Trump. It better be good. Trump rx.gov. And I I think it's turning out to be pretty amazing, right? Just as significantly, Medicare and Medicaid will finally cover the costs of these weight loss drugs for millions of patients suffering from obesity. Co-pays for Medicare patients will be as low as $50. This is tremendous savings. I mean, now you're talking about from $1350 to $50. This is tremendous news for the American seniors. And you all remember when I had 1/8 of 1% for the year. I cut it 1/8 of And I was so thrilled, but now we're cutting it a,000% 1,200%. Nobody's ever said anything like this. Nobody else could have done it, but I say that modestly. In addition, you think it was easy dealing with these people? It wasn't. You think it was easy saying your drug, Mr. Eli Lilly, that we're selling for,300 is going to be sold for 250. You know, the amazing thing, the stocks all went up. I mean, these guys are they're fantastic because it's going to equalize. The world world's a bigger place and it's going to equalize. I was a little surprised to see that, but I'm happy about it. In addition, Eli Liy and Novo Nordisk have agreed to provide all of their other medications to Medicaid at most favored nations prices. most favored nations, meaning that you will pay the lowest price anywhere in the world. That's what you're going to pay. Whereas before they paid low prices and we paid, you know, thousands of percentile ahead more and to sell these drugs to all consumers at deeply discounted prices via Trump rx.com. When is Trump rx.com opening?
>> It's the site is open. The it will launch in terms of giving people prices before the end of the year. Okay. Got to make sure it's successful. It's got my name on it. I don't want to be like so many others. I don't want to be like the train they're building in California. Okay. Which has about 15,000% cost overrun or for the Obama the beautiful Obama building that he's building in Chicago for the museum which has now shut it up and dead. They got it up and they couldn't finish. It's about, would you say, 5 years behind schedule and about 2,000% over budget. Then he tells us how to run Medicaid. Many of the most widely used drugs will be available for 60% off or even more than that. In addition, all new medications introduced by Eli Lily and Novo Nordisk to the American market will be sold at the heavily reduced Most Favored Nations price. most favorite nation's price estimates because they have been thousands of percent lower than what we were selling many cases. Furthermore, Eli Lily is investing $27 billion, that's all. And Novo Nordisk will invest $10 billion. That's all. That's peanuts in the United States to reshore do a big domestic manufacturing job in the facilities they're going to spend. So, Eli Li spent 27 billion. Novo is spending 10 billion in the United States. So, they're building new plant and equipment. Uh that's part of what will be 20 or 21 trillion dollars this year. There's never been anything like it. I know nobody talks about it, but there's never been anything like I would say you would say that. There's never been anything like this ever in whether it's China or Europe or you could take all of Europe. There's never been anything like this. So we're already past 17 trillion. We're going to be I think by the time the year closes out, we'll have investments of over $21 trillion based on the way we're going. And and by the way, tariffs are very important. Without tariffs, uh perhaps it could be a little bit different to put it mildly. Tariffs are so important. The decision in the Supreme Court would be devastating to our country if we got a negative devastating if we got a negative decision. But this is a great day for American health and healthcare and for all of American patients. These are things that are miracles to have this happen. And there, you know, we're bringing all our medicines again because of tariffs. We're bringing all our medicines. If you remember where during co we made almost no medicine here. We had to go to China. We had to go to Ireland. We had to go to other places, UK to get our med. We didn't make it here. Now we're making it. will soon be making it all here again because of tariffs and my election, but because of tariffs, much more. For years, politicians have talked about making healthc care affordable, but my administration is actually doing it. Americans deserve the best healthcare in the world, and we're now getting the best healthcare at the lowest price. So, I'd like to ask uh somebody who's doing a fantastic job, Secretary Kennedy, to say a few words, followed by Dr. Dr. Clamp and then Eli Liy CEO David Ricks and Novo Notes CEO Mike Dustar. Uh these are incredible stars in that business. I like Dust Star is a big star. Uh, and I can tell you that David Ricks is one of the hottest people in the world in business, but uh, the business that he's in is pharmaceutical and the job he's done with Eli Lilly is incredible. Both of these gentlemen, they're they really are stars in the truest sense and it's an honor to have you in the White House. And go to it, Bobby.
>> Thank you, Mr. President. I want to start by thanking you, Mr. president are declaring war on chronic disease in this country. This is something no American president has ever done. If we want to solve the chronic disease crisis, we have to tackle it. Uh obesity. Obesity is the number one driver of chronic disease. 50% of our uh adult population are obese or overweight. that drives about 50% of health care costs in this country. Diabetes, cardiac diseases. We are going to see a decline because of this historic agreement. We're going to see a decline in cost, but also more importantly in the afflictions themselves. There are uh this is a President Trump is the friend of the forgotten American. Obesity is a disease of poverty overwhelmingly. And this drug, these drugs have only been available for people who have wealth. At one point, the majority of prescriptions, the highest concentration of prescriptions in this country was the upper west side of Manhattan. And what about the people who live in rural areas, who live in food deserts? What about the people?
>> Okay, we're gonna we're gonna get some coverage on this instead of continuing to listen to it. I think we don't have to listen to the whole thing anymore, right? Because Trump just talked, right? So, it's him, Dr. Oz, and some other guys. But like, that's it. We got the headlines. Novo Lily. Like, I don't think there's that much more to get into. Let's get a little bit of coverage on this, and then we'll we'll keep going from there.
>> You know, I was saying derisking and then I was going to where do you go? So, I'll say something. So I spent the first part of this week in Indiana meeting with clients and every client you know who will listen to me I'm saying look drisk a little take money out of the areas that have been frothy of the areas that have worked extremely well and then the question becomes where do you go you know do you go into bonds do you go into cash and CDs
>> what are they ringing the bell for it's 12:00 what are they what are they ringing the bell for in the background
>> you go into areas of the market that haven't worked so well back off today even with the rotation into healthcare and out of out of the frothier areas but you look at like GDP okay GDP grow grew what 2% you look at the market still up 17% you look at labor still strong all of these things are in aggregate once you start to disagregate them the picture gets pretty dicey and we even saw I know I know
>> okay so they're not talking too much about the Trump uh Lily novo thing I mean yeah I don't think there's that much more we're going to get from that Nabis here down 6%. Uh I guess it's good for Novo and Lily. Novo getting a green candle right there, but Lily just went red after going green. Not really dealing with the rest of the market. That is down. Maybe when Trump takes questions from reporters, he'll say something. S&P new low of day, folks. Continuing to get hit. Still down more than 1%. You are one to talk about bells. I'm saying, why are they ringing it at 12:00 p.m.? Like, it's a red day and it's like freaking 12. Is it lunchtime? That's why they're ringing it. But, um, okay. So, I mean, I like that detour into the Oval Office didn't get us much about what's going on. Uh, Bitmine down eight, SoFi down seven, Robin Hood at 130, Palunteer down five. Again, I still think a lot of us are trying to figure out what exactly is happening. Reasoning is not really sure. Tesla vote is at the market close, so we'll cover that when we're back on the close. Tesla down 5%. The banks are somewhat green. Everything high momentum is getting wrecked today. Oaklo being the poster child for it down 11%. And then obviously Bitcoin and Ethereum are not going to cooperate if you got high beta getting hit. So, I guess that's what we got. I guess that's what I really would like to give you guys a better reason. The only thing I can kind of piece together is shutdown fear is intensifying the labor market data we got from the challenger third party study showing the most layoffs in October since 2003. That could be a headline that's pissing off the markets. And then the last thing could quite literally just be the consolidation of October gains. I S&P is still well above where we were in October. Remember October we were at 640. We're at 670 basically right here. So even if we were to fall back down to the low 660, that still would be much higher than the beginning of October. But that obviously would be very choppy. A lot of names though are losing their October gains. Fear and greed. Are we at extreme fear yet? We are at extreme fear officially. We were there a couple days ago and now we are back. That's what we got, folks. That's what we got. Ugly day. It happens. It's one of those days we got to deal with. A lot of you guys are asking how much am I down? I'm down 141,000. 141,000. Which is I think at the worst of it, it was around60. So, it is a bit of recovery as we do have a very little bounce. It's not a bounce that's anything substantial because it keeps getting violated every time we do make the bounce and the fact that it's not being a clear bounce like the fact that we haven't created that intraday bottom. We don't have to go to the moon. But the fact that it's not like look at it Nvidia new low 187 as I'm saying we're not able to create a bottom. We get a new low on Nvidia. Like that's what shows that this is a bit more dicey. This isn't that easy to just buy the dip, right? Uh although obviously buying the dip this year has worked. And you know if you if you've been wanting to get attractive wanting to get entry into attractive prices at certain levels then today may be an opportunity. But nonetheless, if you can't find that bottom that you bounce off of, it could just keep dipping, right? That that's sort of the the nature of this falling knife that could be happening across the entire market. And then the names that got hit the worst yesterday, like a Dolingo and ELF. Yeah, they just continue to get hit. Duolingo did bounce off 182. It's at 189. And then ELF still down 34%. On the day, that's what we got. That is what we got. Um, I'll be back for the close, guys. We'll get through all the earnings. It's a crappy day for earnings. I'm sorry if you're heavy in some of these names. I'm feeling good with robin it today, even after really good earnings. But Soundtown, Airbnb, Trade Desk, IN Archer, SMR, DraftKings, Open Door, Affirm, Square, MP, Take Two, Monster, Pelon, Texas Roadhouse, lots of companies today. They're obviously reporting on a pretty ugly day unless we get a reversal towards the end of the day. But they're going to have to put up some really good numbers to not let this red bleed into an earnings report that if it's not the best. Just not sure what the market's going to say.
>> Look, I'll keep an eye on Tesla. So, I know I everyone wants to hear that Open Door is doing a video call. I kind of wanted to watch the Open Door call, but you guys want to listen to Irene. So, I guess we'll do IN. Then the Tesla thing is also happening. So there's like a lot of stuff happening after hours. We'll see what we can navigate through. Maybe one is happening before the others and we'll try to fit in everything, but we have a lot after hours to uh to get through. And so we'll be back on the close. All right, that is it for me. Again, do not let this affect your mental. It's one of those things that's like it happens, right? It's the stock market. It goes up, it goes down. We've had a lot of good momentum over the past six months. Beginning of November is choppy. Beginning of October was choppy. So, you know, it's not like this is new to anybody. Um, some helpful tips. If this is meaningful for anybody, put the portfolio down, go take a walk, don't look at it, turn off CNBC if you uh if you don't want market coverage. Kind of mute all of that stuff from your life in terms of notifications. And just don't think about it if you're not leveraged, if you're not on margin, if you don't have to worry about picking up a phone call and it's the margin officer like you just don't look, right? You kind of just don't look. Now, if you want to take profits on a day like this, the one thing I would say is that it always feels good to take profits when everything's falling because you feel like you saved yourself from like falling even more. But this is also when there is enough fear that gets people to take profits right when things are about to reverse. What is today going to be like? I have no idea. No one does. Neither do the institutional money managers that might be selling or buying right now. Everyone's kind of just taking a shot in the dark. And so, you really got to ask yourself, hey, do I love the stock enough to buy more of it here, or do I hate it enough or do I hate the feeling of pain that I'm in enough to take some profits here and kind of, you know, feel mentally more in tune with myself? And that's obviously more of a subjective decision that everyone has to make. But obviously if you're in a name that is up a lot this year, the one thing I will say which, you know, hopefully we've been covering a lot over the past couple weeks, is that these name these names can fall more and they would still be up a lot. Case in point, Oaklo is still up what 400% year to date, 387% year-to- date after a drop from 190 to 105. And so, you know, Robin Hood, if it were to fall another 20 bucks, it would really hurt me, but Robin Hood would still be up 175% year-to date. Again, I don't think that's going to happen, but if it does, just understanding that a lot of the momentum built into the the multiple can compress, it could happen. And so, it's the one thing you have to be cautious of, but if you don't think it gets that aggressive, this is why selling puts or buying the dip has been effective all year. And it might be another day where it's effective. I think again the big thing that everyone's so confused about is why is this happening? There isn't that blockbuster reason that's really easy to point to. And that's also why you might just want to be a little cautious as you're navigating either buying the dip or because if you don't have a reason why it's happening, buying the dip could be a falling knife. But if you don't have a reason why it's happening, selling could be selling a bottom that's getting ready to be formed because there's no reason for it to be down in the first place. So it's a very tricky situation. One of the best things to do might just be to do nothing and just wait till you get some more data. And I don't think that's the craziest thing either. All right, that's all we got for today. I'll be back on the market close. We have a lot of earnings to cover. We'll see what we've got going on. Um Oh, wow. This is a good word of the day. Look at this. Let's do word of the day. Probably not going to say it right, but equinimity. Mental calmness, calmness, composure, evenness of temper. Uh especially under stress or pressure. That's actually a really good one for today. All I did was say, "Give me another one on the prompt on chatbt." That's actually a perfect one on a day like today. Let's make sure I'm saying it correctly. Equinimity is what I'm saying.
>> Equinimity.
>> Wow, bro. You got to give your boy some credit on that. That's not bad. E, I could have said equinimity or something like equinimity. Not bad. She handled the chaotic meeting with complete equinimity, never raising her voice once. All right, there you go. Rare win. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it, guys. I I really do appreciate it. You said it better than Trump. Dude, some of you guys say I talk like Trump when it comes to these words. It's true. Some of these words cannot say. All right, equinimity. Got to keep the mental composure straight on a day like this. If you're not leveraged, if you're not on margin, if you don't have to worry about getting in and out of a position because it could wreck the account. Um, you kind of just don't look at it and wait for more data is what I would say. And I'll be looking for data for the next couple hours as well. See what's happening. But I'll be live on the close and we'll see what's going on. And then obviously if you do have leverage, if you do have margin, you're going to have to navigate the positions. Make sure your account is in good standing. If you're using margin accounts or or leverage, obviously these are the days where you know it can come the other way. The leverage on the upside is great. The leverage on the downside needs to be managed. So it's just one of those things that you have to be able to make sure you can keep in check if you are using that on the portfolio. Correct pronunciation is bearish. Oh my god, dude. If I have to pronounce things bad to keep the bull market going, I'll do it. But it's not really like if we've had a bull market for the past three years because I haven't been able to speak correctly. It's not because I purposefully said I'm going to mispronounce words to have a bull market. It's because I legit don't know how to pronounce words. And as a byproduct of that, maybe we got a bull market, which I can guarantee we will keep this bull market going because it's going to be hard for me to keep getting the equinimities of the world correct. So there you go. That's very sagacious of you, Mitt. See, that's that's what that's I knew that was going to happen. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. I'll be back in the close. Lots and lots and lots of earnings to talk about. I ran, Tesla, Open Door, a lot of other companies, Airbnb, ARM, SMR, I ran, Soundhound. We'll be back 3:45 and we'll get into it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the Mark Close. Bye everyone.