Hi everyone, Sal Khan here and thanks for checking out the Khan Academy Institute. So the first question you might wonder is what is the Khan Academy Institute? Well, we are just announcing it right now, but the intent is to provide a new pathway to opportunity for hopefully many, many people around the world. Uh as I'm sure you're aware, higher education has served many, many people very, very well and we think there's many good reasons to go to a traditional university, but not everyone has access to those opportunities. On top of that, the world is changing very, very, very fast. We want to make sure that there's ways even for people with traditional degrees to continue to reskill, to supplement those degrees, to make sure that they are optimally prepared for an ever-changing future, one that frankly, it's hard to predict what what the world is going to look like uh in in four or five years. And so what's exciting about this is it's a partnership of three, I think, very important nonprofits uh and a whole series of corporate thought partners. On the nonprofit side, the folks who are really driving the partnership of the Khan Academy Institute, you have the Khan Academy, a not-for-profit that I started many, many years ago starting with tutoring my cousins and now reaches uh hundreds of millions of folks, but it's really about how do you make world-class education accessible to anyone anywhere. And you could see that that's very similar to what we're trying to do now with the Khan Academy Institute. You have TED, which is globally famous for making sure that ideas that are important spread through the world, convening people in powerful ways. And we think that TED's superpowers here are to make sure that we don't lose the human element of what is possible uh even in a program that's primarily online. Are there ways to uh build a network? Are there ways to connect with thought leaders? And then you have ETS, which is the global leader in assessment, and they're really the pioneers of thinking about new forms of assessment, especially in this world where yes, AI skills are going to be important and this this program or the programs we launch will be very focused on AI, but in an AI world, we also think, and this connects with what Khan Academy, TED, and ETS have always cared about, that the human skills are going to be even more important. Skills now called adorable skills, things like collaboration, community, uh creativity, uh communication. And these historically have always been important, but there haven't been really powerful ways of practicing and assessing them. But we think we're going to be able to provide signals uh one for you to improve, but also for you to go out there in the world and for folks to know that you have those skills and you developed it. The whole idea of having these corporate thought partners is to make sure that the programs that we create are not made in a vacuum from what industry cares about most. So we hope to partner and we intend to partner or work with these corporate thought partners to learn the skills that they want to see developed, the signals that they care about, and to give and to get their feedback on the program that we're developing or the programs that we develop and constantly iterate on so it's as responsive as possible in this time of frankly accelerating change. If you're wondering is this going to be of interest to you uh with the these programs, we haven't launched them yet, uh so wait a little bit. It's going to be in the next, let's call it 12 to 24 months. Uh we hope to launch our our first programs, but we think it's going to be uh appealing for for a broad group of folks. We think there's a lot of folks with existing degrees uh who want to reskill, who want to make sure their skills are relevant in an AI age. And so maybe there might be something like a second bachelor's program with opportunity for transferring a significant number of credits if you already have a bachelor's. Uh we think it could be useful for students who are who are currently in a traditional four-year program, but want to supplement that with let's call it a second degree that is very career relevant and that is going to adapt to the world that we're in. And of course, we know there's many folks in the world who don't either have access to high-quality higher education or the traditional pathway might not make sense for them. And so a competency-based pathway like what we are offering could be very interesting. And what we mean by competency-based, it's not going to be based on how much time you spend, but the skills that you develop and that you can show your competency in. We don't care how long you sat in the chair, what we care about is do you have the skills that we think are going to make you ready and we, in partnership with all of our corporate thought partners, that are going to make you ready for the world. Now the last thing I'll say is even though a big emphasis of the programs we have will be on things like AI and uh working with industry, this is not to be just narrowly preparing you for work. We still intend you to build a broad base of uh of science, mathematics, the humanities, so you can find meaning in the world and be a participant in society. As we mentioned, a lot of the skills that we think are going to be most important in an AI world are these very human skills of uh communication, collaboration, creativity. And we hope to foster that through connecting the the students on our programs to each other and to thought leaders around the world. So this is the very early days. We are just announcing it, but hopefully you take interest. And if you do, uh sign up for our interest list it's some place on on this site or several places on this site. Uh if you're a philanthropist who believe like I do that this really could make a positive dent in what the world needs, also contact us. And if you want to be a corporate thought partner, we definitely want to hear from you so that together, all of us together, the three partner nonprofits, all of the future students, uh corporate thought leaders, uh philanthropists, uh we can create a world where more people really do have access to their potential and access to opportunity. Thank you.