Thank you all for coming. Hello. Hello.
>> Got you. Uh, I don't know about you, but um, my ride agents, I like focusing on the capabilities and the features, and I like not thinking about um, all of the extra effort that goes into getting something that works locally into production. And something that's very useful for that is uh, a workflow pattern. And that's why we developed the workflow def kit which is what we're talking about today. Presumably if you're here you've had similar issues. Um and today uh we are going to um turn a agent uh coding agent um into a workflow supported coding agent throughout this session. So this slide. So we um have a open- source example um ready to go. Uh this is on the versel/examples repository. Uh so you can clone that and check out the VIP coding platform app insight. Uh we're going to be using this app um for today's demo. Um and after we're done we get first class observability built in and also durability reliability. uh we get a lot of extra features like resumability um and draft kit makes it very easy to add human in loop workflows and similar uh things. So if you think about our uh general agent loop um that we've all seen before, we mostly have calls back and forth from another LAM um to our to calls and our backend uh code, right? Which would include MCP servers, human approval, any kind of async tasks. And uh the usual way to go about this is to uh wire up some cues um and a database especially if you are doing longunning agents right that might run for hours um and you want to scale and you're running on serverless for example uh you want something some kind of reliability layout in between which usually is filled by cues um and then you'll also need to add a lot of error and retry code you'll need to store all the messages that people are sending and also between states and you probably also need to add some kind of observability layer in between. All of those things we are going to do today uh using only a single library which is the workflow development kit. Um it's open source um and it runs with any of your TypeScript um front ends or backends and can also run on any cloud. Uh we're going to be deploying to Brazil today, but this could just as easily run or any of your cloud stacks um orbase or any of your custom stacks. Um all right, so who here has heard of the workflow pattern or has used a workflow library before? Show of hands. All right, that's less than half. Um I'm going to quickly explain what a workflow pattern is um to uh make it clear what we're doing and then in about 2 minutes we're going to go into the code. So um a workflow pattern is essentially a sort of orchestration layer um that separates your code into steps that can run in isolation and can be retrieded um and have their uh data persisted and a orchestration layer um that we call a workflow within platforms have different names for that. And in our case here, um the the workflow parts would be whatever the loop is that calls um the reason the LM calls and then goes back to the tool calls and then back to the LM calls. And the steps would be our actual tool calls and our LM calls. Um right, so looking at the agenda for today, um we're going to be jumping jumping into the code. We're going to add workflow development kit which is going to be quite fast and then we have a lot of time to talk about uh cool additional features that it adds like resumable streams out of the box um how to suspend and resume at any point um and how to add web hooks for human in the loop uh processes. At the end there's going to be ample time for Q&A but there is a reason that you're here in the workshop and not looking at this online which is that you can ask questions. Please do so at any point. Uh feel free to raise your hand or just shout out the question. Um and we'll get rid of all right so as I said uh we're working off the baselample repository and we're going to be working off of the conface branch. Uh why this branch? I stripped a bunch of the access code on the example to make sure that we can focus on the most important parts. And every checkpoint from this workshop will have its own branch. So uh if you're not coding along directly, you can also check out the steps step by step and then check the diffs and see what changed between. All right. So um I have already run uh npm dev locally on this uh um platform just to show you what it looks like. I'm going to run a simple query. Um so this is a uh coding agent, right? It's like a code editor but without the code editing and it can take a prompt, generate some files and it'll eventually show you a iframe with the finished app that is deployed. Um, so it's it's mostly UI with a few simple tool calls um that we'll look at in a second. And the file system and output uh runs over the cell sandbox, but you could just as easily run this locally. Uh, looking at the code, I'm going to go and check out our actual branch. Looking at the code, uh, we have one endpoint that accepts our chat messages, right? Then it does some some regular sort of model ID checking with us to see whether the model is supported. And in the end it's going to simply create an agent. Oh yes.
>> What was that branch one more time?
>> The branch was conf. Yeah. And you can see we'll we'll move on to these com/2- etc. Uh just look for the numbers and you'll find all the checkpoints. Um yes. So our main endpoint just accepts some messages and calls the AI SDK agent which is essentially the same thing as a stream text call. Um we'll pass some tools and internally it'll just loop for stream text to call stream text call. uh and then it'll uh stream the all of the chunks generated back to the client in a format that is easy for the client to understand. This is all sort of AISDK regular code um that you could replace with a different library if you want. Um that is mostly there to support the UI. Um but again all of the actual agent stuff is very simple and happens here. So uh oh let's also take a look at the tools that we have. Uh we have four tools uh create sandbox get sandbox URL. These are very simple. They just wrap uh bell sandbox.create and get URL and similar with run command essentially reps uh sandbox.r run command and generate files um will generate uh a file from a simple prompt. And we're going to take a look at one of these root calls as an example. Uh we have a we have a prompt that looks somewhat like, you know, a markdown file. Sort of what to do, what not to do. Um and my hotkeys are not working. And back to the tool call. We also have an input schema that's a Z schema um for what BI is supposed to pass. This is all very standard. and then an execute run which wraps sandbox one command with some error handling. So that's essentially our entire agent code setup and then in the front end we just call use chat from AI SDK to consume the stream and display uh things in the UI. So uh let's get started adding workflow to this. Um any questions before I get started? Cool. All right. Uh, so step one is we're going to run npm install for workflow and add workflow which will give us the latest version. Uh, workflow is the main library and add workflow are some helpers for uh uh some some rappers for that work well with the workflow development kit. So now that we have this installed, uh we are running a Nex.js app here. So we're going to uh extend the compiler to uh compiler workflow code by doing use workflow or with workflow. Um which we can import from workflow next and that'll set up next.js. Yes.
>> Verifying question. You are in the example applied coding directory.
>> Yes.
>> So adding this will let the compiler know to also compile our web um separately which we'll get into more in a second. And then for convenience, we can also add a TypeScript plugin to our TS config um same package and that'll give us some better autocomp completion for our workflow code. And so we talked about uh a workflow being um having an orchestration layer and having a number of steps. Uh what we're going to do first is we're going to write the orchestration layer. Um, in our case, that is essentially just the agent, right? Does the loop that calls steps um back and forth. We're going to add a new file. Uh, you can call it whatever you want. And we're going to take our agent call and move it over there. And I'm going to call this our uh code workflow, which is going to be all of our workflow code. And then I'm going to go and auto complete a bunch of imports. Thank you, AI. So we're just passing most of the uh arguments that we would otherwise get from here over there. And this completes the refactor. Essentially having done nothing but pull out some of the workflow code into our file. So this is where it gets interesting. Um, now that this is a code, this is a separate function, we can use the use workflow directive which will mark this for our compiler as a workflow function. So what this does is under the hood, yes. Oh, sorry. uh under the hood it um compiles all of the code related to the function into a separate bundle and it ensures that there is no imports to anything that would have side effects because the workflow orchestration layer needs to be deterministic. So it can be rerun um in a in a uh deterministic fashion and there's no worries about state uh pollution. So now that we have this um we would need to now mark our LLM calls as steps and because the calls are happening inside the agent um this is a little bit harder to do here and so we uh ended up writing a durable agent class which is essentially the same thing as agent with a use step marker in the actual LM calls that it does under the hood. So, now that we have this set up, we're going to await the actual streaming and let's see if there's anything we need to do. Um, checking for errors. Oh, yes, we need a stream to write to. So, previously we could just write to the stream that the API handler gave us. Uh, now we're going to have to create a new stream to write to. Um, we export a get writable function from workflow which is which gets a stream implicitly associated with the workflow to write to. And we're going to get get into that a little bit more in a second. But for now, we'll just pass that to our agent. And we're going to see if this is right type. Um, presumably not. Um and then finally back in our actual workflow we need to call our workflow in a way that the uh framework understands which for us is a call to start with the arguments being passed separately which is essentially telling it to start a new workflow on this on this function and start can be imported from workflow/ API Okay, so now we essentially have uh the workflow fully hooked up and a lot of this was just pulling out some of the codes and adding a directive. Yeah. Um has volunteered to help anyone who's like following along and has some debugging questions. Um just reach out.
>> I'm on the team as well. So let me know if you guys are following one.
>> I'll be around to help.
>> And finally, this start call returns a run instance um that has the stream that just um end up writing to that we can return to the UI. So this completes our workflow um definition. And now uh we also said that we would need to mark things as steps. The durable agent class already marked the LLM calls as steps. But our tools right now are not marked as steps. Thankfully, this is very easy. Uh in the execute function for each of these tools, you can just write use step and that will let the compiler know that this is a separate chunk to uh of code to uh execute in a separate instance. Right? If this is deployed to production, this would run in a separate serless instance and the inputs and outputs would be cached if it already ran and it would be retrieded if it failed. So I'm going to go and go through the other tool calls and also add use step to these. Thankfully we only have four of them. And that should complete our transformation. So now we can go and run the mpm dev. See if this works as expected. We're going to reload our page. And it seems like nothing changed. Let us actually run a query. And we can see that it's still streaming as expected. So uh for us developing locally right all we had to do is pull out a function um and then add some directives. But now if I deploy this um to any adapter again was or an AWS adapter or maybe you have your own um this will run uh in isolation with durability and all of those good things. And something that's really nice for local development also is that if I go and if I go and I'm going to go into the same folder here and I'm going to run npx workflow web which is this cli call to start a local web UI to inspect our runs. Um and you can see that our run is currently still running. Um and every step everything that is marked as a step will have a uh span here and you can inspect the inputs the outputs and any associated event. And we can see that our workflow just completed I think and yeah this gets built in. Yes.
>> And just for clarification every time you're prompting your vibe coder that is is one instance of the workflow that runs to completion. So then so each one is Yeah. It's
>> exactly Yeah. And you could model this uh in any way you want. Um you can also model your entire like an entire user uh sort of uh session as one workflow and uh have the workflow sort of do a loop wait for the next query um and then again you know we can run code for weeks if we need to essentially um and I'm going to go into uh some tools for that in a second. So now that we have this uh set up uh you can see that um on the right side we do not get any sort of helpful uh feedback. But um if I visit this link and see that our app has likely been created correctly um or or it failed because of some errors and either way we're not getting any output on the right side. So uh the reason this is happening is that we are streaming um the agent output to the client but our tools aren't actually doing any stream calls right now. So what we could do is similarly in our tool calls uh we could get the writable um which would which will get the same writable instance as any other uh as the workflow itself. Um there is an infinite amount of streams you can you can create and consume in a workflow. Um and you can also like you can tag them with a certain name and then fetch them from there. Um but this will get the default instance. And once we have a writable we can actually connect to the writable by getting the writer. And now we can write any kind of information um to the to the iPhone to be consumed. I think we want something like data create sandbox I think is what I hooked up in the UI and then we'll call ID we want the sandbox ID do it here. So this is me just writing a data packet that our UI knows how to consume. So now that I did this and I if I reload the app and start this again, we'll see that at least the sandbox create call presumably gets filled in correctly at the start.
>> Yeah,
>> you said that there are stream that you can create and what do you mean by that?
>> Right. Yes. So um a stream the workflow sort of the adapter they use for workflows in local development right this would just just be a file in production this might be a reddus instance
>> um supports the workflow calling it to create a new stream for example in reddus right and then passing that stream back and so anytime you call get writable it'll create a stream for example again in radius with the ID of that workflow and it'll pass that So any step can attach to that and any client can attach to that
>> and in local uh host this would be written to a file and read from a file.
>> Sorry you're setting up right now.
>> Right. So pre previously we had a a API handler that took some messages called the agent and then streamed back messages from that API handler. Now we have an API handler that calls it starts a workflow and it'll pass back the stream that this workflow creates. Um, what this allows us to do also I think that was not working correctly. I'm going to restart the server just to see if that's the case. Um,
>> anything else so far getting this set up to where where needs any help with getting set up?
>> Seems good. Um good point you made uh something this allows us to do is that the stream is not bound to the API handler. This means that at any point we can resume this stream. If you lose connection to your API handler and then the user reconnects this stream still exists and we could reconnect to the stream to resume the session. This is also part of the durability aspect where everything you do in a workflow you can resume at any point. I'm going to restart this query and hope that it works this time. Yeah. So, now that I hooked up this data packet, you can see this special UI handling for creating a sandbox uh works. But even after it's done, it's not showing up that it's done. This is because we're only writing the initial loading state packet. So, I could go through all of our tools and I could add more packets and just, you know, make the UI richer. Um, but I'm going to go and check out a different branch which is the uh conf- sleep branch. Uh, just the next step uh, which already has these actually I'll go for the workflow one. Sorry, conf /2-workflow which already has all of these writer. Calls populated. There's no difference otherwise. Um, so now that all of our tools have these right calls, the stream would again presumably look the same as it did when we started out in this app. Um, all right. So, now that we have streams working again, everything is working as expected and we have more observability and we can deploy this with durability. Um, I talked about resumable streams before. We're going to see if we can get this stream to resume so we have durable sessions. So, the only thing we need to do to uh make that work is to go to our API endpoint. Um, and what where we get the run instance, we're also going to return the workflow ID as a as additional additional information. So I can I can return run.r run ID for example. This is just again any way you do this is fine. Um, I'm adding it as a header here because we're already returning a stream. But anyway you pass the ID to the UI um is something that the UI can then use to resume the stream from. So what we do from here is uh the UI should be able to decide whether to whether it has a run ID and whether it should resume a stream. So we're going to go and create a new endpoint. Um let's call it ID for type slashexisting ID. Then we're going to make a folder stream and we're going to add a route handler. So this is just next.js uh configuration for adding an API route at slash chat/ ID/ stream and we're going to auto complete with AI. Um what we're essentially doing is uh we get the ID from the params and then all we're going to do is call get run in the workflow API which gets a uh the run instance and then we can return the same stream that we return in the other endpoint just without calling the actual agent um only only doing the stream and
>> this whole project
>> I think that should be good. Um, we're also taking our start index which is very helpful from the AI. We can get a readable stream um, from a certain start point. I think this is why it's auto computed. Um, so if you're trying to resume a stream like midway, you can pass a, you know, which chunk you were on when you initially left off. So now that this is done, I'm going to comment out these things we don't currently need. um we need the UI to support this uh conditional of whether to resume or whether to start a new chat. So I'm going to go to our chat front end and I'm going to go pull in some code from a different branch um for simplicity which is the it's on the four-streams branch which I'm going to just show for completion. um we do a use chat call already in the UI to consume the stream and we all we added now is a transport layer which is this big block here that has some middleware for the stream that says that if I'm trying to start this call uh I'm going to check first whether we have an existing run ID and if so I'm instead going to do a reconnect by calling this different API endpoint instead I'm sort of handwaving over this a little bit because it's client side handling for for traditionals. Um, if there's more questions about this, please feel free. All right. So, that gives us resumable streams. Um, and I'm also going to demo uh what if we wanted to deploy this and see it in production. Uh, so I'm going to call this and then we can check out a production preview example. In the meantime, uh the next we're going to do is we talk about events and resumability. The workflows because they run the way it runs is that every step runs on its own serless instance in production. The actual work workflow orchestration layer is only called very briefly to facilitate a step runs. What this allows us to do is to have a workflow to spend for any amount of time. a workflow could wait for a week and not consume any resources. Uh this is built into the workflow development kit um in a way where we can in inside a workflow anything tag with use workflow we can simply call sleep three days for example um and that would also wake us uh that will pause the workflow for three days and then resume where we left off. If someone was trying to reconnect to a stream for example, right? This was sleep an hour, the stream would just reconnect again to the same endpoint and things would resume from there. So we don't lose anything by uh losing the instance that runs the code because we can always restart it, resume from where we left off. Um and this is useful for AI agents because we can to a tool call. uh we can have the UI as the AI agent have a call that says sleep any amount of time and then use it to make an agent that that essentially uses a crown job where it says every day read my emails and do this thing right so that would be sleep one day yes
>> when the when the kind of agent goes down that means all the state goes with it down
>> yes so when it when it sleeps no when it sleeps for three days
>> no then it kind of paused but when that would be killed output is for some reason where does the state go of that?
>> So the the way it works is that any step call um is cached. So when you when an input goes to a step call, we register that as an event and we run the step and if the step completes, we cach the output and say this step has been run um to completion. Right? So if it was if it was something like this where we run the agent first, right? Let's say we run the agent and we run a bunch of steps. um the state of the workflow function at this point in time would be saved and all of the outputs from all of the stat calls would be saved and at the time where we restart the workflow from this specific line of code it'll rehydrate the entire state and it'll just go from here. Um and this happens so that again we don't have to replay any of the code of it uh in a way that that does any actual resource consumption. Um yeah, so we can use this to make an agent that has it's essentially a crown job again. Um and we can use it to make agents that run for weeks or interact with any of your um sort of like information over over a very long time horizon. And while I've been talking, we have deployed uh our current app to the cell. So I can check out this preview branch for example and you can see the app is now live online um and working just as it usually does. And yes it works perfectly. And if I then again I can do uh I can use the UI to inspect this at any point. If I call workflow inspect web or just workflow web with the dash backend for cell and dash and preview parameters for example that'll just let us let it know where our deployment is to be found and then that'll spawn up the same UI and now we can check on this run run run that's running in production and you can see we're getting the same kind of information here. Um, yeah. So, this is sort of Oh, I'm not going to cancel the run. I could cancel the run. Let's cancel it. Um, this is to show that the way it works in local locally is the exact same way that it works in production from a conceptual standpoint. Um, which is the UX we are aiming for. All right. Um, I talked a little bit about sleep and suspend. Let us go and write this sleep tool call. It's going to be very simple. Uh I'm going to go and copy the I mean I already here but I'm going to copy this and write it from scratch. We're going to write a sleep uh pool call. I'm just going to call it sleep.ts. And uh we're going to turn down the input schema to be something like time out milliseconds and the actual run command to be none of this and instead just call sleep. Um because sleep is already a step um that we export from workflow in workflow library. We don't need to call uh we don't need to mark this function as use step but this will now uh let's see if this is oh this should be a number. There you go.
>> Can you see that again? Why don't you need the use step?
>> Oh uh so this is already a step um that we export from workflow. It's going to be the observability will also show it as a step which we'll see in a second. And um this should just work assuming the prompt is good which we're going to modify to be say something like see of this. Um yeah, do this. Um only use this tool if the user directs you to do so. All right. And get a double quote here. There we go. And so now that this sleep call is set up, um that should be all that we need to do. We'll call it run sleep command and sleep tool. And we're going to add this to our tools list. And I think I confused our compiler a little bit or at least TypeScript. This seems to work great. Okay, now we have the tool. Um, and we also want the UI to sort of display when it's sleeping. Um, so I'm going to add I'm going to add a another not a function to log sleep. Uh, this is the reason we're doing this is we cannot write to a stream directly from a workflow because then it wouldn't be uh deterministic anymore because every run of the workflow would write to the stream again. Yeah. So I'm trying to run the project. Um I had to create a versel API key for the AI gateway. Did that did that getting error that says header is missing from the request. Do you have the YC option enabled in the project settings?
>> You skipped this in the beginning but
>> oh yes.
>> Yes. Our uh because this code uses uh sandbox uh you would need to log into this. Um my mistake uh this should be running locally. Um if you don't use this sandbox which uh I will uh we'll have a branch that doesn't use this sandbox um for after the talk.
>> For now you might
>> um at this point I'll just do it afterwards. It's fine. So here I'm just going to add another call to writable and we're going to call uh we're gonna let's see we're going to need local ID and so now this is just going to writes to the stream and that should allow us to show it in the UI correctly. Um, let me see if I figured the UI to correctly interpret this packet. Um, there is no data sleep type which I think might wait. Yes. All right. So, now that I have this, um, I can go start our app again and And so it loads. We can try out the second prompt here which is sleep for 30 seconds and then return a uh just to show that it's going to correctly interpret the sleep call and then sleep. Um, it's not showing the data packet here sadly, but we can go to the web UI and we can show it has been it's engaging in the sleep call and this is going to return after 30 seconds. All right, so that's sleep and there's one final thing um one final feature that I want to show you u which is web hooks and the ability to resume from web hooks easily. uh implementing web host is usually quite difficult or a headache and in our case uh I'm going to check out the conf /5-hooks branch and show you that we can in the same fashion as we do sleep we can add a new tool that I'll just I'll just show you where the actual tool call is um just a a log call and then we create a web hook which is a function we export from the workflow Uh and we can then log the web hook URL to the client or anywhere else and await web hook and this will suspend for as long as necessary to uh someone to click on this URL and then let's see if we can the server is running and I can show you this uh running hopefully reload this and Um, wait for wait for human approval before starting and call Pokemon index. Let's see if it happen this correctly. Been changing branches, so I might need to restart my server. Um, and the way this works under the hood is that again we'd be creating a a URL and we're going to sleep the um the workflow until a call comes into that endpoint. And this comes with I'm going to run this query. This comes with a lot of extra features like I could also do respond with if I wanted to. Uh this is a full API API request handlaw. I could respond with a request object. Uh I can treat this as a uh again API endpoint. I could also check the body against the result schema for example and then only uh resume once that matches. So this gives you full control. Um, but the nice thing is it does hook up the URL internally and you can see that it's paused waiting for a human to click on this link and if you're running in local host it's a local host link running in production it will be whatever your deployment uh URL is. Um yes about both sleep and human approval those are like a workflow is is purely steps and steps always run to completion right so so sleep is a step it's not like the suspension of you know like some sort of like it's not a suspension of the the execution it's like it's it's a step
>> no it is so we model is the step in terms for the observability and for the for how you call it but it is an internal feature that completely suspends the workflow and all steps nothing is running while to sleep. Um you can also do sleep and another step and you can promise them if you want. Um it works as a step call in that sense that it's a execution that takes a certain amount of time. Um and you can use promise await syntax uh to model that but again it completely suspends unless there is anything else running at a time and the same for the web hook. it's modeled as a step um for the observability um but it completely suspends unless you have auto code running at the time.
>> So just from my understanding if you have an agent running uh with a workflow it keeps running.
>> Yeah.
>> You connect to it again let's say through another session and you would call sleep in this session does that like the previous one just like whatever it was doing just goes down. So if you have two sessions um so let's say we we have a coding session right and it already built an app and then it's sleeping for a week right um and then we reconnect to the stream is that the
>> no the thing is uh let's say I kick off a work uh workflow and it's calculating like the numbers of pi just keeps on right but I connect to the same sandbox and then I call sleep will it stop calculating pi
>> um so the way you would do this in a workflow is again let's let's see how we would code this
>> you have a sandbox there sleep in the sandbox
>> well you can connect to this sandbox you connect again to the sandbox and some thread call sleep does the whole sandbox go
>> so the the sandbox is uh it's basel sandbox which is a sort of just imagine it as an EC2 instance um so this is just a a helper for us to spin up an instance to run this coding agent like run the code in order to store the files Um if you met this differently you wouldn't have to use sandbox um and the sleep call doesn't happen as a as a bash call for example then two different
>> right
>> like an orchestration thing and then when you're actually in this box you you call sleep in a sandbox you're
>> okay so there are two different
>> right so so there is sleep that you could call from a terminal um in the sandbox as a as a as a terminal command or there sleep from the workflow which suspends the workflow Uh yeah so we have we have these features for for web hooks right and we can see that after I clicked on the URL it resumed and then coded me a Pokédex um that is all of the features we're going to in the session and I think we have ample time for Q&A about 20 minutes at least please go for
>> how would I spin up claude code session with this
>> a cloud co session remotely or are you
>> no kind of run and kick it off as an agent doing certain stuff um is that possible and then kind of orchestrate that as agents
>> that is possible so cloud code uh is um if you're talking about the app like a tonal app right cloud code then that doesn't use a lot of the workflow features internally um so it's hard to isolate that or know where the oxidation There is you could write your own version of uh cloud code or take the plot code source code and add workflow and step um for the calls and that would then run as as a workflow in the cloud. There's no way to say like okay I have my steps you know spin up claw work uh kind of code type this command and wait for anything that would be a versel workflow but how would I actually boot drop it like code it
>> is one command told right so you know what you're asking
>> if you so if you're calling cloud code uh in a um so made as a confusion of like where this is running right for a coding agent here if the coding agent runs make the right for like creating creating a folder that make the command runs in a step but it runs against a like in a sandbox there sandbox being a VM and so this VM state is not managed by the workflow itself um so if you call cloud code on the VM that's essentially treated like an SSH session but if you run any any agents or steps within the workflow right those steps are going to be resumable um and observable through the workflow pattern Um, another question, how do I control um what my agent has access to from going out to the internet doing stuff?
>> This would be uh whatever you're whatever you're already doing for the agent, right? If you if you in the end you're going you're going going to be doing tool calls and stream calls to the LM provider, right? um that is that is in your code presumably already and whatever you're already using to control permissions there like your tool calls for example right if your tool call uh allows you to delete a resource in S3 for example then you as call uh can write whatever code you want uh in the usual way that
>> it's my job to implement it but it's not that it has some wrappers by the end Yeah, all in the sandboxes.
>> Workflows is a general orchestration layer for durable execution um and doesn't necessarily provide a sandbox for running code or um like running third party code or running agent code or making files. Uh that's something that the sandbox is good for because every sandbox instantiation is a new VM um that only lasts for as long as your session lasts.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. So uh if I'm running workflows uh and I'm like creating a lot of agent uh workflows through my brother uh how does that do does that get queued up on your system? How does that get run? Is there rate domain or currency and controls that we can uh use?
>> Yes. So this is this is uh this goes into sort of uh some of the patterns that all of this is going to be supported um and for the most part is supported right now which is that if you're deploying for example to go right and as usual if you do nextjs every deploy is a separate uh like live URL right that if you call it spawns up a serverless instance and so your workflows are bound to the deployment. So if you have something that something very nice that you get here is if you an agent and it runs for a week but you deploy five times in during this week those new deploys are going to be isolated from the original workflow and the original workflow is going to run to completion and then any new workflow will run on the new deployments and we'll also allow upgrading between those. So if you have a a workflow that runs for a year, right? Because it's like every month give me a summary of so and so, right? But you have new code and you want the workflow to uh you know take its current state and use the new code for the workflow. Um there's going to be an upgrade button in the UI that checks for compatibility between the old workflow and the new workflow by checking all of the step signatures and all of the existing events and then you can upgrade the workflow. Um or you can currently already cancel and rerun with the with the new workflow.
>> Um is there a timeout for those workflow steps?
>> Oh
>> yes. So uh if you're doing serless right and whatever platform you're on whether it be like lambda or something else or or uh your serless functions are going to have timeouts. The nice thing is that every step runs in its own serless function. So the timeouts only apply to the stats. So if one of individual step you have runs the risk of running more than five minutes maybe 15 minutes depending on platform um then you can split into two steps um or if it's if it runs the timeout right it'll fail it'll retry maybe the will be faster um and you'll see in the UI that oh this step is being retrieded after 15 minutes a bunch of times right presumably because it's failing and then you can go and uh split it into two steps upgrade the workflow and it'll just continue from And uh yeah the other point was uh around queuing workflows like I trigger the agent a bunch of times.
>> Yeah.
>> Does it get cued? Like how does that process?
>> Right. You can model this in in different ways. Uh right now again we're doing this from like a API route where every call to this API route will create a new workflow. Um that is mostly again the only the only the only interactable output you have is a stream in this case. Um so it'll do things it'll write to the stream. Nobody looks at the stream. We don't know the work before is running. Uh you can kick off 10 of these, right? Um and they're going to be running in the background. Um there is essentially no limit to how many you can create because they all run in serless functions. So you can scale for as much compute as there is in your provider. um which is a lot of cute and um you can also list active runs right there's an API here for doing C interfacing with your runs look at all of the runs that are running look at which version they're on uh what step they're on um cancel them I hope that answers your question oh concurrency yes um you can also so right now it's infinite concurrency but uh very soon we'll add per step or per workflow concurrency where you can say This workflow is only supposed to run at most 10 times at the same time and any extra Q addition gets like any extra start gets cued so that it will wait for those 10 to uh reduce and then slide in. You can also use that to have a free tier for example on your product where there's 10 instances running for your free tier at any one point and some people that come in later will wait for the queue but your pro tier has infinite concurrency.
>> Yeah.
>> Can I roll back steps in a way that let's say I have 10 steps but in step seven I think like okay let's go back to step three. Would that be possible to like reset the state of the workflow or
>> you can technically do this do this? We current we don't currently support it but it would be very easy to implement because uh you have every step again the inputs and outputs are cached and we can enter the workflow at any point and sort of play from there. So we'd need to expose this in the in the UI to as a function to resume from step so and so. But yes, that would be possible. more more likely what you want to do because you control the workflow. So you wanted to log there and use this JavaScript and might have to step into state or do something just keep growing. Maybe my second question. So if you go through the steps you said, okay, you're passing out input and outputs kind of across and that's kind of what get cached. Is there like a way to attach metadata or does it always have to be in kind of the input outputs of the function?
>> You can also attach metadata. uh we'll have a tagging API soon where you can add arbitary tags to the workflow at any point in the workflow run and you can use those tags also to maybe decide whether to early or dd duplicate your runs. Um yeah.
>> Yes.
>> About the deployment are we tied to versel or is it possible to like
>> as I mentioned before uh so there there's two aspects to this. There's the the front end side of the framework uh the docs are on use workflow.dev. Uh you can see for the front end sides um which is also sort of the the uh API layer it might work with. Uh we currently support all of these platforms. um and more coming soon. And then there's separately the deployment target right next.js JS you can deploy to anything right now right this would work with anything you can deploy XJS2 for example or any of these other frameworks um and we have implementations first party implementation for a Postgres example that uses Postgres as the dability layer um and as we'll be building this out and community comes in we'll have support for essentially any back end um because underneath the TypeScript framework connects to any storage or Q layer so anything that provides a storage a database uh or AQ can be used the back end for for this
>> related question for the observability we also like providers to data dog stuff
>> yeah so uh we we have a uh multiple things we have an an API that you can use to to uh access data directly um and we also have open source UI components that you can use to display it and then you can export this to data Um if you want. Yeah.
>> You talked about screen a little bit and talked about how it essentially like job. Uh do is there more scheduling and chron controls within workflow? So uh because it's just typescript uh if you're in a workflow um you can do something like let's say we call sleep for example right this this would just be resume in a sorry resume in one day but what you can also do is uh this is just a promise or you can treat it as a promise so you can do while true sleep one day and then uh you know do your code and it'll run once a If you wanted to run once a day at 2 a.m. um you could you could say you know how much time to you know 1:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you AI. And then you know done. Um and you could also wake up every hour do some checks whether you actually want to run the rest of the code. If not go back to sleep. Um anything you can do with con to do here. And if you want again concurrency controls something um or any kind of other deterministic controls you have control flow in Typescript here. You can check check external um APIs. for example, um which you have to wrap in a step, but you can make fetch calls if you want to actually check data and then determine from there.
>> So if you if you wanted to do a uh agent that runs every once in a while every day, you could have a scheduling wrapper scheduling workflow that launches another agent workflow
>> also. Yeah, you can you can you can start workflows from workflows or you could do this right where you uh sleep a day and then call your agent and then depending on the the on the stream you want to right this is all right in the same stream presumably you don't want that presum maybe you can also uh thatable allows you to do namespace right uh one um and you can get a new writable here and then every time it runs you can have a new stream that has a deterministic uh name and you can choose which stream to connect to.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there cancellation logic? Like say I have something waiting for a long time and then I decide to not have that be a thing. How can I just like stop an existing sleep from waking,
>> right? So you can cancel your workflows from the observability UI or from the from the API or the CLI. um all of those avenues uh have you can call cancel or you can also say well I don't even know if I want to sleep on the end of the zoom what you can do is do a uh let me remove this part here you can do something like you know await promise grace and you can do the sleep one day and you can do some other actually human approval maybe wake up earlier if a human clicks a button than the one Okay. Um, there you go.
>> Yes.
>> Um, if you have multiple agents running, uh, what would be your advised way of having them communicate with each other?
>> Um, if if you're sort of depends on what kind of communication you're looking for.
>> Firing things off and they're working, but I wouldn't sure there was. So in steps um you have access to all code APIs or NodeJS API fetch etc. You can have a database, right? If you want to automate over your own data source, you can have a database. Um, if you want to have multiple agents, um, you can, uh, use one, you can use some of the same streams to write to and share a stream. Um yeah, I guess it's up to us ultimately with our steps that they're like I demp it in and if they have side effects when they fail halfway that it's well behaved like that's that's not at your orchestration layer like that's up to us,
>> right? for the workflow layer, we guarantee that there's no side effects because if you try to import some code that does side effect, I think it'll just it'll just say like can't compile, doesn't you know, don't do it. Um,
>> that was true for workflows, but for steps
>> for steps, it can have side effects. That's sort of the point.
>> So, it's up to us like if it fails, we need to make sure that transactional and it's rerunnable and
>> identity. There's some there's some uh there's some error controls you can add here where if a step fails, it'll usually fail uh with a an error that tells the workflow station layout that you can retry it. You can also catch this error and say, well, if it's a you know this kind of error, don't retry it. Instead, signal to the human to do something or try this other avenue. Yeah. See there's something else.
>> Do you have one of the branches that has like the complete code for what you just did?
>> Yes. So, uh they all built on top of each other. So, the conflooks branch has the human approval tool called the sleep tool call. resumable streams um and using web flow.
>> Uh I will see how I can post one general access
>> just tweet it out.
>> Yes, we'll do that.
>> Uh the workflows are in beta and so
>> Yes. Yeah. Um
>> okay. Yeah. Uh yes, I forgot to mention this important uh workflow devel I believe and we have a a GitHub using production especially durable agent stuff
>> internally we have I think more than 1 million workflows have been run on on
>> a day. Yeah,
>> it's mostly just like getting the API to be stable and a bunch of issues. But one of the things I love is that we actually have more than issues. But uh
>> yeah,
>> if there's any feature that you that you need or that you really want to see, uh we have an RFC section on GitHub uh discussions for upcoming features, things that we'll ship by GA or shortly afterwards. And then open issues, right? Um where you can add any issue and presumably we'll be able to it soon or someone from the community. Again, this is uh all of the adapters that help workflow develop run on any kind of cloud back end or your homebrew back end. All of those adapters are also open source. So, you can see exactly what's happening and you can connect it to your own back end and only the source um just looking at that code and we'll be happy to help you. Can you talk about uh
>> uh yeah um what would you like to know
>> the road map for like
>> right so for versioning um I talked a little bit about about uh the ability to upgrade runs across versions right uh versioning is going to be very simple where we have a crowd interface for all of the versions that you have created which for most people will be a deployment right if you deploy your um you know CI deploys your code to a preview environment or production uh every deployment will be one version um and you can list those versions at any point uh using the the workflow API and the run will know which version it's running on and you can call run.upgrade upgrade to see if it's compatible with a new version to upgrade it to that version and I know any any more things
>> version
>> no yeah so so every every deployment uh gets its own URL and not just in basel but presumably in your if you go to AWS lender for example right uh every deployment has its own URLs so the web hooks would apply to its own URLs um which means that you don't need worry about versioning except for tagging a version when you first create the deploy. Um and then whatever you think is you want to be your main version is the one you route to via your public API.
>> Yeah, I think um sorry obviously I used to work at my experience in this stuff. I think a lot of people unfortunately it's like isolation of but sometimes you want to sort of fix in place things that have been a while.
>> Yeah. Migrations almost like agent migrations to new version.
>> Yeah. So this is the same as as upgrading in that sense, right? But if you have a bunch of runs that are all on a certain version and you have ship new code and you want all those runs to be upgraded to the new version or migrated, right? Um, in the UI you'll be able to select however many runs you want or for the CLI you want to be able to get a list and then say for these 20 IDs I want to upgrade the run to this version. Uh, will it'll do an internal check of of can I resume these uh workflows from a certain point? um like can I migrate them in place sort of because the step signatures overlap or if not it'll offer you the option to cancel all of the existing runs and rerun them on a new version of the same input. Um if you write your code in a way that's compatible again um there's there's going to be different options for for in place migrations.
>> How would it detect that just by code parts not being changed? So because we have because we're essentially a compiler plugin uh we can get full a uh compatibility and and we are saving this a uh the inputs and outputs signatures um to a manifest that we're uploading for the versions and so for every version we can tell what are the signatures for every uh step and for the workflow itself and all the other things that are happening in between.
>> Another thing here is the workflow function itself. So yes, we played a whole bunch of times during execution do anyway.
>> So when you want to upgrade your event,
>> it's kind of the code that you've got on the event against it.
>> Sure. There's a lot of variations between kind of I do a step all the previous steps stayed the same or you know this one got changed. So it's like you like if everything's done automatically it feels like okay I could go down immediately with all my agents or up
>> there's two ways you could there's two ways you could be versioning and I think the thing with is you build for a platform where you assume that the code your code is always going to evolve in the same place. So what we've seen is you end up with as you start your first version of your workload that you ship but as you start making updates to you starting new version your code now has all the stuff in there that has you have no guarantees of what version running on the actual code that you're running. The default assumption is that my code could be running an event log anyway and you end up with starts great and then you have to do model
>> but it was the same with like killing and sustaining already had forever. there's a natural step to go say cool we're just gonna assume that you you push a new version of the workflow you pin everything and so you don't have to worry about that mental model that code but instead it's time to go up push button I can go in or even choose like you know theoretically choose exactly how much of that button get there's a lot of stuff that you can do on top since you have But what's nice is that's that's a hard US and you know for us to build when done well hopefully very
>> I don't know we're close to done
>> I think we're close to done
>> uh we'll be sticking around for more questions so uh
>> I guess okay so let's say I'm a third party like But I think the other part is observability. Um I don't I I like poked around in I don't see like much of a dashboard. I expect that obviously you're going to build one, right? Uh and then I also want to import it into my data dog. See there not a data dog but hey what's this supposed
>> uh open telemetry spans uh which we'll you know be able to emit um we'll add some context to the spans by default presumably. Uh so if you if you just pipe your spans through data dog it'll already have a lot of information on the steps and event log. Um and you can also submit your own uh telemetry obviously.
>> So is that the plan or is it you have the first party?
>> The plan is that we will we will first party support adding some of the like all of the sort of step and event log related context. Um will uh presumably export a helper to add some of these information to the spans. Um and then every all information you want to tag in there is up to you.
>> Can I uh attach like secrets to workflow in a way that when I need to update them they kind like you know
>> Yeah. So uh for one like right now you can you can inspect all of the input and output data right and it's obviously uh for you as a someone with access to the API uh which someone consuming the workflow or starting the workflow through web API wouldn't usually have
>> no steps in steps
>> yeah so the the workflows run in the same deployment as as it would usually do and has access to the process uh environment right so you can inject environment levels the way you would usually do um and as as long as long as you don't log them which again presumably you wouldn't do any anyway um it's the same way as an API endpoint and then if you want your data to be secret right um right right now we expose it in observability um if you have access but we also will allow in the future to do end to end encryption for any data store
>> right then we'll uh close the session but we'll be around a little bit more for questions if you want to you know look over She lost heat.