[Music] Hello everyone. My name is Diego Rodriguez. I am co-founder and CTO at Korea. We're building an AI creative suite. I'm going to tell you three stories and then I'll try to hire you. So, a friend once told me, if you think about it, like cars are easy to predict, right? Like it's like you you get the horse, you have the wheels, you swap the horse, and you put an engine, which was known at the time, and that's a car. But like, you know what's really hard to predict? Traffic. So it's my job to ask what are the traffics that are we we're missing especially with AI you know JAMAMO JSON MCP whatever it's like okay okay but like what comes what happens when you generate a million images per day like we do for one studio how do you find that another story tower babble we wanted to reach heaven go was like no created a bunch of languages and basically misunderstanding misunderstanding was like nope we are not going to go there and it reminds me of standup meetings where people are like no it should be react no no but like it should be like JavaScript any was like dude we're not re God is winning uh but now we have AI so maybe okay he if it wasn't with crypto it was with AI you'll see um so this is only like people trying to convey ideas and that's what we're trying to tell just trying to tell stories. Um the final story is I was talking with someone from Netflix uh and she was like what happens when we are making so much content personalized to each town in India? How do I even find that? Like, right. And and then a few days ago, I just realized that Korea was already being used for broadcasting an ad uh with Fox to millions of people. And then I look and they literally signed up two days ago. So, we went from sign up to conversion to payment to broadcasting two days. I And then this was the CTO telling me that. I was like, well, um I basically I'm about to run out of time. So the mandatory slide a bunch of users 25 million raised a bunch of money we did this with eight people some of the people who are using us uh an email that I created for today that is going to prioritize applications um thank you all right home. Okay, everybody. The smartphone was the number one bestselling consumer product last year and the laptop was the second. Pop quiz for all you here. What was the third?
>> Apple Watch.
>> Wasn't the Apple Watch? Wasn't the AirPod? No, I think I heard it. It was a smart speaker. 500 million smart speakers were sold last year. But why do they still suck? You can barely talk to them. There's no customization. There's no community. There's nothing. That's why we built OpenHome, the very first AIdriven smart speaker. And we're letting you guys build smart speakers, too. And we believe here that the future is talking with AI. You should be able to talk seamlessly, intuitively. In fact, you shouldn't have to use this really awkward command-based language. You should be able to just chat naturally. So that's what we're building and we're letting people here today build their own smart speakers and build them in whatever form that they want. And the key here is developer ecosystems and well we know developer ecosystems. I started my career as the chief of staff for the founder of Splunk a 30 billion big data company. Then I was on the founding team of MakerDo a5 billion developer ecosystem. My co-founder and I raised $50 million for our last business, a big a data privacy tool, and we sold that business. But it all came down to developers and really building what people actually wanted. And well, now with OpenHome, we have over 10,000 developers building on OpenHome. They're building all kinds of interesting things. All types of different custom smart speakers, building interesting voice AI applications. Sky's is really the limit. And well, what do developers really want? They want open source. They want LLM driven. And they want fully jailbroken. They want OpenHome, the AI smart speaker. And now what's really exciting is with voice AI, you can put it on any type of hardware. We have developers building talking toys, AI robots, AI appliances. You should be able to talk to the world around you in a much more natural way. And you can do that now with OpenHome in AI smart speaker. Here's our dashboard. We have many, many applications, hundreds of applications that have been built. Games, personalities. We have an editor that you guys can go in and build and all kinds of interesting things, home automation tools. And what's really exciting is our last dev kit got booked up within minutes. And today, we have a special announcement for you guys here today. We're releasing the next batch of 500 dev kits for free for everybody here. If you guys want it, we will ship you a dev kit. It's very cool. You can build on it. You can talk with AI. You can build your own smart speaker here and we're doing it today. Thank you so much.
>> How's it going y'all? Uh I'm Josh. I'm the founder of company called Koframe. Uh the last company that I started we scaled to over $2 billion in the course of a couple years. Um, but when I started to tinker on uh using AI to generate code and created one of the actual top uh autonomous coding agents on GitHub, was one number one on GitHub for a week, I realized it was time to build something bigger. The internet is dead. It's not adaptive. It's not personal. It's not truly living in a sense. Websites are all one sizefits-all. And we're bringing that concept to life. We are giving websites a life of their own, giving every single customer experience its own AI growth team. But this isn't just a pipe dream. We made $20 million for the for Europe's largest travel company in just a few weeks. We increased clickthrough rate for India's largest company, a $400 billion enterprise also in a few weeks. And how are we doing it? We're working with the best and we have the best. Uh we're the only marketing tech company that's partnered directly with OpenAI to date and they actually called our team cracked which is cool. So if you're interested in learning more about this, reach out. Thank you. [Applause] Hi, I'm Eugene. I'm sorry. My team is obsoleting all the air models you see today cuz you see uh my team built Quorki 72B the world's largest model without the transformer attention with only eight GPUs and this allow us to have a thousandx lower inference on our on our new architecture while performing the same. Surprisingly the techniques that we've uh the technology that we built can also be applied to existing transformer models through speculative decoding. nothing nothing too big nothing too important but here's my hot take scale is dead and I'm not saying this just from my own opinion like we are burning billions into making AI models bigger but at the same time the deep mind founder and CEO is saying compound AI agents errors will take more than 10 years to fix Lun is even saying that we need a new AI architecture to push the paradigm forward and in production we see over 90% % of AI projects fail. The reason behind this is not something that scale can fix. The problem is reliability. The thing is like would you order and use an app that only succeeds 45% of the time? Would you order Door Dash that way? Of course not. You if your order goes missing or or you you end up having 100 pizza, you're going to be stuck with customer support screaming down there. It's a frustrating experience. But that's what AI agents do. When they work, they're awesome. When they don't work, we are stuck cleaning up the mess. And that's even with frontier models. And here's the thing, what companies want is not a smarter model that can do PhD level math. We the models are already smart enough, but what we actually really want is the models reliable enough to book airline tickets, sort out our emails or file taxes and invoices. That's what we actually want and that is what we are building at Federous AI. We are a research lab that is building personalized AGI that's made reliable for each one of you and and most recently uh we are in our research that we actually shown that we built an action R1 agent that beats clot for Sonet and Gemini and OpenAI. This model is not going to do PhD level math, but it's going to fill up the form with absolute reliability better than the frontier. And that's the thing like are we going to burn billions more to make a smarter model that is just a few percentage point higher IQ or are we going to make something that's 99.9% reliable for the boring things in life? Because this is where the money is for all of you. Because think of it as AI engineers, reliability is revenue. For every use case you unlock and find, you're going to do a billion dollar app in in in be in e-commerce or in in B2B sales. And that is something that all of you can build on, not rocket science. And that's what we are building. And if you're excited about it, feel free to reach out to us. I'm eugened.com.
>> My name is Jonas. I'm an engineer and I like working with data. I love working with data. Actually, I love it so much. I dropped out of high school when I was 15. I got on a plane. I moved across the country to California and I joined a startup called Branch. You might have heard of it. Anytime you were clicking one of those links on your phone for an app, that was probably us. I also led a team there that built a search engine that over a 100 million people used every day. And then last year I left along with one of the founders of branch to tackle an even bigger challenge. This is probably what you think your sales and marketing teams are doing with their budgets. And you wouldn't be entirely wrong. So that's why I co-ounded Upside. We do forensic revenue attribution and intelligence. But what does that actually mean? Well, how many of you have an email from a saleserson like this sitting in your inbox right now? Uhhuh. And how many of you are actually going to reply to it? Yeah, I didn't think so. These teams are shouting into the void hoping something will work because they don't actually know what works because their data is a mess. I mean, don't get me wrong, they're data hoarders. They store everything. They stuff it in Salesforce. They treat it, you know, it's basically a SQL database in a trench coat, but they're not data practitioners. They don't know what to do with it once they have it. But now we have things like LLM. They can help with this. They can take that poor, mishandled, abused email record and they can pull the most important details out of it into a structured form. And so just as search engines and web crawlers learn how to make sense of the unstructured web, upside is turning raw enterprise data into a highly structured map of the world and all the interactions that people do in it. So there's hope. We can untangle this mess and we can create a data command center that these teams can actually use to reach their customers more effectively. We only just started talking about this publicly a couple weeks ago. Um, we've been quietly building in the background for the last year or so and my co-founder decided to make a small post on her LinkedIn, you know, just to update our network on what we'd been off doing and the things that we'd been building and it blew up. Like there's so much pain people feel around this and they're hungry for a solution. We got a whole slew of demo requests coming in from people that want access to the product and now we have a bunch of customers lining up that want to get into our platform. It's a who's who of companies you've heard of. Um, and we just have a lot of building to do now. So, if you're interested in working on knowledge graphs, on data analytics agents, on graph analytics and graph learning models, come talk to me. We're hiring. [Applause]
>> Hello everyone. I'm Sua, the founder of Open AI. Uh, sorry, I mean Open Audio. Before that, I created something you might be heard of, Fish Audio. We have grown from 400K to 5.5 million annualized revenue in just four months. And we closed our C runs at 100 million valuation. It all started with my girlfriend. I had a girlfriend for six years from the beginning of high school to college. I love her so much and it was so good until one day I found out she cheated. I wasn't angry, just confused, disappointed. And I asked myself, if this can happen, how can we trust relationships again? I thought about it for days, all day and all night. And finally, I found my answer. AI. But nobody can really fall in love with today's AI, right? It's flat. It's emotionless. It's robotic. So I set out on a mission to build an AI that I could really fall in love with starting with her voice. So we began with open source and crush it. We build so as VC birth 2 and also fish speech. Today actually not today it's the day before yesterday. I'm excited to introduce S1, the first ever instructible voice model. It's the only model where you can control not just what to say, but how to say it. Here's a demo.
>> You can pinpoint focus or draw it closer. Even yelling while you betray me like this.
>> Yeah, you can control whatever you want. And uh with open audio S1 we have the most expressive voice model in the world. And the most importantly she will never leave. So so we have blown 11 labs out of the water based on the TTS arena ranking and they are so hurry and they dropped their latest model today. But unfortunately it's just a demo. So try them now. Fish audio. It's instantly available at fish.audio. Thank you. [Applause] Hello, I'm David Vorick and I'm building Glow. Prior to Glow, I built Sciacoin, a cryptocurrency that we took from a $10,000 market cap to more than $3 billion. And we think Glow is going to be even bigger. That's why Framework and USV Union Square Ventures led a $30 million round into our company. Subsequently, we posted the world record for onchain deepin revenue, doing more than $10 million of revenue in a single day. What does Glow do? Glow builds solar, not with shovels, but with incentives. This is not a stock photo. This is a photograph taken of taken by our team in India of a solar farm that was constructed for the purpose of mining glow tokens. A lot of people don't realize, but in the developing world, rising temperatures and growing populations have strained the grid. In a lot of cases, people are unable to run their air conditioners during the heat of the day. This causes people to die of heat stroke. Glow is an incentive protocol that revolutionizes what governments do and can take the same subsidy and turn it into 10 times as much solar. If you're interested in working with us, we're currently building incentive projects in India, in Mexico, in Lebanon, and across the entire world. and my email davidglowabs.org. I'd love to be in touch. Hi, I'm David. I'm an engineer. Uh, I made a social app with 250 million users making $20 million a year. Everyone thought it was luck. So, I did it again. I'm building favored. We built the world's most engaging app and we scaled up from 1 to$und00 million annualized engineer that wants to join the fastest growing company of all time. Uh, talk to me. Hello, I'm Alex Atala building open router the first and largest LLM marketplace. Thank you. So open I want to tell a little bit about how it started. Um, I co-founded OpenC in 2017 and in at the end of 2022, I really wanted to know if inference was going to be a winner take all market because the way it looked this could be the largest market in software that has ever happened before. And uh, the first experiment that we tried was building a Chrome extension to help you bring your own language model to any website that supported uh, the protocol. And that eventually evolved into open router, a single place and a single API to get all language models uh with the best prices, best performance and highest uptime. And the way it works is you just have a single API. You pay once and there's near zero switching costs to move from one model to another. We do all the heavy work to implement tool calling, edge cases, caching, and give you the best prices and performance possible for your region or wherever your servers are deployed. And because inference is so important, remember this might be the most important software market ever. It deserves its own marketplace just for language models optimized for them, including filtering for context, for features, for tool calling, for structured output, and much more. And so we built that. Then we built a chat room for you to obviously compare models head-to-head as simply as you do when chatting with people in iMessage. We built fine grain privacy settings including API level controls. We built a a lot of observability so you could see which models you're using and why. And we built public data in our rankings page which has become the go-to place for comparing models on their real world usage and on different categories for their prompts as well. This has grown for the last two months 10 to 100% every single month or for the last two years 10 to 100% every single month. Uh and scaling it has been a lot of the work that we've done so far. The the fundamental goal here is to make a heterogeneous ecosystem homogeneous because we believe inference is a commodity. Claude from bedrock is the should be the same as claude from vertex is claude from enthropic and we do all the abstraction and heavy work to make it uh that way for you. I want to talk a little bit about some of our technical challenges. Um, we built our own system, our own middleware for doing inference called plugins, which are kind of like MCPs except a little bit more powerful because you can call MCPS from inside of them and you can transform the outputs from language models. Bunch of other tricky problems that we've done to make the fastest routing in the market. Um, and we're bringing a lot more features in the coming months, including images, enterprise features, prompt observability, and more. So, if you're interested, come find me after or check out our careers page. Thank you. [Applause] [Music]