[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are here and we are live. It is Monday, October 20th. It has been a pretty wild day. not only across the stock market but also across two of the major brokerages that all of us use to engage in the stock market which would be Weeble and Hood. I think it's pretty much fixed. Let me know on your side. Uh Weeble started working and Hood started working about 20 minutes ago like like really good for me. I haven't played with Legend too much but on the mobile app it was good. I think Legend should be okay. S&P 500 1.1% on the day folks. We are less than $2 away from all-time highs. And based on some of the stuff that we're going to talk about today, I do think this is a healthy run back to alltime highs if we get there again. 673.95 is that alltime high. We're at 671.81. Robin Hoodie up 5% even though it was not working for pretty much the entirety of the day. Palanteer up 2%. Tesla up 2%. Nvidia relatively flat. AMD 3.36. It almost hit 243. So, what a day for SoFi. 28.64. That's up 8% on the day. It looks like it wants to potentially make a run to 29. We got 12 minutes left. It hit 28.93. But even if it closes above 2850, I think everyone should be pretty happy about SoFi. You got Grab, that's up a little bit on the day. Google up 1.3%. Amazon for some reason I really it was not in my bingo card that Amazon would be hitting 216 from 2:12 in the morning after this AWS outage which is still affecting a lot of parts of the internet but I think around 80% of it has been resolved uh over the past couple of hours and so it's starting to get better but Amazon's up on the day Meta is up 2% Salesforce is up 5% PayPal's up 3% Apple 26355 the stock was at 185 less than three months ago Apple stock has hit a all-time high this is almost 7% of the S&P 500 and it's only up 8% year to date after hitting these all-time highs. I did not buy SoFi today. No, it kind of ran away for me. So, we'll we'll see if we got a little bit of a dip during the week. If not, maybe we'll sell some puts going into uh going into earnings, but we'll figure out what to do with SoFi going into the next week. I did I did do one trade. My Nebius people, you'll be happy. I sold a put on Nebius. Nebus down 4.6%. All the data center plays actually taking a little bit of a hit. Nebus and Cororeweave. Is Iran still down? Wow. Coreweave down 7%. Ian, are they down? They Yeah, I 508 555. All right, so all the data centers took a hit. I still don't know the the headline with Oracle. I don't know why this is down 5%. I know you guys in the morning mentioned stuff about gross margins. I couldn't find any meaningful like validity to those headlines as a reason for why the stocks to get down, but I guess I'm wrong. There's got to be something out there that's taking it down 5%. And it seems like that's affecting the broader sector around data centers. But uh I sold a put on Nebas for $98, uh for this week and I actually got paid 1.2% of my money. I'm like I I I kind of wouldn't mind owning Nebas at 98 under 100 was my target and uh if it gets there and I get paid a$120, then you know I'm okay with that circle right there. That's up 3% on the day. So that's the only trade I made, but regardless uh it does seem like some of these stocks took a little bit of a hit in the data center space. Outside of that data center space, you got pretty much everything that's going green on the day except D-Wave. Take a look at Quantum down 12% on the day. Oaklo was down 5%. Recovered a little bit. No, never mind. Well, now it's down 3%. So, yeah. Yeah. I mean, technically that is a little bit of a recovery, but still down 3% on the day. 154 to 158. At one point it was at 170. Not horrible to see. Uh, and then you had a bunch of the other quantum names like a Regetti, that's down 8% on the day. SMR in the nuclear space, that's down.25%. Nanukar, that was also down 4%. I think this is very very very healthy to see. And the reason this is very healthy to see and I was talking about this in the morning. I really really do believe in this I mean I I have a lot of confidence in this idea uh just based on I guess how I'm thinking of this bull market continuing and and kind of the the PTSD I have from 2021. But with Trump deescalating with China, with rates coming down, and with earnings being strong, and hopefully that continuing throughout the next couple weeks, the worst thing we could imagine is if all these frothy names that have zero revenue, zero earnings, quite frankly, they have hyped up narratives that don't actually manifest in reality. Seeing them get back to all-time highs with the S&P 500, not a good thing. I think that would be a clown market. I think that would be excess liquidity. I'm not saying every valuation is cheap right now, but I am saying that a random stock that says we're a quantum nuclear uh mechanistic program to change society pumping 150%. Like that is not what we want to see. And so quality companies like Apple and AMD getting alltime highs today, that's bullish. The 10-year below 4%, that's bullish. The S&P 500 $2 away from alltime highs, that's bullish. And seeing some of these quantum names, these nuclear names down. Again, they're not horrible companies. It's not a shot at those companies. It's just even if they were to fall 30%, they would all be up one to twox for the year. So, you know, you've got another 10 20% down to go and they would still be creating phenomenal returns for shareholders that bet early on them. But that momentum would die out and I think that's healthy for some of that momentum to rotate into the broader market. Now, Beyond Meat, I can't defend. I don't know what the hell is happening with Beyond Meat today. This makes this makes the clown market thesis kind of come back to life. 125% up on the day. I think these guys were supposed to go bankrupt and maybe they announced something today that is denying their bankruptcy or is flipping the direction of that. If anyone has the headline, let me know. But I don't really see why Beyond Meat is up 120% today. Squeezing. Yeah, I guess squeezing to an extent, but that could be happening as well. Uh let me know what people did. We got a bunch of other headlines that we'll get into, but ultimately, dude, I think this was a really good day for the markets. I did not expect to be this green. Uh but the China deescalation stuff from yesterday was very important and uh I think that deescalation continuing to take place is setting up a really strong uh potential run going to earnings. Weeble right there up 4% on the day as well. Also setting up a a good negotiation for Xi and Trump to get into over the next week. So the fact that we're getting this type of momentum now maybe it's a little bit of a bull trap and it's getting a little too excited. Although I do think the narrative is on the side of the bulls right here, especially with this China deescalation rhetoric that's been coming from both sides over the past 48 hours. wouldn't surprise me if you know we take we give back a little bit of this over the next few days but if we can keep this going 673 is going to happen over the next coming days and that'd be very very nice to also see uh a lot of the earnings are going to be happening over the next week but we do have Netflix and Amazon or Netflix and Tesla and we're going to see how that ends up playing out where's the rare earth companies all of them well some of them are down some of them are up on the day US is up 14% MP is up 3% CRML's down five TMQ is down five now the Bitcoin miners turned data centers a little bit of a mixed bag. Irene's down 2% but CleanSpark it was up almost 15% now it's up 4% they associated or they uh they they made someone a new senior VP of data centers Jeffrey Thomas which is super bullish for them. Bit farm's basically flat on the day. Marathon up 7% again and I don't think it's bearish that it's down 2%. I think it's healthy. I has had a massive run for INE to consolidate right here seems pretty normal to me which would not be too crazy. Riot is up 10% on the day and then Galaxy is up 5% as well. Now gold in the morning, gold was down just a little bit. That lasted for a little bit. Gold right here is 15 bucks away from breaking 4,400. I don't know what to tell you guys. We talked about it a lot last night. Uh you know, we we talked about it this morning with the central reserves uh uh central bank reserves across the entire world having 20% of their global reserves inside of gold. This is the chart that we looked at this morning. I don't know, dude. It's It's one of those trades that's becoming I don't want to say it's becoming a bubble, but it is be the perception of it is that it is becoming euphoric. Um, a run to 5,000 I think would truly make it more euphoric, especially if we don't have a reason for why it's happening. I hesitate to say it's a short because it's freaking gold, you know? And like, do you really want to short gold? I don't know if that's the best idea. Is it a buy right now? Again, I'm not a commodities expert, but h something having a run like that and not just some random stock, but we're talking about freaking gold having a run like that, it it is very very hard to uh to be super optimistic to buy it here. The riskreward doesn't feel like it's that aggressive, but nonetheless, you got gold gain some momentum. Uh thoughts on the Australia rare earth deal. Okay, so let's transition to that. So, uh, I didn't get every highlight of what Trump said with the Australian prime minister, but they did meet today, and it looks like it was a relatively bullish conversation in terms of what they did with Rare Earth Minerals. Here is the agreement that they signed today.
>> And then we'll take some questions, some good ones, I think. Okay, don't have the specifics on the deal, but it is good that uh Australia and the United States are collaborating on rare earth minerals. This is also happening with Ukraine. So the more that that the more that we can get that into the system, the more potentially we have to avoid uh dealing with from China. And then Trump here was his answer to a question on China.
>> I think China's been very respectful of us. They're paying tremendous amounts of money to us as in the form of tariffs as you know they're paying 55%. That's they never were paying anything over years and years and years. Uh but they were like anybody else. A lot of countries took advantage of the US. They're not taking advantage anymore. No, China's paying 55% and a potential 155% come November 1st unless we make a deal. I'm meeting with President Xi. We have a very good relationship. We're going to be meeting in South Korea in a couple of weeks and uh we'll see what we can do. Uh we have a very good relationship with China, but you know, it's been uh it's been probably a little bit like your relationship with China. They try and take advantage, but most countries do. I mean, I can say the European Union took advantage and but not anymore. We worked out a very fair trade deal. Japan, we worked out a very fair fair deal. uh South Korea where I'll be meeting President Xi. We worked out a very fair deal and I expect we'll probably work out a very fair deal with uh President Xi of China. So, uh most of you will be with us. It's going to be very exciting and I think we're going to work out something that's good for both countries. I mean, dude, is that not like that is a full 180 from two weeks ago where he's de from forget two weeks ago, from three days ago when he was threatening that we're going to not buy their cooking oil. He's saying that China's been friendly. They've been very respectful. They've been paying tariffs. He is ready to meet Xi in two weeks in South Korea. I mean, I think that really is one of the themes, at least of today, potentially of this week, for why the S&P is getting close to all-time highs. You're just not seeing this like aggressive hostility and and escalation of of rhetoric from Bent Vance, uh, Lutnik, Trump or from the Chinese side, which I think is very bullish and that is nice to see. So, as a result, it seems like, you know, the Trump China situation is not going to be that bad. And if you have that going into a good earnings, I think it sets up a potential run going into Q3. Amazon right there up 1.67% on the day. Meta 732 finally breaking up from that 730s. And then SoFi looks like it's going to end the day above 2850, which is very nice to see. Hopefully making that run for 30 going into the end of the week. Spot gold rises to another record at 4383.2% on the day. Let me know if anyone is buying gold. Uh silver, by the way, and we're going to get into a bunch of these headlines, but silver, there was a place in India that for the first time ever, India's largest metal refinery just ran out of silver. That was a headline that came out two hours ago. I mean, it's I mean, people are ready to buy silver. They're ready to buy gold. And you are seeing it in the data and you're obviously seeing in the price action. It's just I don't know if we can meaningfully explain why people are that excited. It's either massive inflation is coming or there's massive geopolitical problems. You're not seeing either of those manifest as easily right now. But still, commodities are continuing to make a run. Yeah, look at Andy bought some gold last week at Costco. See, everyone's everyone's buying it. Everyone is freaking buying gold and silver. All right, there we go. Monday, October 20th. Thank you everybody for being here. It is 400 p.m. It's been a wild day. Close to alltime highs, but the stock market is now closed. All right, we're done on the day. What a wild day it has been. By the way, Robin didn't start working for me until like 40 minutes ago. So, even after the market market opened, while I was on the way to uh to go get some steaks with our friend Steve, which by the way, I think this is the rarest steak I've had in my life. We went to Uncle Jack's on 34th. I asked for medium. That's not medium, bro. It was a great steak and I ate it and I loved it, but that's not medium, bro. Like, don't tell me that. That is medium rare 1,00%. That is not medium. But it was a good thing. But Robin, I couldn't even check prices while we were at the uh while we were at the restaurant because uh because it wasn't working. There's uh there's Mr. Milkman right there eating his filt. So that was not medium, right? I asked for medium and Steve was like, "That's not medium." I was like, "All right, here we go. Let's see what it looks like." But it tasted good. Amit became a man. Yes, I became a man today. I became a man. It it it looks raw, right? That's It looked raw to me, but when I ate it, I was like, "This is not too bad. It's okay." So maybe maybe I am a medium rare guy. All right. S&P 500 ends up 1% of the day. 671.18. Not too bad to get the 670 close. And not just 670, 671. I think that's very nice to see. So up 8% on the day. 2865. AMD 3%. First 240 close ever. Correct me if I'm wrong. I think this is the first 240 close ever for AMD. Tesla 447, Pounder 181, Robin Hood 136, Rock Lab I think 67 6750, not too bad. ESTs, that one was 8364 basically flat on the day. Duolingo down 3%. They they got a couple analyst upgrades. Still, the stock got hit. TFC up 2% on the day. Disney was up 1%. GameStop, Ryan Cohen did an interview. I did not listen to it yet. We'll try to get some tidbits and some headlines from that interview, but that stock was up about 1% on the day. Eli Liy was up 21%. The Hims CEO tweeted uh Hims was up 2.8% % that they invested in GR Grail. This stock was up 17% on the day. I don't know much about this company final version. Thank you for the $10 super chat. He says Grail is early cancer detection. HIMS took a stake today. Last week, Samsung announced a partnership and the results are like no other in the market. It's worth a look. Uh I will look into it. I will see. Well, we've got $3.3 billion company, but HIMS did make an investment in that today. And so, I think that's why that stock also got a bit of a move. Intel was up 3% on the day. Iran down 2%. I think that's relatively healthy for some of the Bitcoin miners. VIX was down 11%. If you went short VIX in the morning, that one worked out. Or even if you bought some puts on it, Lyft, right, they're up 2.8%. IWM, small caps, great day. Small caps really outperforming the broader S&P 500, which is nice to see for the first time in a couple years. Cisco, uh, 70 bucks right there. That's up 1%. JD was up 2%. Delta was up 3.6%. United Airlines had one of their best earnings ever. That stock up another 2% on the day as well. So, not too bad. Not too bad at all across the entire market. And I think overall a pretty healthy day. Wes says, "Can we please get the S&P out of the 670s? My kids have ruined anything with six and seven in it for me." Yeah, dude. Whenever I say it, a bunch of you guys like spam it in the chat, which is you would think it's like a Tik Tok thing, but no, it's not. Apparently, it's become universal at this point. Uh, BMR, how did we end on the day? 5365. Tom Lee bought 203,000 ETH over the past week, which I think is pretty bullish in terms of just their ability to keep raising capital and continue to buy the asset class. And then Oscar announced a partnership with OpenAI today. The stock really should have been up 400% once you announced that you're working with OpenAI. The stock was only up 4%. So Oscar got the short end of the stick right there, but they did indeed announce Oswell, Oscar's new health AI agent powered by OpenAI. So, you got that that uh that had some somewhat of a move today. All right. So, there you go. Let's get into some headlines as we get into market close. Again, let me know if you bought the dip today, if you sold any puts, sold any calls, took advantage of it. I mean, most people, if you're on Robin Hood, I mean, some of you guys got access to your account, but honestly, most people did not get access until like one o'clock or two o'clock. I don't think I got access until 3 o'clock, to be honest. So, it it definitely hasn't been an easy day to navigate trades. Weeble for some for some people I was saying is still pretty pretty down and not working. I think the the other main headline today outside of the China stuff is just how unbelievably incredible AWS is in terms of the fact that the entire internet or a decent chunk of the internet runs on Amazon, Google, Microsoft as well. I mean it is so hard to be bearish these three companies. And could you imagine if like the servers that AWS was occupying for Northeast not didn't just have like a technical issue, but let's say there was like a tornado or something and and it completely got wrecked. I mean, dude, like the the world would shut down if if that happened. Like the these are such important and pivotal companies to the fabric of our society and it's hard to be bearish on them. And I think that's why Amazon stock was up on the day. I mean, even with all the issues that they had, and they're probably going to have to give a lot of credits to make up for some of the stuff, but 21653 up 1.6%. I think a lot of people just recognize, look, it's hard to be bearish on something that's this important. That's why Amazon got uh got some momentum on the day. Eric said, "I sold I ran and I bought more Na'vi." How did that one end out the day? It was up 20% Na'vi. Yeah, 17% pretty much ended near all-time highs on the day. Um, I don't know if any of you guys had a headline for me on this or if this was just technical outside of the Nvidia partnership from last week, but really had a move. Oh yeah, the short float is almost 30%. That's probably what potentially kicked it off today. But 17% of the day, not too bad. Maybe the government will take a stake in Amazon. Maybe maybe that's what how it's going to play out. Uh AWS says Lambda uh errors fully recovered, function errors improving further. Okay, so we do have some updates from AWS. Let me actually click on their website and get the exact updates. Um, but it does seem like whatever errors happened weren't necessarily errors from like negligence, but have to do more with the functionality of the servers themselves. How are we not read today with AWS being down? Yeah, I mean, look, I I thought Hood would go down as well. I mean, the amount of people talking [ __ ] on X today about Hood, I'm just like, goodness gracious. You talk about herd mentality. People just wanted to I mean it wasn't even their fault. I'm not even trying to defend them here. Like it just it it was AWS. Like what do you want them to do at the end of the day? Like are you really going to [ __ ] on a company for for something that quite frankly was not their fault outside of choosing AWS? I get it. People are allowed to be emotional about it, but you got other people that just like completely went to town on these guys. And I'm like I I don't think it's a sign of high intelligence to be mad at something that is not really their fault. But I can understand emotionally why some people are upset. But still, Hood was up 5% on the day even with all the pain that they had. And that just showed how resilient the market was in general and everything was going up today in the midst of all the pain that was going throughout the entire market. So, I don't think it's that crazy. Schwab was fine for me. Yeah, look, Schwab was good because I guess to my understanding, I don't know everything about Schwab's business, but I guess they don't have a lot of their servers running on AWS, which is great for them, but you can't blame a company. This is not some random, you know, cloud company that Hood picked in Indonesia. Like, this is freaking AWS. They do 112 billion in revenue. Like, like this is like blaming them for a mistake that is not theirs. To me, it's just silly. And if SoFi had this issue today, I wouldn't be blaming SoFi either. Oh, it's SoFi's fault for working with AWS. It's like, what what what are you talking about? It's it's your fault for picking one of the most trusted clouds on the planet. Like, yes, that's that's a very intellectually smart way to, you know, I had some people say smart money hedge funds cracked AWS's servers just so they could outrun retail today and that was their strategy to get back at them for missing the April dip. And you see some of these comments and you're like, "Oh, wow. There's like there's really a disconnect between how some people think about the world because Smart Money for sure has zero exposure to AWS." Yes. all these hedge funds, they have no exposure to Amazon Web Services. That makes a ton of sense. That is very, very smart. You know, it's like, no, that doesn't make that doesn't make a lot of sense. Nonetheless, I didn't expect Hood to go up 5% on the day, but it still was. Pounder was up 2% on the day. So, again, massive day, up 8% as well, and that was getting some momentum. Closed at 28.68 on the day. All right, so let's get into some of the headlines and then we will keep going from there. All right, so first headline, Coinbase option flow massive. It looks like whales are betting pretty heavy on something happening with Coinbase. A lot of these calls are in the 350 to 450 range for November 2025. So if you are into Coinbase, you've got some of the whales from the option flow perspective deciding to get on the bandwagon. We're seeing this also happen with Tesla. Tesla today continuing to ramp up the 5520 calls for December 19th, 2025. You had about 10 million worth of options uh that were bought on that 52550 call for Tesla. Again, I'm not the most optimistic going into Tesla earnings in terms of the stock price. I really don't think the stock's going to tank. I also don't think there's a massive catalyst for the stock to go higher. Could it go higher for whatever reason? Sure. I'm just not sure exactly what Tesla the company will be able to put up in terms of results to get that stock to go high. So, I think there is some anticipation of a run. That's why Tesla was up 2% on the day. Maybe it continues to run tomorrow, but Wednesday, we will get those results and then we're going to see what happens with Tesla as well. What is Apple's market cap? Let's get an update on all the companies. Wow. 3.89 trillion. Okay. So, Nvidia's at 4.5. Apple's at 3.8. Apple basically what 3 4% away from 4 trillion. Less than that. Microsoft's at 3.841. Google Google's at 3. Oh wow. Google Google closed at 257. That's an all-time high close for Google. All right. So Google Google 25650. It hit 257, but did get officially to a $3 trillion market cap as well. Well, 3.1 trillion. So they added 100 billion. And then Amazon still at 2.3 trillion on today. SoFi earnings will be next week. SoFi earnings will be next week on Tuesday the 28th. We'll be live in the morning. We'll see what those SoFi results look like. Shout out to Mr. Josh in the chat. That is a a nice little move on the portfolio even if he couldn't make any trades today because it's on Robin Hood. 760,000 up based on SoFi uh going green 8% on the day. I think Josh, if I'm not wrong, has 200,000 shares of SoFi, 150 to 200,000. So, that's a very nice day as you get some of this SoFi momentum. Are there earnings after hours? I don't think there's any earnings today. Are there earnings? Let me check real quick. I didn't I I felt like there weren't any earnings. 300,000, bro. Wait, Josh, what is your average? When did you buy those extra 100,000 shares? Goodness gracious, bro. That is a lot. Yeah, we have no earnings after hours. At least not any that I see. We had a couple earnings in the morning, but no earnings after hours. Tomorrow is when we're going to get the most earnings. And then we're going to see what happens from there. Bro, I have leaps. All right. Well, that's conviction. That is conviction. That is massive. Massive conviction. So there you go. Beyond Meat did get a short squeeze. Zion is today. Is it right now? Really? I I thought this was tomorrow. Let me confirm. Zion. Oh yeah, we do have earnings today. Okay. Zion results. Uh 221 million of net income 148 a share. Uh company reported pre-provision net revenue of 14% year-over-year. Net interest margin increase of 25 basis points. loans contracted at 3% annualized linked quarter rate. A 50 million charge off as well. Wait, what? Didn't Zion No, Zions had earnings last week, guys. Zions was one of the reasons we had that private credit issue. Yeah, it was Zions and and Western Alliance. Maybe they put out an update after hours, but what I'm looking at right here is the results from last week. Yeah, Zions was the reason the market got upset on Wednesday. So I don't think or they announced preliminary results on Thursday and today we have actual results. Yeah, that might be the reason which is even crazier if last week the market went down just on preliminary results. Zion Q3 earnings earnings adjusted beat 148 year up 2.8% from 144. Okay. Well, Zion's right there 5320. That is up 7% on the day. go to their website and see if we can get some more details on what we've got from Zions. These were the top 20 stocks that were traded in the options market today. Apple was number one. Beyond Meat was number two. A little bit of a weird timeline, but Apple 1.5 million options, Beyond Meat 1.4 million. Then you had Nvidia and Tesla. Then AMD, IBIT, Amazon, SoFi, Intel, Oracle, Pounder, Open Door, Hood, Weeble, Marathon, SMCI, Cleveland Cliff, Strategy, Meta, and Baba. I still don't understand the headline on Beyond Meat outside of the squeeze. I don't know what the catalyst was to create the squeeze because from my understanding, these guys are supposed to be going bankrupt, but I don't understand. One billion shares of volume for Beyond Meat. Yeah, you're right. One billion shares of volume. I don't see a single headline on Beyond Meat outside of the fact that people piled in today, which yeah, look, it's not healthy to see that. I don't know why that's happening, but it's almost like people left nuclear and quantum and they turned into vegans today. And I guess that's what from fake meat to fake stock. Yeah. I mean, like I guess that was the rationale today. But overall, I think it was really good that we didn't see uh we we we really didn't see a ton of the random names that have been running up for the past couple weeks continue to run. And I think that was the best part about the report today. Q3 for Zions. Do we have it? Uh, yeah, here it is. Looks like this just came out. So, 221 million in revenue, 1.48 on EPS, 3.2.8% net margin. Zion's after hours. This stock is up. I believe we are up 2.64%. Wow. So, I guess last week the charge off and the provision for credit losses they reported weren't earnings. It was like preliminary results or something that they had to legally disclose before the actual earnings. And today we're getting the actual earnings and you're not seeing uh you're not seeing that much pain. Yeah. So, this was the this is what we got on October 15th. Zion saying they became aware of legal actions initiated by several other banks for faulty loans. That's what caused that kind of regional banking credit concern. But the actual earnings, you're not seeing that. Street's not seeing it either. They beat on the top and the bottom line. So, this is actually really good to see TFC beat, Zion's beat. I mean, a lot of these regional banks, look at KRE back to 60 bucks. This thing fell all the way to 52 last week. 2.69% on the day. And that Zion's earnings is probably continuing to help the momentum on KRE. So, not too bad from from that perspective. A better this stock was up 30% on the day. Not sure why, but this one had a run. Maybe a short squeeze, maybe a headline. I didn't see any specific headline, but better. The financing company for mortgages, that was up 30%. Rocket Mortgage, that stock was up 2.6%. So, didn't get as much of a run. And then Open Door, that one again basically flat on the day at 3%. I did not buy SoFi. I wanted to get it at 2650. Stock ran away from me. So, I don't really know if I'm going to buy it before earnings now. I thought I would get it at 2650 27, but it's up 8%. Maybe we'll just sell some puts going into earnings. I mean, I really don't want to buy at these levels. So, we'll see. We'll see. Maybe it'll be it'll be it'll be a game time decision. If it's it's kind of hovering around here, maybe we don't buy 500 shares. Maybe we buy a couple hundred and we sell some puts instead. But, we got to see. I mean, we got a long week. We might get some dips throughout the week and then we'll see how we operate. Pounds, right? They're up 2%. Then Tesla, that's up 1.6%. as well on this day. Zillow was also up 2.3. So you saw a lot of these real estate plays even with that 10-year continuing to come down. Nice. Look at that tenure. It closed below four. I think this is the first closed below four in a long time because on Friday it was below four, but I don't think it closed below four. And so it's nice to see that you've got the 10ear down, the stock market up. I mean, it's kind of creating a really good scenario. The only other weird part about this is gold that doesn't seem to uh doesn't seem to slow down. Apploven, this one did not have the best day. Continuing to get hit by the broader markets. Look at that. 567 down 5.3% of the day. Uh some new update on them. Apploven is under federal and state data privacy probes after short sellers alleged it tracked users including children with digital fingerprints and served inappropriate ads. The company put out a statement saying they deny the claims. I think a lot of these claims have been said over and over again on Apploven, but they are continuing to get attention based on this SEC probe and that's why that stock is, you know, just getting that narrative hit and that's why it's down about 5.3% on the day. So that's what we got on uh app. All right, some of the other headlines we have as we're getting into this market close. So let's look at some macro stuff. First of all, the CBOE, which controls a lot of the options market, filed a proposal with the SEC today to extend options trading hours, adding to a pre-market session from 7:30 to 9:25 and a short postmarket session from 4 to 4:15. This would be super bullish Robin Hood, super bullish Weeble, super bullish Fidelity, super bullish Schwab if people could now trade options 15 minutes after the market closed and two hours before the market opens. I've always thought I don't understand why options have to be so tightly within a certain area. I mean, if there's liquidity at 7 a.m. you should be able to trade your option versus having to wait until 9:30. So, I think this is would actually make a lot of sense. The question is just, you know, can we, you know, get it through the SEC? But in this SEC, they're accepting a lot of different proposals. Potentially, we're not even going to get quarterly earnings going into next year based on what the SEC says. So, I think it will be pretty bullish if that ends up playing out. Imagine buying leaps during earnings. Yeah, like imagine Tesla reports at 4:00 and then freaking the stock is up 10% because they put out really good earnings and you could just buy leaps right away and magnify the returns. Now, you would have to sell by 4:15 or you would have to sell in the morning at 7 at 7 uh, you know, 7:15 a.m. the next day, but still it would be relatively bullish. Yeah. 4:30 a.m. options for the West Coast. Exactly. Here's another stat. Retail continues to buy the dip. Individual investors have been net buyers of US stocks in the last 23 of 26 weeks. Last week marked the seventh consecutive weekly purchase in the largest in five months. We kind of got this similar data to uh from from Bank of America last week about the largest single stock inflow in history. Retail investors have also recorded 24 straight weeks of net purchases in equity options. The longest streak on record in data going back to 2020. There are over here's a stat that I didn't tell you guys in the morning. There are over a trillion dollar trillion with a T in zero DTE options. I mean, I don't know where this money is coming from. I don't And I think honestly I think a lot of this is more hedge funds that are hedging their bets every single day with these eod. But if a certain chunk of that trillion is retail, then it just goes to show the popularity of of these uh of these option contracts. All retail has been net buyers of ETFs in 206 of the last 28 trading days so far in 2025 showing that risk appetite whether it's for ETFs or single stocks uh single stock inflows is not sold yet and it is quite incredible to see the money comes from the money that we made during April that's fair but a lot of that money is being essentially deployed on these zerod options which look a lot of it is gambling a lot of it might also be hedging a lot of it might be strategic but I mean I I've never done a zero DTE I feel like you have to be very very sophisticated to know exactly how to navigate it. The fact that there's a trillion dollars in it just shows that retail investors and institutional investors do like the product and it doesn't look like that product is slowing down anytime soon. Now tariff revenues that continues to break records. US tariff revenue jumped 22.4 billion year in September to a record 29.7 billion. This is the seventh consecutive monthly increase following August 29.5 billion change. So far, year-over-year, we have hit 195 billion for fiscal year 2025 in tariffs. This is up 500% in custom duties from 2018. I mean, it is showing a real sign that the tariff revenue, which hasn't fully impacted inflation yet, hasn't fully put a strain on the consumer yet. Black Rockck's Rick Reer was on CNBC a while ago. I'll see if I can get the clip of that as well. And he thinks the consumer is in one of the best positions they've been in. And he also thinks that it's hard to fade equities at these levels simply based on the idea that as rates continue to come down and as earnings continue to go higher. I mean, how do you get that upset over what's going on in the broader markets and how do you stay short on a net net basis? Equities and tariffs going up and that tariff revenue potentially helping to pay down our debt. If we're not seeing the implications of that meaningfully on the consumer yet, maybe we will, maybe we won't. It's yet to be seen. I think we probably need a year's worth of data to make that conclusion. That's not the worst thing in the world, which is a better argument for for the bull case. So, that's what we have there. Do you have any thoughts on PATH? I would not buy this year because it broke out aggressively and I'm not sure exactly why it broke out. They had a decent earnings. I don't know if the earnings justified as big of a move as they made, but if you understand the company fundamentally and think it's being rerated, then maybe it's worth a gamble. Um, I just don't know if robotic processing automation is like the big thing that the street might want to bet on. But you are seeing some people get more excited about that. From 11 to 15, that one has made a bit of move. By the way, we didn't talk about this in the morning, but uh, Micro Strategy bought another 168 Bitcoin. So, you got MSTR purchasing about 20 more million of Bitcoin. Salesforce was up 5% on the day again. Ben off got some flak over kind of taking back his comments on Trump deploying the National Guard after he originally said they should do it. Uh market didn't care too much about that. 254 on Salesforce that's up 4.6% on the day. Google right they're up 1.2%. And then Tesla 44685 that was up about 2% on the day as well. Zion just beat earnings despite a 50 million credit loss by charge. That is super bullish. Yeah, I agree. And look, that's another reason it makes me bullish for SoFi. I mean, you're seeing Zions get that move right there. It's almost like the regional banking issue had nothing to be scared about, especially if they beat earnings even with that credit charge. But they had to disclose that credit charge from a legal basis. You're just not seeing that much pain in the market based on them them uh reporting those numbers. Let's get uh some results from Zions and some coverage. This is what we had here today. 541 estimate revenue coming in at $861 million which is a beat versus the $843.1 million estimate net charge offs were 56 million most of which were tied to that $50 million charge off that was disclosed last week tied to the Caner group and apart from that loss CEO Harris Simmons saying that charge offs were quote very benign at just $6 million. We are all looking forward to the conference call at 5:30 to hear more about this guys. And as you said, it looks like the stock is catching a little bit of a bid right now.
>> Dude, 56 million in charge offs and 50 million was what they disclosed. I mean, that's an absolute nothing burner. I would not be surprised to see this stock get a lot more momentum on the earnings call when the CEO really calms people down. That's a great quarter for the regionals. And if that continues going into the end of this Q3 earnings, you're not going to get that much concern around uh around private credit. Here's the update on AWS and a little bit more of a summary of what happened today with Amazon as well.
>> Have now reported problems and the count is still rising as this AWS outage drags on. Now, the trouble stems from Amazon's Northern Virginia region. That's its oldest and busiest cloud hub, still the default for countless apps and platforms. This is the same data center complex that Amazon has leaned on for years where many major platforms first setup shop. This hub has seen multiple disruptions over the past 5 years. Now AWS says it is making progress fixing the internal network failures that triggered all this and we are starting to see service disruptions come back down. Cyber experts also stressing this is not a hack, but it is another reminder of the risks that come with centralized cloud infrastructure. Despite growing pressure from Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, AWS still controls more than a third of the global market. Investor sentiment was already shaky heading into earnings with AWS battling margin compression and a backlog trailing Microsoft and Oracle. This outage does not help. The question now is does Amazon raise its 118 billion annual capex commitment next week to bulk up its data centers, expand compute, and potentially chase more AI demand. guys.
>> Matt, um I wonder there's an agentic AI challenge here, it seems to me, right? Because we're we're talking about AI all the time. That is sitting on top of the cloud. If this were 5 10 years in the future, if you don't have people to answer the phones because the agents are doing it for you or analyze your sales or crunch your numbers, does a cloud outage become a work stoppage for companies? I mean, it seems like the stakes are only getting higher for the economy as we rely more and more on these resources.
>> I mean, today laid bare the fact that Perplexity doesn't have a robust enough multicloud strategy. I'm out to Anthropic to hear whether they've suffered disruption, but we haven't seen reports of that. And that's because they rely on a mix of cloud providers, not just Amazon, but Google Cloud. We also saw OpenAI diversify away from just working with Microsoft Azure. They're a Google Cloud customer as well to prevent exactly this. John, you can't have reliance on one single provider anymore.
>> So, in light of that, Mac, who are the potential winners, if there are some coming off of this event,
>> I mean, think about Oracle's investor day last week. Their backlog number, I'm looking at a chart of this, it's up to $455 billion. Azures, $368 billion. You know where Amazon is? It's shy of $200 billion. And that's a big concern here. Yes, they are still the firm leader in the cloud wars, but their growth numbers year-over-year are coming down. we seeing we're seeing those
>> and that's why the stock has been hit. I mean, look, it's really this simple for Amazon. If they can get that RPO, remaining performance obligations or their backlog to be similar to Oracle, which again, it's not even revenue, but Oracle got that juicy OpenAI $300 billion contract and then their RPO went from 150 billion to$450 billion. Boom. The stock goes up 200 billion in market cap. If I mean, Amazon's probably not getting uh OpenAI. I mean, they probably would have got them by now if they were in the running for like a meaningful part of their workload. But if they can get some acceleration, they don't need 500 billion in backlog. They need like another 10, 20, 30 billion to get the street to see the the potential of their ability to expand AWS even at the scale that they're operating at. That would get the stock to rerate. If that doesn't happen on earnings, as as much as I like Amazon, as much as I think it's a buy the dip and hold for the next 10 years, this stock's going below 200. I mean, and and I think everyone should be prepared for that. You should not expect a rerating on Amazon on earnings if AWS does not accelerate because they're not going to get margin from the commerce business. Maybe advertising a aids a little bit on their operating income. But AWS is a story right here. And they've either got to make it more efficient, aka better than 36% operating margins, uh, or they've got to increase the volume. And right now the street's been very receptive to seeing the increase of volume because it shows that AI companies are choosing to work with certain cloud providers like an Oracle, Google and Microsoft. If Amazon can't do that, I I don't think the stock has a good earnings just to be quite quite frank. If they do, I think it's headed closer to 250. So I think that's the gamble that you have to take on Amazon if you are if you are in the name after today. I don't know how they can scale the AWS business. I think today is going to be one of those things where they have to apologize to some of their trusted customers, but it's not a death blow for Amazon, just like Crowd Strike's July incident in 2024 wasn't a death blow for Crowdstrike either. I mean, Crowd Strike took a $60 million hit in credits and that was it. You had people saying this company was bankrupt. It was over. It was done. Like, and the only regret I have is I didn't buy more. I I re like I just I you know I bought at 330 and then I bought again at 250 didn't hold on to it for the long term but like it was a nothing burger. I mean it was a something burger but it was a nothing burger in the context of the company being dead because CrowdStrike is the leader in endpoint security. Amazon is one of three companies that runs the entire internet and that was pretty evident today and I don't think it's that easy for a company to be like oh yeah we're just going to leave Amazon tomorrow and go to Microsoft. Like it's not that simple. And so as a result, I don't think this one gets hit as bad. Yeah, a lot of them are just way too deep into this uh infrastructure of OS. Um, okay, let's see some of the other headlines that we've got going on here. AMD again closed at 240. Twitch is horrible. I agree. Look, Amazon needs to get rid of Twitch. Twitch is just a money pit. I don't know what they're doing with Twitch. They've had it for like 10 years and they haven't been able to do anything with it. So, I wouldn't mind them selling that off, but you know, maybe if they can monetize better, that would be more bullish for them. Uh, Coree. So, I was talking to Steve about Core Weef today. He's started to do a lot more due diligence and is getting way more bullish on the product. Here's the here's the punch line on Core Weef. 30 billion in backlogs, three billion in revenues. It's hard to be super bearish, dude. Like, maybe the valuation isn't the most attractive, but 30 billion in backlog, three billion in in sales. And and not to mention Nvidia has a $6.3 billion put option where they will buy $6 billion worth of unused GPUs just in case Cororee can't find a customer. That's how confident Nvidia is in the fact that Corore will find a customer. I don't I'm not I'm not I haven't done a lot of fundamental due diligence on Core, but that would be the reason to get excited about it. And you know that's similar to what the Nebus blows get excited about is that that backlog will eventually increase with Nebus as well as they get more of these hyperscaler deals that core is able to get with uh with Meta and with OpenAI for Nebus it's primarily with Microsoft yeah core is basically 90% of Nvidia's portfolio I mean Nvidia has a vested interest to make sure Coree doesn't fail however they do have a lot of debt and so that's you know those are the sort of nuances you have to navigate with a stock like that right they're up 2.7% STS basically was flat on the day. That one didn't move too much. Microsoft, you're still below 300. You are not seeing the Bitcoin bulls get super excited about MSTR yet, but that one continues uh to stay in that 300 range. Upstart has short interest of 30%, it was up 9% today. Upstart was the original stock that had some issues last week or two weeks ago with the delinquency reports that turned out to not necessarily be correct. So, their earnings will be also very important. Yeah, Upstart. Wow, 30% shorted. So is at 8%. So that is definitely another one to watch out for as well. Uh when's Corey earnings? I believe it's in two weeks. I believe it's in two weeks and then we'll see. We'll see what Corey has to say. Uh Apple, let's hear some analysis on Apple. This is another analyst named Emit. Um, I don't know if I will eventually look like this guy. I mean, all people lose their hair at one point. Hopefully, it's not until I'm much older. But here is Amit Darani's perspective on Apple.
>> Uh, you know, so far, yes, it's I think it's about two things in advance. The iPhone cycle, iPhone 17's doing fairly well. And what's interesting is in different countries, the different things that are resonating. In China, for example, I think the base models are doing much better. In the US, the Pro Max models are doing well. And I think it's a combination of you just have older iPhones, you have this big swath of phones that have been purchased in 2020, 2021, the pandemic time, they're just up for upgrades right now. U there's a good amount of innovation these phones and in the US at least, the promotions are fairly attractive. So I think there's a bunch of things that are working out in their favor that's giving you better iPhone momentum. At the same time, all the headaches and worries people had on services, either the DOJ versus Google lawsuit or what could happen with Apple versus Epic have sort of all gone away. So, I think it's almost a perfect storm in a positive manner for Apple stock right now.
>> So, you do
>> I I think he's right, dude. It's a perfect storm for Apple. iPhone 17 up way better than expected. Everyone's excited about what Apple could potentially do with a real agentic Siri going into 2026. And here's the most important thing. Apple um they don't really pay that much in capex, right? Like they they don't have massive capex investments. They spend a lot of their money on buying back the stock which continues to lift the share price, but they're not spending it on tons and tons of GPUs. They're just going to partner with the Gemini or with the CHABT, let them do all the capex spending and just integrate the software into their distribution. And I think that is actually the very exciting thing about Apple. We do have this in the stock draft. Let's take an update on that. Matt is up 48%. I'm at 37. Apple gave us a nice Yeah, 32%. Can't be too mad about that. 198 to 262. Steve's up 8%. Tanner's up 21.7. Chris is up 10.4. And then you got Matt right there at 48%. That's a mit in a bare market. That's a mid if Palenter crashes. Oh my gosh, dude. That's a mid if he keeps eating rare steaks. Dude, I'm not I'm I'm not I'm not tripping, right? This thing is not medium. This thing is not freaking medium. There's a lot of pink in that. It's not medium, bro. That's rare. I think I legit had rare steak today. Legit had a rare steak today. Uh anthropic CEO. This guy thinks that they are growing faster than everybody. I think he's right about that. Here's what he had to say as well about anthropics growth
>> is is that there is going to be an enormous need for compute for for all the reasons that uh you know that that we've laid out right the the scaling laws suggest that we're going to need more and more compute to train smarter and smarter models and then as the revenue goes up we're going to we're you know we're going to need to serve more we're going to need to serve more of our models. So when that revenue is not 7 billion but a h 100red billion or more um uh and you know when when model training requires millions of chips you know we're we're going to need many many gigawatts of power to to train the models. So we're trying to secure that power basically wherever we can um you know and I'm confident in the company's uh uh I'm confident in the company's ability to do so. I I I do get a bit worried when the press focuses too much on the building of the data centers and deals to build data centers. Some of these deals seem a little bit fishy. They seem like there may be double counting. And I I also worry again
>> deals are you ask talking about?
>> I mean that's pretty incredible. That's basically him saying all these data center companies that are I mean implicitly he's saying these stocks that are going up based on these hyperscaler deals might not be as legit as they seem. Now granted you got to take that with a grain of salt. You don't know what his intentions are or motives are to say this type of stuff but he's trying to say the foundation models are what matter not the data center deals. And maybe people are putting too much attention on the data centers themselves.
>> I don't know what you're talking about. I have no idea. Um uh uh uh
>> who is double counting? These are all public companies. I
>> I I
>> We're going to want to know who's double counting.
>> I don't I don't I don't know. I don't know anything more than you.
>> What about the ones who are doing triple counting?
>> I I don't There might be some of that, too.
>> Wow. All right.
>> I don't know. Um uh uh uh but but but look look look at the end of the day, all this data center stuff is spending money, right? Um I think the thing that's most important is making money. Um and and so this is why I focus on you know the revenue and the actual work that we're doing with businesses. Enthropic is growing faster than any other company in the space. The revenue is growing faster and you know I think I think basically if if you know if the if the demand is there if customers want the money and they're willing to pay you then you are willing to pay your compute providers and you'll get the compute you need at the end of the day.
>> He's not wrong by the way. Anthropic is growing faster. They were doing 1 billion in revenue at the beginning of 2026. That went to 5 billion in July. Now it's 8 billion for the estimate in of September of 2025 with an estimate base case of 20 billion for next year, which would be 8 to 20 with a bull case of 26 billion. So that would be more than a 3x in revenue, 300% year-over-year growth. Um, you know, the rumors are OpenAI is doing 20 billion right now. Some people say they're doing 14 billion. So Open AI is probably going to be in the same ballpark. anthropics going like in fact I I just I mean it's it's timely we're talking about this. I just got a $20 a month subscription to Claude. I've been using Claude more and more, bro. I mean it's honestly I'm not going to lie. It's I'm liking it. Grock takes too long. It takes too long. I I'm starting to get annoyed by it. I'm like, bro, you're taking way too long to give me an answer. Anthropic is quicker and it's just like it's like I I signed up for Claude last week and I've been starting to use it more. Like, dude, this is this is actually a bit better than Glock Glock than Grock and I pay for Grock because I pay for Twitter premium. So, yeah, it's slow, right? Okay. So, it's not just me, right? Like, Grock is starting to get slow and I'm like, this is such a first world problems 100%. But I'm like, bro, like if I'm paying 50 bucks a month, I want the answers immediately. This [ __ ] is thinking for hours. I didn't ask you that hard of a question. Like, give me the answer. I thought you were connected to Twitter. Shouldn't you have all the data? And then anthropic is like instant. So, oh yeah, I'm I'm This is music to Tanner's ears. Tanner absolutely hates Grock. And uh he he posted a tweet of how how crappy Grock has been for him. And and dude, I have no desire to hate on Grock. I mean, I literally pay for Twitter premium. I want it to work, but but it's just kind of been sucking for me. And so Tanner said, "Grock is so unbelievably ma bad. It's mind-blowing. It doesn't even know who I am. It doesn't source any context from our previous conversations. It can't even make a funny image to reply to comments. I paid for Super Grock with a full annual subscription and find myself on the free versions of Gemini and Chatbt more. And I am on here listening to Elon say AGI is close. Figure out the memes first. Tanner said, "Can you make an image of Anthony Notto the CEO of SoFi saying, "Why do you need other bank accounts?" Yeah, this is not even close. This is not even close, bro. And look, Elon said that there is a 10% chance Gro 5 will achieve AGI. I mean, I don't know, maybe Grock 5 will, but Grock 4 definitely is not not getting it yet. So, I moved on and and and you know, it goes to show the the the the uh the um fragility of consumers, right? How quick they are to switch. Like, I was actually wrong about this assumption. I said, I think a couple months ago, that that Chachi PBT's first mover advantage would make it very hard for for uh freaking Gemini to compete and now I'm like because like they have all the users, but it's like wait a second, if Gemini is better, then people will switch. People won't care, dude. As long as it works, people are ready to use something else. And I'm using Clawude more now than Grock because it works better. And so I I guess maybe I'm I don't think I'm as accurate on this whole first mover advantage stuff versus quality of usage. Then Tanner said, "What do I do for a living?" Based on your ex profile, Lori, you work as a pro bono attorney helping folks who can't afford legal representation, which sounds like a noble gig. Tanner said, "My ex-profile is future investing." Tanner, I didn't know you were a pro bono attorney, bud. And this is really sad on Grock because it literally has access to your profile. And if it can't read your profile, like like what are we talking about? AGI. I mean, if it cannot read who you are connected to your I mean, Chachi doesn't have access to your Twitter profile like that. So, I don't know. Not the best look for Grock. But, nonetheless, a lot of these LM continue to grow. One thing we haven't heard from Elon, I'll do a poll in the chat for which LLM people use is the growth rate on Grock. We've heard Chat GBTS from a lot of different rumors. We've heard anthropics just now. Uh we have not really heard Grock's growth rate and Elon hasn't disclosed it. And maybe because it's not as good as people think and if it's not then the question is, you know, how does XAI meaningfully compete to get people away from the other platforms? We know Gemini is at 450 monthly and that was that was 90 days ago. that might, you know, turn into 600 to 700 going into this Q3 report. Which LLM do you use daily? We have GPT, we have Grock, we have Claude, then what's the other one? Llama, I guess, or other. We'll say other. GPT, Grock, Claude. Oh, no. Gemini. Gemini. It's Gemini. Okay. Which one of those do people use? I'm seeing some decent amount of Perplexities, bro. You know, Perplexity's Comet, I used it for a task the other day and it actually really did a good job. Like I I logged on to Robin Hood on Perplexity's comment browser and I told the the agent to like calculate something for me based on the page I was on and it it did a really good job and I was like, "Oh, that was that was actually kind of that that's a use case because there's always questions I have about certain positions I'm in on Robin Hood." But it it's it's a lot of adding and subtracting and I'm like, "Dude, can I just like ask some like Robin Hood should come out with an LLM where you can ask it questions about your positions?" Be like, "Hey, Robin Hood, I'm in these seven covered calls. I'm curious about XYZ blah blah blah like that. That should be so intuitive. And maybe with their Cortex product, we're going to see that in next year. But I did have ear proxy and it was pretty damn good. So, you know, we're going to have to see how old these eventually evolve long term. Um, results on this poll. Let me see. Wow. 43% say chat GPT, 32% say Gemini, only 5% say Claude. Google Pro can do the same thing. Yes, I don't pay for Google Pro. Uh, I've never tried it. I would be open to definitely trying it, especially because I use Google all day, but I would imagine they can do things that are very I I someone invited me to to to Perplexity, so I got it for free. That's why I used it. But overall, we are seeing a lot more potential innovation in the space as this stuff tends to tends to ramp up. So, that's what we got there. Google Pro is free for one year for students. Dude, I think all of these LLMs should just give as much of their usage as they can for free. It would be so smart. I remember I got Spotify for like $5 a year back when I was in college. It was a no-brainer. It's like, yeah, five, no, sorry, $5 a month. It's like five bucks a month in college is affordable. And uh and then they had me hooked, but then I left to YouTube Music when YouTube Premium offered the bundle. But like it's so easy to get college kids to use something if you make it free and then they kind of just stay for for a long time. And college kids, you know, have a lot of use cases in regards to using these data centers as well. Um, did you get Claude to support the Amazon investment? No, I just started using it. Like I literally logged on last week and I was like because Grock was being stupid. I don't pay for GPT. And so I was like let me let me ask Claude some questions. I've heard about it. You know, I hear Dario all the time talking about how fast they were. cousin, she works at a tech company. She can't stop talking about it. So, I was like, "Let me try it out." And then I'm like, "Bro, this is way better than what I've been using in Brock, and it's way faster." And so, I'm like, "All right, this is going to be a new daily driver, and now I pay for it." And so, the question just becomes, how much can that conversion continue to get more and more people to be excited about about the service? Um, all right. What other headlines do we have on the day? We talked about the hasset comments in the morning about the shutdown potentially coming to a an end. Oh wow. Poly market has unveiled 15minute increment crypto betting powered by chain link 15minute polyarks. Bro, this is the most degenerate thing I've ever seen. You can bet within 15 minutes this the price of Bitcoin up or down. This came out three hours ago. I feel like this is a way bigger announcement than we're giving it credit for. 15minute incremental poly markets. Yeah, you might as well flip a coin, bro. [Music] That is crazy. Okay, I guess that's I mean I imagine Khi will be next. I imagine Kali will be next. I can't play the audio. They're playing a Drake song. It's gonna it's going to get the copyright. But uh Okay. So, we have 15 Minute Poly Markets. That's a new headline to me. I'm just seeing that right now. This headline I talked about on the future show yesterday. I didn't share on the market open, but uh for those that missed it, Chamath, Donald Trump Jr., and Lauren Ingram are launching a new spa. That is an accurate headline. Lauren Ingram hosts Fox News, the Ingram angle. Don Jr. is the president's son, and Chimath is the spa king. The uh the freaking spa is called Colombia Acquisition Corp. and it's registered in none other than the Cayman Islands. Again, not the best look for those claiming that it's not a top, but this is uh some of the stuff we've got going on. I have rationalized it the same way I've talked about over the ca past couple weeks. If this thing goes to 10 billion and then goes to zero, who cares? Just like an Oaklow, just like one of these quantum stocks, like it's just not affecting the broader S&P 500. But it does mean there's a lot more liquidity in the system for these guys to be deciding to launch a spa. And that's what you've got going on right here. So there you go. We have no idea what the ticker is going to be. We have no idea what the company is going to be. It was announced October 17th. The 8K came out. So literally a couple days ago. And you know, we'll see if it turns into something that retail would buy. I tried command fing casino on the SEC filing because Chimat's other spa says you can't cry in the casino. There was no warning about not crying in the casino. So, I mean, maybe this will end up becoming a bit more of a casino when it ends up when it ends up coming out. Uh, some other updates from the Trump meeting. We talked about the China stuff. Here is what Trump had to say about Ukraine in today's meeting. Just a few weeks ago at you said that Ukraine could possibly win the war and
>> well they could territory but now
>> they could still win it. I don't think they will but they could still win it. I never said they would win it. I said they could win. Anything could happen. You know war is a very strange thing. A lot of bad things happen. A lot of good things happen. If you look at the Middle East, uh I would say prior to us hitting Iran so hard, we could have never made that deal because you would have had a dark cloud over the Middle East when we took out their nuclear capability, which was one of the great military maneuvers of all time. It was flawless. You saw that?
>> Yeah,
>> those magnificent B2s. I mean that was a flawless move that was done by some very talented people headed up by Pete and everybody else and our great generals and general in particular raisin Kaine. Uh we did a we did a great job and when that happened everything was different and we were able to get a deal.
>> Just a few weeks ago I know you said that.
>> So I mean look Trump is pretty bullish that this war can come to an end with Ukraine and Russia. We're going to see how this ends up playing out. But it is nice to see that uh there is a little bit more peace in the Middle East. And if that they can get that done across the rest of the world, the markets definitely would be happy to have a little bit more of a geopolitically stable environment going into the end of the year. Now, GSIT, we looked at this in the morning. These guys published a white paper. They've been published since 2007. Stock was up 155%. Let me know if anyone made any money on this name today. They published a white paper saying that they can create better GPUs that use less energy than the current ones on the market and that's what took the stock up 155% in a day. Added about $300 million in market cap. It was a Cornell study that they did and uh yeah, as a result this one went green. We're going to see tomorrow if this one is actually going to continue green. I've never heard of GSI Technology. It's a random random small cap. This is their website. I don't really know if these are the guys to take down Nvidia. I can publish a paper, too. Yeah, dude. We can go to freaking Grock and say, "Hey, build me a white paper about a better AI system that can use less energy." I mean, dude, I'm not even trying to deny the legitimacy of their white paper. I'm just like, really? The stock's going to go up 200% in a day? Not for revenue, not for earnings, not for a deal, not for any level of paradigm shift with the with the cloud computers or with the with the hyperscalers, but because of freaking a paper that they put out. And so, I don't know, that's what you got from there. Now, we did have, you know, speaking of new forms of computing, you did have a prominent CEO, uh, talk about quantum, which although the stocks have been running like crazy, the underlying technology might be more real than what a lot of people think. And it might be with it might be with Google. Here is Sundar last week saying that quantum in the eyes of Google is becoming more real. week you know I spent for maybe two weeks ago now I I Monday I'd gone to Santa Barbara in our quantum lab I met with the team again it's another journey we've been at it for more than 10 years I think we have the leading quantum lab in the world uh I finished spending my day I left on Monday and Tuesday morning I found our chief scientist there won the Nobel prize uh for uh physics this year right and uh and this is the second year in a row you mentioned deis and John Jumper last year but we believe in that kind of deep fundamental R&D right and and with a view of translating that into real products that same quantum computing team no different from our TPU teams you know plans to have commercially available uh real at scale quantum computers in a few years and I think they will get there right so when you talk about now 10 years ahead we are building this digital intelligence layer not just us
>> the 10 years quantum is real is your point.
>> At least I I for sure think so. I'm very very bullish and confident on it.
>> There you go. Sundar endorsing in 10 years quantum is real. Now does that mean all these quantum stocks deserve to get a you know 18,000 times price to sales premium uh before it manifests itself? Maybe. Or maybe Google's the one that ends up figuring it out and all these other quantum stocks go to zero. I mean you've got to really dive into the nuances of this. But you do have one of the CEOs of the fourth largest company on the planet saying that he thinks quantum is real.
>> I've seen the
>> Is that going to put at odds cryptography as we know it today? Are cryptocurrencies going to be at risk with quantum computing that can break any any code you know available from a Google or other vendors.
>> I think in a 3 to 5 year thing we will have that moment where from a cryptographic standpoint we have to adapt to quantum for sure. Yeah,
>> but I think we will.
>> Will that create a moment of vulnerability do you think for all of these currencies and all of this stuff?
>> It will, but I think as a society we it'll also create an opportunity for people to come and provide new solutions.
>> If there is a trust gap at that moment that could be very serious. So it's something that needs everyone needs to be mindful about
>> mindful of and I think there's so much at stake. I think we will you know we will we will collectively work together. Uh but on the positive side, you know, if you ask me 10 years from, look, we we are definitely going to have digital super intelligence as a collaborator for all of us. That is going to be a reality.
>> What does that mean? That has been a phrase that everyone is starting to use, but few have been able to define it. Digital super intelligence. And is that kind of where we're going then? It's 10 years. It's digital super intelligence. It's quantum computing. Like when you were talking about AGI that term seems to be dropped. That was this concept that the software is so smart it's just writing itself and it's the data centers are being built by robots and it's just all going in the book that Larry talks about. You know we are Legion, we are Bob. You know that that we're all off in a rocket ship collectively waking up in a robot. Is that what's what we're talking about?
>> No.
>> Because we were talking about that yesterday with Brett and I was like whoa. It was a trip. Look the the the one thing we are so good at adapting. I think we constantly underestimate right obviously 10 years ago we used to obsessively talk about Turing tests like we kind of went moved past it. The fact that our self-driving cars driving in San Francisco and you did you're right they're driving around. It's kind of like people are you know we just kind of like I'm not sure my kids are impressed by that. Right. So it's just, you know, like I am like blown away every time I get in one of those cars because I've, you know, seen the progress.
>> How many people here have been in a Whimo? Raise your hand.
>> So look, you got Sundar who's pretty bullish over the next 10 years on overall technology and obviously Sundar is also, you know, pumping his book right here because he is building uh quantum commercial applications via Google. So of course he's going to be bullish on the concept. I don't know a lot about quantum. The only use case that I hear people talk about is that it can hack your Bitcoin. I have no idea if it can actually hack your Bitcoin. I kind of don't care if it can hack your Bitcoin. Like I mean, if it hacks the bit, okay, then Bitcoin is a dud. It's whatever. Like, I kind of I don't care that much about it. If it if it doesn't, then cool. Bitcoin's fine. So, now if you're a Bitcoin maxi, you probably are very very passionate about if it can hack your Bitcoin or not. So, I guess it's an important conversation. Um, I I don't care that much about it, but nonetheless, even Sundar didn't definitively say it's not going to happen. Sundar said, "We're going to have to learn how to adapt to a world with cryptography dealing with quantum." Now, Skrey is convinced that quantum is going to hack Bitcoin one day. I mean, he he says one of his life's mission is to use quantum computers to hack Bitcoin, which is why he's so bearish to quantum stocks because he's like the only real use case is cryptography, not all this other stuff that the the bulls in the in the quantum names would would preach as like the next generation of beating Nvidia GPUs. Maybe he's wrong about that. As Sundar is saying, yeah, quantum computing is coming. Maybe it's going to be more important than Nvidia. Maybe it's a massive bare case for Nvidia. And that I do care about because I do own a lot of Nvidia. So, I mean, I do think quantum requires attention to understand. I just don't know if there's any meaningful commercial application over the next at least 5 years. Enough that could hack your Bitcoin or enough that could say Nvidia GPUs are inferior compared to compared to uh quantum computers. And I guess over time we're going to see how this plays out. Kirk says, "I agree with Steve that the big guys will figure quantum up and these pure play quantum stocks are a huge bubble." Yeah, I mean look, if that is the case, it's not just going to be Google, it's going to be IBM, Microsoft, all of big tech is going to find a way to get exposure to this. Maybe they have to buy out some of those smaller firms or maybe those smaller firms have zero value to a Google that has their own quantum lab. So why would they buy out D-Wave or Regetti or OQ? Like I may, you know, they would have no meaningful reason to do it and then those stocks potentially go to zero. But we're going to have to see. Uh, if Quantum can hack your Bitcoin, it could easily hack your fourdigit bank code. Yeah. I mean, like that's another uh sort of retort that a lot of the Bitcoin maxis will give, which is like if quantum computers are so strong enough to hack cryptography, why wouldn't they be able to hack something that's quote unquote encrypted via Bank of America or Chase's ledger? I don't know. I haven't done enough research to understand the potential of quantum, but we're gonna have to see how it all ultimately plays out. It It was probably pretty bullish though to see Sundar say like he thinks it's real and he thinks it's coming. The question is will the commercial applications be revenue generating over the coming years? Um, gold still up after hours, not slowing down. 4350. Again, the rally in gold has been just unbelievable. But this one continues to go higher. I asked in the morning, do people think gold is a bubble? And I mean, most people said no, but they definitely wouldn't buy gold right here. Take a look at this chart from Bank of America. The 4-week moving average of inflows into gold and silver hit 7.5 billion. an all-time record. Over the last 10 weeks, gold funds have posted a whopping 34.2 billion in net inflows. That's 3.4 billion coming into gold and silver ETFs every week for the past 10 weeks. And people are really not seeing Bitcoin as digital gold. They're seeing gold as the real gold. And I don't know if that's super bullish Bitcoin or super bearish gold or if it's super bullish gold and super bullish Bitcoin as I mean like or if it's bearish, both can't catch a bid or one is catching a bid from Euphoria. One just simply can't catch a bid because there's not enough liquidity. I mean, even if you look at the retail trends on like the search terms for Bitcoin on Google Trends, it's not even at 2017 levels. I mean, it's disgusting. Coinbase is not even in the top 200 apps in the app store. So, it it really makes you wonder what is going on. Where is retail? Why are they not excited? Look at this. How to buy Bitcoin. Look at the interest. I mean, it's at freaking 10 on the overall scale. If we just type in Bitcoin in general, yeah, the interest is at 26, a little bit better, but like it's nowhere near 2021, nowhere near even March of 2024 when Bitcoin hit 70,000 for the first time. I don't think there's a retail rally happening in crypto until there's a catalyst. And I don't know what that catalyst is. And this is kind of why I'm liking BMR a lot more than the Bitcoin derivative plays. I think there is a legitimate catalyst for Ethereum. And that catalyst is the use case around stable stable coins and tokenization. With Bitcoin, the catalyst has always been store of value. But if people are thinking of gold as their store of value over Bitcoin, at least right now in the moment, you don't have that massive catalyst to get retail super energized. And you know, maybe that's just going to take more time, but if this thing's going to 200,000 by end of year, you got two months left to see if that catalyst ends up playing out. So, that what we got. That's what we got on crypto. Maybe they're asking Chad GBT. Yeah, Chad could definitely be taking some of that traffic, but for it to be that depressed on Google Trends is weird, right? Like you would expect more retail to be it's a bull market and rates are coming down and like retail is not searching about Bitcoin, which is actually not that good for Robin Hood, dude. Robin makes a lot of money off crypto transactions and uh if if if retail is not that interested in Bitcoin, you might not have a lot of crypto volumes going into Q3, Q4 earnings, which is not the best thing for Hood, not the best thing for Weeble. So, it's one of those things that we have to see what turns out to be that catalyst that potentially get the biggest catalyst if Bitcoin just goes up. You know, if it gets back to 120, 130, 140, you're going to have a lot of people that start buying. But until then, it might be very flat. Do Ethereum. Yeah, that's a good question. I should do Ethereum. Uh, so Bitcoin's at what, 26 right now. Let's see. Ethereum. Ethereum's worse at 13. How to buy Ethereum. Let's do BMR next. Dude, how to buy Ethereum's at two. No one cares about Ethereum. Okay, what about BMR? BMR is at 37. BMR is three times higher in search volume than freaking Ethereum. That is hilarious, bro. No one gives a [ __ ] about ETH. They they just care about Bitmine, which ironically started off as a Bitcoin miner and then Chain Link. Chain Link's at 20. Chain link's higher than Ethereum. Chain link's at 21. Ethereum is at 13. How to buy Chain Link? Buying gets basically at zero. But at least the term is getting a lot more excitement than Ethereum itself. What about XRP? XRP is higher than Ethereum as well, 23. Now again, just being higher doesn't translate into outperformance. But it it goes to show across the board the fact that these numbers are not above 50 on Bitcoin, Ethereum, Salana, etc. Just means retail is not that excited. Salana is at 34. They're not that excited about crypto right now. They're just not. Do Fartcoin, dude. Fcoin is higher than Ethereum. Okay, it's at five. It's lower than Ethereum, but imagine if it was higher. People just don't care that much. At least not right now. Yo, what about gold? Yeah, let me do gold. Gold's got to be above 50 6 80 82. This is the last time it got up here was in 2024 April. That's when the Israel Iran conflict was breaking out. You guys remember S&P was at 492. Uh oh, sorry. This is August. This was yen carry trade, but it did spike a little bit in April as well. Uh what about how to buy gold? So, we haven't seen gold at these levels since August 2024. How to buy gold, dude? Two weeks ago. Is this two weeks ago? No, three months ago it was at 100. Now it's at 67. That is significantly higher. That is five times higher than Bitcoin or sorry five times higher than Ethereum and two times higher than Bitcoin. Maybe the bubbles in gold. May maybe it's not. Maybe that's it. I don't know. I don't freaking know. But it is quite incredible to see retail knock. And again, this isn't bearish Bitcoin, Ethereum, or anything like that. I I I I really want those assets to go up because I've got a lot of names that are associated with those assets. The broader market tends to do better when you have risk on assets like that go up. I am just perplexed by the fact that we're in a raging bull and retail doesn't care about crypto, which you know, I don't know what changes that outside of price performance, but you might need institutional guys to get more excited about the price to get it to go higher. S&P 500 after hours up a little bit more. 672 on the S&P is what we've got right now. I don't know about bubble when central banks are buying all the gold. So, that is a fair point. However, we were listening to this clip last night and Josh Brown made a good point about um when the central banks were buying gold like crazy back in 2009 because of the great recession. What popped the gold bubble that didn't end up recovering for the next five years was central banks selling a ton of and the reason they sold a ton of gold was because there was a recession and they needed massive liquidity and gold became the easiest way to get that liquidity. Now, if we don't get a recession, maybe that's not that much of a concern. central banks in and of themselves being bullish on it. Who knows if that's the the lynch pin on on why gold continues to persist the way the way it does?
>> European sovereigns, Asians, or they all so like
>> But how does that change if it's a tier one asset now on their balance sheet? It is as good as cash.
>> Yes. But if you need the money, you need the money. Yeah. The other thing that could end it is if people get too excited about gold.
>> Yeah.
>> Like big leverage coming in on the long side. I don't know. Phil Phil probably has like better better guesses than I do, but like it it eventually does end, but it doesn't have to end for 10 years. Like there's no
>> it could be a big cycle here right now.
>> It could be a big deal, right?
>> It definitely and I and I think what could end I mean there obviously be a number of things and you and you look back even co and I remember that it was like the first week of March whenever that Monday coming out of the oil Saudi Arabia and Russia oil news and oil's down 10 bucks gold made a high that morning but then within weeks in in the co shutdowns it was I think 300 bucks I think it was 1,700 to 1400 and so gold really sniffs out inflation and it doesn't m it may not react how you would expect during the inflation like in 2022 Feds hiking rates The dollar is strengthening. Gold was whacked, but it smells inflation. So, so it's going to it's going to see it and it's going to react prior to the inflation. So, I would say what we're seeing right now potentially could be more inflation, but then you're also getting the GDPs of of Germany and Japan and things like that that the dollar is actually rising in and over this last week, last couple of weeks when gold's been breaking out, which is a pretty interesting phenomenon.
>> That's rare.
>> While the tenure continues to go down below 4%. I mean, we really have not seen something like this in history before. By the way, AI bubble that's at 100. That's crazy, bro. AI bubble on Google search trends is at 100 at least for the last month. And Bitcoin Ethereum, okay, let me let me It's not a bottom indicator, but it's at least not a top signal. The AI bubble is at the top of people's Google search results over how to buy Bitcoin. I think this is super bullish. You have more people that are worried we're in a bubble than people that are euphorically worried about how to set up a Binance account to get access to crypto. Like, have have we topped before with people typing in the term bubble at an all-time high? No. You top when people are feverishly searching for how to get exposure because their neighbor is getting rich off Bitcoin. Like I don't see this as bearish. I actually see this as as as counterintuitively bullish. It's just, you know, for the for the assets go like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Salana, XRP. They're not making those big moves people want to make. But maybe that's because you need them to take their time to make the move, especially as liquidity is getting sucked into gold and silver and commodities. And then the sentiment around the broader consensus is that we're in a bubble based on these search terms. That to me signals that more people are scared, which is what you need. Are we in a bubble? Wow, look at that. 69 on the search results over the past 5 years. That is the second highest it's been since 2022. I mean, that's pretty incredible. AI capex that is at 21. It was up a little bit last week as a search term, but that bubble term, what about just bubble in general? Yeah, it's at 55 relatively consistent. It's quite incredible to see the psyche of how this is playing out. But again, I think with good earnings, with rates coming down, and with more people being worried about an AI bubble than worried about buying Bitcoin, it's hard to say that it's super super bubbly. which is not too bad. I think Micro Strategy lost momentum. Micro Strategy lost momentum because Bitcoin lost momentum and until Bitcoin regains momentum, a lot of these derivative plays are going to get hit. Now, the question is, does Micro Strategy, you know, take a 250 or below beating? That's when it really gets hit, or does it chill out just below 300? Search for bubble gum. Um, what about gold bubble? Yeah, let me type in gold bubble. That's getting up there. 64 on gold bubble. That's the highest in about a year and a or that's the highest in four months. The second highest in three years. Cryptobubble. What about that? 13. Dude, no one's even searching for a crypto bubble because Bitcoin's not running like crazy enough to make you afraid about that. I mean, like, there's not that many people that care about the state of crypto right now, which I think is actually bullish because eventually they will, and when they do, that should help out a lot of these currencies. Do you still like Robin Hood? Yes, I like Robin Hood even though everyone is [ __ ] on Robin Hood today. It is what it is. I think they will get through it. Um, and I think they'll be okay. And the fact that the stock was up today just goes to show how much the algorithms didn't really care about the sentiment on Hood. They just cared about going higher. As you know, the S&P breaks out to alltime highs, which it almost got to today. You're going to have Hood, which is a proxy in the bull market, go a bit higher. And that's why that stock was up 5%. All right, I think we are done for the day, folks. Um, I will be back tomorrow. Actually, hold on. We got to search quantum. We didn't even search freaking quantum. Google trends. Let's do that. There is not going to be a daily recap today because I'm about to leave to um to where am I going to? To my parents house for Dvali. Happy Dvali to those who celebrate. So, we are not going to have a daily recap today, but we will be back tomorrow and we'll recap everything that we had. Quantum. Okay. Okay, so Quantum had a massive spike back in April 2025 and now it's back down to zero. Quantum stocks, you're seeing a little bit more elevated excitement than usual. You're at 40, 22, 23, you're basically at zero. So, it's definitely trending more, but it's not like a hundred. It's defin it's not in the 70s and 80s like we saw with how to buy gold. They do have some people that are excited. What about Nvidia? That's we got to search Nvidia. Nvidia Nvidia is also relatively relaxed. 28 on Nvidia. Not too too crazy. How's all that compared to Taylor? Swift. That's a good qu. Well, she just released an album, so that one should really be moving. Okay, it's in the 20s. Not as high as in video. All right, cool. That's it for me. I'll be back tomorrow. Thank everybody for being here. Happy Dvali to those who celebrate it. I am going to uh go home to family. I'll be back tomorrow on the market open. Again, note uh there's not going to be a daily recap today. And I'm not doing tech bros. I don't know if Tanner and Roy are doing it. They might. I told them last week I I think they still might do it. If they don't do it, then we'll be back next Monday. But if they do it, then it'll be on one of their channels. And we'll be back tomorrow. Uh technical Tuesday tomorrow. Tesla earnings is on Wednesday. So, we'll have Jason tomorrow and then we'll have Tesla Wednesday, Netflix Thursday, and then we'll keep going from there. And that's what we got. All right, thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Happy Dvali to those who celebrate it. I will be back tomorrow morning and uh yeah, I mean I think the summary of today is China deescalation, rates coming down, tenure below 4%, S&P very close to all-time highs with a lot of the frothy names down on the day is a nice setup going into earnings and based on Trump's comments on China if we get a good negotiation over the next two weeks. We might be able to really get some momentum here. So that's what we got. All right, thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Bye everybody. Have a good one.