Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news.
>> Good morning. I'm Nathan Hager
>> and I'm Karen Moscow. Here are the stories we're following today.
>> Karen, we begin with the latest developments in the Middle East. Israel's government has approved a ceasefire deal with Hamas that will include releasing thousands of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for any remaining hostages in Gaza. Stuart Livingston Wallace heads Bloomberg's Middle East coverage.
>> It all seems to be going reasonably smoothly. It went to the Israeli cabinet last night was approved. So, we're now in a sort of a 24-hour initial phase where the IDF, that is the Israeli army, will start withdrawing from its current positions to sort of a pre-agreed line. They will still be inside Gaza, but it's going to be over a significantly smaller amount of territory. So, basically, we're looking at the next four days. It's going to unfold. And again, this is very much phase one. And then in terms of the next hurdles, I mean, I think there's a long way to go. And you know, we should be under no illusion about how difficult some of those questions are. Notably on the question of the, you know, the complete disarmament of Hamas, the future governance of the Gaza Strip, and perhaps most importantly, the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip. Bloomberg Stuart Livingston Wallace says President Trump will travel to Israel. He says to be on hand for the release of the hostages.
>> And we have some breaking news here, Nathan. Venezuelan opposition leader Maria Corina Machado has won the 2025 Nobel Peace Prize. And of course, we'll be watching this morning for any reaction from President Trump, who has waged an aggressive lobbying campaign ahead of today's announcement. And again, that's just crossing the Bloomberg.
>> All right, Karen, thank you for that. And now to the latest on the federal government shutdown into day 10 of the stalemate in Washington. Both sides continue to blame each other for the impass and President Trump is doubling down on threats to take advantage of it.
>> We'll be cutting some very popular Democrat uh programs that aren't popular with Republicans frankly because that's the way it works. They wanted to do this so we'll give them a little taste of their own medicine. President Trump spoke at a cabinet meeting at the White House heard live on Bloomberg radio, but Republicans may be feeling political heat as well. House Speaker Mike Johnson took questions about the shutdown on C-SPAN. One caller on the Republican side said her husband serves at Fort Belvour, Virginia, and their medically sensitive children might have to go without medication if they miss a paycheck.
>> You could stop this and you could be the one that could say military's getting paid. And I think that it is awful. And the audacity of someone who makes six figures a year to do this to military families is insane.
>> Speaker Johnson responded to that caller saying the Democrats are the ones keeping her from getting a check.
>> Well, Nathan, the Trump White House has decided there's a group of federal staffers they can't do without during the shutdown, and the people who put together the economic data are the ones they're talking about. Let's get more from Bloomberg's John Tucker. John, good morning.
>> Yeah, good morning Karen. White House Office of Management and Budget has directed the Bureau of Labor Statistics to recall staff. They need them to assemble the September consumer price index. That is the report that determines the size of next year's Social Security checks. Dozens of economists and IT specialists are typically involved. So, it's still unlikely this report's going to be released by its original publication date of October 15th. You'll recall President Trump fired the BLS commissioner in August after the release of a weaker thanex expected jobs report he didn't like. In New York, I'm John Tucker, Bloomberg Radio.
>> All right, John. Thank you. We have this red headline crossing the Bloomberg terminal. China is probing Qualcomm for suspected violations of the country's anti- monopoly law. That's according to a statement from Beijing State Administration for market regulation. Qualcomm shares in the pre-market down three and a quarter%. Well, Nathan, the Justice Department is still working through the shutdown, and it's bringing charges against another one of President Trump's perceived political enemies. New York Attorney General Leticia James has been indicted on counts of bank fraud and making false statements to a financial institution. The grand jury indictment stems from a property James purchased in Norfol, Virginia in 2020. It's the second indictment brought by US Attorney Lindseay Halligan, who was recently appointed by Trump and also secured charges against former FBI Director James Comey. Attorney General James says she'll fight the charges. This is nothing more than a continuation of the president's desperate weaponization of our justice system. He is forcing federal law enforcement agencies to do his bidding. All because I did my job as the New York State Attorney General. Attorney General Leticia James posted that statement on X. She campaigned on a promise to investigate President Trump and won a civil case against him and his company in 2022. Her first appearance in federal court in Virginia is set for October 24th.
>> Turning overseas now, Karen, French President Emanuel Mcron is expected to pick a new prime minister by this evening after the resignation of Sebastian Lornu earlier this week. Richard Bravo leads Bloomberg's coverage of Western European government. I don't think we're any closer to knowing exactly who he will pick to be the next prime minister, but the important thing to focus on is the fact that he's naming a prime minister at all. Earlier this week, it was increasingly looking like Macron would call another snap election. That would have meant even more political chaos and financial instability. So even though it's not clear who exactly Mcron could name and the list is very long and and it does run the political gamut, most see this as the least bad option. Bloomberg's Richard Bravo reports Francis caretaker finance minister Roland Lassour says the country is on course to meet its budget promises to the European Union even after outgoing Premier Lornu indicated there will be less fiscal consolidation next year than previously planned. Well, in Asia, Nathan, Japan's decade old ruling coalition has collapsed. It comes after talks between Liberal Democratic Party chief Senate Kaishi and junior partner Kato leader Tetssuo Saitto ended without agreement. The collapse was due to a disagreement over the needs for the LDP to regulate political donations. The coalition has maintained political stability for LDP administrations for most of the past quarter century. And looking at the yen, it's at 152.70 against the dollar. Back to this country, Karen, there's a warning from Ray Dallio. The Bridgewater Associates founder says US government debt is rising too quickly, creating a climate he says is very much analogous to the years before World War II. Dalio spoke with Bloomberg's Francine Lqua.
>> We're in wars. Okay, there is a financial money war, there's a technology war, there's geopolitical wars, and there are more military wars. And so we have a civil war of some sort which is developing in the United States and elsewhere where there are irreconcilable differences.
>> Bridgewwater founder Ray Dalio has long cautioned of the risks of spiraling US debt. Last month he said it poses a threat to the monetary order. And Nathan Paramount Sky Dance chief executive David Ellison who is reportedly weighing a merger with Warner Brothers Discovery says he sees a lot of opportunity for consideration in the industry. We spoke with him at the Bloomberg Screen Time Conference in Los Angeles.
>> First and foremost, what's good for the talent community? What's good for our shareholders and value creation? And what's good for basically storytelling at large? And so from our standpoint, whether we were approach any acquisition, and I actually do think there's a lot of options out there in terms of what actually might be actionable in the near future, we would approach that through the lens of wanting to make more, not less.
>> And David Ellison took over Paramount, the parent of CBS, Nickelodeon, MTV, and the namesake movie studio in August after completing an 8 billion dollar merger with his film production company, Skyance Media. Get that full conversation and all of the biggest names we spoke with at screen time on the Bloomberg podcast channel on YouTube. Time now for a look at some of the other stories making news in New York and around the world. And for that, we're joined by Bloomberg's Michael Bar. Michael, good morning.
>> Good morning, Karen. National Guard troops are expected to begin patrolling in Memphis. The patrols are expected today after a federal judge in Illinois ruled Thursday to block a deployment in the Chicago area for at least 2 weeks. Illinois Attorney Generalwami Ru says the deployment was never legally justifiable.
>> This is an important decision not just for the state of Illinois uh but for the entire country. September 12th was the weekend ICE operations moved into Chicago ahead of Mexican Independence Day celebrations. Virginia gubanatorial candidates Democrat Abigail Spanberger and Republican Winom Earl Sears clashed over issues in a debate at Norfolk State University. The debate also focused heavily on a text message scandal involving Democratic nominee for attorney general Jay Jones with Earl Sears pressing Spanberger to demand Jones suspend his campaign.
>> Really what I want to ask this first question is Abigail when are you going to take Jay Jones and say to him you must leave the race? He has said that he wants to murder his political opponent and not only that, but the polit the his political opponent's children and 5 years old.
>> Earlier, Spanberger condemned Jones's remarks, but stopped short of calling for him to exit the race.
>> As we move forward, the voters now have this information, information that was withheld for them, presumably for political reasons. Uh but the voters now have the information and it is up to voters uh to make an individual choice based on this information.
>> Spanberger, a former US representative, has maintained a consistent polling lead. Tropical storm Raymond has formed in the eastern Pacific Ocean. It is the third system now off the western coast of Mexico. Global News 24 hours a day and whenever you want it with Bloomberg News now. I'm Michael Bar and this is Bloomberg. Karen,
>> thanks Michael. Time now for our Bloomberg sports update and for that we bring in John Stash Hour.
>> Thanks Garrett. Crazy finish to the Dodgers Philly series in LA. The Dodgers scored in the 11th inning on the Phillies throwing error. Won the game two to one. Won the series 3 to one. The Cubs shut out the Brewers six to nothing at Wrigley. That series is heading to a decisive game five tomorrow in Milwaukee. Upset in the NFL to start week six. The Giants shut the Eagles out in the second half. The rookie quarterback Jackson Dart with a touchdown run and pass in the first quarter. Cam Scataboo scored three times. The Giants won 3417. That's your Bloomberg sports update. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Daybreak coming up after this.
>> Coast to coast on Bloomberg radio, nationwide on SiriusXM, and around the world on Bloomberg.com and the Bloomberg Business App. This is Bloomberg Daybreak. Good morning. I'm Nathan Hagar. It is a major step toward ending two years of brutal war in Gaza. Israel's government has approved a deal for Hamas to free its remaining hostages in exchange for more than 2,000 Palestinian prisoners. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says this clears the way for those hostages to come home in the next 3 days.
>> We couldn't have achieved it without the extraordinary help of President Trump and his team, Steve Whit, and Jared Kushner. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke after the vote flanked by the White House special envoy and President Trump's son-in-law. For the very latest, we go to Tel Aviv and welcome Bloomberg News Israel Bureau Chief Ethan Bronner. Ethan, good morning. This morning, after the vote, is the ceasefire holding?
>> Well, the ceasefire is actually only just starting officially, right? I mean, it's they uh the deal was that after the vote, Israel would begin to redeploy its forces from controlling approximately uh 70% of Gaza to about half of it. So, Israel has begun, actually, I think in just the last minutes, to start to move its troops back to that uh first line agreed to uh between the two sides. interesting to see uh the the White House envoy and President Trump's son-in-law side by side with Netanyahu as he was surrounded by his cabinet during this vote. We've spoken before about US influence on Israel throughout this conflict. What does this say to have them in the room at this moment? You know, this is something honestly that was done even during the Biden administration. and President Biden, Tony Blinken, and others would sit in the cabinet meeting uh during the beginning of this war in a sign of solidarity. So, of course, it's it is as you as you point out, a sign of an incredible sort of shoulder-to-shoulder, you know, no daylight, we're all in this together approach. And obviously, there have been tensions between Netanyahu and Trump. Uh but I think the point and again in addition, President Trump is planning to be here in a couple of days. So the point is to say whatever tensions there have been, we're basically together in our views of how to go forward here.
>> Going forward, there are still plenty of unanswered questions as to whether this will be just a first step or whether this 20point plan can be fully implemented, aren't there?
>> Yeah. Many, many, many. I mean in fact fundamentally what's most striking about this is that uh for for a variety of reasons which we can talk about Hamas is going to give up all the hostages in front that is to say in the next 72 hours uh and then uh Israel uh is going to free about 1950 uh Palestinian prisoners uh and then we shall see. Then there's a whole bunch of stuff that's supposed to happen, but it's going to have to be negotiated in terms of who's going to rule the Gaza Strip and whether Hamas is going to disarm and how and so on and so forth. Lots and lots of stuff ahead of us for sure.
>> So then Ethan, what are we expecting when those negotiations continue? I imagine it's going to be a fraught conversation still in Charmeal Shake.
>> Deeply, deeply. I don't know that it's going to happen in Charal Shikh. Um I don't know where these negotiations are going to take place or or you know over what period of time but absolutely hugely fraught. I mean I think that the the my instinct is that the reason Hamas is giving up all the hostages up front which is something it had refused to do consistently for 2 years is that Qatar and Turkey and Egypt its sponsors and friends have said to it do that and then work hard on the question of your role in the future and and who gets amnesty and so forth and so on. So, uh, uh, Israel is still saying it's not going to allow Hamas to have any role in the future of Gaza ruling rulership. So, we shall see. Uh, you know, it's going to be it's going to be a a lot. There's no no question about it. But the I mean, the other question is once Israel gets its hostages back, will it a will Prime Minister Netanyahu call an early election? Reasonably likely. Will he win? Another question. And also, will the public uh say, "Look, our hostages are home. We don't want to fight anymore, no matter what's going on in Gaza." I don't know.
>> This is Bloomberg Daybreak, your morning podcast on the stories making news from Wall Street to Washington and beyond.
>> Look for us on your podcast feed by 6:00 a.m. Eastern each morning on Apple, Spotify, or anywhere else you listen. You can also listen live each morning starting at 5:00 a.m. Wall Street time on Bloomberg 1130 in New York, Bloomberg 991 in Washington, Bloomberg 929 in Boston, and nationwide on SiriusXM channel 121.
>> Plus, listen coast to coast on the Bloomberg Business App now with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto interfaces.
>> And don't forget to subscribe to Bloomberg News Now. It's the latest news whenever you want it in 5 minutes or less. Search Bloomberg News Now on your favorite podcast platform to stay informed all day long. I'm Karen Moscow.
>> And I'm Nathan Hager. Join us again tomorrow morning for all the news you need to start your day right here on Bloomberg Daybreak. [Music]