Guys, guys, guys. Welcome to Tech Bros. Deeply, deeply appreciate everyone taking the time out of their the valuable time out of the valuable time out of their life because we're talking about life at the end of the day. So, the time you spend with people quite frankly dictates the relationships and the basis for humanity. It quite honestly, it's the existential reality for how we understand existence. And I am so sorry that Tanner ended up wasting everybody's time.
>> Decided, you know, I just
>> I really wish this guy would I really wish this guy would give a crap about people's time. I really
>> Oh god.
>> I had to I I literally have a DM. I'm going to start exposing DMs here because I literally said
>> at 9:31 that I'm backstage and waiting for
>> 9:31.
>> No, no. I was here on time. I was surprised that it ticked into being late.
>> You guys see that?
>> Tanner, I know you're from Canada, but can you read time? 9:31. We start at 9:30.
>> But I was not expecting you to be late, sir. I was here for multiple minutes at that point and then I saved your ass by telling you that we had a show. Okay. He was powernapping at his desk.
>> I don't know why you're gaslighting everybody. I just I really don't think that's the right.
>> We all know who made us late. So,
>> we all know.
>> Roy, tell the truth.
>> I already did.
>> You already did.
>> There's two axioms. There's two axioms that you can always count on. One is the bricks are real and the second is Tanner is late.
>> Your your mic's also uh decently quiet by the way. Roy,
>> is this better?
>> Yeah,
>> it's definitely better.
>> This is better, too.
>> Yeah, I think your gain was probably just lower.
>> Yeah, I can turn it up over here, too. Is this too loud?
>> Don't call me Tantrum Tanner. I can't believe these names come out of nowhere, bro. Okay, guys. In all reality, it definitely was my fault. I was doing like a million things and I was like, "Oh crap, it's 9:31." But the fact that he text I I actually didn't. Your text didn't trigger me remembering. I just saw the time and I remembered. But the fact that you texted 9:31 means you were You didn't text at 9:28. Okay, buddy. Texted at 9:30.
>> Well, I was I was backstage at 9:28. So,
>> well, you texted at 9:31.
>> Yeah, but you wouldn't know it regardless. Like, I mean,
>> all right, we got a lot to talk about. Thank you everybody for being here for another week of Tech Bros. I think we missed last week because Oh, yeah. It was Dvali. So, I couldn't make it last week, but uh we are back and I think let's get started off with raw thoughts on the market. We got SoFi earnings tomorrow. We'll talk about that. Got some hood updates, some Nvidia stuff, but I mean Roy, we'll start with you. Uh S&P alltime highs. How are you feeling?
>> Yeah, I mentioned this in in your birthday stream.
>> Roy, that's a little that's a little too Yeah.
>> How's it better?
>> Pull my speakers away.
>> That's better. Yes,
>> it's okay. All right.
>> Sorry. I I don't know what happened in the setting. Like nothing changed. We just had a power outage and it just knocked everything out. So, okay. Um it is shocking to me and I pointed this out with uh with you earlier that we are at all-time highs in the fear and greed index. I'll I'll throw this up here or I'll I'll ask you to throw it up is fear. Now, this can move and probably will move to neutral and then to greed, you know, if if we continue moving up. But in an uptrend, it's not too uncommon to see, you know, be an extreme fear of fear for a little while. But at all-time highs, it's a little bit surprising. Of course, there's there's real catalysts. Uh tariff stuff is a big thing. I do feel like that the market might be ignoring or overlooking some potential near-term pain uh with specifically with the government shutdown, SNAP benefits, student loans, and that sort of thing, too. But, uh I mean, it's a fun day. A lot of these companies too uh that are getting uh the bids are massive companies posting good earnings today. This week uh Tanner pointed out Seth Gild also did on Robbo 2 that 40 something% of companies in the S&P 500 uh are reporting earnings this week. So did I get that right Tanner?
>> It might be that high. I was just saying that it was 24% in just the five companies. I didn't even I didn't even uh look at all the other companies that are reporting. It probably is 40%.
>> Yeah. Let me let me find that. Yeah, 42% of S&P companies by market cap reporting earnings. So, it's by market cap, not by number of companies. So, it's it's I I miss that part.
>> But yeah, this this ultimately there will always be, you know, the roller coaster still in effect, but this week really is what determines how good earnings actually are with 42% S&P 500. If the um narrative is like, hey, they're crushing it. The AI is real, which we we'll hear that again, of course. Uh companies are growing. no real concerns with consumers, company here and there will try to blame that. But when you're in isolation, the market just ignores you and says, "You're terrible. We're gonna actually believe these companies that are killing it." And I expect that's probably what we're going to get. So, uh, we may continue on on a uptrend and rally all the way through Santa Claus time.
>> Um, so before you speak, Tanner, I'm going to give my quick thoughts on this. I think there's three elements of what's going on right now. Number one, you have rate cuts coming up on Wednesday. Number two, you have earnings on Wednesday, Microsoft, Metagoo, then Apple, and Amazon on Thursday. I think all those companies hopefully crush and continue the trend to show that we should be trading at the multiples we're trading at. Um, so those are two really important things. And then number three, which I think is something that it really is important to to to double down on, and I'm curious on your thoughts on this as well, guys. We had a 3% draw down. And that 3% draw down was the first draw down in five months. I think all of us can say we needed it. And maybe it was because of the Trump China tweets or whatever it was, crypto leverage, but it we needed it like August and September, we we avoided barely even a 1% draw down. And so you needed to get a little bit of froth out of the system. A lot of the names that were running to 30 40 billion dollar market caps that are not delivering any earnings growth, any even revenue, forget earnings. They ended up getting hit. Now, they didn't get hit to the point where they're going to zero. And I don't think they're going to zero, but they did get hit. I mean, for goodness sakes, we had a meme stock ETF come back before we had this 3% draw down over the past couple weeks. Last time that happened was literally the top in 2021. So, I think there was a lot of uneasiness over the past couple weeks from a lot of people around, hey, this feels frothy. Are we topping? Is there too much euphoria? Is there too much excitement? And all of that got wiped out over the past couple weeks. Now, you still have companies trading at pretty aggressive multiples. And I think the stock market's very rewarding if you put up the growth to expand your multiple. It's very gut-wrenching if you can't put up the growth. But I don't think it's a clown market the way it was a couple weeks ago where things were just going up for the hell of going up. And I think that along with the fact that the S&P is back to all-time highs in a pretty steady way, you've got rate cuts coming. You've got earnings growth hopefully from big tech coming this week and you've got some of that froth shaken out. I think this is one of the more healthier markets we've been in in all of 2025. And I'm curious on your thoughts on that as well.
>> No, I I think you summarized that well. I mean, I think I feel very confident in the position that we're in. Um, I like the trade deals that are coming through. I don't think that anyone uh any of the large market movers are here to blow up, you know, the the the S&P 500 right now. So, everyone wants to get deals done. They want good economies. you know, there there's no uh well, I mean, there's always a war brewing for sure, but there's no real um looming events that I think is going to draw anything down globally right now. Um obviously things can change very quickly, but rate cuts are going to help. the continued rate cuts, even talk about an additional rate cut in 2026 is something for a lot of um loan book purchasers especially, we'll talk about SoFi, but but that's very exciting going forward that this is not just going to be, you know, one rate cut that we're talking about. This is potentially three more two this year, but but continuing into 2026. That's a very exciting uh ordeal that's happening. And
>> and and then you got the Chinese that are deescalating with the US, right?
>> Yeah. Roy.
>> No, I I mean I agree with you guys. Like there's these are real catalysts. Uh the the companies that are healthy and growing continue to do well. There are, you know, there's cracks and you can always point and and if you look hard enough, you can find bearish things. Bears always manage to do that. You Amazon layoffs is not happy news for anybody that's affected, but I mean the reality is they've done similar layoffs over the last uh two or this will be the third time in the last four years. So, um, but, uh, yeah, I think that the earning season, uh, is going to be the same as what we've seen the last few quarters with everything's healthy. We already saw banks report. Consumers seem like they're in a healthy place except with some very isolated uh, maybe there's, you know, Jamie Diamond said there's there might be when you see one cockroach that there's probably more, but I don't know how many more we see at least this earnings. I think that might be something that waits until next year uh, after the Christmas season and holiday spend. Um but yeah,
>> and my understanding is the two um you know, regional banks that ended up seeing problems also were both tied to the same uh company that was doing fraudulent actions. I don't remember the name of the the business. Maybe a MIT will, but it might be an isolated issue. It might not be uh a cockroach situation at all.
>> Go ahead, Roy. I was going to say Diamond Diamond is pretty bearish in a lot of his comments. I think banker CEOs maybe are just by nature, but
>> yeah, they they have to be cautious, right? It's it's risk aversion.
>> Yeah, I I I don't remember the exact name of the companies, but I I do agree that look, I think it's isolated. I mean, every other regional that reported after that um Zion and Western Alliance report, which by the way, when Zion that wasn't even Zion's earnings, that was just like a preliminary thing they had to put out there. their earnings crushed and their provision for credit losses, which is what determines kind of how healthy the consumer is, how healthy your loans are. I mean, all these regionals came in better than expected by like almost 100 to $150 million. So, the private credit fears don't seem to be that aggressive, and maybe they will be, but we don't have that much evidence yet to say that they're super aggressive. Uh, the China stuff seems like it's starting to get relaxed. A lot of froth, although it's still in the market, has been taken out, which I think people are feeling a bit more uh healthy about. earnings growth is here and then you've got rate cuts. I mean, I don't see I agree with Roy. There's definitely things to be bearish about like the labor market and potential cracks in the economy with with the lower end of the consumer. But on a broader macro trend, I don't see the massive bare case. And then you have seven half trillion dollars on the sidelines, which inevitably is going to want to find a home.
>> What are we seeing for endofear S&P 500 price targets? See what was fun.
>> You know, actually people now it's 7,000, but orig in January was 6,600.
>> Yeah.
>> So they raised it going into the end of the year, but originally he was not, you know, bowled up to 7,000. There's only a couple people that were bowled up to to that level.
>> Well, I don't know. But we're less than 2% away from 7,000. So I don't think it's crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> His his comments on Friday was pretty interesting. He said uh 7,000 is what he thinks by end of year because there's usually a 4% average move in November and December. But the amount of times that the Federal Reserve has began to cut rates in the year by September or later usually has that end point of the year actually uh closer to about a 10% run. It's only happened twice in the last 50 years. So, um, he actually thinks we could be as high as a 10% additional move or putting the year-toate or or full year 2025 move on the S&P 500 of around 27%. If that happens, like this is an all-time bull market. I mean, that's a 2019 run of the last decade only that only 2019 has done better than that at 28%. You know, that that's doing better than 2021. But oh, also that puts us at 7,400 and something.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I I don't know that we get there. There's not really a lot of time left. Uh and there might be a little bit of chop, but I mean it wouldn't be it wouldn't be too too shocking at this point. Like next year definitely seems like it could be as long as a bull market and macros intact. But yeah, I think 7,000 is I mean nothing's guaranteed, but it feels like 7,000 is inevitable at this point. We just need a few more days like today and uh it'll compound.
>> Yeah,
>> today was a good day. Well, also there's not that many times we've had, as Tanner said, a rate cut into alltime highs. That was back in 2019ish, right? In 2018, it was the opposite. We were rate hiking into a trade war. That's why 2018 was Q4 sucked so much. This is the opposite. And if you guys have read anything that China has been saying over the past 48 hours, they've been very friendly, like very amicable in terms of now hopefully the Xi meeting ends up leading to like some real real deals which could be very bullish for Nvidia. We can finally get these chips to China, but I don't know the bare case. October 10th wasn't a bare case. Trump and China beefing. I mean, it was the single biggest day for inflows in stock market history as per Bank of America. So, no one really felt that was bearish. Everyone was just like, "All right, whatever. it's, you know, we have to have a draw down. I'm wondering what is that actual structural bare argument and again it's just not the easiest to see given the data that we have right now.
>> Yeah. And like the China softening it it seemed like that that came uh right around the same time where it was beginning to be public knowledge about trade deals in the region as well moving forward. Of course, rare earth agreements as well or potential ones. And uh that's that's kind of why like April was so shocking was it was like trade war with everybody at the same time which that doesn't work and it worked out okay but uh like this is a little bit different where United States is like okay if you don't play ball we'll figure it out. Um I so yeah I think that we'll probably at least have one more head fake before they actually meet. Um, nothing settled, but uh I I don't know. Uh, it's a that's a fun time to be in the market. And are you fully I know that Tanner you said that you're fully invested. I'm like very close like 1% cash or something. Emit, are you fully invested?
>> I have like two to 3% right now. A good chunk of this on buying this freaking SoFi shares. So Tanner better be right. We're going to talk about it. You too, Roy. You can't get away from it. His name is attached to you as well. So
>> yeah. Yeah. No, I mean we've been right like we we were pounding the table when it was single digits. We talked to you about the loan platform business and uh yeah, it's it's nice that the market actually appreciates something course is moving after hours, too. So me and you have been friends for a long time. Um you know that I my conviction on SoFi is not tied to the stock price. I mean, I don't know what they're going to do tomorrow, but I hope that fundamentally that they outperform.
>> And I think people have enjoyed your content for the past four years because you've been very consistent saying, "I don't care about the stock." Now, you care about the stock, but you don't care.
>> You care about the company's execution, and the stock usually catches up to it.
>> I care about the stock on the long term, but on a day-to-day basis, I mean, the market's going to do what it's going to do.
>> Yeah.
>> But, um, you were talking about rate cuts. If you could bring up my screen really quick, you've probably already seen this tweet. Many of us have. But uh since 1980, the Fed had cut rates 20 times while the S&P 500 was in within 2% of its all-time highs. 100% of rate cuts since 1980 within the S&P at record highs led to more record highs 12 months later. 100% of times um obviously we're already seeing that new highs, but uh do you think that that's going to continue? I mean, history says 100% of times that it's usually a good thing. And we're going to see continuous rate cuts. That that was from the original rate cut. Now we're about to see two more. Original meaning September. Now we're going to see two more. Does that sort of reset the 100% rate cut clock, you know, in order to see even higher highs after Wednesday? Even higher highs after December 10th. When is it? December 10th. So I'm just, you know, statistics say that that we should be very bullish right now. But then I mean there's so many charts you can look at. You can emit can bring up the the Buffett indicator and then see why maybe we shouldn't be bullish. But that's the hard part about markets. That's why markets is not an easy game is because there's a thousand different data points and you could look at 500 of them to point to bullish signs and 500 of them to point to bearish signs and you have to, you know, sort through the crap. Yeah, the the one thing that's like kind of in the back of my mind, it it's not changing like the way that I'm investing with being very light on cash right now. Um but uh if tariff uh woes are resolved like they have an agreement with China and everything market's going to pump. It's going, you know, might frontr run that as well. But uh I think that at that point a lot of the other underlying cracks and issues which some people have been noting but by and large the market has just completely ignored any bearishness except for tariffs that's maybe when it starts looking at other issues as well. So government shutdown being the the most pressing one but there's several others out there too. So it could be that you'll start seeing headlines look very different uh if we have an agreement uh and then there's a pullback after that continuous alltime it too. I'm not trying to time it. I I think that's a mistake a lot of people that are newer in the market, if you're not a trader, try to do. And it's the I don't know if it's Buffett or Lynch. One of the old greats said uh time of time in the market beats timing the market. Uh and case in point today.
>> Yeah, I agree. And and I I I would love for people in the chat to also give their perspective here, but doesn't everyone who is low on cash right now, aka you're more fully invested than not. I mean, don't you feel over the past couple weeks, it has been healthier to take advantage of the dip. It has not been a clown market. It has not been you're you're buying into crazy crazy levels of FOMO or momentum. I know there's pockets of that that are there in the market, but it just feels a little bit better after the three weeks of pain, right? You got to go through the pain to get the gains. And this S&P 500 move from from 673 to 647 to 685 feels way healthier than 673 to 685. And if that if that just happened in a straight line up without getting rid of some of the more fundamental structural issues, I I I don't think we would have been able to challenge our broader assumptions of this bull market. And again, the the market set up really well for the companies that have executed on earnings to continue proving why they deserve a multiple. And if you don't, if you don't prove it, you get you get your stock gets hit. And and I think that's okay. So, I don't know. I I feel like I'm not buying into this crazy bull market all-time highs and I'm scared with the I'm happy to be very low on cash. And I think by the end of the year that, you know, that should be a good decision as we keep going into it.
>> You got to have conviction on the things you believe in. Like, and I've learned a lot of that from you, Amit. Like, I just got to keep doubling down on the things that I believe in. Mhm. Yeah, stocks tend to go higher over the long term. Not individually. It's definitely uh more more certain whenever you group them in an index, but it is my belief that this game is one that, you know, actually generates money. And and I hope everyone listening to that believes that, or else you might be playing the wrong game. But um yeah, I I I actually just bought uh SoFi today at $31 in after hours.
>> Oh, this guy's bullish.
>> Alltime high. Hit the bid.
>> I was live, man. I had to. I was pressured. I was pressured.
>> That's awesome. Love it. And And honestly, like if if I again, if SoFi was not the second largest position in my portfolio, I wouldn't be I I would probably be DCAing at this point. I would be daing at this point. I don't even need to say probably. So,
>> I I did that with Robin Hood. Um I I I messed up a little bit in that the transition, but I'm like, "Hey, I'm going to rectify. I'm just going to DCA until I get the position sizing that I want." And I did. And it felt not great at the time, you know, when it was like, "Okay, a year ago it was at seven bucks or eight bucks, nine bucks. Now I'm buying in the the 60s and 70s." It feels pretty good right now, though.
>> Okay. So, before we get into SoFi, let's uh cover a couple of these quick topics. So, do do you guys know what a closed end fund is?
>> No.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Tanner, please educate. I have no idea. What What is this? And is this bullish for Robin and now listening for
>> uh Well, I I this is I just I'm just seeing this news. So, what is this? You can now invest in nearly 200 US listed close-end funds on dude.
>> I know SoFi earnings are tomorrow, but are you are you just not keeping up with any of the Robin Hood update? Like, are you bad? Are you the freaking title of your live stream is like was the night before sofi like it's freaking Christmas. You're not caring about Robin Hood at all. You just like
>> Vlad tweeted it. Vlad tweeted it. Have that on notifications. Pop it up anytime he says something. Come on.
>> This guy's fake, bro.
>> I I didn't see it. I saw that. Did you guys see that they uh put out futures for UK customers?
>> Okay. I didn't see that
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean.
>> Get off X and actually go to their press releases one time. Uh, okay. So, um, I didn't see that. What it sounds, I don't know what the the close-end funds are, but essentially it just means that there's a certain amount of outstanding shares. That that's all that that means that they're not recreating new shares. Um, so essentially that that for every, you know, share that's outstanding, there needs to be a buyer of it. So, if you end up putting money into that fund, new buyers drive the price up rather than them creating new um shares in order to keep the price stable, like a stable coin, for example.
>> Um
>> I'm not going to lie, it's not because of your explanation, but I still have no clue what a clos my explanation sucks, but it just it just means that there's a certain amount like closing fund just means that there's a certain amount of outstanding shares and that
>> But are these like mutual funds or like why?
>> They can be of them coming on Robinet like what's
>> at least the way that I know of it a closen fund can be a mutual fund but they're not mutually exclusive there could be multiple different versions of what a close-end fund is but um you know that can be yeah Robin Hood Ventures that could be private equity that could be like there's a ton of closend funds it just means that there's a certain amount that they're not going to issue new shares there's only a certain amount of shares that's in that's the closed Okay. Well,
>> as Curtis said, they won't dilute. It's just a certain amount of shares.
>> So, this is at least I I have like a very very limited understanding of this. So, um releasing 400 of these, this isn't like a oh man, this is amaz It's another nice ad. Uh is that how you would see it, Tanner, or
>> Well, it I don't know what the funds are. So, so to me this sounds like some version of they are adding mutual funds, but in Canada we would say that you're adding 400 mutual funds, but to me this sounds like a difference of of the way, you know, US companies are wording it versus what I know, which is can, you know, we wouldn't say, hey, these are closed end funds for purchase. That's just like the the characteristic of a certain fund. So to me, I don't even really know.
>> It's not a noun. It's almost like an adjective to an extent of what the fund
>> Yeah. Like like the fund can be a closed end fund,
>> right?
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Here's that other announcement by the way. Robin Hood launches futures. It's kind of interesting that we haven't seen ISIS and SIPs yet unless I've missed those. Um I thought that they were supposed to come out this year. There's still some time left, but yeah.
>> Yeah. I I don't think they fully have those yet. But look, futures trading is good. I I I do think UK customers want a lot of other things right now besides futures trading but it is good to uh to see that out there. Uh someone says so here are you betting that the underlying assets of the fund but on how the portfolio is being managed? That's my understanding of it as well. Like to me it's just mutual funds that are managed in a particular way like like Vanguard, Fidelity, they have a lot of the I a lot of people don't leave those platforms to Robin Hood because you can't transfer your your funds uh because they're proprietary to those brokerages.
>> Closing funds are almost like they're almost non-existent. I mean for the most part all the money is in open-end funds. If you want to go out and buy an index fund, for example, which is an open-end fund, you buy at the, you know, QQQ or whatever, and then they take your money and go and buy those funds. Okay? They they they buy the underlying assets. But a closedend fund is like that fund will go up because there's more buying pressure than there is selling pressure.
>> So,
>> they're actually really not common.
>> Yeah, that's fair. uh it's another asset to the platform but it's not the biggest deal in the world. So you had that you had Robin Hood uh UK futures for uh for customers which was nice and then the the other final update is uh look banking is not officially out yet but people are getting a preview of it. Some of you guys in the chat might have gotten a preview of banking and uh from the pictures that we've seen they're giving you a basically 3.75% APY if you set up direct deposit. So I guess the broader question here, Roy, we'll start with you, is do we think 2026, the big product outside of Cortex is going to be banking?
>> Probably not. Um, that's still probably going to be predictions market. Banking is massive, too. Um, of course, their continued international roll out of not just uh their trading suite, but also predictions market potentially, that's going to be significant. And knowing Robin Hood, there's probably stuff that doesn't even exist yet that's going to be massive, too. It's just a ridiculous company. So, um, but you know, I I would rank probably predictions market as a number one there um for continued growth at least into as they continue to expand. That's massive.
>> Tanner, your thoughts on uh you think banking is going to be a game changer next year?
>> Yes, it's going to be a game changer. Um, I I just think the amount of new products and direct deposit and cross-ell and all the like the magical benefits that we saw from SoFi could be replicated at Robin Hood. And then on top of that, I mean, they could go international with this and partner with those local banks there to custody the the deposits. I just think banking is is a big deal. you know what what's a bigger well actually that's not a great comparison but there is a lot of very big banking businesses versus brokerage businesses having both in one is a very good you know combination
>> do you think it's a bigger deal uh next year as far as uh being accreative to revenue um than predictions market or are you just saying long-term like it's a significant deal
>> oh sorry maybe I didn't hear the yeah no prediction markets might take it next year just because it already has significant demand and it's going to blow up. But uh over time, I think it'll also be hard to see the the quality like what banking means because I don't think it's just the revenue. I think it's
>> like what does the stickiness of a user that's coming back to check their product every day? Like how much more do they invest? How much more do they use their credit card? How much more do they use everything else if they bank there and check their app every day? like so it'll be hard to determine how much banking is putting on the business but I think it's very important.
>> Yeah, I agree. Um, okay, last topic on Robin Hood is uh prediction markets. Uh, first of all, I I got to I got to get something to show you guys real quick. So, I'll be back in a second. But, uh, Roy, I'm going to throw this question to you. Do you feel any issue with prediction markets given the NBA scandal and the betting controversy and you know ESPN is advertising with FanDuel but then they're having to talk about this whole gambling controversy. Do you think it's any issue for the broader health of prediction markets or cost is raising at five billion polyark raising at 12 billion no one cares everyone's just ready to continue this betting future that we're in. Yeah, I I think that there's um some regulatory uh regulator uh clarification that's needed. The nice thing is uh most aspects of the Trump administration, I don't know about this, I can't remember the um four-letter acronym that that um they have for um for the betting uh side of things, but uh they actually instead of uh enforcing and just slapping everybody with fines, they're actually doing a decent job, especially with crypto. And this is related to crypto of saying okay these are the regulations and guidelines and of course bringing a lot of market leaders to the table. Koshi uh was a really smart partnership with Robin Hood uh and of course maybe in hindsight they should have bought him out or whatever but uh given the connection of course to the Trump administration on the board of Kowi uh and some early success as it relates to some of those state uhwide uh specific lawsuits. It's hard for me to see the predictions markets not doing well. Fact, of course, FanDuels and Draftkings have now shifted away from saying, "Hey, predictions markets are a joke to we're not going to do them to uh we're going to die.
>> You have to buy a competitor to compete."
>> Yeah. So, uh I I mean, and Robin Hood, like the nice thing about Robin Hood is uh not going to rehash the argument as far as like separate apps and stuff, but the money is already there and it makes it so much easier. There's so much less friction when you're like money's there or margin. If you're using margin, be careful with margin, guys. But, you know, it's there. It's easy to use. Uh, and um, so yeah, this has blown up massively and it's just here in the United States. There will be more competition anytime that there's a massive gold rush like this. There's a lot more competitors coming in, but it it is hard to carve up market share, especially if your money is not already on the platform. Uh, so it's it's a layup I think for Robin Hood.
>> Tanner, any thoughts on DraftKings having to basically acknowledge that they can't succeed without these prediction markets? Yeah, I think it's going to be a massive I mean the stock has already taken a massive blow, but I just don't know the reason for using their traditional like like the uh I I don't know the name of how like the odds based uh betting. The spreads are extremely weird, non-transparent. You can't exit before um they finish without some weird like, you know, prompt to say, "Hey, do you want to take this and go?" I the prediction markets just work so much better. It's way cheaper. It's live in real time.
>> There's instant liquidity.
>> Instant liquidity. And and there's zero limit to what this could be put on. I I I think prediction markets are going to be massively popular. Like I think the way that you know people talk about stable coins like, oh, this market's going to 25x over the next few years. I think prediction markets are going to 25x over the next few years. like I think we're seeing the early early days of what prediction markets mean. So, um I'm happy that that Robin Hood is getting in early.
>> I I read a a really fascinating article. I I'll have to dig that up and uh send back to you guys, but u one aspect that I also think tends to mean the predictions market's here to stay. Well, I guess two really is you can see that it's being used as the source of truth a lot more so than polls when it relates to elections. And I I think that that is, you know, there will be times when it gets when it things are not correct, but the wisdom of the crowd has proven quite effective in that. And the other is we're in the age of AI. And this this piece that I'd read, um I I think it was Sean Taylor. Anyway, regardless, he said, you know, in the age of AI, it's harder to determine what's actually real, what's accurate, what's not just AI slop that's reading AI slop and giving you answers that are not true. And so this as a predictions market has even more value. Vlad was saying this earlier by the way just because you can look at the wisdom of the crowd. It's not AIS or algorithms at least yet here betting or doing much of that. And so this is uh a valuable source of truth uh for a lot of people. Um I actually look at that oftentimes if I if I want to know how something might turn out, I'm tending to look at a predictions market an awful lot. So I actually like having that feature right there.
>> I do like it. And also just the way that these markets should work, especially ones like Poly Market that are built on chain, that just means you can have one pool of liquidity that is completely global.
>> Yeah. like it's the same betters if if we're talking about any prediction or whatever uh UFC to to who's going to be on the Joe Rogan Experience or on the Emit show or or whatever is in the future from China to Russia to Canada to Mexico. That's a lot of uh a lot of trading. And just inherently since the beginning of time, humans are gamblers. Like we just freaking love it, dude. Since the beginning of time, gambling is a thing. You're right. And the Kali guy was on a Citadel interview and he basically said like people want to make a prediction out of everything and that's only going to increase as people want other sources of truth. I mean like I really this market should be multi-billions of dollars of revenue over the next 10 years for hood. Uh they just got to keep expanding it and they're adding they have added 800 prediction markets over the past I think three weeks. that was at like 200 back in September. So, it's not like they're stopping on this as well. Um, okay. Before we move on to SoFi, I do want to give a shout out to our boy Nate, who is an OG hoodie. He just sent me this today. This was from the Summit.
>> Oh my god.
>> Nice.
>> It's so awesome, bro. It was It was a It was a birthday gift, but also it's uh it was a present from him. I actually got to meet him in New York the other day because he came through. Are you able to say which one Nate is
>> or did he say not to?
>> I don't think he cares. He's he's public on Twitter, but Nate is all the way to the left, my left, maybe other people's right.
>> And then you got Chris, Roy, Tanner, myself, Davis, his friend Josh, and then Kareem.
>> So, this is super cool. Super super cool. Thank you to Nate for sending this. I will be hanging it up in the back at some point. So, there you go. By the way, Nate, okay, this is actually a good segue going into SoFi. So, I I had dinner with Nate a week ago and uh he's like hood forever. Like, he is bold up hood. So, I said, "Well, what do you think about SoFi?" He was just like, "Dude, they are not going to even come close to doing what Robin like he is so bearish on." So, and I I tried to reason. I really But they're growing. He's like, "But what are they doing? It's a bank. Like, what are they like why are people like what's going on here?" like they have no shot. So, I think that's a good segue into SoFi tomorrow because look, I bought in. I'm excited for the earnings. I do think there's a shot for 35 stocks at 31 overnight. I think we'll start off with you, Tanner. Why do you think there's a chance this company could really make a move tomorrow on earnings?
>> Why do I think SoFi um I mean it's up 112%. Why should Why are people Dude, people are more excited for SoFi than Nvidia earnings if you look on Twitter. like or bold up on this one.
>> I I I think that um yeah, I just think that there's not a segment of their business that's not primed to do well. If you go through the list, checking and savings, brokerage, credit cards, uh personal loans, student loans, home loans, the tech platform just signed two huge deals. um what part of their business is not doing well and and it's not just SoFi inherent, it's like the industries are doing well. You know, personal loan lenders, uh home loan lenders, brokerages, credit card businesses, they're all doing well. So in every single one of them, um so I don't think they're I'm not
>> expect Why Why is none of that priced in, I guess, is the broader question. Well, I think that there's just an inherent um, you know, fear of SoFi because it's a cyclical business. But if they end up putting up the growth that some some Wall Street analysts are expecting, they're going to put up a 40% year-over-year growth rate at the highest margin that they've ever seen. That is crazy. Like 40% is not easy to put up, right? And that's coming off of the back of many quarters that have Oh, and by the way, on a really good comp last Q3 was really good. That was the LA that was the first quarter that we saw the loan platform business. So, it's 40% year-over-year growth, highest margin on a good comp. And um it's accelerating their growth rate like Palunteer, not not not at the same degree. Okay, this is this is baby baby. But if you start compounding growth rates more and more faster and faster, you let um Wall Street and retail investors sort of you let their imaginations run wild about what they can do now that they actually have some tailwinds. So, I think people are getting excited about Q4 because now they're putting up even higher uh downloads that, you know, could lead to potentially even a better quarter than Q3 in Q4. So, people are, you know, pulling a little bit of that excitement into next year if we continue to see rate cuts. It just looks like, you know, going forward that they're going to continuously have quite a good time. I mean, Robin Hood very similar, right? Like, if you're not expecting a slowdown, you're going to give them a premium for just continuous execution. They've never not triple beat that. That's got to be worth something.
>> Hasn't been in the past, but but yeah, it's this earnings is going to be special. Um we know I mean like eventually maybe they won't triple B. This isn't going to be that earnings. Uh we look at analyst expectations, they keep raising them, they're still too low. Last quarter, like Tanner said, it was against a weak comp. This time it's not. and we're right around 40% as far as our predictions uh for revenue growth. It's tough for the it's the market didn't ignore it last quarter. It ran up and of course they did that dilution immediately right after which kind of killed the momentum but it was not ignoring SoFi earnings which was a big shift. This one basically doing what they did last quarter again against a strong comp is highly meaningful. What is it pricing? Now rate cuts are probably priced in or at least a good number of them. uh banks have shifted from a banking charter banking license being an actual drag on a business or at least it was perceived that way for SoFi that they were saying is less valuable because they obtained a banking license which was the dumbest argument ever but bears made that uh we're like oh it should be trading at price of tangible book value unlike before when it was when they didn't have this like okay whatever not doing that anymore uh people understand that I'm I'm a little bit more bearish on the tech platform than Tanner uh but uh what's really did not price in I think as a loan platform business. We're entering an environment where there continue to have rate cut after rate cut as well. Um demand is very high for these products and other than with some very uh specific types of lending that SoFi doesn't even do uh delinquencies seem fine. The consumer seems healthy and now you're in an environment where like even Mr. Beast applied for a banking license. like this is you're you're seeing a lot of companies that said that they would never want a banking license apply. So you're as far as regulation, you've shifted all all the way from seeing it as a liability to an excellent uh asset. Uh rate cuts are coming in and they only really have the personal loans in the platform business at any point and I expect that they will in the future. They may even this earnings as well spin off additional products as there's demand on the loan platform business. um there is a lot of growth that they can do and that the nice thing is his growth that's it's at a uh that's not capped as long as there's demand there like they're not capital constrained at all. So very well positioned over the next couple of years um it's at an all-time high it doesn't feel crazy at all. So, so 25 or 35 you have to bet. If you have to make a prediction market one
>> to tomorrow or at the end of the year or tomorrow
>> 35
>> 35
>> Tanner wants to say 40. He's being
>> No, no, no. I I I I think my prediction for tomorrow is 3150. Um, so I'm I'm not
>> I think it I think it'll be very
>> 3151 to be honest. It's funny that we ended up in the same ballpark to be honest.
>> You know what's actually funny? I think that actually was my price target. It was 3151 because Tevis's was 3150. So we we have the same
>> I like 3152. I'm upgrading my
>> mine is 33 just because multiples of 11. You have to do it with SoFi price targets. Yeah,
>> that would be a 10% move on earnings, which last last quarter, so this is the problem. Last quarter, I think we were up 16 or 17% at one point, but then at the end of the day it closed up six. So, we skyrocketed and then throughout the day there was a bunch of, you know, profit taking. I don't know if that this will be something like this, but yeah. And I wish I had prediction markets because the the the chance that they beat 8 cents of EPS. I don't know what it's at now on Poly Market, but earlier it was like 80%. I watched whenever that market opened up and it was holding at 50 and I'm like, man, what an easy way for me to double my money. Currently, Wall Street actually changed their price target. It's now 9. So, Wall Street thinks they're going to beat this freaking poly market thing. And they're bearish on SoFi. So, like I'm not I'm not incentivizing anyone to buy this. I just thought for me, what a way to buy this. I was looking at it at 50 uh at 50%. But it's not open in my country. We don't really have the, you know, poly market yet.
>> Also, remember, didn't last time they dilute on earnings?
>> Yeah.
>> That's what really messed up the like if we don't get any of that, maybe it's it's blue skies. But that that happened after close of the day. So that's not why the company got dragged down.
>> I think it opened up red the next day because of that.
>> Um.
>> Gotcha.
>> And and people are saying, "Hey, you know what? Are they going to dilute?" I don't know. Maybe. The thing is I'm not actually mad at like Noto needs $45 a share by next June. He's diluting himself too. I mean, if if right now they think they can grow at 40% and by diluting they think they can accelerate that growth to 42 or 44%. Like who am I to judge? It it's it's based on earnings per share. If you put more shares out there, you need to make sure that it is accretive to the total outstanding amount of shares. And that's what Noto believed last time.
>> And it it was barely accreted, but it it it it was uh and here if they do it again, it is. Um, but uh, just to add some context, Tanner, because there's not maybe as many SoFi shareholders, that 45 isn't just hit 45, it's his volume weighted average over 90 days. So, he needs higher than 45. So, if they dilute here, which they might, um, they'll use it and it will be a creative. Um, they're they're probably going to really open the floodgates for lending or use it for something to really try to get uh, as many of those PSUs as they can. 35s is the next well really 25s they still need to get but they're getting that 35s uh is on the table and then 45s after that. Um
>> but 45 for June of 26 for like
>> 90 days from June 26
>> from I think the earliest has to be by March. Yeah, any well I mean technically you could have something crazy happen like this isn't going to happen but hypothetically if SoFi's trading at like 35 bucks 35 bucks and it shoots to 100 bucks for whatever reason and there's actually volume uh for a number of days that can skew it as well but uh I mean
>> yeah the average needs to be above 45 by by June 30th or something.
>> So so by March it has to minimum be 45 then hold it for three months essentially. Well, well, like like Roy said, it doesn't have to be, but the average like So, if we're sitting at 35, then it better start getting to 65 later on. So, it really pumps up the average.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so hold on. That that means that there needs to be a pretty big move in this stock for him to get paid. Like, objectively there h in what, four months, there has to be a big move.
>> Which which is why
>> he doesn't get paid. Which is why if they dilute, this is going to be the last one that they do because it does have a short-term impact that's negative on the share price. And if if Dota's like, "Hey, it's good for the company, but I'm going to lose out on a ridiculous amount of money and a number of my employees as well." Uh, I think he'll probably say, "Let's wait six months. We have cash already and we're ready to go." So, all right. Tomorrow's going to be fun. It's definitely within the realm of possibility as one of these comments says that um SoFi puts up great earnings and the stock does not follow. I mean we've seen it countless times but um I'm a long-term investor eventually that will be correlated to financials. Okay, pick any company over a 10-year period. I mean they they track their fundamental performance. Um,
>> even PayPal.
>> PayPal, not so much. But it's a special Talk to your brother about that. I mean, that's um
>> that's going to be fun. I mean, dude, what if PayPal?
>> Same day, by the way. Same time.
>> Yeah, I'm actually kind of expecting because I'm I'm covering SoFi one live. I'm I did PayPal live last time, but I'm like, you know, SoFi, I think, is going to be the one that I need to be at. Last time I knew SoFi was going to be amazing. Uh, I think SoFi PayPal is going to be pretty much the same as what they reported in quarter two. terms of market reaction. Um there's a couple of potential wild cards there, but I think quarter four will be that quarter. But uh
>> wasn't it like down 7% or something?
>> Pay PayPal on earnings.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Last time. Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's going to be the same.
>> No, no. I I'm saying like what the market's wanting to see, which is branded uh acceleration, topline uh revenue acceleration as well. Um they're not going to see that. I mean, they they'll see a little bit of that, but it's not going to be enough to really get excited. they don't have the full guidance that they'll be doing. Um there there's a lot I got my earnings preview out there. It's, you know, it's bullish, but last time was a triple beat and it fell, you know, seven, eight, nine, 10%. And I was like, uh, why? But, uh, so maybe the free cash flow changes things. Um, the all-time high acceleration of users, like that's the other thing that shifts. Uh, maybe that changes things. A little bit of reaceleration at the top line as well. But, um, yeah, I think quarter four is going to be the quarter. So, this quarter I'll be with you guys with SoFi. Uh, next quarter PayPal because I think that's going to be the breakout. Not trying to time it. I'm just holding my position. But that's uh it wouldn't shock me though if this earnings because we've been running uh SoFi into earnings uh if we get a pullback as some people take the profits, you know, an initial pop uh which is a normal pattern and then a sell-off. Uh
>> it could happen. Buy the rumors, sell the news.
>> And it doesn't bug me. I mean, we're at alltime highs. It falls back to 25. I'm like, "Oh man, you know, I'm just I'm crushed." No. And if it does something really stupid like, "Hey, it falls to five bucks." All right, I will just own SoFi then.
>> Okay, real real quick question for you guys. Out of these five companies, Microsoft, Meta, Google, Amazon, Apple, 24hour or or sorry, the close of the day. Oh, no. I guess they report after close. Um but next close let let's say the the the you know day after who is having the best stock performance of those companies
>> for for the for Wednesday or for Wednesday and Thursday
>> Wednesday and Thursday Microsoft Meta Google Amazon Apple their own you know respective 24-hour periods
>> I'll say Meta who
>> Meta has uh consolidated for a good long while. I've not paid attention to it over the last two weeks, so maybe it's shifted a lot. But
>> yeah,
>> um they've been building a lot. Um they're also positioned very well to benefit from the shifts that's happening in advertising. Um they begin to monetize WhatsApp as well. Um I wouldn't be surprised if they have a nice little pop in earnings. Uh Google probably would be second for me, but I think it's Google, but I'm going with Amazon because they've not made a move at all this year. I am feeling uneasy though because if AWS doesn't do well, Amazon's going to get hit. There's just no way. It'll be a buy the dip, but everyone's got to be ready to see low 200s again if AWS doesn't do well. So, I think it's Amazon or Google. Could
>> Could be Apple, too, which is wild. But, uh, that refreshes.
>> Is that your
>> I was thinking Apple potentially. Um, I'm going to say Amazon and then I was going to say Apple, but now you've changed my mind to Meta.
>> Yes.
>> So, I'm going to say Amazon. You change your mind in 30 seconds, bro.
>> Did you have any conviction at all on this or
>> because because of the Well, no. I kept my I kept my conviction. My conviction is Amazon.
>> But
>> you said you changed your mind on Meta.
>> No, no, I changed from second place from Apple to Meta. Um, no, I'm Amazon. I'm still Amazon holding Amazon. But Meta could do well because it hasn't moved much. I think there's a lot of um a lot of good things from advertiser names and
>> but Meta has moved this year. I mean it's made a freaking 25% move.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But but I mean I mean quarterto quarter here.
>> Oh yeah. That's it. It was at 800 on Q2 last time. So it's definitely
>> Right. Right. The only thing is is that they could also be the worst performing one as well because the the the the stock is very
>> Mark Zuckerberg likes to spend money and and if they think that he's spending on the wrong thing, whether that's
>> Horizon or something like this that's not getting a return on invested capital,
>> they could punish the stock. They've been punished before. I hope they do because I've been really waiting to buy a meta dip and I know 690 was like the opport but like I don't know it just wasn't the most appeal. I want them to punish punish it and I don't know if they punished it enough to take it into the low 600s. I think that would be too aggressive. But look there's been a bit of internal chaos in Meta. I mean the biggest thing from all these researchers that they've hired which rumors are you know four or five billion dollars they spent is a Sora competitor that no one uses. like really working out at all. By the way,
>> Sora,
>> the the the hiring
>> the overhiring of the top names.
>> I think they have no choice because the only relevance in advertising or in AI that Meta has has has shown as advertising. Llama, people say it's not a failure, but no one uses llama. And then number two is the glasses are just not mainstream. And whatever AI version that can enhance the glasses, they had a chance to show it off. We watched the stream. It was horrendous. So, like where is Meta's AI moat coming from? It's advertising, which is great. Advertising is a great business, but I think they're struggling to figure out like where is our role in this artificial super intelligence world? And I don't think they have it yet. What did you think about the Amazon glasses for delivery drivers? How cool of an idea is that? Oh, I'm kind of I'm kind of propping. I would be a terrible interviewer.
>> I actually didn't see that. Uh
>> they're they're putting delivery driver glasses to help with direction uh package delivery and then also scanning boxes and taking pictures of the boxes as they've been delivered. So like proof of delivery.
>> Yeah. Well, uh as long as like they don't have any weird things that oftentimes, you know, with AR you have uh dizziness or fatigue or they're heavy. Um, but uh, yeah, if they don't have that, that sounds great.
>> They they said that it cuts back, by the way, this is insane. It doesn't sound like a lot, but says they cut back about 30 minutes uh, of time saving per shift.
>> Wow.
>> That's an insane change. So,
>> I think they're pretty cool. And if Meta can be a part of that for not only I mean they probably won't do a lot of commercial use but for retail use I'm sure there's a lot of use cases.
>> Um why have none of us said Microsoft?
>> I don't care about Microsoft.
>> Why do we always ignore Nadella? Bro,
>> they're just boring, dude. They're just I don't know. I think they're going to do amazing constantly,
>> but
>> I just find they do everything mediocre and nothing super great.
>> Well, that's not fun.
>> Pretty good, right? It's not like Azure's been amazing.
>> Azure's been great.
>> But that's recent. That's recent.
>> Yeah. It's It's kind of like Amazon is for me. I know you guys are on Amazon, but where I'm like, it's a good company. I mean, if somebody's saying otherwise, I don't know who they are, but um I just see better opportunities out there and I versus like with Nvidia, I'm like, "Okay, I need to own a piece of this." And it's trading at a stupid valuation. With Microsoft, I've never actually felt compelled to buy. Um even though I'm like, "Hey, they're going to be around a long time. They're they're good." Um but I I don't want to own like 30 different or 40 different companies. I want to own like 10. So they I I it's hard for me to see them making that cut ever.
>> If you buy Microsoft, you own 20 or 40 companies.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So look, big tech earnings starts this week. All three of us will be covering it um on our on our channels and Twitter. So if you're following us, you'll be updated on everything. I mean, this is going to be a wild week. Wednesday, we got JPAL. Then we have big tech. Then Thursday, we have Amazon and Apple. And uh tomorrow we have GTC. So you got Nvidia potentially sharing some new ideas and products. I mean this is and then as Tanner said, 40% of the S&P 500 reporting this week. So this is the week that determines what the next two months look like and hopefully we get some good results going into the next couple days.
>> I love earning season. I hope it never goes to six months.
>> Yeah,
>> dude. It's going to suck.
>> Canada's talking about it too now. They're like really pushing that. Speaking of Canada,
>> no.
>> Do you know a company named Celestea?
>> I think I do.
>> I guess
>> I don't know. I I feel like I do.
>> Do Do you know what they do?
>> No, bro. This stock is up 224%. It's up 10% after hours. They're a freaking hardware manufacturing supply chain electronics company from Toronto.
>> You say it like you're from Toronto. That's funny.
>> Well, I'm from TA. I love TA. But
>> I pronounced the second T. That's how you know someone's from Toronto.
>> Yes, exactly. Why Why is a Canadian company up 250% this year? And why don't you know about it given you're from Canada? I only follow one Canadian company and that's
>> an issue. That's an you. Dude, this stock is up. We could have all been 2.5x richer if our Canadian friend told us that there was a Canadian company out there.
>> Can you imagine if every American company I was like, "How do you not know about this company?" Like, what are you talking about?
>> No. The difference is Canada doesn't really have that many companies that actually like go up 2.5x in a year. I follow I follow more companies from the Netherlands than I do Canada.
>> You have no You have no Canadian pride, bro. You need to sing the national anthem or something one day. Like
>> he might start singing the Star Spangle Banner and just sounds better.
>> Oh man, I'm gonna get locked up.
>> Yeah, I I Even if I wasn't a content creator, I would really not like the idea of going to six months. I know it can save like actual CEOs, especially smaller companies, see this as a nice advantage and everything, but man, it's going to be a sad day if that happens.
>> Yeah. All right. Good stuff. Thank you everybody for being here. Um, we'll be back next Monday. We got a lot of earnings. We're going to see how these earnings can play out and hopefully we get some good results. We got rate cuts coming up and yeah, I mean, look, this is a very, very important time in the markets as long as we can get some good results. I mean, the the the health of the S&P for the rest of the year basically depends on Wednesday and Thursday. I mean, everything else really doesn't matter. And then you have Nvidia in a couple weeks, but Wednesday, Thursday are big days. We're probably going to get a rate cut. And if we can get that going in the right direction, then hopefully have a really fun end of year.
>> All right, thank you everybody. Uh, also thank you for all the birthday wishes again. Really appreciate it. Thank you guys. I did not expect you guys to find the time out of your day on a busy Monday and
>> hop on the stream. So, shout out to Steve for organizing that and I appreciate you. You guys really didn't have to do that. So, that that meant
>> it was the way I envisioned it in my head is that Steve would be like, "Yeah, and there's, you know, just wanted to say happy birthday." And like all of us would pop in the bar below and then we we'd all come on stream and it' be like, "Oh my gosh, everyone's here for me." But really it was just I joined and then it was kind of quiet and then we're like
>> what's up? Hi. Like
>> oh great.
>> But uh yeah, then Chris joined like 30 minutes later.
>> Chris was like, "Hey, happy birthday. I'm getting on a flight. Talk to you later." I was like, "Yeah. But happy birthday, brother. Honestly, um you know, you're a big inspiration to me. I'm older than you, so I'm allowed to say this. I'm proud of you. Um,
>> you know, I I feel like what you've done has been awesome and I all of us here are following your journey and and you know, you're a trailblazer. So, uh just really appreciate what you do and um yeah, next time you try to call me and want to have like a personal chat, don't call me at 659. This guy goes, "Hey man, like I just want to sit and talk for a minute. I saw your heartfelt, you know, message." I'm like, "You're going to make me late." I thought he was doing it on purpose. I thought he was messing with me.
>> I I literally I I thought you streamed at 8, not seven, but I was like, "Oh, okay." So,
>> yeah.
>> No, seven.
>> I appreciate you guys. Means a lot. There's Royy's YouTube. You can follow him there for my channel. There's Tanner's YouTube. Uh, these guys will be live at like 7. Me and Steve are going to be live at like 7:30. So, for those that want the SoFi analysis immediately, 6:55, 7 a.m. Eastern, make sure to check out their channels and got a big day tomorrow. SoFi, UNH, and PayPal. So, we'll keep it covering.
>> Big day.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. We'll see you guys tomorrow for SoFi earnings and the market open. Bye everybody.
>> Bye for now.
>> Later.