Welcome everyone to the OnPy podcast. I'm Steve Pacen and I'm John Michael McGrath.
>> Today on the pod, a controversial declaration from the official opposition leader who says when she's premier, the current premier's going to jail.
>> The legislature just voted down a bill to keep AI misinformation out of Ontario's elections. We're going to talk about that and some [music] other election talk. The government says it will give special constables the power to arrest drug users on the buses, street cars, and subways [music] of Ontario's capital city.
>> And speaking of Toronto, in your column, my column, I will ask whether it's time for Ontario to drop its prohibition on municipal political parties.
>> And I'm following up on the Billy Bishop Airport story. The province wants it expanded. The city doesn't. And the feds, well, at the moment, crickets.
>> It's Friday, May 8th, 2026. So, let's get to it. [music]
>> JMM, a little unpoly sugar to get us started as we do every week.
>> Yes,
>> as we do every week. Okay. Oh, you look at you. Okay. I gave you that t-shirt last week on behalf of the good folks in Richmond Hill. And you're wearing it already.
>> Yes. The the David Dunlop Observatory is is on the t-shirt here. This was a gift from the uh Thorn Hill Library, though.
>> It was indeed. Richmond Hill.
>> Richmond Hill. I'm sorry. Uh, Richmond Hill Library,
>> a different hill.
>> Uh, yes.
>> Richmond as opposed to Thorn.
>> Yes. Um, [clears throat] and so I was I was trying to uh figure if I could come up with some significant dates of like in astronomy around May 8th. And
>> what did you come up with?
>> Didn't I didn't find a lot in terms of specifically for May 8th except that one of the earliest photographs of Haley's comet was taken on May 8th, 1910. Happy I guess not even a proper anniversary to that picture of Haley's [laughter] comment.
>> Well, can I say how fetching the shirt looks on you?
>> Yeah. No, I I also My wife was quite happy with this gift. She uh
>> cuz she didn't have to buy it.
>> Well, she didn't have to buy it and it's appropriately nerdy for me. So,
>> very good. All right. Who am I wearing this week? I'm going to stand up here for a second so everyone can see. Colonel George Drew. And yes, they did call him the Colonel. This was back in the days when all of our premers of Ontario once upon a time were war veterans and so they often went by their titles. Uh May 7th, 1894. May 78 1894, 132 years ago, George Drew was born. And he's an important premier for a bunch of reasons. Number one, he's the first premier in that 42-year long conservative dynasty from 1943 to 1985. He won the first election. Despite that, despite being the first premier as part of that dynasty, he actually lost his own seat,
>> which is hard to do. 5 years later in the 48 election, he lost his own seat. The issue was booze. He wanted to liberalize uh the hours of operation for taverns, and as a result, he represented a West End Toronto riding, High Park, and as a result, a temperance champion named William Temple, or Temperance Willie, as they called him back then, running for the CCF. This is the party before the NDP, the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. He challenged George True and he beat the premier in his own writing. Now, you know how this usually works, right? If a premier loses his or her seat, they usually get a backbencher to step down. They create a bi-election and he or she will run there. Yes.
>> Didn't happen this time. Instead, he quit provincial politics altogether. He went and became the leader of the National Progressive Conservative Party. He became the Federatory leader. And you know, he he was very successful. one on the first ballot. Do you know who he beat in the 48 PC Leadership Convention?
>> There's no reason you would know, but you've heard of him. Trust me.
>> Okay,
>> you've heard of him.
>> Uh I I I'm at a loss.
>> He would become a future prime minister of Canada. Does that help?
>> A future
>> a future Tory prime minister of Canada.
>> So it would be Dean Baker.
>> That's right. He beat John George Defenbaker at that convention. Defon the next convention. Anyways, uh George Drew did not have as much luck federally as he did proincially. He lost two federal elections and then retired from public life, had bad health, and died in 1973. Sheldon, can we see the shot of his final resting place? There it is. Looks actually quite monumental. And that's in G. He is buried in the city of G. And that's the George Drew story which began 132 years ago yesterday. Please correct me if I'm wrong because I think you would have a better grasp of this than I do, but my uh memory of George Drew, we don't have a specifically a housing policy topic on today's agenda, so I'm going to shoehorn one in here, of course. Um, you know, George Drew uh pretty staunch anti-communist, very uh, you know, uh, uh, very, you know, conservative even by the standards of conservatives, right? And, uh, you know, staunch anti-communist at a time when that was, you know, a very live issue. Um and yet the the rise of the CCF and that strong showing and and beating him in his own writing was as I understand it uh one of the um early signals that uh the provincial progressive conservative party uh could moderate some of its um very like hard anti-communist and anti-ocialist uh uh policies. and they they uh decided that maybe they didn't have to be forsquare against things like public housing and [laughter] that you know okay throwing the unions a bone every once in a while was was the something that
>> added to their political longevity let me put it that way now we just we have not set this up but I'm going to ask him another trivia question here
>> who do you think came up with the expression well you probably know who came up with the expression the big blue machine talking about the progressive conservative party of Ontario
>> oh I should So again, my understanding was that actually came out of Bill Davis's win that where he welded the two parts of the party together.
>> That's what everybody thinks.
>> Okay.
>> Bill Davis came up with that, right? The big blue machine.
>> No,
>> George Drew.
>> George Drew was the first guy to use the expression, we are building a big blue machine all the way from Windsor North and across Ontario through the east. So, um, he didn't necessarily get to celebrate all of the fruits of the labors of the big blue machine because, as I say, he did lose his seat and was out after just 5 years. But, uh, he's the first he's the first guy to use that expression.
>> Well, and and you know, the the machine he started cobbling together did in fact govern for, you know, 40 unbroken years.
>> 42 actually.
>> 42.
>> Now, do we want to say that the current premier is sitting at top a big blue machine? Because after all, not only has he won three straight elections, but we have to call him Dr. Ford now, don't we? [laughter]
>> We do. Yes. Elegant segue there. Sorry. Um Yes. Uh so uh Premier Ford was uh granted an honorary uh doctorate uh from I'm sorry, it was Sagenov Valley State University, which is a uh public university in the state of Michigan. Yeah. Um and uh he was yes he was given a a a doctorate in I think his humane letters or Yeah.
>> Yeah. I have no honorary doctorates. I I just have my dishonorable ones. [laughter] Uh no I I have no doctorate. I have two degrees. Um but yeah uh congratulations to the premier I suppose. [laughter]
>> Well for those who say that he doesn't deserve it because he actually didn't go to class and and get his degree that way. There are two ways you can get a degree from a post-secondary institution. One is to go to class like you and I did. Yes.
>> And you know get the credits and then at the [laughter] end of the day go to convocation and you have a degree. And the other is to do things outside the class which a university or college deems in the significant public interest and they will give you an honorary an honorary degree for that.
>> So that's what Doug Ford got because we say and I listen I'm not saying this with any um malice or nuisance or anything like that but Doug Ford describe u discovered at a very young age that postsecary was not for him. And it's not for everybody.
>> No, he went to Humber for I think a matter of weeks or months and then dropped out and went into business and uh it just wasn't for him. So, but he's now
>> clearly made something of himself.
>> Made something of himself and all these years later he finally has a post-secary degree. So, good for Dr. Ford.
>> Yeah. There's been some speculation about like, oh, why would you know this this American university grant an Ontario premier an honorary uh doctorate? And I don't think I've seen any reporting in terms of like actually explaining the the university's thinking, but I I will say and this is admittedly speculation on my part, but there are a lot of uh American um organizations and institutions right now that are trying their very best to uh rebuild bridges and uh uh repair freed relationships between the US and Canada. And so I I would not be at all surprised if somebody at uh Sagna Valley State University had thought, hey, you know what? Maybe this is something we can do just to remind Canadians that we're not all
>> enamored with the current government.
>> Oh, look how I was going to say Trump loving heathens and you said [laughter] not enamored with the current government. You're always so much more diplomatic than me. And with that, let's get off to issue one. Premier Doug Ford is no stranger to heated rhetoric. He did after all recently have to apologize to Liberal MPP Stephanie Smi for remarks he made about her career before politics. But this week, Ford was on the [clears throat] receiving end of some nasty rhetoric with NDP leader Mark Styles saying that if her party forms government after the next election, she'll call a public inquiry to investigate the progressive conservatives and that Ford could even find himself quote in jail before then. Ford called the accusation Trumpstyle rhetoric and his government house leader Steve Clark said that language has no place in Ontario or Canada. Okay, JMM the background please.
>> Right. So Styles's remarks came in the context of uh the PC majority in the legislature voting to pass the government's uh changes to Ontario's Freedom of Information Law. That was included of course in the budget measures bill. So no surprise that this was passed by the legislature. Um but we are starting to see the specific impacts of those changes and it includes the fact that um some documents that were supposed to be released relating to the green belt scandal from 2022 and 2023. Uh those releases have now been cancelled and uh documents that the public would have previously been entitled to will now be kept secret at least for some time and we'll get to that in a second. Styles was saying, you know, in effect that should the NDP form government, uh, her future government would find a way to bring those documents to light with like a public inquiry as a for example. And she was reminding voters that Ford is last we heard [laughter] uh, currently the subject of an RCMP criminal investigation. All of that is is basically like a statement of fact. Uh, it doesn't quite fit into the soundbite, right? uh the soundbite styles provided too many ears uh sounded a lot closer to that Trump style lock him up [laughter] uh rhetoric.
>> Well, lock her up in the case of Trump. Yes,
>> he was talking about Hillary,
>> you know, and and that's the nature of the criticism that Styles faced this week.
>> Any indication that the opposition leader is prepared to apologize for this?
>> Uh no. Uh no apology forthcoming and and [laughter] no quarter asked, no quarter given. Uh the the premier is not asking uh for an apology either.
>> Okay. Should we do a full disclosure here? Sure.
>> You and I kind of like civility in politics. We do.
>> That is our preferred default position. We are not fans of the politics of personal destruction. We are not fans of overheated rhetoric.
>> Yes.
>> So what do you make of all this?
>> So uh on top of that, you and I are also parents. [laughter] And I'm uh tempted to reach for the the admonition I might use with my 10-year-old. you know, two wrongs don't make a right. Um, and you know, I think it is in fact fair and factual to say that that Styles wasn't actually saying like that she would direct Ontario's crown prosecutors to, you know, charge and prosecute Doug Ford. That that's not what she was saying. And I don't think that's a fair reading of what she did say. Um, however, [laughter] the the in-house position here at the OnPy podcast is, you know, we it's not just that we want people uh to be civil in the narrow sense, but that uh you know, it's it's better for our politics if people take a bit more care with the things they say and stay far away from those uh zones where the rhetoric could be construed in, you know, the the the way we're speaking of that that you know, the the implication that she might prosecute her en her her political enemies, you know.
>> Yeah, we don't want any of that kind of stuff. So, that's one cliche. You got any others up your sleeve?
>> I I do. In fact, um maybe a cliche or simply a Bible verse. Uh not often that I quote scripture here on this podcast, but uh Matthew 26:52, he who lives by the sword dies by the sword.
>> Ah, yes, indeed.
>> Um you know, Doug Ford has not just used uh overheated rhetoric uh of his own uh against his political opponents. he has specifically used this kind of rhetoric right um in 2018 after uh winning the election so he was speaking not as opposition leader uh Doug Ford he was speaking as premier Doug Ford folks who don't remember the context here uh the the young PC government was uh just trying to stick the knife into the uh ailing Liberal party of the day and uh they were looking to punish them for the um uh fair hydro And there were lots of genuine reasons to criticize the fair hydro plan, including from the auditor general of the day. The PC uh allegations were that there were um uh financial and accounting tricks uh that the government used to hide the costs. Uh specifically, Ford said of that plan, quote, "If you tried to play these dirty accounting tricks in business, if you tried to pull that kind of cover up in the private sector, the Ontario Securities Commission would come calling. The police would come calling."
>> So,
>> I don't love that either.
>> Exactly. Right. Um the progressive conservatives then convened a select committee of the legislature to investigate the fair hydro plan. Uh they made tons of government documents public and called both politicians and civil servants to testify about it. Uh I will remind something we've mentioned on the podcast before, but when you get uh called to testify before a uh legislative or parliamentary committee, you do not have the right to remain silent. Um the the constitutional bargain is that uh anything you say before a a parliamentary committee cannot be used against you in criminal prosecution. But you you very literally lose a a constitutional right when you are forced to testify before a parliamentary committee. So this is like serious business. Um, so if we strip away the the heated allegations of the moment, you know, what Styles was proposing or or you know, what we uh uh can read her her uh statement as as meaning, it it really directly mirrors what the progressive conservatives actually did in power uh to their own political opponents as one of their first orders of business. Uh people warned the premier and the progressive conservative party that they might not love the uh president that they were setting uh that they might come to regret it. They went ahead and did it anyway. So um yeah, those warnings were ignored.
>> There's a bit of a reap what you sew going on here.
>> Little bit.
>> A little bit. Little bit.
>> Um okay. So whether it's eight years ago with Doug Ford or a couple of weeks ago against Stephanie Smith with Doug Ford or last week with Maret Styles against Doug Ford,
>> maybe everybody could just take a bit of a chill pill. We're not having an election in this province. Probably not for another 3 years. We get that the rhetoric heats up around election time, but we're not anywhere near an election. So maybe everybody, all sides, could just take a little more care with what they are saying. And to that end, would you mind if I shared a new initiative with you that I'm a little I'm a little bit involved with something here? There's a new group called Decency Matters, and it has been launched by the former deputy premier of Ontario, Christine Elliot.
>> Uh full disclosure, I'm a volunteer involved with this thing. I like their mission to make decency the kind of default condition in business, in politics, uh you know, in every endeavor. Let's just be increasingly decent to one another. Uh, I don't think we want to go the way that things have gone in the United States. I think we like the notion of Canada being a kinder, gentler place. So, let's ask that way and let's try and model that behavior. And I say to anybody watching or listening to this, if you if this appeals to you, get involved. Go to decencymatters.ca and let's get more decent. You know, I you mentioned the the uh state of politics in the United States. We've already uh alluded to some of it before. Uh, you know, one of the things that I've been reading a lot about lately is um the at the the early founding of the the American Republic. You know, obviously they spent a lot of thought on the shape of institutions, what what kind of powers the government should have, you know, the the nature of this thing that they were trying to bring into the world. But one of the other uh issues that really seized that founding generation was this basic question of like what did it mean to be an individual living in a democracy? uh you know and and questions of individual virtue. Could could you know [laughter] the the the the crooked timber of humanity uh be made into the the kind of people who could live virtuous lives uh in freedom. And like those are fascinating debates going through the 17 and 1800s of of like what you know how not just like what is the state's obligation to its citizens and what do citizens have to do in this state but just how do we all live with each other in a free u you know uh multicultural in that sense of of you know not having Catholics and Protestants try to kill each other right um
>> been there done that
>> you know and and so I I would just you know not to ramble about this point but I I would say you uh it is it is a debate worth having again uh in the 21st century still not just uh you know what do we expect from the government what should the government expect from its citizens but uh what kinds of behaviors should we be modeling for each other
>> amen well said decencymatters.ca CA. That's the website if you want more. And with that, let's get off to issue two. Think about this for a second. During the next election, whenever it happens, do you think it will be a good thing to keep AI fabrications and other misinformation out of the campaign? Interim Liberal leader John Fraser did, and he pitched a private members bill to that effect. Interestingly, the majority of MPPPs voted the bill down. Why? [laughter] Well, the short version is because it was a private members bill and the majority almost always votes down the opposition's uh private members bill. But let's get into the details, shall we? Uh we are talking here about Bill 99. Uh as you say, this is John Fraser's free and fair elections act. The bill would do a few different things, but the the newsiest bit, the bit we are talking about is that it would have forced anyone engaging in election advertising, uh either political parties or third party advertisers to clearly identify when they've used AI to generate content for an ad. Uh so it would not strictly speaking have prohibited the use of AI in advertising but they anybody who did so would be forced to very clearly identify that they had used AI to produce imagery or audio or whatever. Um we are going to talk about some of the other parts of the bill but uh as I say this is a private members bill. You and I have seen this over and over and over again. Uh, in fact, private members bills are so frequently defeated uh by the governing majority of the day that uh at this point I think most opposition members um have kind of given up on trying to
>> well except that they're useful in establishing what an issue might be and and creating some debate around it as we're doing right now and getting people to kind of plant their flag where they are. And apparently the Tories are against this.
>> Yes. And so um let me sort of summarize the the debate because so this bill went to second reading debate. It did not get any kind of committee hearing or anything. it was defeated after the second reading debate, you know, and so the the argument for the bill from John Fraser uh is, you know, simply that uh AI is moving so quickly that the technology needs uh some guard rails uh to be put up early. um that uh you know we have frankly already seen some cases from other jurisdictions where uh you know AI fabricated you know so-called deep fakes have been used to accuse public figures of saying or doing things that they did not in fact say or do. Um you know uh Fraser's bill sought to as we said sought to put some some uh guard rails on um but there there was more to it than that.
>> I think that I mean the AI was only part of it right that had other aspects as well.
>> Yes absolutely. So uh you know most of these recommendations were uh uh lifted with credit if I could put it that way uh from the recommendations of the chief electoral officer who is required to produce a report after every election. We had an election in 2025. The chief electoral officer has issued a report that includes uh 17 recommendations for uh legislative changes. Um, most of these recommendations, if I can, well, many of the recommendations, if I could put it this way, are designed to clean up some of the problems that are caused by uh Ontario having abandoned fixedterm elections. Uh, folks will remember that Doug Ford ignored the fixedterm election law in 2025 and then having won the election, repealed it altogether,
>> and it's gone now.
>> It's just gone. Um so uh but this causes some problems because the uh the the administration of elections had been uh based around this very predictable cadence of elections that we were going to have going forward. And so the chief electoral officer said like okay fine if we're not going to do fixedterm elections here's some things that would make things a bit cleaner a bit easier.
>> They want to get rid of the misinformation that often accompanies election campaigns.
>> Yes. Uh so that is part of it. um the uh some of the the misinformation that we have seen in previous election campaigns uh you know things like messages going out telling people to vote in the wrong location or vote on the wrong day. uh this uh bill would have uh made that illegal. Uh would give the uh chief electoral officer uh the power to um force uh platforms to uh take that information down if they find that somebody is is falsely uh broadcasting misinformation. Um you know these are pretty uh common well they they are certainly dirty tricks that we have seen in uh other elections. I I I can't remember a case in Ontario where we saw something truly consequential where we, you know, you looked at a a a riding and said, "Oh, well, they only won that writing because of X, Y, or Z dirty trick." Um, but then again, my memory doesn't go back that far. [laughter]
>> Um,
>> somebody got busted for once upon a time. There was a conservative
>> adviser who did some of these kinds of dirty tricks associated with an election campaign, I want to say 10, 15 years ago or something. and he did get busted for it.
>> But um but yeah, so I guess what? Dirty tricks are allowed now. Is that what we're saying?
>> Well, so of course the legislation did not in fact pass and um the government's argument against this bill. I'm going to grossly summarize here. Um but this uh argument was presented by MPP Monica Cerello, who is uh we're going to check our Hamilton box here. She's the MPP for Hamilton Mountain here. Um and uh she said more or less that the in fact the 2025 election showed that uh Ontario's election system is uh working just fine that the chief electoral officer does not in fact need expanded powers um and that the end of fixedterm elections uh is not that big a deal and is in fact a return to the uh British parliamentary president that existed for more than 100 years.
>> That's accurate. We have returned to the way it was. Yes.
>> Okay. Anything else here you want to get up on? There is a recommendation that the chief electoral officer made that it was not in John Fraser's bill, but it's one I care about. So, I'm just going to get on a hobby horse for a moment. Uh [laughter] the recommendation here is that uh Ontario schedule its electoral boundary adjustment uh right you know re redistricting, reortionment, whatever you want to call it. Uh we have not adjusted Ontario's uh electoral boundaries since before the 2018 election. Uh it is currently 2026 if everybody's looking at a calendar. Um the 2026 census just began. Uh we have uh already like passed one census cycle. Uh the the current uh electoral boundaries I think are still based on the 2011 census. Right. So Ontario's electoral map is out of date and needs updating and there is no word from the government on uh what Ontario is going to do next. Right? For since 1999, our precedent has been that southern Ontario uh has uh adopted the federal riding boundaries and just, you know, mirrored them precisely. And then starting in 2005, we just uh we we have made adjustments, made allowances for Northern Ontario. We we we don't remove seats from Northern Ontario um despite its relative population shrinking in the province.
>> In fact, we gave extra seats in Northern Ontario. Yes, we did. Recognizing that there are different and special needs in the north that may require accommodation on the floor of the legislature.
>> Yes, precisely. Um we don't know at the moment whether that past president will continue. Uh the premier was asked about this once a year or two ago and uh referred to the federal map as a liberal map. Um so that I think at least calls into the question of whether we are in fact going to mirror the federal writings again. Like if we don't want to do that, if we want to draw Ontario's own electoral map, that's like a totally reasonable choice to make, that is a uh uh you know, I I have said before and will say again like federalism matters and the the province has its own right to make its own electoral map if it wants. Uh but like that's a lengthy and involved process to do that properly. Um so if you're going to do that that you kind of like the clock is ticking. we kind of want to do that soon [laughter] and we have no no word yet from uh the government on uh whether any of that is going to get started and I kind of feel like that's an important matter that we should keep in mind
>> and for the record because we do like to clarify the record here
>> the federal boundaries are not a liberal map quote unquote as the premier said
>> yes this is important
>> this is not we I mean in Canada we don't gerrymander writings or districts as they do in the United States to favor those who are in and disfavor those who are out. We have independent judges and academics draw the riding boundaries to make sure that they are as kosher as possible. So
>> some question about what's going on in Alberta right now. Uh fair enough. Like
>> in general we have adhered to this this principle of nonpartisan uh boundaries. should continue to
>> and yes and and I think we have been extremely well served by that uh principle and you are quite right to emphasize that the the federal boundary map well like here in Toronto a Liberal MP lost his seat in Dawn Valley East Michael now he he found another seat to run in and MP
>> his writing disappeared
>> uh but yeah his his writing disappeared which is not the kind of thing that is happening in US jurisdictions right now let me put it that way [laughter]
>> well put and with that we're off to issue three. The Ontario government has had enough of open drug use on and around public transit spaces and intends to do something about it. This week, the solicitor general, Michael Kursner, announced the government will allow special constables, the uniformed peace officers on transit services such as Toronto's TTC, to arrest people for using illegal drugs on the system. Okay, fill us in here.
>> Right. So, the government says that they have an upcoming legislative and regulatory package that will include amendments to uh the regulation that controls what special constables are allowed to be used for. So, you have if certainly if you live in Toronto, you have seen special constables on the TTC. Uh they do not have all of the same uh powers or for that matter training that police officers receive. uh they are not supposed to be used for all the same purposes that we uh use police officers for and they are for example generally not allowed to carry firearms uh although some special constables are. It's a very interesting regulation. Um, so the limits to what we use special constables for are spelled out in government regulation and the government is saying that it will add to that regulation that special constables are allowed to enforce the uh restriction of public consumption of illegal substances act. Now that name uh of that legislation might not sound familiar but it should because it was mentioned just last year. Uh this was the law the government introduced after the election last year. It allows uh peace officers to demand someone leave a public area if they are using illegal drugs. And peace officers can also demand that someone identify themselves. It's kind of obvious, but it is already illegal to uh use and possess illegal drugs. And that's a federal uh uh a federal law. Uh this is uh a provincial law that creates sort of additional offenses and gives these uh uh gives provincial peace officers these additional powers. Um, if someone refuses a direction from uh a police officer or a special constable to to leave an area, uh, they can be fined up to $10,000 or imprisoned for up to 6 months.
>> Do we know when this would take effect?
>> So, uh, I mentioned this is part of a a legislative and regulatory package. I like we're getting kind of late in the the calendar for the spring sitting. So if they have legislative measures they are introducing I kind of don't expect them to get passed before the house rises in early June. But because we are talking specifically about amending uh a regulation uh that is not something where the government needs to you know introduce a bill and get three readings and three votes in the legislature they can amend the regulation. It's a relatively uh straightforward matter. Uh they say that the regulation will take effect in July.
>> Any criticism to this move? Uh the Canadian Civil Liberties Association uh you know understandably knowing their background has condemned the move saying uh in part from a release I'm going to quote here Ontario has made a deliberate choice to respond to a public health crisis with coercion instead of care. That comes from Howard Sapers the executive director of the CCLA uh who continued we need solutions that are effective and rights respecting not measures that push vulnerable people further to the margins.
>> Let's do one more angle on this because the timing of this is interesting. You being, how do I put this? A sports heathen.
>> Yes.
>> May not know that the world is coming to Toronto pretty soon, right? We've got the FIFA World Cup coming here. A bunch of events.
>> Even Even I managed to clue into that. Yes,
>> you did know that. Okay. [laughter] You did know that. Well, that obviously is going to bring a bunch of tourists to Toronto and to Beimo Field in Toronto where the games are happening. But, uh, almost all the games are going to be in tune before these rules take effect. Right.
>> Yeah, I also noticed that bit. Uh so [clears throat] you know if if the point is to get drug use uh out of the public eye and you know yes the government has made some uh investments in in treatment and and other services but if we're honest the reason for a law like this is to get drug use out of public spaces. Um I would have thought that we would want to do it before Toronto hosted its most touristy event of the year. Um, now I do want to stress that we might learn more uh uh as the government like formally introduces this this package. There might be ways that this change in regulation does come into effect uh sooner. But yeah, the the timing here uh I I don't I don't want to be churish here, but it's just like the timing seems odd to me. [laughter]
>> Okay, we're staying tuned.
>> Okay,
>> and with that, off to your column, my column. Time now for our regular feature. You know it. You love it. We call it your column. My column. I hope they love it. Do you think they love it?
>> I sure hope so, cuz we spend a bunch of time on it every week.
>> I agree. I agree. Well, people tell me they like it. So, anyway, I just said that. Anyway, JMM and I like to reminisce about the columns that we wrote for the TVO website, tvO.org, over the past week. And what will you favor us with this week? Uh, I decided to uh reiterate what I think counts as one of my hottest takes in uh certainly in Toronto politics, which is that um uh Ontario has electoral legislation for municipalities that functionally makes it impossible to have political parties like functioning normal political parties at the municipal level. And I think this is bad and we should amend the law to allow political parties uh at the municipal level.
>> Really?
>> So,
>> shame, John Michael McGrath. Shame.
>> I've been getting a lot of that. Um, you know, [snorts] I I think we like to imagine that, you know, in the absence of political parties, we would have this like great uh uh Socratic debate un unsullied by the the the [clears throat] grubby nature of partisan politics. And what we actually have is um uncompetitive elections. Uh a kind of morbid fact that is nevertheless true is that in the last two election cycles uh more uh more city councilors died in office than were defeated by uh challengers. uh like incumbency is the most powerful electoral force in Toronto politics and if you win an election it almost does not matter how narrowly you win an election uh in your first election you almost have guaranteed employment for life if you want it uh almost
>> there there is a sitting city councelor in in the current council who won his first election with 17% of the vote uh and continues to now win handily because basically in the absence of political parties people go off of name recognition and hyper local issues that they care about. Hyper local issues are important, but it does not make for terribly competitive or responsive politics. I would argue um there are other reasons that I I think we should adopt municipal political parties at the very least for our very large cities, but I raised it specifically this week uh because I mean the municipal election season is getting started and we are seeing in Toronto two nominally third party advertising groups uh Progress Toronto and a Better City Toronto or ABC Toronto uh that are functionally doing all of the things that political parties do without as much accountability, if I could put it that way. Um, I'm not even saying that they are being like, you know, like dark money super PACs or anything like that. It's just that like there's no uh direct electoral connection between uh these what these groups and like the candidates they are backing for example. So uh yeah, I think we are increasingly lying to ourselves about the nature of these elections particularly in Toronto. we have functionally things very very close to political parties but we're kind of lying to ourselves and further I would say that ideas that start in Toronto tend to spread elsewhere and if we don't see these kinds of groups in other Ontario cities in this election cycle I suspect we will in the next
>> well I'll give you this there it almost doesn't matter how far back you go the mayor and his or her allies usually constitute a block or party at city hall
>> then there are the opponents of the mayor which is another block and then there is this sort of group in the middle that's amorphous and is persuadable one way or the other. So in some respects we kind of do and have always had three distinct political blocks or parties at city hall but you want to take it one step further don't you?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, let me put it to you this way. Um in the absence of this specific aspect of Ontario law, like of course we would have political parties, right? Um, political parties are what you get as a natural expression of freedom of association and freedom of speech. Political parties have evolved in like every representative democracy even in cases where they have tried to build representative democracies to specifically suppress political parties, right? We talked about the American founding earlier in the podcast, right? The the the founding generation of the US Republic was like, we hate political parties and we want to see them never evolve here. And like within the first US presidential election, there were political parties, right? So I just think if you take local democracy seriously
>> and I think a lot of our audience does uh we've talked about you know uh uh some of the the current government's uh meddling in local uh democracy uh critically uh if you take local democracy seriously then I think you should grapple with the fact that like every other democracy including like by the way lots of peer cities across the globe are run by competitive partisan systems right like New York, London, Paris, Berlin, Rome, like Chicago, like these are all partisan councils and like even here in Canada, Vancouver and Montreal have party elections, right? So I Yeah, this is one of those times where I just think Toronto needs to get over itself. [laughter] Toronto, I love you, but like get over yourself.
>> Okay, you you've advanced the case. We should we should have a couple of guests come on and debate this sometimes cuz uh I'm not sold yet.
>> Okay,
>> I'm not sold yet. I'm open-minded on all things, but I'm not sold yet. My column this week is about the Billy Bishop Airport expansion, and I want to ask you just a couple of questions as I unveil what I wrote about. Number one, do you know who's in favor of expanding?
>> Uh, the provincial government and the party.
>> Correct. Do you know who is opposed to the expansion?
>> Uh, the mayor of uh Toronto and much of city council.
>> Do you know what the federal government's position is on this?
>> I have no idea.
>> And neither do they. And that's what my column is about. The waterfront is basically run by a tripartite organization that is composed of the city, the province, and the feds. And as you've pointed out, we know what the city and the province think. The feds are being very purposefully quiet on this right now. Why? It's really interesting. the Minister of the Environment. And believe me, a lot of people have made the argument that if you bring bigger jets and longer runways to the airport on the waterfront, a lot of the environmental benefits that you get, namely people using the waterfront, namely people boating there, people doing what they do on the waterfront going down for a good time, uh, all of that is going to disappear. Much of it would anyway. So, the environment minister's writing is right beside Billy Bishop Airport. It's one to the east. She has had nothing to say about this so far other than we intend to work with all the parties once we see a formal plan from yada yada yada. That's about it. I think uh Julie Zerowitz from the Davenport writing is the only Liberal MP who has had anything to say about this. But otherwise, do you know how many seats? There are 24 seats in the 416. 24 seats
>> of MPs in the city of Toronto. Do you know how many seats the Liberals hold of the 24?
>> It's 24.
>> 23. Oh,
>> they've got all but one. Roman Babber is the one conservative up in the northwest.
>> Yes. Somebody corrected us on that. Yes.
>> Yeah. 23 out of 24. And yet, for some reason, um 22 of the 23 have really headed for the hills and are trying to avoid this issue. I don't know if they're trying to curry favor with the prime minister who is being studiously quiet because he's trying to curry favor with the premier. It's a very interesting situation. The added uh interesting part about this is there's a guy named Greg Sorbera is a name that will mean something to some of our viewers. Uh he was Daltton McGinty's finance minister earlier in this um century and he the former Liberal Minister of Finance of Ontario has written a letter to the federal Liberal Environment Minister explaining all the reasons why he thinks the airport expansion should not happen. He was assured he would get a response from her in 10 days. That was how long ago was that? That was April 5th. That was more than a month ago. And still crickets from that minister's office. This thing just gets curious and curious. And actually, there was a development earlier this week. David Crombie, the former mayor of Toronto, we're going back 50 55 years back into the early 1970s, initiated something in which he, David Miller, former mayor, Barbara Hall, former mayor. Arthur Egleton, former mayor, John Su, former mayor, are all on board as saying, "We oppose the airport expansion." And we wonder why the feds are being so quiet about not taking a position on it. So that's what my column is about. And speaking of David Crombi, I mentioned in this space uh what was it last week, I think, that he had just turned 90 years young. And somebody sent me this picture. Sheldon, can we bring this up? This guy on the left is Paul Bedford. He's a former chief planner for the city of Toronto. And the guy on the right is 90-year-old David Crombi. This is from his 90th birthday party. And the two of them are holding, if you can imagine this, they are holding in their hands an issue of Time magazine from when David Cromi was mayor. and the mayor of Toronto in the 1970s was on the cover of the American version of Time magazine because he was doing so many uh far-sighted things about the greening of Toronto back in the day. People were just astonished at how many big and beautiful parks we had in Toronto uh for a big city. So, happy birthday, David Crombie. Again, congratulations again on um getting the cover of Time magazine, which was a pretty cool thing. and he's still at age 90 um getting his feet wet as it gets as it comes to being involved in important public issues.
>> An appropriate waterfront metaphor.
>> There we go. Yes, indeed. Yes, indeed.
>> All right. Shall we get to the mailbag?
>> Let's do it. If you've got a burning question or an insightful comment, we always love hearing from you. Onpolitics tvO.org is our email address. What do you got this week, JM?
>> Uh we have an email from Lisa Freriedman who writes, "I was listening to your podcast this morning and I want to give you some information. I started as a committee clerk at the legislature in 1989 and eventually became clerk of committees at and a table clerk. I left in 2012. I actually had a premier sit as a committee member on a standing committee. So we referred in uh last week's episode to Paul Kandra uh sitting in on the committee considering his own legislation. And we said that is unusual for a cabinet minister. Uh so not Lisa did not just have a cabinet minister sitting in on her committee. She had the premier sit in on a committee. It was Mike Harris, she says. [laughter] I can't remember what the committee hearing was on, but the group appearing was the Ontario Federation of Labor. It sticks out in my memory for a number of reasons, but one of them was because the witness was Caroline Savior, and she inadvertently referred to the premier as Brother Harris. [laughter] I'm sure the premier got a kick of that.
>> I can think of one or two other occasions where a minister sat in as committee members. Rare, but it has happened. Interestingly, I can only remember one premier appearing as a witness, and that was Bob Ray. the committee was looking at his conflict of interest policy. Yours, Lisa Freriedman.
>> Isn't that interesting? Okay, great. Um, you know, we put these things on on the air in the hopes that people will uh, you know, people who've got more experience on the ground than we do in some cases will respond, and Lisa did, and that's great. Just Bob Ray is not the only one who's appeared before a committee. I I'm pretty sure Mike Harris certainly appeared as a witness before a committee. Daltton McGinty did. Kathleen Wyn did.
>> Um,
>> we mentioned that select committee earlier. Kathleen win was called to testify before that select committee.
>> Oh, do you know who the first premier to appear before a legislative committee was?
>> Oh, there you go. [laughter]
>> Hello again, George Drew. There was some organized [snorts] crime happening in Ontario. I know it's impossible to believe. Back in the 1940s and the premier was called as a w Premier George Drew was called as a witness to appear before a legislative committee to testify about what he knew about organized crime in Ontario. I think he was the first. It was certainly um a rare occasion when it happened, but of course in more in more later years, in latter years, I guess I should say,
>> where uh committee members and committee chairs um might want to get on the news more.
>> Yes.
>> Surefire way to get on the news is demand that the premier show up and testify.
>> Yes. And there's that tension between the the ambitions of MPPPS in the committee versus uh their loyalty to the premier of the
>> There you go. There you go. Okay. Give the email address and let's get out of here.
>> Right. Again, if you'd like to ask about content on the show or just uh send us some memories of your own time at Queens Park, uh please email us at onp politics@tvo.org.
>> Perfect. Okay, that is the OnP podcast for this Friday, May the 8th, 2026.
>> You can follow our show wherever you get your podcasts so that you get notified each time a new episode is available and you can see the video version of the podcast [music] on the TVOT Today YouTube channel.
>> Any feedback you have, we're always happy to hear it, good, bad, or indifferent. Write us an email at onpolitics@tvo.org. Please include your first and last name and where you're from.
>> This week's episode was produced by Tiff Lamb. Video editing by Colin Kish.
>> Production support from Jonathan Hallowell and TVO's digital media services team.
>> Lori F is the executive producer of digital. Stacy Duny is the acting vice president programming and content.
>> We always like to thank the crew for making the video portion of the podcast happen. And where's David Chung? I want to give a shout out to David Chung. There he is back there on that camera. David Chung and I, we're having a tough time these days. You may have heard the Leafs didn't make the playoffs this year and the only Canadian team left in the playoffs, John Michael, are the
>> I assume they play hockey. [laughter]
>> Just when I think I'm making progress with this, the Montreal Canadians are the only team left and I'm [music] sorry. I know you're supposed to cheer for the Canadian teams in the playoffs. David and I agree. It's impossible for Leaf fans to cheer for the Habs in the playoffs. So, please meet me at camera, too, as I say, go Buffalo Sabres. And until next Friday, bye-bye.
>> Byebye.