[music] Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio, news. [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of the OddLocks podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, remember how like in the late 90s like the internet was starting to become a thing and [laughter] people thought it would bring like liberalism and democracy utopia.
>> I totally bought into that. Like I I you know people look back at that and like oh they were naive. Like I don't blame them. Like I think I bought into that too.
>> I mean there was something very wholesome about the sort of mid9s internet culture where you could go to everyone's like little individual blog and people were mostly talking about their hobbies and things like that. or at least that was my experience of it. Probably colored by the fact that I was in middle school at the time. But it seemed very innocent.
>> It was very cool. It was very decentralized. Right. So now we associate the internet with a handful of tech oligarchs that control various kingdoms maybe you could even say within the internet whether it's the Meta Kingdom or the Amazon kingdom or whatever. But it was very decentralized. Everyone had their own little sites cobbled together and so forth. And I totally bought that idea. I was just like, "Oh, we're all going to talk to each other. We're going to work things out and there's no way that authoritarian governments could ever control this and we'll finally realize the true promise of democracy and all that stuff. I totally bought into it.
>> Fast forward to 2026. How would you describe the internet now?
>> I mean the word that always comes to my mind and there are many words is just this sort of like sheer like sort of tribalism and conflictualism on every level, right? nationalism, racism, bigotry, anti-semitism, sexism, etc. This is it's just like riven with that. It's riven with conflict and so forth. It's heavily centralized. All of the sort of utopian promise. I'm like, um, didn't really pan out that way.
>> I would say cesspool.
>> Cespool. That's a good one, too.
>> You have to try really, really hard nowadays to find like good and useful corners of the internet. And I'm not saying that they're not out there, but it is interesting how far we've deviated from that initial utopian pre premise of the internet. The other thing that's happening, we're recording this on, let's see, January 27th. What's interesting is that we're starting to have even more discussion about the power of the platform. So over the weekend, there have been some allegations that Tik Tok, for instance, is censoring Minneapolis video or video of the Minneapolis shooting. And that's just after the new ownership
>> Yeah.
>> took control of the platform, right? So they spun off the US business and now it has all these new owners and people are starting to talk about well maybe they're censoring or even if they're not directly censoring some stuff, maybe the algorithm is influencing what people see.
>> Totally. And then there's one other dimension before we get into the conversation that I think is very important here, which is that the internet is splintering geographically. Right. So, we've known for a long time, of course, people talk about the firewall in China and the Chinese internet, but it's not just China, right? We see the UK establishing its own rules, and we see Australia establishing its own rules. We saw the thing a couple years ago with Brazil temporarily banning Twitter, etc. And so, there's all these sort of intermingling of digital platforms and national sovereignty. And I really do believe to some extent that a lot of the leaders around the world are looking at China in a seemingly more controlled internet like with jealousy, right? And they're saying, "Oh, we would love to like have this level of control over our sort of town square, etc." And you know, some countries have the first amendment, so that makes it very tough, etc. But it really feels like there are so many aspects of um the internet that are sort of not panning out, and people like we want to constrict what people can see. We want to tighten the algorithms. We want to curb some kind of discourse, etc. And I think this is going to be one of the biggest stories of our time.
>> Yeah. With China specifically, there's still a big question which is whether or not the censorship of the internet basically allows it to act as a sort of like safety valve that lets people, you know, blow off some steam but not enough steam to actually threaten the regime over there or whether it's actually a tool or could be a tool of social change because people are to some extent allowed to say some stuff. I think that question is like still kind of unanswered. Well, I'm very excited to say we really do have the perfect guest, someone who has written a fascinating new book all about the Chinese internet. We're going to be speaking with Yeling Louu. She is the author of the new book, The Wall Dancers. Thank you so much for coming on OddLots.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> What is this book and why is it called The Wall Dancers? Yeah. So the wall dancers, the phrase comes from this term in Chinese which is called dancing in shackles and it was first used in the early 2000s by journalists to describe what it means to like write and report under state constraints but slowly became viral as a term that was used by I've seen like software engineers use it, musicians use it, science fiction writers use it and it really resonated with me this idea of the dance because it captured This idea that to live and navigate Chinese society is a dance. It's this dynamic push and pull between state and society. It means living in this place that's on one hand rich with innovation and yet on the other hand rigidly constrained. And I came to see that this dance was most dynamic on the internet, what we know is the space behind the great firewall. And the people that I thought were really good and adept at navigating this terrain, I came to know them and call them dancers.
>> So this was the really interesting thing about your book and the reason we wanted to talk to you. You tell this story of the Chinese internet through the perspective of individuals rather than say the internet platforms that have come to dominate the space or even from a sort of state ccentric point of view. What do you get out of interviewing or following individuals versus taking that other approach which you know there are plenty of books out there about the rise of waybo and stuff like that?
>> I think my main the main reason behind this choice was if you look at western news headlines or headlines in general about China and Chinese technology it almost always falls under one of two binaries. It's reduced to very simple terms. One is China, the kind of sprawling economic juggernaut that's building humanoids and highspeed rail and it's place of boundless opportunity. And then you have the like techno athoritarian oppressive regime where mindless people have no agency of their own. And I think the big issue here is that the Chinese internet is always framed through and seen through the lens of American national security and economic interests. And I wanted to force people out of these tropes. And the way to see kind of China and the Chinese internet in all its complexity and contradictions is through people and through individual lives.
>> Yeah. You start the book by telling the story of a gay man who is able through the internet to build community, find people eventually at a time when of course there was extreme repression. Homosexuality was I think illegal at the time. You know, again, this seems both in China and the US what probably a lot of people were very hopeful for with the internet. This idea that oh, people are going to be able to find community like-minded individuals, find acceptance in these digital spaces. And I suppose in many cases since this happened, but it is interesting how in both the global context and the Chinese specific context, there were similar stories being told. There were similar hopes.
>> Definitely. I I think of the story of the internet in China at least as a romance. But I'm realizing, you know, as you discussed earlier, the story of the global internet was also a romance. The story of the worldwide web was also a romance. I certainly bought into the narrative that you bought into. I thought we were on this like teological arc towards liberalization. And I think a lot of people bought into that narrative. this idea that you know the Chinese internet despite the fact that the firewall existed very early was going to push people towards greater openness, greater freedom, greater connection and it would just keep going on from there and there. So talk to us about what is and isn't allowed on the Chinese internet then because as you say it's more nuanced than just like outright censorship in many ways. Although sometimes it is just outright censorship and you can't say a specific word like tennmen or something like that. And I remember actually now that I'm thinking about it in the early 2000s when I was in Beijing like the censorship was very obvious like certain sites were just outright blocked on TV. You'd be watching CNN and suddenly it would go black during a news story or you get newspapers delivered to you that had literally physical like
>> sentences crossed out with a black marker. But what is and isn't allowed.
>> I will start off by saying that if I could answer that question really accurately, [laughter] I would be a very rich woman right now. I think the reason being like the censorship ecosystem thrives off vagueness, right? the fact that it's vague, the fact that there are no red lines is what allows it to function so effectively. I will say that it's changed quite dramatically over the last few decades, especially since you were last there, Tracy. So, you know, back in the day, I would say the lines were much clearer. Uh, a lot of people would say things like, "No tenan men, no Tibet, no Taiwan." They would call them the three T's. So censorship back then was very much allowed about a disscent against the government, criticism of the government, but most importantly anything that would provoke collective action. So if there was, you know, news of a protest or news of people gathering or any type of unease that might boil into something bigger and bring people together into a physical town square that got censored. But over the years, I would say particularly in the mid210s, that's come to encompass also anything that veers from the party's ideological agenda. So this is where you have statements coming out saying we don't want unhealthy marital values appearing on the internet. Like we don't want I think recently in 2021, [ __ ] boys got added to things that got needed to be taken down the internet. No sissies allowed. I'm imagining like a handdrawn sign on a treehouse or something.
>> Yeah. And you know like everything that comes you know everything that's part of its ideological agenda is now scrubbed off. And another thing that I add on there is like the excessive flaunting of wealth. You know that's something that's new that used to be all over the internet back in the day.
>> We need that here. It's driving people crazy cuz they look on Instagram and I remember being you know during co and I was like in my house and seeing like all these people like flying around. I got very resentful. What about criticisms of the government, but not from an ideological perspective per se? Because sometimes you read a story like someone will have gotten hit by a train or a car and maybe the police like didn't do an investigation, you see this big uproar. talk to us about what's allowed and how they how the managers of the firewall or managers of the rules not the firewall per se think about these incidents like just yeah criticism of government handling of things
>> again like I can't say with you know definitively what's taken down and what's not taken down I would veer on saying that whenever there's any criticism of any kind of local official local government that's technically looked on with great caution and taken down but how it actually works behind the scenes is that some higher level top regulator say the the Chinese cyerspace administration the CIC will write a directive so maybe there's local corruption in some county and news starts spilling out and whoever is part of that regulatory committee will be writing a directive that says hey downplay this let's not have this appear on way that will then get passed on to Wayboa's sensors who then start scrubbing that off their news feed. Or it happens the other way where Waybo's sensors aren't even receiving that directive, but kind of proactively like a student who is really nervous about upsetting their teacher in advance will just go and scrub that off even before receiving that directive.
>> Oh, interesting. So, selfcensorship basically.
>> Yes. So, how labor intensive is the censorship process nowadays? Because you know I imagine as you said directives get made and someone has to enact them. But on the other hand so much of the internet nowadays is ruled by algos and most recently AI. You could just you know design an algorithm that always downplays political scandal or something like that.
>> I would say hugely labor intensive.
>> Armies of Wumau. That's what they're called, right?
>> Yeah. So that specifically refers to the 50 C army. UMO, but that specifically refers to not necessarily state sponsored actors or not necessarily state paid individuals, but people who are kind of pumping patriotic content,
>> hobbyist nationalists.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So, you know, there's actually not too much of a difference between the Wumau and maybe some of the patriotic trolls and incelss that you see on X today, right? To what extent is are some of the people who are posting like proTrump propaganda on Twitter essentially the same as Wumlau? There's this dynamic called flooding which refers to when incelss or a particular group of online individuals are pumping just content onto a news feed to try to get rid of news that they don't want people to look at. And that takes place in China all the time. But I think that's different from actual employees who work at places like Wayool or Doin who are just spending every single day deleting stuff off the web. And you know when I I interviewed actually for the book a sensor for Wayboa and he started working there at in 2011 I think he was one of 150 employees. This was right when Waybo was founded and he said you know by 2020 he had left [music] already. There were probably like 10,000. Wow. Yeah. [music] [music] I mean, this is sort of what I was struck by reading your book, which is that, you know, you talk about these people who are maybe they're bots, maybe they're paid, maybe they're just naturally impelled to join a mob and want to flood something. But some of these patterns do not seem distinct to China. It's almost like they're endemic to the internet itself, regardless of what the official rules are. Absolutely right. We have no sense of whether or not these are kind of homegrown grassroots patriotic flames that are just amplified. And you know when I say that, doesn't that sound very similar to what's taking place on the American internet?
>> I forget the name of that one American Twitter influencer who's kind of been talked about as Trump's right-hand woman. Do you know who I'm talking about?
>> Laura Loomer.
>> Yes. Laura Loomer. Like isn't there like
>> I was going to say you have to be more specific cuz there's [laughter] quite a few nowadays.
>> But yeah, Laura Lumra, you know, when we read news articles on her, it's is she being paid out? Is she not being paid out? And you know, that very much reminds me of the dynamic with a lot of Chinese patriotic influencers. Like they very much earnestly hold the views that they're sharing, but is there a cut being taken by amplifying those views and supporting those views? H since we've mentioned Waybo a couple times now and you know you just gave us that anecdote about the number of sensors they had and they have experienced phenomenal growth. One thing I never understood about Waybo is the kind of origins story because my understanding is they were basically born out of censorship. So there was unrest in Arumchi I think it was and so a bunch of existing internet platforms either got you know repressed or taken down completely and then the founder of Waybo was like I know this is an opportunity for me to get in and start my own platform. I never understood that mindset. What was it that he thought he could do that other platforms had failed to do?
>> Yeah. So Wayboy actually means little blog or micro blog and Wayboa is shorthand for Sino Wayboa which is the full company's name but before 2009 honestly before 2011 there were many many ways. There were or there were dozens of companies that were all trying to be micro blogging platforms. So there was a platform called Fanfu. Um there was a whole bunch. There was a platform called Ren Ren which was not really a micro blogging platform. is kind of like a Chinese Facebook so to say back in the day
>> people people right
>> exactly exactly and the founder of Sinoa actually founded what is now known as waya in 2009 and he did essentially the same thing as all these other companies he just did a better job of censoring that's really what happened as you mentioned during the protests in Arumchi in 2009 he just did a much better job of scrubbing information off the way feed and at the time and didn't get shut down or all of these other companies got shut down. Hm.
>> It's interesting hearing you describe we did an episode actually it was last March with Kaiser Quo of the Cynica podcast. We were talking a little bit about how Chinese policym works and this idea of this sort of decentralized centralized like KPIs right? So Beijing will this was in the industrial policy context. Beijing says we want more solar production or more electric vehicle production and then all the provincial leaders figure out what that means in the context of their region and then work quasi autonomously to satisfy that. It sounds similar to some extent with the rules around censorship especially when you describe some of that preemptive self censorship of everyone trying to figure out the right level or approach that is consistent with the broader level mandate.
>> Yeah. No, that's a really good point and definitely a parallel that I would draw. You know, for example, if they were to release industrial policy, a tech company CEO will then like read that policy very carefully and be like, okay, how can we align our company's direction with the rhetoric of this policy directive? The same goes with censorship, you know. So, one of the subjects that I profile is the CEO or was the CEO of this skating dating app, Blude. And so if they release a censorship directive saying we don't want [ __ ] boys on our platform, he's going to go and look very carefully at the platform and see how are we going to make sure there are no [ __ ] boys on our app, right? And so there is definitely this sense of I don't know if you have read Harry Potter.
>> I never did.
>> I did. Did you not?
>> I never did. I never did. But Tracy will get it and 99% of our listeners will get it. Feel free to use the analogy. It will go over my head.
>> This analogy really hit it home for me. But you remember Dolores Umbridge?
>> Yeah. Oh, she was creepy.
>> Yeah. You remember how she would like post these degrees
>> and then all of the and she would just post them on the wall and then they would be kind of vague and then students would freak out and scramble and you know people like Malfoy would aggressively over and interpret and [clears throat] that I think that's the dynamic essentially.
>> Remember that. I think this is an underappreciated point sometimes, but like the vagueness in the decrees is done on purpose, right? It's so that like you're never really sure what is and isn't allowed and so you do start self-censoring and also, you know, if the government wants to go after you, they can do it because the rule is purposefully vague.
>> Yeah. And it also means that like each of these companies have these huge keyword databases of censored words and those are extremely valuable. They're like proprietary assets where you know they that is how they keep their company alive essentially, right? It if you have a better keyword database than the company down the road, you're going to have a better chance of surviving. So just on the keywords, this is one of the most fascinating things about the Chinese internet and I think a lot of people know about it at this point, but you know, internet users are very creative in bypassing the sensors. So they're always coming up with codes, some of which sound very funny if you don't know the context. Like isn't there one horse mud horse mud or mudgrass horse or something fighting a crab?
>> Exactly.
>> Winnie the Poo. Yeah, there we go. Winnie the Pooh. All right. That one
>> would be the obvious one. This is sort of tangential, but do you think that I guess do you think that kind of creativity or like code wording?
>> Do you think that's related to the Chinese language itself and the fact that a lot of the words are very literal and also you have a lot of homonyms?
>> Definitely. Like a huge part of it is like each character can have multiple meanings. So for example, the most famous one that you mentioned that emerged as early as the early 2000s was this idea of the grass mud horse, right? And so grass mud horse in Chinese is ma and just depending on the tones you shift the tones, it becomes which means basically your mom. And so, you know, it became this like rally cuz ironic rallying cry pushing back against, you know, authorities who are being who are overstepping their bounds. But it's funny and punny at the same time.
>> I do think even like on Twitter, you see certain communities, particular more extremist ones, like you see their esoteric communications and you see their code words, but it does seem like especially with the prevalence of very subtle homonyms etc. the creativity for esoteric expression probably gets taken to a whole new level.
>> Definitely. Definitely. Though an interesting dynamic that I'm now seeing is that a lot of the terms that are being used on the Chinese internet are actually, you know, echoing a lot of the sentiment that of the terms that are being used in the American internet. So more
>> one term that I've noticed come up, it's not hugely viral in either place yet, is this idea of the NPC.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah. Or the non-player character. And I didn't realize this was like resonating on both sides.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah.
>> That's interesting.
>> Do you know that one the big chess party or have are you familiar with that term or the 3D chess party or something like that?
>> I'm I'm not sure.
>> There's one I like that I saw that I started using which is people who are so defensive of the leadership that every everything they say is like no no you don't get it. They're playing 5D chess or you don't get and so I think they the term was big chess party or something like that. I think we need to we need to start incorporating that more because that's a good one. Yeah, it's a fun one.
>> But actually on this note, how difficult is it to keep track of all the different code words or to learn the new code words? Because, you know, on the one hand, if you're saying Winnie the Pooh in instead of shiinping or something like that, it allows you to perhaps bypass censorship. But on the other hand, if you're talking in code constantly, I imagine it means some people like just aren't getting the message. It's not resonating with a certain sector of society. So, how difficult is it? And what are the pros and cons of having to keep up with all these keywords constantly?
>> Absolutely. I mean, it's hugely difficult. It just means that these words become more and more obscure. You know, I'm someone who has made a career out of studying the Chinese internet and I'll often read social media posts and have no idea what's going on. And there are entire teams. There's actually this excellent team called China Digital Times, a nonprofit organization that literally studies. Exactly. Exactly. And I have to consult that because sometimes I'm reading stuff and I have no idea what it's referring to.
>> Huh. I want to get into more of the sort of like especially like how an American or internationally we might learn more generally about what's going on the Chinese internet. But before we get to that, I want to ask there is this trope or this thing that gets repeated a lot and you heard it a lot in the Tik Tok debates and it's smacks of a certain racism or exoticism or orientalism etc. where people say, "Oh, on American Tik Tok, they're all like it's all a bunch of garbage and rage bait and slob, but on the equivalent in China, it's they're learning mathematics and learning how to play violin and all these sort of stereotypical things." Can you talk to us just a little bit about like how similar dissimilar do these platforms feel from a sort of day-to-day content standpoint setting aside sensitivities about politics? Yeah, I mean I'm like kind of torn about that statement because on one hand it kind of like glorifies I mean it depending on who you're look who's saying those statements, right? You're either glorifying and kind of like projecting a lot onto the Chinese internet. It really reveals more about I would say like American conservative anxiety about what's appearing on their own internet and projections because the Chinese internet is full of like crazy slop too. Well, this is what I'm like, get it. My assumption is that the gap is like massively overstated, but I've never, you know, consumed whatever the Chinese version, the original Tik Tok is. So, I just have no sense like how real these stereotypes are, or whatever.
>> Exactly. Like when a young student, you know, in China is just like scrolling through, they're not just getting wonderful math content that's going to like help them excel at school. But what I will say is that definitely within the Chinese censorship context, there is this emphasis on what the party likes to call positive energy. So it is definitely much more sanitized than American social media platforms. Like you are not going to see quote unquote unhealthy marital values or like that is taken down, right? And so while on one hand I don't want to say like they're completely different, they definitely are different in terms of you know what appears there and what doesn't.
>> Yeah. Since you mentioned students, have we seen any efforts by the party to, I guess, crack down on internet use in general? And I'm thinking back to, you know, the video game crackdown where there was, you know, a sense or a directive that kids were spending too much time playing video games and they should be learning important and useful things. Do you see a similar attitude towards the internet just out of curiosity? not as much. But I would say the video game piece is the one that you know comes to mind when you bring it up. I think the issue being the internet is just such a vital part of daily operation and just getting around like you can't really tell a young person to get off WeChat if that's both how he communicates with his mom and his teacher, you know, and to buy basic goods. But you can say, "Well, let's get rid of video games for x amount of hours every weekday because that's clearly a net bad. [music] [music] If I spoke Chinese, could I open up a Weebo account from here? Would it be easy to just start joining and posting with everyone?
>> Yeah, okay, definitely.
>> Talk to us about I should do that. That's a good reason to learn Chinese, which is one of my 2026 goals is to start taking lessons. So, we'll see. Good luck. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Talk to us about those that five minute period in history in which Tik Tok was banned in the United States and suddenly there was a flood of American users to that other Red Note or something like that. I forgot what it was called. What talk to us about that experience and whether anything interesting emerged from that
>> there was 10 days where that happened or whatever.
>> Yeah, it was an incredible moment. I remember it very clearly, but essentially there was news, impending news that Tik Tok would get banned in the US and all these Tik Tok.
>> It was banned for like a day, but one day wasn't accessible. Yeah.
>> But in the in the leadup to that, Tik Tok users were freaking out and they essentially, I think millions of American Tik Tok users started to flood Rednote or as it's known in China, Xiaoongu, which is, you know, people call it China's Instagram, but that's not quite the right equivalent. It's almost this Instagram meets Pinterest meets Yelp type social media platform mostly used by young urban women. Has a slightly more liberal bent to like catch up on lifestyle news. Now it's all kinds of news. But I was both on one hand struck by the irony of the situation, you know, that the American internet had somehow become so closed and siloed and controlled that the way to escape it was to then jump to
>> arguably sort of like it was sort of like a reverse Berlin Wall moment in which the West the West Germans were the ones flooding into the other side after this uh I don't know something like That it's very Yeah, it is irony, doesn't it?
>> Right. It's like
>> we were the ones that had the restriction placed on us in America and so then they suddenly like we spill up find a new hole in the wall to spill over onto the other side.
>> Exactly. Which is why they were, you know, like I think American users were looking for their Chinese spies um kind of ironically and Chinese users were teaching them how to get around Red Note sensors. But I think like key to that was just like I felt a lot of delight from that moment because it was the first time there was this like really sincere and earnest exchange between users on both sides of the internet and I hadn't felt that and seen that in years if not decades.
>> So one of the debates that's constantly ongoing when it comes to Tik Tok is what the algorithm is doing and what content it's actually surfacing. What are the like parallels with I guess censorship in China or where do you see key differences in terms of what the algo can do to influence the general population?
>> So you mean like between the algorithm in China and the algorithm in the US? I would say that you know the algorithm it's it's always really hard to say to what extent the algorithm is playing a role in censorship censorship of the content right and I think that's one of the big issues or that the big criticisms that's playing out right now with this Tik Tok sale even though vast majority of the ownership is American the algorithm is still owned by bite dance so to what extent does bite dance still have influence over what American users are seeing that's up to question I think the difference is in China. There's just a lot more tools externally to kind of control what happens after that. It doesn't matter how the algorithm is dictating what appears on the feeds. You know, there are still content moderators who can come in and deal with the content that is posted online after, you know, it's it's already posted.
>> Joe, I feel like I need to uh make a public service announcement. actually a public service announcement recognizing someone for their public service which is Sam Row
>> who does the dirty work of trolling through Tik Tok on a daily basis and then the only good ones
>> cross-osting the good videos onto Instagram for everyone who doesn't actually have Tik Tok like me
>> people should follow him he
>> genuinely a public service
>> genuinely I want to go back to sort of kind of where we started at the beginning but I think it's a question of some pretty significant stakes you Um so you talk about the rise of the sort of like very nationalistic impulse that you see on the Chinese internet these days which again very similar to here and I would say and many people would agree that if you look at the US government right now you're like the pathologies the dysfunctions etc. It's like almost downstream like the internet has shaped the US government in many respects. Max Reed, who we've had on the podcast, who has a really good newsletter, talked about how it's like the comment section is one. And all of the people who are in power in the US government, are the people who like 10 years ago were angry about having been banned from the comment section and now they have the last laugh on everyone else because now they hold the levers of power. Talk to us about the emergence of the sort of strong nationalistic undercurrent on the Chinese internet. when did that like start to emerge and how does that sort of like reinforce the political direction of travel within chi within Chinese politics?
>> Yeah, I would say similar to what has happened in the US that patriotic undertone has always been there as early as like the pre- internet period of like the [clears throat] 80s and 90s of people who you know perhaps were speaking of a patriotic China in a more illiberal sense. They wanted strong man rule. They didn't want, you know, a lot of the leftists in China, as we think about them in China and not in the US, wanted, you know, China not to be kind of swept up by liberal influence and needed a strong state to be in charge of the economy. But I would say similar to the US, that nationalist voice was very fringe. It was niche. It was kind of seen as radical. So you know as early as 2008 for example there were as you mentioned like the 50 C army but also what was known as like angry youths or fening. So 2008 was like a hugely pivotal moment for China in that the country was stepping onto the world on the global stage as this international presence and it wanted to present itself as super liberal. But at the time there were these like very angry youth who were online and being like look at how China is being presented by CNN. We're being kind of smeared by Westerners. But they were small. I would say today the Chinese internet is largely fencing. They're no longer called that. But you know I would say in 2016 there's a an emergence of what we now call little pinks or sophen home. And it's like you merged the fenting or you merged the patriot with the Stan or the online fan
>> where you know like what they
>> a softer nationalism.
>> Exactly. Or not even softer but they use the tactics of online fandom. So, you know, like they use the same tactics of like a group of Justin Bieber fans would do to take down Justin Bieber's nemesis where except they're doing that with maybe like Tyenwin who's the who was the leader of Taiwan. And so I would say there's this like fusion of online internet celebrity culture with online patriotism. And you know, it's not so much different from like the Reddit and Zelda.
>> Yeah, it feels very similar. I just want to just to go down this road a little bit further. Last year I read um Kevin Rudd's book about Xihinping and one of the points that he makes you know a lot of people think of okay she gets into power and then sort of takes this nationalist turn and he makes the point that actually the sort of more nationalist turn in Chinese politics some of the anti-liberal started under the late Hujanto years which makes me again wonder whether there was this brewing force partly cultivated by the internet that was starting you know that rather RA than okay Xiinping comes in and presses the button and turns the internet in a more nationalist direction that this was already an emerging thing and helps explain Xiinping's durability and ability to consolidate power and so forth that there's this sort of that it's a bottomup phenomenon as what as much as it is a top down thing.
>> Absolutely. And this is why I keep coming back to 2008 as this huge turning point. And Kaiser, who's one of your guests, has made this point a few times, which is, you know, in in 2008, I think the big thing that happened at the time was a the Beijing Olympics and b the financial crisis. So at this moment when, you know, Chinese people were standing up and for the first time a lot of like the great firewalls was getting taken down. So a lot of Chinese internet users in Beijing could see the news for the first time. They were seeing two things. They were seeing CNN, you know, posting news about the Tibet protests and not covering the Olympics. And they're also seeing eventually news of the financial crisis. So there was this sense of like, well, you know, we expected to engage with the outside world and instead the West is criticizing China and can't get its own ship in order. And so there is a sense both among kind of ordinary people of this growing patriotism but also the leader the leadership itself because they were thinking well maybe liberalization is not the way to go right maybe like liberalization leads to unruly financial markets and we need to steer this ship in a different direction and so we see both kind of a nationalistic turn but also in a liberal turn and that very much precedes Cinping's rise to power.
>> I think people forget what a huge moment the 2008 Olympics actually were. Like actually physically changed Beijing and then also changed a lot of Chinese society. But I'm still I'm still annoyed that they got rid of all the uh fake DVD stores cuz those were fun. Anyway, we have to get in an AI question. So with the advent of AI, a lot of the technology which is coming out of China is very impressive. Does censorship become easier? I would say yes. I mean the AI has always been or it has been long used in Chinese censorship capacity, not just with the advent of generative AI. So you know the sensor that I interviewed, he said that, you know, before he even goes in and looks at what's being taken down, a, you know, automated process first flags all of the sensitive words. I imagine that just makes that process significantly easier.
>> Is there any way to gauge sort of public opinion about the internet or like because I think there are a lot of people in the US again who would say like yes this would be great. I would love to make rage bait illegal. I would love it if people weren't flaunting their wealth. I would love it if there were not pornography easily available on the internet etc. I think a lot of people hear this and it's like yeah sounds pretty good. Is the is there discontent with the state of moderation? Is there discontent with some of the restrictions? Is there no like is there a way to like gauge some of these questions?
>> There's certainly discontent, but I think it's just very hard to gauge public opinion in China in general. I would say broadly speaking there is like embrace of technological change and embrace of technological progress that's more elevated in China than in the US. But you know there are people who are unhappy with the censorship regime and people who like having those controls. I will say at the heart of that kind of debate or that envy is just like what are the governance mechanisms that we can put in place at this moment with AI right? I think everyone's freaking out about this uncontrollable new technology and China at the very least seems to have a governance mechanism in place. So for example there is a algorithm registry where essentially every single company that has an AI tool needs to submit their algorithm to authorities and that is then listed in a public registry and no equivalent of that exists in the US and that's actually I think you know that's actually a pretty interesting form of governance and maybe something that other countries can learn from. Yeah, I mean people have criticized ALGO here for being essentially black boxes. Just coming I guess full circle back to our intro.
>> The surprising thing here is you know the US and the Chinese internet have followed a very similar evolution despite very different governance regimes. So I think to some extent you could imagine all right Chinese internet heavily censored obviously there's going to be a surge of nationalism right whereas in the US I guess maybe it's more surprising but what's your overarching thesis for why we sort of ended up in the same place despite having very different systems?
>> Yeah I mean that's a good question. I would say first we were pretty naive about the fact that technology even moves in the direction of freedom. Right? That's kind of like based on the assumption
>> that's just the direction that we're going to go in. I would say probably my overarching thesis is that we've allowed too much of technology to be centralized within the hands of a few people and it doesn't matter you know the US and American systems people often talk about the differences but actually they're remarkably similar. It doesn't matter if it is government that has centralized its you know the power of technology in its hands or as you mentioned like a handful of tech oligarchs right at the end of the day how different is Elon Musk's control over X or Twitter different from you know the Chinese government's control of way the whims of one man essentially dictates the way a platform plays out and I think that's the key problem is that we've taken this like decentralized technology budgy and make made it highly centralized and it doesn't matter under what political system that actually takes place.
>> One thing that I think anyone who the again the word that always pops into my head is sort of the tribalizing effect of the internet. People start to they hate each other. They start to hate people who aren't exactly like them. Are there cleavages within Chinese society that are deepening or widening because of everyone in the mix together? Are there sort of demographic aspects or whatever in which you could see these sort of team tensions build and sort of domestic stability because I think you see that all the time on the American internet.
>> I think the biggest cleavage that I've observed is just along the lines of wealth
>> and inequality. And that's like another parallel that I'm seeing today. And
>> the biggest parallel that I see is between those who are building the new technologies and those who are using and being used by it.
>> So you know funnily enough when I visit China I have a very similar experience of when I visit Silicon Valley where everyone who is talking about or building or investing in these new AI tools are really hyped or you know like there there's like an occasional doomer in the mix but they're very excited about it.
>> They're still working to build it.
>> Exactly. [laughter] Like there's a sense of agency, there's a sense of competition like we are the builders and makers of the future. Whereas when you talk to just anyone who is just using the technology is not aware of how it's built or involved in that process, there's this kind of deep [music] sense of pessimism or a lack of agency, you know, which brings me back to this like NPC meme. There's a sense of, well, I don't actually have a role in this [music] process. like I'm a nonplayer character and you know I have no say [music] and so that actually is the biggest cleavage that I'm I'm seeing both in China and in the US.
>> All right, Eling Lou, author of The Wall Dancers, congratulations. Phenomenal book and uh really appreciate [music] you coming on out.
>> Thanks so much for having me. [music] Tracy, I really enjoyed that conversation a lot and it really was not until
>> I know you like talking about the internet too.
>> Yeah, I love talking about the I love the internet even though it is to your words and I would agree in many respects a cesspool but thinking about how similar the American and Chinese internets are despite ostensibly being very different in a in the legal sense is like probably one of the more fascinating threads I've thought about in a while I think. Yeah, I was thinking during that conversation, I was going to ask what's scarier, an army of little pinks coming after you or an army of K-pop fans? And it's sort of a facicious question, but on the other hand,
>> it highlights this point, right, which is the internet and the way people behave on the internet has been remarkably similar across geographies. It doesn't really matter like what group you're in.
>> No, I I I think that's 100% correct. And you know, again, the K-pop stands as their own tribe, but probably one of the less harmful ones, right? Like probably like
>> they are vicious when they want to be Joe.
>> Well, I never Right. I actually I think I tweeted about K-pop once and I was like, I'm going to mute this again.
>> I'm muting this thread right away. But this is what we do, right? I mean, it feels like we as people naturally are drawn to this sort of, I would say, mob behavior, right? when presented with these new technologies in which we can connect with like-minded people, whether they share our taste for music or whether they share sort of national impulses or whatever else. This is what most people a lot of people fall into maybe. And so I think it's like really interesting that for all Yeah. for all this like talk of different rules and so forth that these patterns just sort of propagate everywhere. The other thing that struck me, and this has come up before in other episodes, but it's the sort of, you know, people think about China as this big centralized entity, and it is to some extent, but the way that centralized entity actually executes policy ends up being very decentralized,
>> right? And I think that's kind of underappreciated, how much scope individual sensors or individual local governments have to enact specific directives and how they go about doing it.
>> It's interesting that Waybo's competitive edge was essentially being the best at censorship, right? And that was the one that survived and sort of anticipating and so forth. And it's a little sad. I liked the decentralized internet. It was fun going to different people's websites and seeing what they're all about and you could theoretically still do it,
>> but it takes effort in a way that doesn't feel worth it when you can just have an algorithm deliver straight what you're sort of id appeals to you like directly in the moment.
>> It was a great time. Late 1990s were the peak of humanity.
>> Unironically unironically that.
>> Are you really going to learn Chinese? So yeah, one of my New Year's resolutions is to is to take Mandarin classes this year and I will do that.
>> I really liked learning Mandarin back way back in the day when I did it because there's very little grammar and I hate grammar because
>> I had to learn German and German grammar is the worst. And also as you learn words, one thing I really like about it is
>> it's very literal. So a lot of words have meanings that sort of reflect the thing being talked about. So for instance, if you're talking about America, so America is
>> meo
>> which means beautiful country.
>> So that sort of like
>> oh interesting
>> meaning is embibed into these individual words or Austria
>> because that's my other half is a which means
>> eastern empire
>> huh
>> which you know again very descriptive of what you're talking about.
>> Well wasn't the German is ost right? So that also means
>> it's a literal translation. Yeah,
>> that's interesting. You know, both of us have pretty big followings on social media, particularly Twitter. Wouldn't it be fun as a personal challenge to like let's start from zero again on Waybo and see if we could do it all over again? It's like we weren't just lucky, we were really good. Let's start from zero and make names for ourselves on the Chinese internet.
>> I think your definition of fun maybe differs from mine, Joe. It's like I need to prove to myself that it wasn't just luck and I need So I need to start from zero and try again.
>> Oh man. Do it in Mandarin.
>> That's what I'm saying. Do a real challenge. Do it on hard mode this time. Yeah. Where I have to do it in a different language.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow me at the stalwart. Follow Yelinglu. She's at Yelinglu95. Then definitely check out her new book, The Wall Dancer: Searching for Freedom and Connection on the Chinese Internet. [music] Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dashelbennet at Dashbot, and Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks. And for more OddLots content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots. We have a daily newsletter and all of our episodes. And you can chat about all these topics 247 in our Discord, discord.gg/odlots. And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it when we talk about the internet, then please leave us a positive review on your favorite podcast [music] platform. And remember, if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to all of our episodes absolutely [music] adree. All you need to do is find the Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcast and follow the instructions there. Thanks for listening. Yeah. [music] [music] [singing] [music] Hey.