Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
I want to continue chatting with you today.
How does Chinese education personify
At the end of last year
We posted several videos
Discussing language education in China
now
There are more and more voices criticizing Chinese education.
For example, they believe that Chinese education is cultivating obedience.
No respect for individuality, etc.
These are of course correct.
but
I believe that friends who often watch my channel can also feel it
My negative view on Chinese education
Unlike ordinary critics
I just don't think
All of this is just brainwashing by the power mechanism.
Or the system is designed with malice
It is better to say
It is in the culture and philosophy of the entire nation
Has a very deep foundation
Even from this culture
The most noble and beautiful part
Obtaining nutrients
This makes many people who criticize Chinese education
Often only criticize the most superficial order
But the basis of their criticism
Maybe with the people they criticize
From the same spirit
for example
From the perspective of saving the nation and the people and holism
Criticism of the education system that stifles people's freedom and individuality
Rather than personality
As the final destination of your spiritual life
Today's video
Let us take a deeper perspective
Let's talk
Why does Chinese education have a tendency to mislead people?
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
Everyone is familiar with the term "materialization".
It refers to the use of some external structure
To define the value of people
Labeling, standardizing and instrumentalizing people
Objectification denies the complexity and productivity of human beings
Denying space for human development and creation
The word objectification is of course derogatory.
But it hides such an ideal:
Human freedom is above all things.
Freedom itself is not a value
It is the measure of all values
That is to say, all human values
System binding to an external symbol
It's all materialized
No matter how poetic the external structure may seem,
Elegance and beauty
In Chinese education or Chinese culture
We can easily find
That most noble and sacred spirit
The essence is to personify
Naturalization
for example
In our video on December 28 last year
I have taught a middle school Chinese text called "Lychee Honey"
It's about the author visiting a beehive
See the bees producing honey
And only a little food
You can work non-stop all day and all month
So he lamented
Bees selflessly give their honey to humans
What a hard-working and noble animal.
This text certainly has a brainwashing connotation
It served that era.
Ideological political propaganda
But our first concern here is
The thinking method contained therein
It is to teach people to learn from nature.
Another example is Mao Dun’s essay “Praise of Poplars”
It has also been selected into China's junior high school Chinese textbooks.
The first sentence of this article is:
"Poplar trees are truly extraordinary.
I praise the poplar tree!"
Why do you say that?
The author introduces the poplar as a tree that strives to rise to the top.
Because all its branches point upwards
Close together, no side branches
Under the oppression of the northern snow
The poplar trees still stand tall and firm
Unyielding, fighting against the northwest wind
Therefore, the poplar tree is tall and upright.
Simple and serious
Although he is extremely common in northwest China
Not taken seriously
Just like the farmers in the north
But his hard work and perseverance are similar to those of farmers in the north.
The author asks: Can’t you imagine
This kind of poplar tree is close to unity and strives to make progress
It symbolizes the decisive battle on the North China Plain today.
Is it the spirit and will to write the history of New China with blood?
So the poplar tree
Just like the ideal personality that ideology wants to shape
Combine
There are many more texts like this
Although they mostly serve ideological propaganda
But we can find
That is to use natural objects to illustrate the ideal personality
Learning from nature
Actually in China
It’s a fairly common way of thinking.
It cannot simply be attributed to political propaganda.
and the result of ideological brainwashing
It has a long history
This way of thinking holds
Objects in nature
Whether it is animals, plants or non-living things
Their form, characteristics, and properties
There is some moral implication
Man does not exist by being different from and in opposition to nature.
To become a human
On the contrary, it is precisely through integration into nature that people
To achieve ethical self-perfection
and the self-actualization of personality
That is to say
People themselves are more like a turbid object
We must imitate, learn and integrate with nature
To achieve a state of holiness and purity
Obviously this way of thinking
In Chinese education and culture
It is extremely common
China has a large number of proverbs and poems
Praising nature
For example, "The fragrance of plum blossoms comes from the bitter cold."
“Hold on to the green mountains and never let go”
that is
People should learn from plants such as pine, cypress, bamboo, and plum blossoms.
Learn to persevere in difficult situations
Zhou Dunyi praised the lotus as "growing out of mud without getting stained".
"Clear and pure but not evil"
It is also a metaphor for one's ideal personality of keeping oneself clean.
There is also a lot of praise for non-living things in Chinese culture.
For example, "The sea embraces all rivers, and the greater it is, the more it can accommodate
"A thousand-foot-high wall stands firm, and a man without desires is strong"
The sea and the mountains are endowed with the qualities of tolerance and integrity.
For example
Yu Qian of the Ming Dynasty wrote: "I am not afraid of being torn to pieces.
To keep a clean record in the world"
Praise the spirit of sacrifice of lime
We need to pay attention
These metaphors
It is not that modern people write
Aesthetic rhetoric
An ethical ontology
The author really thinks so
It is really from natural phenomena
Perceiving people's morality and destiny
Nature is not the other, but the prototype of virtue
Rather than an object that needs to be transcended and negated
Therefore, when people integrate into nature
Not only can I not feel any pain or tragedy,
Instead, I feel great peace and happiness.
certainly
This way of thinking
It has a long history in Chinese culture
Confucianism believes
Natural objects are only
Is beautiful
Because human emotions can extend to others
From people to things
Even expanded between heaven and earth
So people can give natural objects
In terms of aesthetics and ethics
To achieve the state of "harmony between man and nature" where "everything is within me"
But from the perspective of psychology and anthropology
This is actually a very naive way of thinking.
Is to express your emotions
Projection onto non-human objects
Make it be perceived as a sentient being
It can also be seen as a kind of primitive animism.
Nature and I are in a mysterious interpenetration
This is what the French scholar Claude Lévy-Bruhl said
Original Thinking
We modern people also empathize with an object
For example, placing feelings on your daily necessities
But we can clearly realize
This is a subjective psychological phenomenon.
What we see in objects are our emotions
I don't really think
Objects have their own emotions and will
However
In this state of unity between heaven and man
Empathy for natural objects
It is not just a metaphor or symbol.
It's a real way of perceiving
certainly
The ancients were not so confused as to distinguish between nature and spirit.
But in Chinese culture
This clear awareness of spirit and nature
At least it is not recommended
Or the most respected
It is a state where spirit and nature are completely integrated.
This makes
Chinese Culture
Although it cannot be completely equated with a kind of original thinking
But there are still a lot of traces of primitive thinking left.
It is said that
It was after reading the French version of "Records of the Grand Historian" that Bruhl
I just started to be interested in studying primitive thinking.
Lack of sufficient understanding of the difference between spirit and nature
This seems like a trivial detail.
But we can find
China’s long history of autocracy
and cultural stagnation
actually
can all be traced back to this early demarcation point.
Why do you say that?
We say
Even if natural objects have certain physical properties
Higher strength and toughness
However
It has no moral significance.
Because it has no choice
It is not free
It just happens according to the law of cause and effect.
People have the freedom to be weak, escape and betray
But it is precisely because of freedom
It shows that you have chosen well.
The ethical value of commitment and trust
Poplars are strong and unyielding
That's because it doesn't feel fear at all.
A screw never moves
That's because it can only be like this
Kant said in his Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals
There is a very profound summary
He said:
“The principle of experience
Nowhere is it appropriate to lay the foundations of moral law.
For if the basis of moral law
A special structure from human nature
Or if he is in a situation where
This ought of the moral law is indiscriminate
Universality applicable to all rational beings
And these moral laws
The unconditional practical necessity that it bears
It just disappeared.”
The meaning of this sentence is very straightforward.
that is
Human morality cannot be based on natural nature
For example, the courage of the fearless
Not really brave.
Only when you are fully aware of your freedom
The choices you make can have moral value
Chinese culture
does not distinguish between nature and freedom
Equating the two
So this brings up another fact.
That is, there is no sense of tragedy in Chinese culture.
When people face nature
Not only do I feel a slight sense of alienation, but also a sense of pain.
Instead, I feel happy and at ease.
The Analects of Confucius says, "In late spring, the spring clothes are ready.
There are five or six men with hats and six or seven boys.
Bathing in the Yi River, enjoying the breeze in the Wu Yu Temple, and returning home singing."
Zhuangzi's "Communicating Alone with the Spirits of Heaven and Earth"
They all express the complete integration of man and nature.
The intimate atmosphere
This is completely contrary to Greek and Western philosophy.
We say that Western philosophy has been
Although it originated from natural philosophy
That is, the origin of all things
attributed to a natural object
But this questioning of natural elements
But it always contains spiritual principles
That is to keep asking where the motivation comes from.
That is, the kind that can get rid of all material constraints.
The power of autonomy and agency
The original promoter
Although
This motivation was initially sought from nature.
From Thales's "Water is the origin of all things"
Heraclitus proposed the theory of fire as the origin of the universe
Both of them seem to be some kind of natural object
However, in Heraclitus's view
Fire is no longer a simple natural thing.
It is in motion itself
It can also make other objects move.
Therefore, it is more suitable for expressing the characteristics of the soul.
Although water also permeates everything
But water does not have the power to give shape to everything.
The ability to move everything
It is worth mentioning that
Metaphor of fire and light
There is a long tradition in Western philosophy
Plato used sunlight as a metaphor for ideas
Christianity compares God to light
Hegel uses burning and sunrise as metaphors for spirit
Including Nietzsche
Zarathustra
To express your thoughts
In Heraclitus' view
Fire burns and extinguishes according to certain rules and measures
Logos
People need to live according to Logos
This already implies that reason is superior to nature.
The spiritual force that regulates nature
Anaxagoras
It marks the separation of spirit from natural matter.
Completely distinguish
Although Nus still has size
It seems to be a substance
It's a bit like some kind of particle
But it is also the lightest and purest thing
It is not to be confused with any substance.
But alone, autonomous
It is outside the material world.
Drive, think and arrange all activities in the world
The word Nous originally referred to the heart and mind.
In Greek philosophy
Anaxagoras first realized
The opposition between spirit and matter
And proposed to promote the material world
Not another substance
But the spirit
Have a clear distinction between spirit and nature
This is clearly reflected in
In the development of Greek art
Hegel in Aesthetics
The symbolic art of oriental peoples
are considered as the preparatory stage of classical Greek art
And believed that classical art was a higher level of existence
This kind of advanced
It is reflected in the relationship between spirit and nature
In symbolic art
The spirit has not yet found a suitable external form of expression
Therefore the spirit uses natural objects to express itself
for example
Various half-human, half-animal nature gods in Eastern religions
For example, the Hindu god Ganesha
The Sphinx of Egypt, etc.
Eastern religions view natural objects as
A being more divine than human
This reflects the confusion between spirit and nature
The mind is not yet aware of itself
In classical art
The spirit has found the most appropriate emotional expression
That is the human body.
Hegel believes
According to the law of necessity
Art has reached maturity
It must be expressed in human form.
Because only the human body
Considered the most suitable form for expressing free spirit
Only then can it bear the power of divinity
for example
Athena goddess of the Parthenon
Myron's Discus Thrower
They are all idealistic people
Or a divine person.
In classical art
Animality and nature are no longer considered sacred
Being worshiped
It is rather a lack of spirituality, sin,
Low and depraved performance
So we can understand that
Why does Greek culture have a strong sense of tragedy?
There is no Chinese culture at all
The contentment and freedom in the face of nature
Because spirit can only come from the natural environment
Awakening and separation
Awareness of one's freedom and independence
But I found that I was still restricted by fate
Can't surpass nature
A deep pain will arise
When the spirit of man
Driven out of harmony with nature
He will never find a real place to live.
But it is precisely because of this opposition and conflict
Only then will people have a desire for redemption and creation
A desire to leave a deeper mark on the world
Whether it is art or literature
Career and love
In this sense
Tragic consciousness is not the end
It is the starting point of the free spirit
Overall
When we say that Chinese education
When there is a tendency to "objectify people"
We are not only concerned with
Those rough discipline methods
Rigid examination system, etc.
And also pay attention to those deep cultural structures
That is the kind
We hope to imitate and return to nature
To achieve the tendency of virtue
If we don't ask
This tendency is aesthetically and ethically
How is it sung and praised?
So
It is easy for us to use an equally materialized
The pragmatic stance
To criticize education
The result is just another word
But they have not really stepped out of this historical cycle.
That’s all for today’s video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!