Good morning everyone. Thanks for being here to the voice and vision session. Uh so I'm Banan, chief science officer and co-founder at pianoi. Uh so I'm going to talk to you uh today about um conversations understanding conversations and uh uh what you can do on top of uh transcription. Uh so a quick words about myself. So I've been an academic researcher all my life until two years ago when I started this company. Uh oops sorry. Uh what happened? Yeah. Uh so basically yeah I worked on this topic called speaker derization which I'll uh introduce a bit later for those of you who don't know this weird uh word that is tricky for me to pronounce uh but basically over the years I built an open source toolkit called pianut uh which focuses on speakerization and that became quite popular over the years in particular since uh openai released whisper speechtoext open source models basically whisper was some kind of revolution in terms of ST uh the fact that it was free that it was very good and but it didn't provided the actual uh didn't provide the actual names and tags of the speaker so people naturally turned to pianut to combine the two and you can see that on the uh inflection points on the GitHub star history and uh just a few words I happen to turn 45 uh in just one week from now and we are almost at 10k uh stars on GitHub so please uh give give me a birthday gift by just going to the website and to the GitHub website and add your star. That will make my uh birthday. Um so um let's go to the to the core of the presentation. So you all know what transcription or a speech to text is. Basically that's answering the question what was said from the recording or a streaming of a a conversation. Basically you get from the audio and you get a sequence of words uh uh as output. Uh that's for instance what whispered as uh but uh without the actual uh names of the speaker the usually the conversations on the transcript are not really understandable. So the next step after transcription is basically to attribute uh a speaker tag to each uh of the words. So that's I called here a speaker attributed transcription. And so that that answer the question who said what. But for some application that's enough like for instance uh for maybe for meeting note takers to make a summary of a of of a meeting that might be enough to assign an action point to the right people to to know exactly that air said that and John said said this this other thing but we to understand the conversation uh a bit better uh we we might want uh to go slightly uh better. Uh sorry I forgot about this slide. So basically uh there are many cases where um knowing who said what is as important as what was said actually. So I have here a few examples like for instance uh video dubbing automatic video dubbing um uh knowing who said what is actually really important to put the actual uh uh good correct voice to the right speaker. So if you want to automatically translate uh um a video from one language to another, you want the voices to be consistent as well. So for that you need uh to know who's uh who who spoke when. Same for medic note takers. And there are other applications like for instance podcast what I call podcast intelligence like being able to track a speaker across different uh episodes of a podcast or across different podcasts finding uh the same guest across multiple podcast. But yeah, so I was a bit over just before, but the just knowing who said what is sometimes not enough to really understand the conversation the conversation how it goes. So knowing who said what and when actually uh brings even more information. For instance, in this example u uh without knowing exactly when each words were pronounced, you can't detect that actually the black speaker interrupted uh the green one. you can't really detect that uh maybe this small back channel that the the the green the sorry the black speaker um does during the speech of the of the green speaker if you miss it basically you you don't really understand that maybe the black speaker is actually agreeing nodding uh at what the the green speaker says so knowing exactly when this small word has been pronounced uh is very important and same without precise time stamps you can't really know whether I made a I make a pose in between two speech terms which might convey additional information about my state of mind, my I don't know the the the point that I'm trying to to make in the conversation. And we can go even a step further like we we might want to know who said what and when and how they said it. Like I have a few examples here. If uh some of you are laughing at some point, is it because I don't know I said something stupid or I was actually funny? Uh same for coughing. Uh maybe there's something in the conversation that makes me uh uncomfortable and uh I'm coughing for some reason to to hide be behind that. And um yeah, so I also mentioned stress, disfluency, proity. Um the fact that I stress on particular words in a sentence might actually change completely the meaning of the sentence. Uh I have this example in mind like uh I don't know in the sentence the dog uh ate uh the cake. If uh I don't know you're talking to a child and the child tells you the dog ate the cake or the dog ate the cake or the dog ate the cake the meaning might be slightly different. So stressing particular words, being able to have a a voice AI actually understand this stress and and this kind of of low-level details might bring some more uh information to the to any downstream LLM or or whatever tools that you use after this first uh enrich transcription step. And if we take even a step a step back uh um knowing who's uh talking to who uh am I uh here in this example I'm probably can be seen as this gray speaker addressing to all of you but at some point if at the end of this talk I you do have questions then I will be probably the the green one talking to one particular person answering the particular question. So knowing that having a higher level view of the conversation he also opens up a new bunch of um applications and all of this also happens in a acoustic environment that gives you information about the context whether it's in this quiet room uh for now uh or if I'm in the street u this bring more context to to to the game and you can actually uh take a better decision ision about what's going on, why a person is actually saying what what they're saying and and etc. So all of this is basically the what we are trying to work on at the piano. But we uh started with a smaller problem called speaker dorization and that's really what I want to talk about today. So speaker derization is the I I yeah is is usually what what I wanted to say about this slide is that who said what is usually just as important as what was said and you can tell by instance by going through to the face uh model repository and filter um all the models there uh with the ones that have the audio tag uh where is maras here. So this is what I did and then you saw them by uh by number of downloads and basically uh the among the the top uh here seven models that uh are at the top of this list. Three of them the the first three are actually related to speaker identity and speakerization and the the other ones are ST. So that's one way of showing that speakerization is actually quite quite important on on in the community. So uh going uh into a bit more detail about what speakerization is. So as I said it's answering the question who speaks when. So starting from the recording of a conversation. Uh basically the first step that people usually do is basic voice activity detection. So you basically tell whether someone is speaking at at one time or not. Anyone is speaking at at one time or not. And then you can go a step further. uh you can actually segment those speech regions into smaller speech turns. Um so this is what I call segmentation and it includes finding uh speaker change points between uh into those long uh in those long speech regions you might find you know a speaker change point and uh also find regions where people are actually interrupting each other like in in the first example here there's definitely here someone interrupting someone else and it's possibly here some kind of back channel where someone is actually uh nodding or sayinghm okay this kind of stuff and this is the kind of small speech turn that uh you don't want to miss because sometimes they actually convey uh the most important information of the conversation if it's a small yes here uh and if you miss it uh then uh you you have no idea what's the the state of mind of this speaker but that's not yet speakerization speakerization goes all the way to actually assigning a speaker identity to uh each uh speech turn. And um so here in this example, the the speakerization system automatically detected that there are two speakers, the green one and the black one. Um but uh we usually don't have any prior knowledge on the actual number of speakers in the conversation. you might have some kind of uh guidance on I don't know if if you are a meeting note taker for instance you you have the list of attendees uh so you might have an idea of the number of people that were invited but that doesn't mean that uh someone um two people joined from the same channel or or that an attendee that was not invited actually join in finally and uh so that that makes the problem uh kind of difficult in the sense that we don't know in advance the number of classes that we're supposed to detect contrary to other let's say classical machine learning problems and also we don't know the identity of the speaker that we're supposed to uh diorize in the sense that speakerization does not really output uh John and uh and and Jack uh but basically it's more like speaker one speaker two speaker three and they can be permutated and it's still correct for example in this example if I just change green into black and black into green. The derization is still exactly the same from the point of view of the evaluation metrics that I'm going to talk about and uh from the point of view of the actual speakerization task. So that makes the uh this problem kind of difficult and that's why even though the community has been working on this topic for a long time now it's still not solved. Uh there are other reasons like the fact that we have to detect overlapping speech to handle overlapping speech. Uh that we have to uh take into account very short speech turns that have to take into account imbalance between the speech time of multiple speakers in the in the conversation. All of that makes the problem difficult on top of the usual acoustic conditions problems and everything that any speech processing uh um task have to deal with. So uh I'm going to switch to a demo to to show you a bit more how dorization system are evaluated. Um maybe when you you you stumble into benchmark you find this D acronym which is D stands for diorization error rate and uh so hopefully um this will work. So I have here a Python notebook uh that I've prepared for for this talk. It's actually already available on GitHub. I'll share you the the QR code at the end of the presentation so you can play with it. But so in this example, I have a conversation between two women uh talking over the phone.
>> Hello. Hello.
>> Oh, hello. I didn't know you were there.
>> Neither did I.
>> Okay. I thought, you know, I heard a beep. This is Diane in New Jersey.
>> And I'm Sheila and Texas. Originally from Chicago.
>> Oh, I'm originally from Chicago also. I'm in New Jersey now, though.
>> Okay. So, you you get the idea. a 30 seconds conversation between two women. So this is the expected output of a perfect speaker attributed transcription. This was manually labeled. And now what I'm going to to to do this here is actually run piano open source community one model on this same file. So it's actually running right now on my Mac. So that's why here I'm using this MPS pytorch back end. So how it works is that you first download the model from hugging face with this uh line of code. then simply uh apply it on on the audio file. So now it's finished and uh there's the this prediction variable that contains um uh sorry I should have done that on the other tab because this was the one that was already processed. I wanted to do it live. So let's do it live now. So it's running and so the the next step is to actually visualize the errors that uh this system made. So at the top here you have the reference annotation. So the expected output of dization and here is the output of a community one uh speaker derization pipeline uh that is open source and free to use. So it makes three kinds of mistake as I was saying like a confusion here. It got the speaker wrong. Uh it can also make false alarms. Uh so force alarm is when it detects speech when there's actually no speech in the ground truth and mis detection is the other way around and mis detection can actually uh happen for instance here during overlapping speech when we actually detect only one of the two speakers here and then once we have these uh basically errors of false alarm confusion and mis detection we can actually compute the dization error rate. Uh so this is with this library called piano metrics and uh basically it gives us in this example a 5% diorization error rate which is basically the sum of the confusion uh uh false alarm and mis detection divided by the the total duration of uh of speech in in this uh in this file and um so we have this other model that I'm currently running hopefully it work it works so it's running right now on our uh cloud API I uh basically it's it's a a better model that community one that we called precision 2 that is uh uh running here hopefully it will work but as for every demo it might fail if no it worked and this is the kind of output that you can get so you see that it got the the speaker right here and makes slightly less mistakes in terms of false alarm and mis detection and overall in this example I think we got 3% uh dization error here. So, let me switch back to the to the presentation. Uh, so this was about benchmarking a speakerization model. And I'm often asked how well does state-of-the-art speakerization works today. And it's a difficult question to answer because really depending on the use case, it might uh vary completely. For instance, in this example, we have a here conversation telephone speech like the one we just listened to like 2% over the phone and we we can go down to 8% dization rate. The best system does that. But if if you are now in a restaurant with many friends with lots of background noise, uh even the best system reaches like 41% dization rate. So it's far from being a solved problem. Uh but we we are working on that. And um so once you have speakerization and you have transcription shouldn't be that hard to actually find a speaker attributed transcription right it's just a matter of you know assigning a word to a speaker to a word but actually that's not that uh easy and I'll um there are many reason why that's not that easy the first reason is that most uh speechtoext models are actually trained on single speaker data as soon as you apply them on multispeaker data with overlap with speaker change with all kind of mess they completely uh uh they fail miserably. So for instance when you look at the open ASR leaderboard from a hugging phase if we look for instance an Nvidia parakeet that we are using that that I will be using in a in a demo right after that they report 11.4 four uh person rate when we apply the very same model on the same ammy um on um on our side we we get 26%. So the question is why is there a difference actually it's in the way the those benchmark are set up here on the uh for for example in this ami data set that's a a meet um data sets with meetings uh between four to five people I think in meeting rooms and they are basically microphones like the one I'm I'm uh having here so headset microphone as well as one microphone in the middle of the the table and and uh those numbers here uh on the open a solid the board are based on the headset microphone. Those numbers here are based on the microphone that is in the middle. And so on one side you have a single speaker speech on the other side you have multis speaker and even distant microphone speech. So that's why it degrades a lot. And so that that's that was my point of of this slide. So, uh, when doing speaker attributed transcription, the, um, the reason why it might go wrong is either because ST doesn't work great. And, um, it's usually the case that they don't generalize, uh, very well to multipe recordings for, as I was saying, distant microphone, uh, speaker change, cross talk, interruptions, you name it. Uh, maybe code switching as well when you change language in the middle of a sentence. But also it's it might be because of the actual reconciliation between diorization and ST time stamps. Though it may sound uh uh obvious how to do that as I was saying I will hopefully show in this uh live demo once again that it's it's not such an easy problem because uh ST does not transcribe overlapping speech well uh because uh the time stamps disagree between ST and diorization and because sometimes diorization will detect speech that the transcription will not transcribe and the other way around. So um second part of the demo uh about speaker attributed transcription. So uh first I'm going to apply uh this parakeet model from Nvidia that does a by the way a great job at transcribing uh uh this sample and so parakeit gives us this kind of output. So we have this sequence of words and for each word we actually have the the corresponding time stamps. Okay. So, uh, I can play it quickly.
>> Hello.
>> Oh, hello. I didn't know you were there.
>> Neither did I.
>> Okay. I thought, you know, I heard a beep. This is Diane in New Jersey.
>> Well, you you get the idea. And then, um, the question is, um, now we have our best dization. This is precision two output here. This is parakeet output here. And the question is now we need to assign a speaker to each word. So, let's do it step by step. for instance. Uh so in this example, even though the time stamps of the the words are a bit shifted uh on the left here, it's obvious that it's probably the yellow speaker who spoke the the gray word. But if you go just the third word, so now we have this. So we have this word, the word o here that is in between those two speech tones according to theation. Which one do you assign it to? Um so we we I can listen to it.
>> Oh hello. Oh hello
>> it's not quite quite sure and there are many other uh position where it happens here. Same there's a word here. Okay that apparently according to dization there are two speakers speaking and only only one word from the from the transcription. So that that's why at pianoi we came up with this uh new st orchestration thing that basically does uh its magic and and does the job for you. So here I I just submitted to our cloud API um a a job to transcribe and and and use both precision to derization model and parakit transcription model and take care of the what I call this uh reconciliation between the two and you end up with this kind of with this kind of output. Uh what's nice is that so now you it did the the job for you but in particular I I like to go to this particular example even where there was overlapping speech before it actually managed to uh interle the words from the speaker. Let me play the just this part and focus on this uh area maybe
>> in New Jersey.
>> And I'm Sheila and tech
>> and there's actually a end uh that uh or this is the M here that is actually the the the the yellow lady actually has this hum at the end of the her speech and the the blue one actually interrupts her. But they they actually overlapping and we managed to get them right. Um yeah, so this is the end of my talk. I I wanted to give you a few minutes. I have two minutes left for questions, but I want just wanted to say that this demo uh that I I did is already available on in the piano tutorials GitHub repo. So in there you you'll be able to play with piano open source toolkit for dization with piano matrix for evaluation with ipode for this nice uh visualization widget that we've uh implemented. I stands for not iOS, iMac or whatever, but really for interactive and uh also the SDK to to play with our premium models. And uh I'll stop here and u I'm happy to take a few questions. We have one more minute left.
>> Yes, please.
>> So what's the trick that you use to resolve the conflicts? So
>> part of the model training or is it some sort of like heristics that you have around to identify who to attribute the word to?
>> Yeah. So the question is what's the trick to actually solve this problem of a reconciliation. Uh so that that's a proprietary trick but what I can say is that we uh there's already part of this trick that is available in the community one model which we call exclusive derization. Basically uh what we do is that we find a way when there is overlap to actually select the most likely of the two speaker that will be transcribed by the ST model. So that simplifies actually the reconciliation between the two. So that that's one major part of the uh of the approach
>> of the model training is like a couple of huristics you have to
>> Yeah. So so the question is about I repeating because I've been told I need to repeat questions. Uh so it's not part of the model training in the sense that we really plan to support any kind of ST without having to change the ST model itself. So really it's supposed to work with any ST even fine ones that you might have internally for because you you fine-tune them for your particular use case and nobody has it. Uh you can combine it like that. 18 seconds. So I guess we need to stop. I'm sorry. Maybe we can talk offline otherwise they'll they'll beat me I guess. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.