94th Academy Awards ceremony
Host Chris Rock makes a joke on Jada Pinkett Smith
Host Chris Rock makes a joke on Jada Pinkett Smith
I can't wait to see you in the movie "Devil Girl 2", okay?
Jada, I love you. GI Jane 2, can't wait to see you
Alluding to her bald head like the heroine who joined the army in "The Devil's Soldier"
Let husband Will Smith come on stage to give him a slap
The most dramatic moment in television history
After the incident, it triggered a debate on the Internet to blame the two parties
There is a school that thinks it's wrong for Will Smith to hit people
Another school believes that Chris Rock was the first to initiate verbal violence
Laugh at Jada who is sick and shaved
Afterwards, Will Smith issued a public apology to bring the dispute to an end
But what is not discussed is the starting point of the whole event
Why are bald women considered a joke?
etc
Haven't we seen the same joke in Stephen Chow's Shaolin football?
How did you make it look like an alien
I won't cut my hair, shave it faster
What are you doing here?
I want to help you race
how can you help
Hurry up and go back to Mars, the earth is very dangerous
In the example of Stephen Chow and Chris Rock
We've seen women with bald heads and horses being treated as aliens
Otherwise, the female soldier
If Will Smith was seriously ill today and shaved his head
Probably won't be written as a joke
The bald man in Hollywood has always been portrayed as a masculine and handsome image
So what we are asking is:
Why is the bald head of a man creating a masculine myth, while the bald head of a woman is a joke?
Let's start with a reverse case
at the end of the 19th century
The first batch of Chinese students studying abroad in the Qing Dynasty had long hair because of their long hair.
And the Americans laughed at "pigtail" (pigtail)
If there were talk shows in the 19th century, the long hair of Han Chinese would have become a joke
In fact in 1930
American Van Buren studio actually made an animation that laughs at Chinese people
It's called "Laundry Blues"
Chinese people in the film have hair like pig tails
It is also matched with a strange "Chinese accent"
? ? ?
This animation later made a sequel, Chop Suey (Assorted Mixed Stir Fry)
The reason why Chinese hairstyles have become the object of ridicule
because it doesn't conform to socially expected gender norms
In the West, hair has been a symbol of maintaining the gender binary distinction since ancient times.
Paul said in the bible
It's unnatural humiliation for a man to have long hair
It's an honor for a woman to have long hair
Long hair becomes a gender symbol imposed on women
But at the same time, girls can't have beards and leg hair.
On the contrary, boys must keep their beards and leg hair
Through the configuration of this hair
Society establishes a system of classification to maintain gender distinctions
So in 1968
American feminists once launched a movement Miss America protest
Throw all 'feminine symbols' imposed on women in the trash
Like hair clips, false eyelashes, fake long hair
If there is no gender classification system for this set of hair
19th century Chinese and today's Jada won't be a joke
But Jada isn't just a woman, she's a black man
The "Alopecia" she suffers from often occurs in black women
This is why the black women community generally supported Will Smith after the incident
Because black women's hair has a complicated history in America
They are taught from an early age:
If your hair looks more like a white woman, the better you can stand in society
That's why black women often perm their hair straight
Hope to meet the "white aesthetics" expected by society
The result of long-term damage to the hair
Black women are more likely to suffer from hair loss
So behind the seemingly simple physical disease is the problem of racial oppression
This oppression of black women's hair is even recognized by the system
1981
A black female flight attendant sues American Airlines
Because the company doesn't allow her to tie cornrows
And asked her to tie her hair into a bun at work
This flight attendant thinks it's racist against black women
Because corn braids have a long history in the black community
part of their cultural identity
Asking for a hairstyle change is almost tantamount to severing the roots of the culture
But the U.S. court dismissed:
The airline didn't tell you to cut your hair
Just say you tie your hair up during work hours
You can still go back to the hairstyle you want after get off work
So this rule does not violate your traditions
This precedent turned American discrimination against black women's hairstyles into institutionally sanctioned discrimination
Controversy that black female students' hair does not conform to the "hair" rules have often occurred in many schools in the United States
1996
A Brazilian comedian Tiririca even made a song "Look at her hair"
Describe how ridiculous black women's hairstyles are
看，看，看她的頭髮!
See see see see see her hair
It looks like a scrubbing pad for cleaning
pans Parece bom-bril, de ariá panela
I already told her to wash herself
Eu já mandei, ela se lavar
But she insisted, didn't want to listen to me
Mas ela teimo, e não quis me escutar
This stinking nigga...
Essa nega fede, fede de lascar
Stinking animal, smells worse than a skunk
Bicha fedorenta, fede mais que gambá
After the release of the song, which was regarded as a laughing stock
Certainly not funny to black women in Brazil
and sued the court
Results in 2012
Brazilian court orders Sony Music, who released the song, to pay $650,000 in damages
from these cases
We found that black women's hair has become the intersection of gender and racial politics
Black women can't have hair, or no hair
When you have hair, you cannot choose the hairstyle of your own cultural tradition
while being asked by society to be like a white woman
When you don't have hair, you'll be used as a laughing stock by talk show actors
On the contrary, a man with a bald head can become a Hollywood superstar
This is why, when black women achieve a certain social status
Will deliberately not compromise on hair
like black american judge ketanji brown jackson
Hearing at the U.S. Supreme Court
Deliberately wear black sister locks hairstyle (sisterlocks) to attend
same
Jada Pinkett Smith can also wear a wig to cater to mainstream aesthetics
But she chose to show her bald head
Because these choices are a political act of gender and race
But the paradox is
Today's mainstream media frame of gender and racial inequality is Hollywood
Hollywood first created the myth of the ideal image of white women
Make jokes when someone doesn't fit this ideal image
Wait, but wouldn't such an analysis be too politically correct?
So you can't make jokes about race and gender in the future?
This brings us to a deeper question
What is the essence of the joke?
And where does the comedy effect come from?
Let's start with a classic passage from Mr. Acne Rowan Atkinson
Rowan Atkinson, who plays the devil, is grouping people who just arrived in hell
Now, murderer? Murderers
over here, please. Now, murderers? Murderers over here, please.
Looters
and Pillagers over here.
Thieves, if you
could join them,
And lawyers, you are in this group
and Lawyers, you're in that lot too.
French, are you here?
The French, are you here?
French, are you here?
The French, are you here?
in this bridge
The unexpected happens when the audience expects
In the hell where I thought there would be bad guys, there are lawyers and French people
And this unexpected thing reveals the unconscious desires that have been masked by civilization:
Unscrupulous lawyers of high social class, and arrogant French
It's all about "going to hell"
Freud thought that
The comic effect is derived from this subversion of the order established by the established authority
Because when jokes upend the order
People's unconscious desires can be released from social repression
Take a moment to drain your mental energy
So
this next piece of material is fairly simple.
So
this next piece of material is fairly simple.
It's just a list
of people who ought to be killed.
That's why it's funny when we hear other people's slips
Because consciousness does not anticipate and is closer to the truth of desire
In a roll call segment playing the teacher
Rowan Atkinson embodies the Freudian concept more classically
Please answer your name right when called .
Anal?
Anus?
A Jia?
Arsebandit?
Ass?
Bottom?
Acne?
Clitoris?
Where did you go to the pimples?
Where are you, Clitoris?
The classroom order originally in the classroom, the authority of the teacher
Confused by names that sound like sex organs
If the essence of a joke is to transcend, challenge a social framework to reveal the logic of its operation
And society is made up of those who have authority and those who obey authority.
Then the "coolness" obtained in a joke must come from making fun of others
So Freud found that there are few jokes that are completely politically correct
The question is who the joke offends, and to what extent
So naturally we're curious as to how your web situation works .
Is it just from the wrist?
Does it just come out of your wrists or...
Or will it shoot from somewhere else as well?
does it come out of anywhere else?
Only the wrists...
Only... only the wrists.
In the example just cited, the subverted objects are all the authorities, not the weak
That's what makes people think these kinds of jokes are more high-end
Because the more power the authority has, the more the joke has to offend them
For example, the ancient Greek comedy writer Aristophanes made fun of Athenian politicians
Like the ancient Greek version of the national cauldron
His politically incorrect remarks even threaten the image of the city-state of Athens
But it is regarded as the father of comedy by later generations
Because his jokes expose power relations in society
The opposite of
If the jokes offend the weak and powerless
This kind of joke will become a "hell terrier"
And the acceptance level of hell terrier varies from person to person
This is what keeps talk show actors challenging the limits of society
Because the legitimacy of the hell terrier actually involves the social relationship between the speaker and the listener
Historians were surprised to find
during WWII
The Jews in the concentration camps actually like to open "hell stalks" to each other
For example, a Jew saw that his friend also had his head cut off by the Nazis.
Just said to him: Wow, I've never had a free haircut in my life
Laugh at friends on the spot
In this instance humor becomes the possibility of Jews beyond despair
It is these people who have experienced hell together who can open hell to each other
American literary writer Wylie Sypher thinks that
Comedy is about
When we realize it's not the best of all possible worlds
Comedy allows us to face the insurmountable shortcomings of reality
Because being able to laugh at evil and wrong means we have transcended evil and wrong
So it's not that talk show actors can't talk about hell
But to let people who have been through hell recognize that this is a meme
For example, this well-known meme is joking with patients.
But if it hurts people by telling politically incorrect jokes, whose problem is it?
Are Comedians Too Excessive, Abusing Free Speech?
Or the person being laughed at doesn't understand humor and "can't make a joke"?
Freud's answer was
neither
To clarify the question of responsibility for jokes, we must first answer: where is the essence of jokes?
We think jokes are stored in the speaker's head before telling the audience
But Freud believed that the real ontological order is:
A sentence only becomes a joke when the audience laughs at it
I
live right here in the city, with m-my, mother.
I
live right here in the city, with m-my, mother.
If a joke doesn't resonate with the audience, it doesn't constitute a joke at all
If a joke doesn't resonate with the audience, it doesn't constitute a joke at all
Hello, I'm the police
. It's the police, ma'am.
Hello, I'm the police
. It's the police, ma'am.
Your son's been hit by a drunk
driver. He's dead.
Oh
no, you cannot joke about that.
Yeah
, that's not funny. Yeah, that's not funny.
So the audience is both an obstacle to the realization of the joke and the possibility of the realization of the joke at the same time.
It is the person who listens to the joke, not the person who tells the joke, who decides whether a joke exists or not
Because we can't laugh at our own jokes, jokes are meant to make others laugh
So jokes have a very special time structure:
Cause happens after effect
The joke doesn't exist when the speaker is talking, it starts when the audience laughs
This leads to a very important conclusion:
Responsibility for political jokes is not just a matter of the person telling the joke and the person being joked
It's more about the audience who let jokes exist in this world
Behind the opposing sides hides a more critical third party
If when Chris Rock told bald jokes
When the audience was silent, it would be him who made the embarrassment
Because his words don't constitute a joke at all
But when everyone there laughed
The audience's laughter recognized that he was telling a joke
And it was at this moment that Jada became a laughing stock
The ontology of jokes thus turns to the ethics of jokes
When we decide to laugh together or not to laugh
It's about participating or refusing to create a new joke in the world