(The first generation of Muslim immigrants) (in the cafe in Libor) (I saw the first generation of Muslim immigrants) (Memories of Chinese workers) (Their hands are always the old sisters) (of the long-term labor) (Along with work) (Always with fellow villagers) (The TV in the front is quiet) (Because no one is watching) (They have a polite and distant respect for their country) These people have worked hard for a lifetime to educate the next generation in Europe. The terrorists in Li Bo'er have more language and economic advantages than the rich. But why is terrorism exactly mobilized by this generation? I have seen a lot of research before the interview. Many people think that the reason for the evolution of European youth is poverty, poor social prospects, or racial discrimination. But my interview did not confirm this. Do you think it's a part of reason because of the bad social condition, economic reason or discrimination? Lots of people get discriminated against all over the world. They don't think, "Oh, I'm going to blow up a tower." So you don't want to make excuses for yourself? No, absolutely not. I can't make an excuse for myself. If I made an excuse for myself, I'd be being untruthful. dishonest. Some people say your family's situation was caused by poverty or lack of opportunities. What do you think about that? It's an excuse, it can be a small percentage, it's a small factor. Already, we were a little poor at the start. But when I was born, we didn't have any money problems. It's a serious question because it shows how we become poisoned or perverted with ideology. Out of the 6,000 European martyrs, over 70% are from the four rich Western European countries, and are concentrated in certain cities and communities. Wallachia, the poorest region of Belgium, has hardly been affected by the pandemic, and Antwerp, the prosperous city, is about 100 people away. The economic situation in the French northern part of the Marseille region is very weak. In the small town with less than 30,000 people, 25 people go to Syria. It is called the capital of the French victory. But people always say it's because of the economy reason. Yes, but it's not true. Because when you look to this area, it's not the poorest area in France. This is not the most remote area in France. If you look at this place, then you're going to zoom in again. You will see it's not the entire city that is concerned. It's just one building or one particular neighborhood. in the city. And you know sometimes there is just one jihadist that makes the work and that's gonna convert one guy or another guy and then after the end of the day they have 15 and that creates a cell. You know, so that's very local. In other words, whether it's in prison, in university, in the city, in the countryside, this ideology is around the core occupiers' landing points and established by close relationship development. Professor Lennar Reiss told me that some European countries, such as Bulgaria, have a high proportion of Muslims, but their radicalization is very low, because they have a hundred-year stable social structure. And the conflict faced by the Muslim era in the West is much more fierce. nearly 20 times over-represented with respect to young Muslims coming from North Africa, Middle East, Southeast Asia, and so on. What are they looking for? First of all, identity. I am confused about the word identity because it is too abstract and hard to understand But in the interview I heard this word from almost every person They are looking for identity, really They are all looking for identity I am trying to find out who you are Are you British or Pakistani? Are you Muslim? You're clearly Muslim, but how do you fit into the West? But this kind of love that is different from the rest doesn't make her feel comfortable She told me "Mom, I feel like a pet" During Christmas she no longer wears Elsa's dress in the ice and snow season because that's the outfit of a blonde girl She wears a small Chinese flower-shaped cheongsam And we buy her some Chinese flag She said that when the Chinese football team came to the Spanish competition She would take all the Chinese children Shake this flag together Who is this for? To give everyone a gift card This is the first time I understand the meaning of the word identity My daughter grew up in Europe Better than our language More integrated into society But it has the identity we don't have Who am I? Where do I belong? Hard question, because in my born paper it's written "father unknown". It's unknown. It had to be me to build my own world. This way I understand why the winners of my interview all call the invaders as "teachers" or "spiritual fathers" Because they were born in families with lack of authority or authoritarianism Xelif and Mela are nine years old and are in an orphanage They grew up in a district full of crime and drugs Losing the order, framework and belonging of the representative of the wealth and power And Ji-Huo-En had a serious conflict with his father. His father, who was a Yatou, asked him to live in a secular society according to the traditions of religion, but he continued to live for a long time, and his father was separated from his son. From that moment on, I thought I had no father. Did you feel disappointed at him? Yes, completely. Completely. I even thought that in order to find him, I had to go back to the... to the practice of the religion they had taught us to be able to find it. I can understand a person who has a mental crisis and wants to find an answer in religion. But why are these people not facing their gentle fatherly Islam? I walked 200 meters in a small alley in the Baselonar Abel district. At least four or five Muslim countries were running stores and speaking different languages. I realized that Western Muslims are not a group of comrades. They came to Europe from South Asia, North Africa, West Africa and Turkey from the 1960s. They are all traditional Islamic sects, gentle and diverse, but they have different ethnicities and ethnicities, each with their own customs. In the Moulinbik in Belgium, I saw that in a small town of 11,000 people, there were 22 religious churches. The current UN President, even in a hurry to hold a meeting, is very difficult. An Imam out of two in Brussels, in Belgium, doesn't speak French, neither Irish, nor English. The people who are there as imams, The two-thirds are not imams. They know the Quran by heart. Quran. Really? Really. In their youth temple, I didn't see the ancient Greek version of the European language. The first generation of Muslim immigrants had no money to translate. Imams couldn't even communicate with the next generation. The tradition of Islam in a large-scale civilized society is through verbal transmission. And in Europe, the second generation of youths received education. They want to read.  to find other opinions. This particular brand or the company most of the books come from Saudi Arabia and they are awarded from there. Is there anything about Salafism? This is the book I bought from this bookstore, "The Book of God" The author, Wahhabi, is an author of the 18th century, an author of the official Shathe book. Every speaker I interviewed started with this book, "The Book of Moon". But the first generation Muslim in Europe I met almost no one has heard of him. You know, in the world we have only two countries. and officially Salafist countries. Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Salafism is the problem, not Islam. There is not a problem with 95% of Islam that is not Salaf. European religions are divided, and the Ministry of Education does not design religions. This picture shows that France has an official Islamic Association, but no one listens to them, and doesn't even know their existence. Salafism has deepened into youth, from life to politics, providing all the answers.  For them, this is not a conservative movement, but an aggressive movement. They are dissatisfied with the sense of tradition that cannot respond to reality. And someone provided a subversive answer. Kudubu said that the believer is like a stranger in this world. The way he solves the anxiety of identity that everyone has is to completely escape from this deep world. [Music] How do you feel every time when you wear the khamis? It confirmed that I was a foreigner. It was really the most important word in our country when I was a Salafi. It was this word "stranger". They always said "Islam has become strange, it will become strange again" People looked at us as if we were strange, as if we were not from the same world as them It gave us encouragement to leave this country, to go elsewhere It was my identity, their shirt represented my identity at that time After checking the information, I realized that strangers are a core concept of the war movement. The Bible says that when Islam begins, it is a stranger. It will be a stranger to return. Salafis think that this refers to them. Disloyalty and hostility to this world means that they will be saved alone. I remember the first note of the phone audio of Ali Burr in the police investigation. "It was a stranger." [Music] In general, Salafis are not jihadists. That's when they prepare the ground, if I may say so. Because it calls for a cultural break with the values such as the ones in my back, the 1905 law promoting secularism, which they consider is the core identity of believers. It opens the way for jihad, if need be. When it was at the height of the Iraq and Afghanistan war, which in the mosque it was being presented as, this is a war against Islam, Muslims need to defend ourselves. So when something happens like a war, it can easily push you to take a step. Absolutely, absolutely. With religion, it really is their identity and it is who they are.   Because no one will want to live as people 1,500 years ago. You can be killed by stone if you are adulterating. You can be cut your hand for stealing. Who want this kind of laws? But is that exactly what you believed?  Sounds like you're just burying your head into sand not to see the reality. Yes. But it took me long. Fighters for a self-knowledge and a clear mind can kill and send to the dead. They'd rather not look, not think, not ask. But the recruiters have to preach day and night for decades. She is almost the incarnation of this ideology. How can she face this kind of debate? But how can you accept stoning gay people? Or you think women is inferior? Because I never think it will become real.  Maybe I never did, or I had doubts. Did you question yourself at the time? At that time, no. How will I question myself when nobody else allows me to question myself? Nobody allows you to question yourself? No. They won't raise my hand and say "but". So you grow up being reinforced, reinforcing self-reinforcing, other reinforcing traditional stuff, that's why they're questioning us today. Benyatou says that once he has doubts, he becomes more afraid, more aggressive, more tough, and becomes a crazy person who is full of doubts. Did you tell them you have doubts? No, that's not possible. The word "doubt" is one of the worst words in the jihadist sphere. It's the enemy, doubt is Satan. When you are a jihadist, you don't even call it doubt, you call it "defeat" twice. to ask questions. We had the right to ask questions, but the question we have the right to ask is how? It's not why. How should I do it? But not why I should do it. When you are confronted with a contradiction, the simplest thing is to take refuge in the conspiracy theories. A world view of black and white, there must be countless loopholes in fact and logic to be filled with conspiracy theories. Benyatou says,   as the same color. But how? By competition. I once didn't understand how a group of people would die together in Libor. David told me that there are only two or three people in a group who are willing to fight. It's enough to pull the whole group. No one dares to say no. Like him, the At least 40 of the famous terrorist attacks in Europe have taken part. And they are often the most tough group members. I saw in the interview that brothers and sisters were competing with each other, competing between organizations, competing between the ISIS and the GD organizations. Through internal conflict, the victors pushed terror into the group. to establish Islamic State is for themselves. And secondly, it's about killing. It's all about less fight, kill, fight, destroy, overcome, get victorious, expel, occupy, free. Then what? Then we will think about it. What? Too late. At first, the North Korean government did not agree to allow the pursuers to fight in Iraq. Because the result of the war could not bring Islamic law. But the young people followed him immediately.    I realized that the most important thing is to repeat it. Because imitation does not need wisdom. There are songs to give you courage. When we were in Vizgar, I think our emir, wanted us to hear that, to don't let us ask questions. Oh, it's dangerous, you see? It remains you in one mind of vital. Just like the music in the supermarket. It's thought to make you feel good, to buy things you don't need. So it played all the time like a background music? Yes, it was your brand also. And many people, there is one brand. I was watching the video of the terrorists in Libor, making the explosive medicine, and I found that their cell phones were playing the songs of the victory. The music tells me that when he was with his pursuer, He was obsessed with the repetitive drinking and drinking. He felt that he had melted. He was like a piece of steel, with no life. This is what a group effect is. It can reduce the pressure of one person and release huge muscles. The members of Li Bo'er's team and Li Shou don't have this feeling. They will never kill. But to make such a group effect to the extreme, we must eliminate all other identities of the human being. Children, lovers, friends, colleagues, citizens. These identities are like a hair that is fixed on our life. What kind of power can pull it out? It's a person. It's a situation. This is a doll I bought at the bookstore near the Qingcheng Temple I hid in Su Hai'er's childhood. Su Hai'er told me that this blank face means to recognize the one and only. Because once humans want to create an image, they are idol worshipers. Shirk. So when he was six years old, After his parents became the owner of the Salafi in this temple, they cut off his toys and put them in the small rectangular window just directly above the door. That was my room. See the window is open. Yeah, that's where he used to live. Five years ago, because Su Hai-er refused to live in the same building, his parents broke up with him. He wanted me to go home with him. I realised that he wanted me to communicate with his parents. I have a lot of arguments and fights with them. They wouldn't accept me for who I really was. And deep down inside I knew that I couldn't change my being gay. I knocked on his door and said Su Hai'er was sick and wanted to see you. The window was open. His parents could see the son standing across the street after the white sand. But no one responded or drove me away. They just cooked, ate and lived their lives. (The sound of the door opening) (The sound of the door opening) (The sound of the door opening) They can hear me, I can hear them But they won't answer the door Just as you see I thought so I understood at that moment For Salafis Once you violate the sacred values You will not exist No need to see, no need to be heard  No, she is Christian, so she will go to hell. But that's your mom, you loved her for a long time. Until this woman who gave you love, raised you, become nothing. It's just like... In Manwar's kitchen, he told me During the 15 years of being a Saint, he never cooked a meal. The children were so high on this threshold, not a single one of them was painted. Did you ever think about them? I mustn't let Satan or devil tempt me away from what is the best thing to do because sometimes these are weaknesses. So you call women love as weakness? Women are the source of weakness, temptation, they restrain you from really seeing the truth.  The conversation with the comic reminds me of the modern political terrorism group, the Russian "Niekeyev". He wrote in the Revolutionary War that people who show themselves should not have their own interests, affairs, feelings, hobbies, property, or even their own names. For the sake of the people, which is the complete liberation and happiness of the ignorant public, we must become the merciless enemy of the civilized world. But a mentality, how can you let someone give up everything for happiness? Against humanity, against the world, against life. Personally, I've always been embarrassed in intimate relationships with girls. It's a very strange question. Do you have any friends? I don't have any friends. I don't have any girlfriends. I don't know how to approach a girl. I don't know what to tell her. You don't have the courage to enjoy the normal life, so you choose to avoid them. It's a great escape. From what? I didn't need to look for a job, I didn't need to look for a future project, I didn't need to look for a woman. It kept me in a kind of comfort zone. And then, there is no choice, it's quite simple. I'm interested in it. In fact, I'm someone very clever. I used to think that this education was too harsh. Even the taxes were well-regulated. There was no freedom in the dream. I didn't expect them to rely on it. Without it, I don't know how to live. I remember the words of the Nazi soldiers. We Germans are so happy. No need to choose the burden of freedom. Freedom is a heavy burden to those who can't control it. If you want to become a warrior, you don't have to ask who I am. Family, culture, race, country, all identities are erased. White robe and family, everyone has only one new identity, a witch. They were reborn as the Muslim community established in Medina in the 7th century. They are no longer cleaners, thieves, criminals, and no longer have the sense of failure and anxiety. They call themselves the holy ones, the elite among the people. They changed their names at the moment of becoming the saints. It is not Farid Benyatou, it is Abu Abdurah. It is not Sheref Khawaji, it is Abu Isen. It is not Dawid Walid, it is Abu Muslim. Abu is a certain kind of father in Arabic. This means that they gave themselves and the future to the Islamic State. changer son nom pour Abu ou dans les générations précédentes. Parce qu'en fait, c'est le dernier moment de votre vie, d'être humain, où vous êtes libre, parce que vous faites le choix de vous déterminer, à partir de ce moment-là, vous ne serez plus lui. Mais il se trouve qu'au bout de tout, il est toujours là. Manwar, Hassan, and Dawai are the first generation of European fighters. Their goal is to first strike the enemy, and then to overthrow the Muslim world, a country that does not follow the teachings of Islam. They failed. Benyatou is the second generation. The goal is to become a far-reaching enemy behind the Muslim regime, representing the United States. His eldest disciple Haji Mou is the first French citizen to go to Iraq to fight the US. I am from Paris, the 19th. We will kill all those who will kill Islam. All my friends in Islam have been killed by the Jihad In 2011, the Laden was attacked It meant the second generation of the Shia war And then you have this third way of thinking It's neither the nearby nor the faraway enemy It's the enemy in between We should focus on Europe and the nearest Because Europe is full of people from Muslim descent And amongst whom Salafi preaching has developed tremendously. So you mean the Jihad is the target, Europe on purpose? Well, definitely. It was something that was in the making. The Meila of Mohammed is the beginning of the third-generation warlord. He moved the entire generation of European indigenous people after 2012. In the six years after that, 2,000 French people participated in the Syrian War Organization. This is the first generation of indigenous warlords, 100 times. 这个100倍的数字,绝非一夜之间能够形成。采访三代圣战者时,我才意识到恐怖主义很早就在欧洲布局。他们在1994年就在西班牙成立了最早、最重要的西欧分支。1995年,伦敦已经是全球圣战的宣传平台。1998年,法国世界杯举行之前三天,一场阴谋被侦破。恐怖分子计划在40亿人收看的直播中,以手榴弹袭击球星 and Owen were also hijacked from the plane and collided into the West End nuclear power plant. This 9.11 prelude has involved the hundreds of soldiers and soldiers of the European 7 nations. The weapons and personnel have been all taken care of. The European Union's current governor, Brucell, is its ambassador. For the past 30 years, why hasn't Europe been able to stop terrorism from rewinding in its own interior?