In some sense this is terrible business you know uh heavy investment very slow return um but in my view sometimes uh terrible business means a great business because uh that's the entry barrier for all the other newcomers is extremely high everybody I'm Nicola Tangan the CEO of the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund. 10 years ago, we all assumed self-driving cars would come out of Silicon Valley. But today, the most advanced cars on the road are Chinese and Western car makers are going to China to buy the technology. Nobody sits closer to the shift than my guest Yukai, who's the founder and CEO of Horizon Robotics, which supplies the chips and software that let Chinese cars drive them themselves. was one of China's leading AI scientists before he became an entrepreneur and few people can explain better how China got there and where he goes next. So Kai welcome.
>> Hi Nikolai.
>> Um let's just start uh with a simple question. What does Horizon Robotics do?
>> Well essentially what we are doing uh is the computing platform for all generic robots. So including self-driving cars but of course our current business is uh probably you know 95 nearly 100% uh focusing on cars passenger vehicles.
>> Uh
>> so if I so if I sit in a car that you uh that you supply into what what is your uh chip do? Well, essentially it's running the software for uh the all the way from the camera uh perception to uh trajectory planning and control. So essentially uh it's kind of like brand for all the cars.
>> Now your chips run roughly one out of four cars uh in China. Uh just tell me about the
>> one one out of three. I think
>> that's our latest
>> track record.
>> Thank you.
>> Well done. Who who are your customers?
>> Well, uh you know the major Chinese uh OEMs like BYD, Chile, you know, uh Cherry, Chan, Great Wall, um and also uh the global some of the global OEMs like Volkswagen, Toyota, Suzuki. So uh quite some uh uh local uh domestic and global players.
>> Who do you compete with?
>> Oh, very good question. I think uh like a mobile eye, you know, uh and uh also Huawei and quite a few domestic players like Black Sesame. I'm not sure if you ever heard of that. And uh Qualcomm and Media, Texas Instrument, you know, Renus uh NXP. So uh actually a lot of uh global and uh China technology companies.
>> Why are you the why are you the best?
>> Oh well a very good question. I think uh it's really because um we are very focused you know we we focus on this uh single uh one thing uh to uh to enable atomic driving and uh all the way to uh robotics. we are not doing anything nothing else. So I think the intensity of focus is uh is one thing. The other thing um I would say is fundamentally our vision and mission. Uh because if you look at the name of our uh company uh you know 11 years ago when we founded this company we named our company Horizon Robotics right back to 11 years ago in China there was even no such a business at all. Yeah. And even eBay business was just starting
>> right and uh we had this vision is which was not a existing opportunity. So we envision in the future the world will be full of all kind of different robots you know working in a farming field manufacturer assembly line and the logistic warehouse you know uh every uh house home service and elderly care and also of course self-driving cars um so we envision there should be a unifying uh platform just like uh you know uh Windows and the Intel did for uh personal computing and just like uh you know ARM and Android um they what they are doing for mobile computing. So we envision in the future they're going to be such a kind of like computing platform uh which is uh generic for all kind of uh you know uh robotics working in different uh uh across different uh vertical domains. When did you uh when when exactly did the vision hit you?
>> Well, that's a very good question.
>> Were you in the shower or were you walking in the mountains or just what uh
>> Well, that's a very good question. I think exactly you are right. I think uh the vision actually hit me not uh I find this uh opportunity or this vision. Wow. Um I don't know you know um I I have been working in uh machine learning for over 30 years
>> you know since my early days as a junior student in college and uh I by chance I read a book about uh machine learning and uh I was so amazed that it's so fantastic to develop a computer algorithm one day it can be like a human brain uh getting smarter and smarter over experience. Yeah. By learning more and more from data. So um then I decided to devote my whole career into this single subject machine learning. Yeah. And uh that was uh for my thesis for my undergraduate and then my thesis for my master and also for my uh uh PhD and also for my first job back to my days in Seammens and al later to Silicon Valley joined AC labs in Silicon Valley and then later joined the BU and then uh later founded the Horizon Robotics. So I changed my locations and I changed kind of different roles from you know individual researcher to a team leader to a head of research labs and uh later become a founder of a technology company. So I changed my roles but there's one thing you know remains uh uh never changed which is uh my uh my mission and my vision to develop a machine learning uh algorithms to make machines getting smarter and smarter.
>> Two companies um that we've had on podcast Xpang and Xiaomi they also make phones uh cars in addition to chips. So how do you why did you decide never to build a car? I always position ourself going to be like a Microsoft and Intel for uh for not for PC but for robots and I think a platform a enabling platform I think it's a much more interesting uh positioning not just about like a business model but also about in terms of the impact you're going to make to the whole world you know um for example uh you know back to the days of a personal computing era you know Windows and Intel they are not just you know help or enable like Lenovo or Dell they actually help the entire uh uh mankind you know get into the new kind of a sort of a technology civilization or new area of a technology which is personal computer to enable all the white collar uh people to increase dramatically uh their productivity right it's what's an amazing impact soong they actually maybe uh help uh one brand you know to become very very appealing very very attractive to consumers but I want to enable and help all the brands all the cars is it difficult to build a car
>> yeah of course so but you you don't have the you the technology, you have the chips. So if I ask you to build a car, how long time would it take you?
>> You know, I I wanted to achieve like a horizon inside, you know, that's I think that's m much bigger dream, much more interesting uh for me. I don't want to be a car maker, you know, and uh I want to help more car brands uh to to become uh more attractive. M now the uh Chinese car market is kind of brutally um competitive. Um what is what is driving the Chinese car market just now? Is it uh price intelligence just what is it?
>> Well the current uh Chinese car market is really uh crazy. I think uh you don't see any any market like like here uh there are you know I don't know how many probably 60 or to 70 different car brands and uh and uh for the first half of this year uh more than 580 new car models launched and it's a it's extremely uh you know tough uh market but I think u uh the market is really driven by compet competition. This is uh but on the other hand is also driven by consumer demand. So consumers uh are really expecting you know uh more and more uh you know smart features you know uh uh automatic uh parking you know uh uh autonomous driving and the more fancy infotainment systems and uh I think uh uh all of those factors driving the market not just the competitive but also very innovative very innovative. What what does it do to Chinese manufacturers when you have such strong competition at home that when you got get out to let's say Europe is it just like easy peasy to compete relative? I think u uh we position ourself not uh first we are not competing with any uh car makers. We are we are actually enabling them. We are helping them. We are building strong partnerships with all the car makers and uh and all the uh ecosystem partners including uh the automotive suppliers for example Bosch, Densel and many other global and local uh suppliers. And uh our philosophy is uh really make friends and make a long-term uh trust with our customers and and partners. Essentially, this is fundamentally in the gene of our our company. So we don't have too in a sense of we don't have too much culture from the the competition uh perspective but more from you know what kind of value we can we can uh create. But luckily if you look at our business I mean fundamentally compared to like those car makers we are not so crowded right and if you look at China I think pretty much the three top players for the automotive computing I think namely nowadays um I think really consolidated to uh Nvidia, Huawei and Horizon Robotics not very crowded.
>> Yeah. uh partially because we choose the position where this business is uh having extremely high entry barrier you know it's not like okay a bunch of guys having VC funding and then easily get into the business because this is automotive automotive means mission critical and uh it has to having the highest standard uh for the quality for the safety you know and uh let's say we are doing is a chip design for automotive, right? It's not like a consumer uh type of uh silicon and uh it has has to gone through has to go through all the very regulars uh and tough uh qualification and testing uh process. So normally if we initiate a new project a new generation of product. So it will take three to four years to get the product the chip and the solution ready for for for car makers and then uh if luckily enough we want a new nomination from uh one car maker and then we need to also go through the cycle of the production for the car platforms and that's going to be another three to five years in China two years right for global OEMs they are slower than typically uh five years. So then think about it's going to be at least from five years to 80 years for the cycle. So in some sense this is terrible business you know uh heavy investment very slow return. Um but in my view sometimes uh terrible business means a great business because uh that's the entry barrier for all the other newcomers is extremely high and then um I think um a good business is something well you can uh sleep well overnight and that's my opinion
>> um talking about um sleeping well um and the autonomous autonomous journey. So you you split between uh hands off, eyes off, mind off. These are kind of the three steps that a car uh will go through. And in January last year, you put dates on them. So we'll have eyes off in three years. Uh I'm sorry, hands off in three years, we'll have eyes off in five,
>> mind off in 10. Just where are we today?
>> Well, we are in a very good progress. I think you know what uh in the industry uh there's sort of like standard from like a level two level three level four level five is really from the engineering standpoint for the consumers you know they have no clue what is level three you know so I I try I always try to connect our technology and the product to something where my mom at least she she can understand so then that's my way to interpret the technology uh stages from you know uh hands-free hands off, eyes off and minds off.
>> So what do you tell your mom just now?
>> Right now we are in a very good progress to achieve fully hands off. Yeah, I think uh then I said that I made that statement last year, right? So that means uh by uh 20 end of 2028 we're going to achieve 40 uh hands off and then by the end of uh 2030 uh to achieve 40 uh eyes off and then by the end of uh 20 uh 35 uh going to be uh 100% minds off basically you can sleep uh uh in your car you know running car and I think we are in a very good progress and uh if you look at um our product, our latest product then namely the software stack called the Horizon Superdrive running on our Journey 6T uh SOC currently is essentially uh you can feel completely hands-free.
>> Yeah. Uh it's just like a new version a smarter version of uh automatic transmission. You know if you remember you know over the last 20 years so the whole industry the car industry uh evolve from like the manual transmission and uh you need to control all the gears and uh later getting into the automatic transmission right but now I call this getting into the uh smarter version of uh automatic transmission. uh basically you just need to you know like stay watching ahead and nothing else you need to take care
>> what is still lacking what part of the technology are you still what's the critical element which is still left here
>> well I think we need a much bigger knowledge to test and uh we need to have a uh better numbers for statistics and then to prove that the technology is uh safe enough to clan uh you know uh ice off right so I think already we are in a very progress to approach the stage of uh uh uh hands off but I think we need a much bigger you know mileage to test and prove uh eyes off
>> do you build your own AI models
>> sure sure the the self-driving uh model yeah
>> you remember we position ourel as a vintel right not just the Intel we position ourself as a vintel and I think vintel is the really I think it's amazing business model
>> and where do you where is the kind of the future breakthrough going to come is it the model the data the chips
>> well it's a it's a combination of three factors together I think uh this is a typical formula of today uh AI business I think you you need to have a much bigger compute uh running uh locally on the vehicle and also you need to continuously collecting uh bigger and bigger data but also meaningful data. It's just is not just uh quantity but also uh uh quality. Uh that means you need to collect many many of the uh meaningful coroner cases right and uh I think also you need a uh bigger and bigger uh you know models in terms of number of parameters.
>> Yeah.
>> How how many people are you now in the company?
>> Around 2,000. What do they do?
>> I think we are very technology savvy company. So most of our employees they are engineers. They are either software engineers or hardware engineers and uh and they are working extremely hard
>> because you don't produce you don't produce the chips. You don't I mean you outsource the production, right?
>> Exactly. We we are like a typical on for the hardware side. We are typical uh fabulous uh company. We design the chip but we don't manufacture the chip outsource uh to our uh partners and uh and also we develop the software the the end to end neuronet network uh for for self-driving.
>> What does working hard mean?
>> You know you you know we are kind of like a typ typical uh technology culture. We don't have the the the rules or the policy. You need to come to work in 8:00 a.m. Actually, typically most of our engineers, they come to work around the 10:00 a.m. And uh and uh they freely organize their working you know uh time and uh there's no rules like uh okay before which time you are not supposed to leave office. So there's no such a thing. I think u the uh the sense of ownership uh of our engineers I think it's it's very uh I think it's very high and uh
>> what do you think on average how how long days do you think on average they work
>> actually I have no clue and quite some of our engineers they even working from home right
>> yeah we don't measure that by like working hours I do know some of the China companies uh measure measure the by working hours. We don't we never me measure that. We just you know caring about you know what kind of uh uh uh how far we can achieve
>> when you say that um the model time in China is you know the cycle time is two years versus 5 years in in Europe. What explains the difference? As far as I know, because I work with so many Chinese OEMs, um they are working extremely hard, they have a very uh strong sense of uh of competition. Yeah. That's urge them to try all the ways to improve the process, you know, and uh Yeah. But they work really hard. Yeah. for example, they don't have summer vacations like uh uh like uh 30 or 40 uh uh working days off uh during the summer, right? So I think they are working really hard.
>> What's the key to innovation? How do you create the really innovative culture? I think first of all um we are we are a company you know not uh really is driven by uh the uh vision and uh we are kind of uh uh we are not like opportunity driven right we are not compet competition driven uh we we work on that because uh we really want to push the boundary of the entire society and the the the industry I I think this selfm motivation is very important that means we don't want to be the same as any other uh company you know we don't want to do uh sort of things other companies are doing so that's why also uh explain uh that's why uh our business essentially is not so crowded in China right this is actually very real phenomenon because in China if any business looked even somewhat not interesting not even profitable but somewhat interesting right typically hundred of companies jump in to compete it's crazy look at the today the the kind of uh you know AI and uh and the and the embodied AI business right so many companies and also so many car companies I think uh we are we are we are kind of working on something you know which we believe but not necessarily you know other people uh uh love to jump in.
>> The fact that you have all these companies jumping in uh into these sectors, what does it mean in terms of the supply chain and uh the various choices you have as a manufacturer? How does it all go together? for us we just choose the best to work on because uh you know we don't have any luxury to be I mean some something we need to be very innovative for example the the chip architecture the compiler the algorithm but some of the things we are just so much respecting the tradition because this is really means life and death mission critical If any car accidents happened, it's not just impacting the driver or passenger itself. It's sometimes a public safety issue. So we need to be uh very very religiously uh you know uh to to respect the tradition. So we just choose the best partner to work with. What advantage should you think it is for Chinese auto manufacturers now to have that breadth and depth of supply chain which we don't have in Europe?
>> You know I work very closely with like many uh uh global uh automotive companies like a Bosch Densel you know uh Foxswagen. I talked to them about that. It turned out actually over the last maybe two decades or so uh China become a country where the supply chain of uh components and technologies uh is so rich. This this is exactly one of my friends uh who is a German he told me he think China nowadays is like a wonderland for supply chain because no matter how kind of new ideas uh uh uh then you can always find the partners and the suppliers in China uh either you know supply the technology component to you or work with you to actually uh fulfill your requirement. So and the speed is incredible, right? So I think that's give China an overall very fantastic environment to innovate. Yeah. So the the kind of overall ecosystem is there, right? You don't need to, you know, write email to somewhere else. Yeah. you just make a phone call, I send a WeChat message or just you know take a flight from Beijing to to Shenzhen just three hours and uh essentially now nowadays uh you know including myself and also all of my friend we travel so frequently within China. We we take like a China entire China as one village. when you see um you know client of yours such as Volkswagen laying off 100,000 people um what what what are the kind of reflections you are having? Well, we actually position ourself uh as like a strong partner uh to uh Foxswagen and many other global uh companies because uh we don't face any competition let's say in Europe right if you look at in in Europe there's a uh semiconductor companies like Infinian uh NXP and also uh ST uh electrical u uh micro electronics and uh we are not competing with them because uh they have their focus on for example analog uh chips and also the uh MCUs and uh those uh um uh uh those kind of their strengths but we are working on something like a computing for cars which is exactly uh what they are not doing and then uh in that sense we find a very very strong synergy and to uh to work together. So in my view I think uh we also I think both European friends and Chinese need to change the mindset you know for example like uh in the past uh let's say uh uh uh uh let's say uh several decades the general pattern was like a global companies trying to make money from China right and um typically for automotive nowadays it's getting uh very uh difficult Right? And now there could be some other mindset. Let's say, oh, Chinese companies now we have a, you know, very competitive product. We need to get into Europe to to to take their market shares and make money from them. That's also not healthy, right? I think we all need to embrace a new mindset, which is a vin method mindset. You know now the new opportunity is for us to work together right to explore new market to to to to launch uh more competitive products and to make money make profit create value for global
>> you know so this is the kind of the mindset I share uh deeply with many of my friends in Germany in France and uh in in in uh other countries. Your company is called uh Horizon Robotics. How far is a car from a robot now?
>> Uh still a little bit long way to go but not that long a far. I think probably as I said uh in two years by the end of 2028 uh the all the passenger vehicles in China will be hands-free.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So it's already kind of a semi robots, right?
>> And what is your what is your business going to be in the robotics business?
>> Actually, we are already a leading player in China right now. Uh one of the I think top two players uh for the robotics generic robotics computing. Yeah, we are enabling a lot of robotics companies. Yeah, we are supplying like uh computing solutions uh to enable them. uh what's the overlap in technology and systems between self-driving cars and you know humanoid robotics for instance.
>> Yeah, that's a very good question and I believe eventually the uh the two business technology will really converge and eventually become a unifying computing platform. Right? So cars will become robots and um no big difference. I think the cars will you know sense the environment and understand the intention of the uh pedestrian surrounding you know uh the the surrounding traffic participants and also will understand the gesture of the policeman and uh you know uh and making uh decisions in very sophisticated uh traffic uh environments. And I think u that's uh basically fundamentally no big difference from uh any other uh you know computing pattern of robots. So eventually it will really converge.
>> Tell me about the speed of development of humanoid robots in China. Now
>> well you know what it's crazy again there are like hundreds of such companies. That's so so intense and uh but I think all of them are still really a long way to go. Yeah, if you look at the autonomic driving, you know, how many years I think Horizon Robotics probably uh is the first autonomic driving startup uh in China, right? But we are we are be already working here for 11 years and but
>> and now you top two and now you're top two in in robotics and
>> now humano humanoid robots I think it will take many years to go. Yeah.
>> What do you do? What do you do inside the robot? What is your uh what does your software do?
>> We supply chip solutions.
>> Yeah. And for robots, we are not so much into the software. Yeah. We are supplying uh chips to to the robot companies.
>> When do you think we'll have meaningful volumes of humanoid robots coming
>> five years if uh if uh optimistic? Yeah, I I know I'm a little bit conservative compared many compared to many other guys and uh I I try to be, you know, um objective and and also partially as a CEO, as a founder, I'm uh basically a technology guy. So I I I I think then uh I'm a little bit more conservative and also objective. What will you personally use them for?
>> Well, I think the number one scenario is home service. Yeah, you know, you know, I think uh for for each of the family, uh we enjoy all the fun things, but we don't enjoy many of the tedious work. Yeah. Like, uh you know, cleaning tables after dinner. Yeah. Sometimes we like cooking but we don't like cleaning.
>> I have a theory that uh divorce rates will go down when you don't have to do boring things anymore. But uh
>> Exactly.
>> You know the rubbish or walk the dog.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's another thing which is you know China is facing very terrible this Asian society issue. I mean it's coming so quick uh quite unexpectedly. M
>> right it's a the problem the issue is getting uh uh worse actually compared to Europe and even Japan. So I think uh you know what about the elderly care? What about the lacking of uh of labors? So this going to be a huge social and economical uh challenge for China. What's the overlap in supply chain between self-driving cars and robotics?
>> I think almost the same.
>> So if you win the if you win the the EV race, you'll win the robotics race.
>> Yeah, that's is fundamentally uh what I believe. What I believe my argument is if you are a winner for automotive uh supply chain and you're going to be winner for for for robotics. If you look at the the actuators, all the you know u mechanical things, all the sensors like the lasers, you know, uh radars, radars, I think u currently uh apply to cars and then because car business is a big volume and then over competition uh all the suppliers will in uh continuously improve you know the cost structure. the performance you know uh and make it a very compact right uh very compact uh in the form form factor. So it's going to be make their those guys with very strong position for uh for robotics uh business just like uh you know many of the companies for for uh who were v winners for the mobile phone supply chain and later become they become extremely competitive for the generic uh IoT business. Yeah,
>> stupid question, but where does that leave um the race between China and the US in robotics?
>> Yeah, you know what? I I don't like this kind of u the view to look look at this game. You know, it's um you know there I I I don't know this kind of zero sum game. Uh I'm not sure this is the the the truth. you know if the China is very strong for manufacturer right so if the robotics uh industry in the US they don't work if they work with China uh ecosystem actually they could become more innovative they could innovate in a much faster pace right and uh you know and uh if they only relying on the kind of supply chain or manufacturer they will end up with slower uh technology innovation. So I think it's really makes sense you know always find the you know the synergy to work together and to uh create a value for the global together.
>> So what is a city going to look like in 10 to 20 years time? You know, I'm a huge fan of the Asian Greek culture and history and uh you know in July I I've been to Athen uh you know I've been there many times. It was a a uh very golden age you know uh where people really enjoy free thinking free you know exchange of ideas and uh there's uh you know so many uh you know uh inspiring philosophers you know and uh make huge impact for the for the human uh civilization right and um they are free of labor work right and uh so I think civiliz ization is so much related to to the freedom of of of human, you know, and then if we have all the robots to do all the tedious and sometimes dangerous work and then we can have more time like you and me right now uh chatting, exchange ideas, sometimes you know hing around for other things and all more time for entertainment, more time for research, uh more time for arts And uh I think even uh you know more time for outing that would be great. You know, if you look at today the traffic j in Beijing and Shanghai, right? It's if you ever come to China, it's terrible, right? It's very often like a oneway commute from home to office. You're stuck in the traffic for almost like two hours and then you waste your two hours, you know, uh of your life uh doing nothing because you need a 100%, you know, focus uh steering the wheel. And then uh are you the master of the car? No. In that situation you are slave of the car you know because you don't have choice you know the essense of robotics is give the freedom give the choice back to the human and the human can make a choice you know
>> to do something or not doing something not doing
>> and what is it going to and what is it going to what's the town going to look like physically? What's the city going to look like physically? You mean uh uh you know at that time even today uh China I think uh the housing like Beijing housing price you know from uh from school district to school district from like a region to region uh quite different right maybe in 10 years and the housing price uh won't be so much different because you know um essentially every car is like a moving moving house and then uh you have much more freedom and uh you don't have such a kind of anxiety about distance and uh so I think uh the I don't know the city will be very different drastically different and also traffic you know today I think all the people are kind of like competing fight for you know the the the lambs and the the the traffic uh the the parking lots And if everything uh you know self-driving and then uh all the uh the efficiency of the roads will be much more much because all the cars are coordinated rather than competing uh against each other and uh so I think the efficiency of the traffic will be um you know uh 10 times more improved
>> right and then um uh the environment will be much nicer, you know, and uh much less noise and much less stress and much less anxiety, you know, I think the city will be much better.
>> Take me back one second to your your Athens um visit. So when you're in Ethen, what do you do? What do you what do you do there?
>> Museum. Yeah. And also I visit all the islands.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So you go up to Acropolis and you stand there and and better than temple, right?
>> What do you think? What do you think when you're there?
>> I was uh kind of a it's a stunning. I think it's a I was so so amazed like I think a culture means everything. Human thinking is uh human thinking is unbounded. Yeah. And essentially we can do something much greater and uh uh than than than today what we can imagine and uh yeah I think it's such an amazing thing and also in some sense I think it's a some it's a it's a shame today this world uh we are still doing so many terrible things not making making the world a huge mess. Yeah, I think it's a shame. We are not not doing anything greater than the Asian Greek uh Greek people.
>> Uh personal question. What's your biggest personal failure in life?
>> Personal failure to be honest. I'm not I'm not a very uh pessimistic guy, you know. I uh I uh if uh I ever uh encountered any frustration or failure and u I always turn into the new page and uh I almost im immediately uh forgot. I think forgotten uh bad things uh probably is a a good uh ability. Yeah. And I think I'm insane optimistic guy. Um and also I care the power of now. You know I'm also very good uh you know following the philosophy of Zen. So the Chinese Asian Buddhism uh philosophy. So really carrying the power of now.
>> What's the key to the Zen philosophy for you? The power
>> you know the happiness is so simple. You know uh according to one of the great monks in the in in the history of Zen, he said actually many people uh having a miserable life just because uh when they are supposed to sleep they think about work. When they are working they are thinking about sleeping and uh then the sense of happiness is very simple. When you are working you just focus on working. when you are sleeping just as sleep and uh then I focus the power of now because uh I'm running this company Horizon Robotics right I just focus on this and uh nothing else nothing more nothing less and just doing this whole thing
>> what's something uh about you that most people don't know
>> oh there's one thing I'm not very satisfied about myself is about my my weight I'm just having too good, you know, appetite. I mean, I I love food so much. So, this is really something not so good.
>> What What do you read?
>> Well, recently I'm reading uh one book uh what's the name of the book? It's um it's telling about the story about three companies Microsoft, Intel and Apple. It's about the all the kind of decisions uh strategies they they're they've been making uh to create the era of personal computing. It's called a strategic thinking. Yeah.
>> What's your advice to young people?
>> You know, doing what you love, love what you're doing probably are equally important. Many people always trying to to dream to do what they love. But in reality, you are not always so lucky. Yeah. Sometimes you need to accept. Yeah. Sometimes you need to accommodate, right? But it's nothing pessimistic you know and uh because enjoy whatever you have right now is also a very good attitude right sometimes you love what what you are supposed to do or what you are requested to do and then maybe this whole thing can become something you really love to do and uh I think uh you know we need to have a such a kind of attitude you know uh love what we do and do what we Yeah.
>> Well, you I think that's um wonderful place to end. Uh big thank you. Uh what a what an incredible story. What an incredible company. You know, love your life philosophy. There is so much to take away from here. So, big thank you.
>> Thank you, Nikolai.
>> Really hoped you like the episode. If you did, please like it, subscribe, and put on the notification.