[music]
>> Uh good afternoon, everyone. Uh I'm Jin Kang. I am head of model development at AI Singapore, and I'm very happy that I can be here today to share with you about Project SeaLion. Before I begin, I would like to invite everybody here to think on the following question. Are frontier models really powerful enough to understand local context? So, I would say no. And the central observation here is that while there are many strong English and Mandarin-based models with frontier capabilities, there is still a very real need for large language models that can converse and communicate with users in their native languages. Because there are many parts of the world where people live their daily lives without speaking English or Mandarin. So, imagine if you were to tell them that actually you can build AI applications that can use their native languages that they are comfortable in. Wouldn't that be more appealing and more useful for them? So, at AI Singapore, we have developed SeaLion, a family of large language models that have been trained to understand and converse in Southeast Asian languages like Indonesian, Malay, Thai, Filipino, Burmese, and a few others. And of course, it can use English as well, right? SeaLion stands for Southeast Asian languages in one network, which reflects our goal of having SeaLion, the SeaLion family of models, serve the Southeast Asian community. Unfortunately, there is still a very large gap when it comes to large language models natural language capabilities and cultural understanding outside of English and Mandarin. For Southeast Asia, which is home to more than 700 million people and 1,200 languages, this is a huge problem. Because of our region's diversity and need for multilingual and multicultural language models, three out of four Southeast Asians will not get to benefit from the transformative potential of AI. When large language models can converse naturally with users in their native languages, they will become more relatable, and we think this is what will drive AI adoption. Harvard conducted a study a while ago entitled Which Humans, and they found that frontier English large language models are not aligned with many of the countries and cultures around the world. And of course, Southeast Asia is no exception to this. The paper highlights how there is a large cultural distance between existing English language models and many countries in the Southeast Asian region. The conclusion to draw here is that large language models generate output that is representative of the data that it's trained on, and this means that actually they can contain many types of biases. Here's a few, right? The cultural distance from the Southeast Asian region that many models have is because of all these biases. So, such biases could be by the designer's design, right? In order to reflect certain values. For instance, a model may take a certain side in describing a historical event depending on the developer's biases. These biases could also be due to the over or underrepresentation of certain types of data that the models are trained on. As one example, US data is overrepresented in English data, US culture in particular, because of the US's strong presence on the internet. As another example, while Tamil is one of the official languages of Singapore and is also widely spoken in Malaysia, it is underrepresented compared to the Tamil data that comes from India. Another type of bias can be present in the training algorithm, and this will result in effects such as models taking up more tokens to express the same sentence in a non-Latin script like Tamil, Thai, or Burmese as compared to English. In practice, what this means is that depending on the model that you choose, you could actually be paying up to five or even 10 times as much because of these biases. So, there is a performance gap for Southeast Asian languages. There There really is a disconnect out there with cultural diversity, and there is a real risk of exclusion from the benefits of AI that many Southeast Asians face. So, what has Singapore What has AI Singapore done to address all of this? We have designed SeaLion to cater to Southeast Asia's diversity of languages and cultures. We built on top of strong existing language models, and we try to draw even more from the models' multilingual and multicultural understanding for the Southeast Asian region with our high-quality training data of over 1 trillion tokens. We have designed SeaLion to be regionally excellent, strongly multilingual and multicultural, to have multimodal capabilities, while being resource efficient as well as safe and secure, and in doing all of this, we want to stay open, and we want to be as collaborative as we can. So, here's an example of what the performance gap actually looks like. So, bear in mind that just because a model is a strong multilingual model, it will not necessarily mean that it is also a strong multicultural model. Here we have a Filipino example where the user is saying in Filipino that she's having a period, and she's asking if the drugstore has what she needs. And here's the twist. In the user's question, she uses meron, if you can see what I'm pointing at, she uses meron as a euphemism for having a period, and she uses ano as a euphemism for sanitary pads. We see that this multimodal multilingual model, although it's very strong and gives a coherent response, does not actually understand the actual intention of the user. So, it will tell the user what is generally sold at a drugstore, but it is not going to help with her period, right? So, if you look at these items here, right? You have antacid, antidiarrheals, they're not actually relevant to what the user is asking for. So, because the model does not get the cultural nuances, it ends up giving a coherent but ultimately irrelevant response to the user. Depending on the situation, the user may no longer feel that such a model is appropriate for her. Now, let's compare with SeaLion. When you give this same prompt to SeaLion, you see that SeaLion correctly identifies that the user is using meron and ano as euphemisms, and it can understand that the user is actually asking for items that are sold at a drugstore that will help with a period. So, SeaLion correctly lists items such as pain relievers, uh pads napkins, which is the Filipino way of referring to sanitary pads, right? And these interactions will make the user feel that SeaLion understands them. It is a more relatable model as a result, right? And this is exactly what we want. We want to have a family of models that can serve the Southeast Asian community well. To localize this example a little bit, imagine if you were to ask a large language model that hasn't been trained on any local context, if you were to ask it in Mandarin, "Ta yi ma lai le zen me ban?" And then all it tells you is tips on how to host a visiting relative. That's completely besides the point, right? And you wouldn't want to use such a model. So, how do we get SeaLion to understand local nuances? And how do we know that we've picked out local data to train SeaLion on, to let it learn from? We have to work with the native speakers communities directly. So, we work with them to ensure that we have correctly determined the quality of the data. Because we want SeaLion to learn from the high-quality data, but we also still need to have data that is of a medium quality or an average quality, as well as data that is of a lower quality. And we need to have this because colloquial terms, slang, conversational data, all of this will be mixed into your medium-quality and low-quality data, and you want your model to be able to learn from it as well. So, you have to have a good mix of this data, and you can only have it if you have the native speakers tell you, "Yes, this is correct," right? We also want to work with them to make sure that we have correctly included data that is packed with good general information, good general knowledge, and good cultural knowledge. So, this is what we want SeaLion to learn. And we also need to make sure that we have correctly excluded the not safe for work type of data like gambling advertisements. Because we take our training data from the internet, which have a which has a lot of short-form advertisements like pop-up ads, we really need to make sure that our native speakers get to inspect the raw data, and they can see whether the unwanted ads get filtered out correctly while still keeping the good data that SeaLion can learn from. So, here's our model catalog. Our models come in a variety of architectures and sizes as we want to give our users the choice to work with the preferred model sizes and the preferred model types. We have models across Apertus, Llama, Gemma, and Kwent architectures, and with sizes ranging from 4 billion to 70 billion. For the For developers who want to deploy their models, they want to deploy their apps and their models locally, they can go with the smaller sizes. For developers who don't mind calling APIs, they can go with the larger and more powerful models. Now, the model itself is important, but what makes the model what makes an application truly shine are the tools that come together with the model that make up the system. So, we also have multimodal models built on top of Gemma and Coin models. We also have safety models, our line of safety models Seagull, which are available across the Lama, Gemma, and Coin architectures. And these are safety models that can perform safety tasks not only in English, but in Southeast Asian languages as well. Besides that, we also have embedding models. And again, here we have embedding models that can perform tasks not only in English, but also in the Southeast Asian languages. So, to put this all together, how has Sea Lion and its multilingual and multicultural capabilities helped the Southeast Asian community? This is from a few months ago where we hosted a pan-Southeast Asia developer challenge where there were over 700 participants who came together to build applications on top of Sea Lion. This is a really interesting This is a really interesting application. They use Sea Lion to translate signed Cambodian words into written words. So, Cambodian sign language into words. In many Southeast Asian countries, sign language is underfunded. It is scarce, and very few people understand the Southeast Asian sign languages. This is a real challenge for people who are deaf or hard of hearing when they try to communicate with people who don't have these problems. This team, they built an app that can capture the hand gestures in real time. So, all they would need to do is sign in front of the screen, and the sign gets captured and translated in real time into the word so that people can understand them. So, now I'll talk about an application that we have already deployed. We know that it can be very difficult for migrant workers to get around in a foreign country because of language barriers and differences in laws and culture. As an example, migrant workers who are new to Singapore may not yet be familiar with their workers' rights as provided by the law. So, they may not be very sure what they are entitled to. So, we built a chatbot powered by Sea Lion that can understand the native languages of the migrant workers and will also give accurate and relatable responses in the native languages such as Indonesian, Filipino, Burmese. To build this chatbot, naturally we have to work very closely with the migrant workers to check whether Sea Lion actually does generate natural and native-like responses that are also informative and accurate. So, we have a We have a picture here, right? That's like an actual response, but it's a bit small. When we work with the migrant workers, we really learned that their perspectives are very important. And it was very helpful for us. In one of the sessions, uh one of them asked, "Hey, can you check if Sea Lion can give a good recommendation for a dental clinic?" This is something that uh wouldn't cross our minds. But for them, it's a very important concern because they may not have that much money to spare, right? Some of them might want to send as much money as possible home, right? For their families. And they also may not have dental insurance. So, for them, being able to get the correct information is very crucial. And actually in Singapore, there are such dental clinics that cater to the migrant workers. So, some of them uh might even have people who can speak the languages so that they can help them better. Leading up to the deployment of this chatbot, we also co-organized a session with the migrant workers to introduce and familiarize them to AI. And it was a very fun and rewarding experience for us, and it really made us feel like we were were helping to give back, even if it's just a little bit, to the migrant worker community. In one of the final sessions with the migrant workers, one of them even said, "Sea Lion speaks to my heart." And that really reaffirmed our goal of using AI as a force for good. The Southeast Asian community at large has been very supportive, and we are very thankful for that. Personally, it has been very fulfilling for me to be part of the Sea Lion project because I can see that the Sea Lion family of models has a very tangible and positive impact on the region, and is because it can support the region's needs to develop use cases based on Southeast Asian languages and cultures. And on that note, I'll end my presentation. Thank you very much.
>> [applause] [music]