The university exam is over
Next, many people will face the choice of choosing a university major or finding a job.
Should I choose a major that makes it easier to find a job, or should I pursue my interests?
Should you choose a job you love or a high-paying job?
The mainstream voices in society will tell you
You should follow your passion
do work you love
The book I'm going to face today, "Uncontrolled Enthusiasm", is about to tell you
You shouldn't treat your hobby as a job
You should not follow your passion easily
The author of this book is American sociologist Erin A. Cech
She's going to reveal it in this book
The principle of enthusiasm for eating your interests
In fact, it is a privilege that only a few people can afford.
Following passion in career may deepen class replication
Social structures that worsen inequality
Finally, it may be used by employers to rationalize low wages and high working hours.
Past economics tells us
People will act rationally
Students will calculate for themselves how much investment in education will bring the greatest benefit
When looking for a job, you will also give priority to options that are in your best economic interests.
But the author investigates the job search orientation of American college students
I found that many people are not high-paying oriented when looking for a job.
but follow the principle of passion
I just think that this job can express myself and improve myself.
and bring a sense of satisfaction and achievement
Not just because this job pays well
For example, you can imagine yourself doing this all your life
It's usually your passion
The author compiles statistics on what American college students consider when applying for jobs.
It was found that 78% of people first consider interest
But statistically we can see class differences
Students from middle-class and wealthy families
Will stick to the principle of enthusiasm
while working-class students
Salary and job stability will be given priority
Because these students have to pay off their student loans and support their families.
So I’m more willing to do jobs I don’t like, slash jobs, or do odd jobs.
But in the United States, where passionate principles prevail, such people would be looked down upon.
Believe that you have not achieved your American dream
Apart from class differences
Passion principles and cultural differences
Asian students are less likely to consider interests when applying for jobs
Because when Asians immigrated to the United States,
Parents put pressure on their children
I hope my children will gain a foothold in the United States
Find a major with a stable salary
Therefore, it is easier to choose science and engineering majors and work in the technology industry.
Only then can we climb up in society and reverse class
Now let’s compare the situation in Taiwan
A Ministry of Labor investigation in 2023 found
Young people aged 15-29 looking for jobs
63% of people would give priority to job stability
Less than 40% of people give priority to interests
This reflects that young people in Taiwan are not like young people in the United States
So influenced by the passion principle
Because America is a very individualistic culture
Emphasize your need to show your uniqueness
In the United States, regardless of salary, pursue passion
would be viewed as morally superior
It's like you're trying to live your American dream
If you only pursue a high salary, you will be regarded as inferior
It seems that you are very superficial and have no dreams to realize.
It's tantamount to betraying your own life and living just for money.
But in Taiwan
Many people would like to flip classes through education
I just want a stable job with high salary
Or maybe you want to take the civil service exam and get an iron rice bowl?
Even if you don’t pursue your passion or realize your uniqueness, it’s still okay.
And it is easier to find a job in the United States with a college degree
So you can consider the jobs you are interested in first.
But in Taiwan everyone can study in university
Cause devaluation of academic qualifications
It will not be easier to find a job after graduating from college
As a result, many young people have long seen through the principle of enthusiasm
Instead, prioritize salary
So why do college students believe in the passion principle?
After interviewing these students, the author
Summarize a few points
First
People believe that the principle of passion can drive people to strive for success
Be successful in the workplace
Because passionate people have intrinsic motivation
Compared to employees who just want to make money
Better at getting things done
Like the inspirational quotes that everyone often hears
It's a passionate principle
The second reason is that the principle of passion can bring about a better life
Many people are not naive enough to believe in enthusiasm
But out of helplessness towards the general environment
Detained in school since childhood
After being released from society, he was locked up in the company
Even if you save money after retirement, you won’t be healthy enough to experience life.
Since half of life is spent working
It's better to start doing the job you like now
Avoid the sense of alienation and alienation caused by work
People actually know about the alienation of labor brought about by capitalism
So use the principle of passion to compromise with reality
I have to be a social animal anyway.
It's better to be a happy social animal
third
The passion principle also comes from generational differences
children of our time
It’s because parents of the previous generation would rather do boring jobs
Also work hard to make money
In order not to repeat the same path as their parents, many people
Just decide to do what you love
Next we will ask further
When did the passion principle become popular?
In fact, from the 19th century until World War II
Stable economic income is people’s main consideration
Career books from the 1950s will tell you
Before starting work
No need to be interested in this job
Because interest can actually be cultivated
You can wait until you get to work
If you consider passion and interest when looking for a job
On the contrary, they will be considered as too emotional and irrational people.
But the tide began to change in the late 1970s
Because at this time
The U.S. government began to promote neoliberal policies
Deregulated labor market
creating more job insecurity
In the past, as long as you had a good education
White-collar workers can stay in the same company for a long time
So it's easy to define who you are
But after the implementation of neoliberalism
As a result, short-term contracts and the gig economy began to prevail.
People change jobs every few years
This brings about a sense of uncertainty and loss
who I am? where am I? Where am I going?
This is when the passion principle becomes a good way to define yourself.
Like the 1970s bestseller What Color Is Your Parachute? 》
Job seekers are advised to:
Don’t think of it as looking for a job
But looking for a life
A life you are proud of
same period
The expansion of higher education in the United States
Allowing the general public to receive advanced vocational training for the first time
Many become the first generation of college students in their families
I feel that I can finally show my talents through education
At the same time, women are also liberated from the family
A large number of women have entered the workplace and gained economic independence
This series of changes has enhanced the phenomenon of self-expression and personality worship.
Everyone is free to choose the work they love to define themselves
But there is a contradiction here
On the one hand, society promises everyone a chance to shine
But on the other hand, neoliberal policies have made jobs increasingly precarious
At this moment
The passion principle becomes a cultural belief that alleviates contradictions
Let workers feel:
My job is low-paying and unstable
But as long as I find a sense of accomplishment and express myself at work
I won’t feel so alienated and alienated
People can console themselves by saying
Although this job is low-paying and short-term,
But it does not matter
As long as my ideals can be realized in the future
It doesn't matter if you work hard now.
When I succeed in the future
These hard work will turn into inspirational stories
Let others know that I have suffered too
So starting in the 1980s
The principle of enthusiasm has spread to every corner of society
From statistical evidence we can find
Before 1980s
There are very few books about following your passion.
But it began to grow explosively after the 1980s
Self-help books, TV shows, career counselors, big entrepreneurs
Everyone starts praising you for doing the work you love.
Because as long as people treat their hobbies as their jobs
can eliminate the low wages, job insecurity, and alienation brought about by capitalism.
Workers will motivate themselves to:
Although the job is low-paying, it is full of meaning
I'm pursuing my dream
Companies can even fire employees
Use it as a reason to pursue your passion
<font color=#FFE700FF>Do you know why children like athletes? </font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>You know why kids love athletes?</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Because they can sleep with models</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Because they screw lingerie models.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>No
, that's why we love athletes.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Kids love athletes because they follow
their dreams.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Well I can't dunk.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Well I can't dunk.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>But you can cook.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>No, but you can cook.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Your resume says that you minored in French culinary arts.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Your resume says that you minored in French culinary arts.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>How much did your company pay you to give up on your dreams? </font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>How much did they first pay you to give up on your dreams?</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Twenty-seven grand a year</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>27 grand a year.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>When do you stop and do what you love? </font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>And when were you gonna stop and come back and do what makes you happy?</font>
This passion principle reached its peak in the 2000s
Appeared in Steve Jobs' commencement address at Stanford University in 2005
<font color=#FFE700FF>
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>The only way to be truly satisfied</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>and the only way to be truly satisfied</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>is to do
what you believe is great work.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>And the only way to do great work is to love what you do.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>And the only way to do great work is to love what you do.</font >
<font color=#FFE700FF>if you haven't found
it yet,</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Keep looking and do
n't settle.</font>
This speech implies:
When looking for a job, if you just choose one with a relatively stable salary
Or have no passion for work
Just be content with the status quo
is undesirable behavior
in recent years
The principle of passion is even more reflected in pop music
<font color=#FFE700FF
>Aa-ay, I'm on vacation.</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>Every single day
'cause I love my occupation.</font>
It can be said that the passion principle has become the workplace culture of the 21st century
But that's the problem
Because the passion principle sounds like a good thing
What’s wrong with encouraging everyone to pursue what they love?
But it actually secretly promotes class reproduction and social inequality.
The authors tracked students who visited them during their college years
Visit them again 3-5 years after they leave society and start working.
Look what happened to those who believed in the passion principle
turn out
Three-quarters of people still follow the passion principle
But in fact, only 37% of people can engage in jobs that match their interests
Most of these people come from middle- and upper-class families
Even if you fail at work after pursuing your passion
You can still survive on your parents while changing jobs
In comparison
for working class people
Pursuing your passion is a gamble
Because these people cannot rely on their parents after graduation
I have to pay back my student loan every month
If you are pursuing a job you are interested in
Often have to accept low-paying or short-term, unstable contracts
So the same passion principle
When used on middle-class and working-class people, there will be completely different results.
Why is there such a big difference?
Because first
Upper-middle-class families can provide children with a greater financial safety net
For example, you can do an unpaid internship in college
Anyway, parents will provide financial resources
after graduation
Children from rich families can also have more money
Explore your passions and career plans
Like the gap year, which is very popular in Europe and the United States.
I will travel around for a year after graduation.
Allow yourself to explore your interests without looking for a job right away
But the students who can afford these travel expenses are middle- and upper-class kids.
It’s too late for the average working class to find a job
How can I still have a year to explore my interests?
Another safety net is that middle- and upper-class children can live with their parents
before finding a job
You can save a lot of rent
Even working-class children can live with their parents after graduation.
But it may put a burden on parents
Parents have to bear the expenses of one more person
Or someone who was born in Taipei
I have enjoyed the resources concentrated in Taipei since I was a child.
When looking for a job in Taipei, you can also live at home first
Job seekers in Beipiao do not have this financial safety net.
Beyond the safety net
Middle- and upper-class families will also provide more "springboards"
Let children find jobs they love
This kind of springboard is called "immaterial capital" by sociologist Bourdieu.
For example, cultural capital is immaterial capital.
Middle-class families are more familiar with middle-class cultural rules
Like the unspoken rules for getting into a good university and finding a good job
For example, parents will know that they want to enroll in the top and most popular subjects.
Children should have volunteer experience since high school
Because my parents themselves are members of the upper-middle class
Naturally knows how to make kids stand out during job interviews
In comparison
Working-class parents lack these cultural capitals
Don't know how to help children
You have to find a cram school
Or get help from the Career Center
Middle-class families also have more social capital
It’s the connections in society
Parents can use their own connections to help their children get an internship position
Let children have work experience before graduation
This makes it easier for them to find their first job
Or parents can find connections to invest in their children’s business
In comparison
Working-class graduates must submit their own resumes
No family connections to use
You have to build your own network from scratch
These are all when looking for a job
Springboard advantages only available to the middle class
This brings us to a conclusion
Encouraging students and job seekers to pursue their passions without considering the situation actually replicates class inequality.
Because the passion principle presupposes that everyone is from a middle-class background.
Using the middle class as a model to provide career advice
If working-class job seekers follow their passion
Often get different results than middle class people
At this point they may blame themselves
Why you can’t succeed in your career like everyone else if you work hard to pursue your passion
They don’t realize that pursuing passion is actually something only the middle class can afford.
Blindly following passionate principles itself promotes social class inequalities
Next, the author will further reveal
Where the passion principle is even more harmful
is that it can be used to maintain an unequal status quo
Because it provides a useful model to explain inequality
People who believe in the passion principle think
People look for jobs where they can use their talents based on their passion and interests.
Because it’s what I love
Nature can exert its maximum ability
Therefore, the salary at work faithfully reflects your efforts as a person.
So some people get high salaries
Some people can only receive low wages
They all reflect your enthusiasm and hard work for this job.
This is the result of the most efficient allocation of market mechanisms.
This sounds reasonable
But there are actually two ideologies hidden behind it
The first is
I have previously explained what "meritism" is in the video "Reflections on Success"
Is to believe that the labor market is under fair competition
The more capable people should be paid more
I don't care about your family background or nepotism
As long as you have strength and work hard
You will get a corresponding salary
That sounds fair
in the 1980s
70% of Americans believe that success in the workplace comes from hard work
rather than luck or help
So people with low salaries mean they don’t love their work enough and don’t work hard enough.
Or they love the job, so they voluntarily take the low salary
This meritocratic interpretation is an ideology
Because that's not how reality works
The labor market has never been a fair competition
For example, women and ethnic minorities have experienced workplace discrimination.
will be able to see through the ideology of meritocracy
I know no matter how hard I try
Still unable to overcome the ceiling in the workplace
But the danger is that the principle of enthusiasm has taken hold
So even if everyone knows
Gender, race and class inequalities exist in the workplace
Many people will still believe it
Everyone can work hard to overcome these inequalities
Look, Obama can still be a black president
There are still many female CEOs out there
So don’t blame social inequality all day long
It should depend on whether you work hard or not.
Apart from this meritocracy
The passion principle also draws on the emphasis on personal responsibility
Neoliberalism
_
During Roosevelt's New Deal Era
In response to the economic panic
The government will vigorously intervene in the job market
Allow workers to find stable jobs
Lasted until the late 1970s
After neoliberalism became popular
Believes that the government should not interfere in the job market
The free market should be allowed to weed out the uncompetitive
Individuals should take the greatest responsibility for their own financial success or failure
If you only have a low-paying job after graduation
That's because you are not competitive
We don’t want the government to take action in everything
Otherwise, workers will become lazy and lazy
After this neoliberal ideology became popular
Whenever the business is bad
Many employees who have been fired will describe their unemployment as because they are not worthy of the job.
These people often do not realize that the structural factors of the larger environment are the problem
Instead, he puts the blame on himself
It seems like I don’t love this job enough
This all shows the ideology of neoliberalism
It has been deeply rooted in people's hearts through the principle of enthusiasm
This is why winners within capitalism tout the principle of passion
Because the passion principle benefits advantaged groups
It allows them to ignore their own advantages and dividends
Describe success as the result of working hard to pursue your passion
Like Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, Bezos
After these people succeed in their careers
He will write an autobiography about how he pursued his ideals in the first place.
That’s why I have this career today
Make readers think that they can succeed as long as they pursue their passion
In fact, these people use the principle of enthusiasm to rationalize their privileges and advantages.
Finally, let’s take a look at
In addition to job seekers being passion-oriented
Why do employers care so much about passion?
The author conducted a questionnaire experiment
There are 3 employees who come to apply for jobs
Which one would you rather hire?
Employee A is salary-oriented
Employee B is promotion-oriented
Employee C is passion-oriented
turn out
80% of the supervisors surveyed most wanted to hire employee C
70% think employee C will work the hardest
But ask these executives further
Will employee C be offered a higher salary because he has more enthusiasm for work?
It turned out that neither would
Why passionate job seekers are favored
It's because they don't ask for a raise
Will do extra work independently
Includes independent study after get off work hours
Like using weekend off work time
Read on your own and take online courses for further study
Make yourself a more valuable employee
This is all extra time
But your boss didn’t give you overtime pay for this.
This is actually in the name of passion
Disguised exploitation of labor value
Many well-known companies in Silicon Valley even prefer work enthusiasm over work ability.
Because what these technology companies need is fresh liver
But passionate employees don’t feel exploited
Rather, I feel that pursuing my passion brings a sense of personal accomplishment.
I worked hard to complete the work assigned by my boss
Interestingly
Exploited passion can even be used to reproduce ideas of gender
Sociologist Marianne Cooper found
Many men working in Silicon Valley tech industry
Will regard overwork and overtime as an image of a hard-working masculine man
These people don't realize they're being exploited
But I feel that I am willing to work overtime and work hard for my career
This is actually a very manly work attitude that takes care of the family.
This is why jobs in Silicon Valley have long been male-dominated
Sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild found
Many jobs require employees to express their passion emotionally
Jobs such as waiters and flight attendants require a 24-hour smile.
More than just physical labor
You also have to do emotional labor to take care of your guests.
These jobs are more often filled by women
It seems that women are responsible for playing the role of caregivers
So whether it's male or female
are exploited by the passionate principles of capitalism
Used to replicate the traditional gender framework that boys should be breadwinners and girls should be caregivers
Sociologist Max Weber believed that
Capitalism’s central conundrum
It’s how the boss wants to motivate employees and make them want to work
One way is to treat work as a means
Work is to support the family
So if you don’t do well, your salary will be deducted.
Get a raise if you do well
This can indirectly drive employees to work hard
But there is another way to get a higher pole
Just turn work into purpose
Weber believes
A new work ethic emerged after the Protestant Reformation
People think that working hard in itself makes them more moral and good people
A person chosen by God
This work ethic allowed capitalism to flourish in Europe after the 16th century
Principles of passion prevalent in today’s 21st century
In fact, it is similar to the Christian work ethic
It’s just that we don’t view work with religious and moral values.
Instead, treat work as an opportunity for self-realization and personal growth.
Thus
The problem of capitalism raised by Weber is solved
Employers don’t need to figure out how to motivate employees
Because when applying for employees
Only enthusiastic employees will be admitted
College graduates want to do a job they love
Willing to sacrifice for work
Surrender to low salary
Make short-term, unstable contracts
There is even a saying in the industry
"When you treat your passion as work, you won't feel like you are working."
This sentence is actually very interesting
because actually
You are an employee employed by the company.
This fact does not change based on your personal feelings
But today's capitalism has developed to a new level
It makes employees feel that they are not employees
Make labor feel less like labor
Because when you don’t feel like an employee and you don’t feel like you’re working
Naturally, you won’t feel that you are being exploited.
The consequences of this are
People no longer demand that capitalist work structures must change
like shortening working hours
Raise the minimum wage
Increase the stability of work contracts
These were all things that previous labor movements took the initiative to fight for.
But now it's being killed by the passion principle
Employers just need to find young people with passion
It doesn’t matter if you let them work overtime and get low pay
Because these are all training
Young people need to work overtime to prove their passion
So in the past few years we have seen
The labor force participation rate of young people in Taiwan increases
But the salary in Taiwan is the lowest in Asia.
Taiwan among 15 countries
Not only does the total salary rank among the lower classes,
Fixed salary lags further behind Vietnam
Ranked 10th
Young people work overtime with enthusiasm
actually produces more surplus value to the company
But wages in Taiwan remain unchanged
So who actually benefits from the passion principle?
Is it a laborer who is exhausted to death, or a boss who reaps the dividends of enthusiasm?
Today's video
We cover the history, sociology, and dark side of the passion principle
To remind everyone
The career advice "pursue what you love" doesn't apply to everyone.
People from middle class backgrounds with certain culture and social capital
Only then do you have enough safety net to pursue your passion
Working class pursuit of passion often fails to overturn class
But people who don’t pursue passion but pursue economic stability and iron rice bowls
Will be looked down upon again
Meritivism and neoliberal ideology
It makes people ignore the existence of inequality
Rationalizing the success of privileged groups
Many workers who pursue their passion are secretly exploited by capitalism
I still think I am achieving self-growth
Of course, the author is not telling everyone not to pursue interests and passions
It is about letting workers know that the reality is that
Origin and class will affect a person's job search path
Those who treat their passion as work, don’t be exploited by your boss who doesn’t know your passion
You should make a fair request for salary increase and promotion to your boss in a timely manner.
There is also a general promotion of treating passion as work
Instead, think about how to pursue your passions outside of work.
If we can negotiate and negotiate lower working hours through unions
Then you will have more time after get off work to cultivate your own interests
For example, in Nordic countries, working hours are low and efficiency is high.
People will have more time to freely use and pursue their passions
Achieve self-actualization in leisure time
On the contrary, we in Taiwan
Treat your passion as work every day
Still working until my liver is exhausted
Are you always exhausted when you go home and can’t sleep well?