What makes a company last for generations? It's not their strategy. It's what people do day in day out. When things get tough, it's the people that pull through, not the plan. And we see this in all the companies that we invest in. Culture separates the great from the good. And so the question becomes, what is great culture? To me, it's how you make decisions, how you argue, how you debate, how you fix your mistakes, how you act when you don't have all the answers. Strategy is important, of course, but you can always write a new one. So the question becomes, what is a winning culture to you? Welcome to the investment conference 2026. I am Patrick Duplacy
>> and I'm Shelpi Nanda. We'll be your hosts for today.
>> The topic of this year's conference is what's a winning culture. In an age where you can copy a competitive strategy, poach their talent, replicate their technology, culture is the only true competitive advantage
>> and show the hardest to build.
>> That's right, Patrick. Which is why this conference brings together leaders that have wrestled with the hardest questions about culture. How do you build it, transform it, scale it without losing what makes it special? And perhaps most urgently, as AI reshapes organizations, will your culture keep pace or hold you back?
>> And that's what brings us together today. So, a very warm welcome to everyone present in the room here.
>> And to those of you joining us via live stream from around the world, we're happy to have you with us.
>> We have quite the lineup today, each bringing a different answer to what makes a winning culture.
>> And here's how the day unfolds. Four sessions ahead. In part one, we look at the fundamentals. What's a winning culture? Why does it matter?
>> Part two tackles transformation. How do you transform culture in established organizations?
>> In part three, we look at high performance cultures in the age of AI.
>> And part four closes with something special, a live podcast with Jamie Diamond.
>> What better way to end than in good company?
>> Absolutely. Now to set the stage, I'd like to invite Nikolai to share why culture matters now more than ever.
>> Please welcome Nikolai. Well, I have a confession to make because uh when I was a bit younger, I loved earnings calls. I loved first quarter calls, second quarter calls, revenue, margin, cash flow. You know, I read balance sheets in bed a bit like you guys read poetry or do you read poetry but then I realized that there was something else which was much more important because where did the numbers come from and what made them change and that's when I realized I needed to spend more time on culture because numbers they tell you where a company has been culture tells you where it's going. So in the fund we invest 20,000 uh billion Norwegian burner we are invested in 7,000 companies across the world and when we invest we have an investment horizon of decades. So when we look at who are successful and who fail, we don't look at quarters. We look at many years, many tens of years. And I've been convinced that it's all about culture because companies which in many cases look exactly the same, you know, same sneakers, same elevators, same banking products, some of them end up winning and some of them end up bankrupt. And we see it everywhere. But of course, no more extreme than in the banking sector. Some end up staying for hundreds of years. Others are gone. And it's not about the balance sheet. It's about the corporate culture. Who do you hire? Who do you fire? How fast do you make decisions? How worried are you about telling the truth to your boss? That's all culture. It's about speed, innovation, risk-taking. Now, let's think about 2007 for instance in Finland. Nokia, they controlled half the world market for mobile phones. Half the world market. Then the iPhone was launched. The mid managers saw the next day that this was a real threat to the business. didn't dare to tell the top management because of fear of failure. Six years later, Nokia gone because of a culture of fear. So where does culture come from? Well, it comes from the top. I have now in the good company podcast spoken to 200 companies. Now, according to my wife, 200 companies is not not enough to become a good listener. Uh, but I'm I'm trying hard. So, I sit down with the head of Jivona and I ask him, "What is your copulture?" And he says, "You know what? It's about performance. It's about uh uh taking the right amount of risk. it's about empathy. And then I said, "Well, but you're just describing yourself, aren't you?" And he starts laughing and he says, "Well, and that's exactly why it's working." So, basically, culture is coming from the characteristics of a CEO and it's being transmitted to the corporation. It's not what you write on the wall, it's what you do every day. Now, the world is changing faster than any time before. And AI is reshaping all the organization all the organizations. So it's not a matter of should we adopt AI it's just a matter of how fast can we adopt it and what is it that prevents us from do it from doing it in the organization. The companies getting it right they are the companies where people can make a difference straight away where speed matters more than hierarchy. And the ones getting it wrong have cultures built on fair and cultures where it's about this is the way we've always done it. These companies will be gone soon. But then there is a new term which I love and that is called high agency people. High agency people is people who do original things with speed and with force. And we have a lot of them here today to talk to you. So you will see cultures from many different directions, different countries and different industries. But what all these companies have in common is high performance culture and a level of ambition that is worldleading. By the way, way beyond the type of ambitions we typically see in this country because here extreme ambition means beating your neighbor to the ski tracks on the Sunday. But ambitions really matter because if you have high ambitions, you achieve great things even if you fail. If you have low ambitions, you achieve nothing even if you succeed. So the companies we are meeting today have extraordinary growth, market share gains, return on capital and it's been going on over decades and today we are going to learn from them. They are what we in the oil fund called kickass companies. And what better way to start than with David Rubenstein. He co-founded one of the most successful investment companies in the world. He's a master interviewer who has sat down with hundreds of CEOs and politicians. He knows exactly what separates winners from the rest. Please help me welcoming my friend David Rubenstein. Thank you, Nikolai, very much. Um, I'm happy to be in Oslo. I didn't come here to lobby for a Nobel Peace Prize, so if anybody wants to give me one, I'd be happy to take it. Um, but if if u Mr. Nobel were still alive today and I had a chance to meet with him, I would say to him, well, if you're going to have a peace prize, that's a good idea. But why don't you also have a peace prize or a prize for corporate culture? Because companies that are great and create good cultures can change the world just the way great peacemakers can. Think about it. uh the iPhone that was referenced earlier. The iPhone was maybe one of the most successful consumer products ever and it has changed the world as have all smartphones as well in ways that I think benefit all of us. And so when you have a great company that produces a great product or great service, it can help the world just the way great peacemaking can help the world. Now when I was a little boy in uh Baltimore, Maryland, growing up, I can't honestly say that my role model was a great corporate leader. I was focused on baseball or sports or other things. And little boys in my era wanted to grow up to be sports heroes. Today, younger people in their teenage years probably don't want to be sports heroes as much as they want to be corporate leaders and entrepreneurs. And that has changed the culture of the world. Think about this. In any given year, there'll be roughly 50 to 60 million new companies started. 50 to 60 million new companies started around the world. about six to seven or million a year in the United States about 8 million a year or so in Europe and maybe 20 to 25 million in Asia and other parts of the world as well. So 50 some million new companies started after one year about half of those won't be around and after another two years another half won't be around and after another year about half more won't be around. What companies actually get to be there for five years or 10 years or 15 years? Well, there are companies that have charismatic leaders. Typically, typically it starts a company might start with one or two or even three charismatic leaders that have a vision of what they want to do. Uh second, they have a product or a service that they're interested in selling to people and convincing people their lives will be better with that product or service. And they are not as focused on making money as they are on getting people to buy into their vision that this product or this service will make people's lives better. They also have a uh willingness to try to work hard to get to their end and their willingness to uh make certain that their product and their service will get a fair hearing from around the world. But the companies that survive for 5 years and 10 years and 15 years and 20 years are companies that have more than a charismatic leader and a good product or good service. They have an incredible culture and it's culture that enables companies to go from one generation to the next generation. As we all know, very rarely do you see a great company um survive the founders's demise. It happens and Steve Jobs is a perfect example of it happening. Steve Jobs started the company in the late 1970s um and he was actually thrown out of the company, thrown out of his own company and he was out of the company for about 14 years before he was brought back. And then he changed the world by a number of products that that and services that Apple developed. And then when he passed away, he was uh leaving behind a company many people thought couldn't survive without the founder. But because it had an incredible culture, the company dramatically grew. When Steve died, the market capitalization of the company was about $350 billion. Today, it's about three and a half trillion. So it's up about 10 times. How did the company go under Tim Cook's leadership to uh such a incredible uh place in the world? Well, it's because the culture that Steve uh Jobs had built uh was uh expanded by Tim Cook and ultimately that culture permeated the entire employee base and entire uh customer base of the uh of the company. And so what you have sometimes is you have a number of charismatic leaders who build a company. They sometimes can make it go to the next generation. Sometimes they cannot. It's very difficult, very difficult to make a company go much better after the founders are gone. It happens from time to time. We don't know for example what will happen to Bergkshire Hathaway. Bergkshire Hathaway was built by one charismatic brilliant investor and he made it one of the most valuable companies in the world. Now there's a transition and time will tell whether it works or not. But generally uh if you have a good culture, a good culture will enable a company to survive. And what is a good culture? It's a c good culture that a company has and enables it to survive not more than five or 10 or 15 years but 20 or 25 years or beyond is it's a it's a concern about making certain that the customer comes first. Making certain that the employees are treated fairly. Making certain that everybody has a chance to succeed and has be listened to and make certain that you're producing a product or a service that really people want and really does something useful for society. And producing a culture like that is like your own DNA. Everybody here has the DNA from their parents. And your DNA is really what shapes you to some extent. To some extent, you can improve upon what your parents did. Some cases maybe you won't improve upon what your parents gave you. But many companies can improve upon what the founders gave them by using the DNA that the founders gave them. And they can even go beyond that. And so when you're looking at corporate culture, what you have to do is look at what the founders created, but can that founders culture beyond go beyond when the founders uh leave the the scene? And those are the great companies. The companies that survive for 25 years and 30 years and 40 years and beyond are the companies that people will always emulate and want to have as role models because they're the ones that have a culture that people admire. They're the ones that put customers first. They're the ones that put uh employees first. They're the ones that put uh the the the people that provide services to the company, the suppliers first. Making certain that you worry about other people more than yourself is the most important thing in corporate culture. And in corporate culture, the companies that survive the most and that really prosper are not the ones where the CEO is making the most amount of money or is worried about the amount of money he or she is making. You worry about worrying about other people is what makes companies survive and do so well. So as we look at corporate culture and we talk about it today, just think about this. In the end, the companies that we all want to have as role models, the companies that we all would like to build or invest in, the companies we all think that we'd like to have our children build uh as well if they start their own companies would be ones that have a corporate culture that puts the the customer first, that makes sure the employees are treated well, that has a vision of what they want to do for society to make the company succeed and make the world a slightly better place. the concern about making money is not the generally the thing that makes a company uh prosper at the beginning. Certainly, you need to have a culture that really drives everybody and having everybody pull together. And that's what when I'm investing in companies, what I'm looking for is companies that have a culture where people want to come to work. They like working there. They think they're doing something useful for society. And making money is nice measure of success, but it's not the main measure of what a company's all about. And so as you think about corporate culture and through this conference today, just think about whether these companies that you're going to hear about are companies that have a culture that you want to have uh as you want to invest with. They're companies you'd like to work at, you'd be proud to have your children work at it, and the kind of companies you wish you had started because those are the kind of companies I think that we all want to have in our portfolio and all the kind of companies we want to have as uh as as companies that are trying to make the world a better place. companies have a good and everlasting corporate culture that really will survive the founders and that will ultimately make everybody think they're producing a product or service that makes the world a better place. Thank you very much. Thank you, David. Our next speaker started investing from his Harvard dorm room in 1986 and founded one of the world's leading alternative investment firms just a year after graduating. Kenneth Griffin is the founder and CEO of Citadel, which manages over $60 billion in capital. At Citadel, winning is core. They hire the top 1% and create an environment where that top 1% push each other to be even better. How do you build a culture where the best want to stay and compete? Marlon Nurbach, the chief investment officer for market strategies, joins him to find out. Please welcome Kenneth and Malin. Thank you, Ken, for joining us here in Oslo today. I cannot think of a better person to talk to about winning culture. So, winning is one of Citadel's core values alongside integrity, learning, meritocracy, and extraordinary colleagues, but winning is the one that stands out there. So, why winning?
>> So, first, it's it's just wonderful to be here today. Thank you so much for having me participate in this wonderful conference. And one of the things that is is very true is that this team which has done such an extraordinary job of managing the sovereign wealth of the nation has been focused on delivering for the people of Norway. You have had a winning team which has really delivered in a profound way for the people of your of your country. Let me let me be clear. Why do we actually enumerate winning as one of our core values? Because regretfully in the United States, we went through a period of time in which winning seemed to be out of vogue. We lost our way in the wilderness. And great firms are focused on winning. As as David Rubenstein put it, can you create a product that the consumer will value, the consumer will pay for, and what the consumer will reward you for creating and for building? Firms that are winning firms do just that. And firms that that create inferior products are firms that fail. And what worried us is in a culture where participation trophies were becoming ubiquitous, we lost our way as a country and what it took to win. And we at Citadel really do believe in the importance of winning for our clients. That's core to our business. And I, you know, I was thinking about what David had to say in terms of of companies and products. One thing to keep in mind is at Citadel there's no shame in making money. We manufacture money. Our clients give us capital with one goal in mind. Can we manufacture more money with that capital? You certainly manufacture money uh in a very impressive way. Um, so when it comes to a winning culture, Nicolai just mentioned speed as one of the pillars to a winning culture and your colleague here just told me that one thing that amazes him with Citadel is that you can still move at the speed of a startup even though you are thousands of employees. So how do you do that?
>> So I wish we could. I wish we could. But as you grow, as a business grows in complexity and grows in stakeholders, grows in regulatory footprint for example, it actually becomes necessary to have more process, more bureaucracy to make sure that what you do is in the is on the right side of the road. So startups have have greater flexibility than your established firms but your established firms have far greater depth and resources. What you have to be very focused on is that you are controlling the size of the bureaucratic state that you keep a constant focus on the ability to rapidly make decisions and when a decision is made to rapidly execute upon that decision. But because you have a bigger footprint, you're still going to have to go through a few more steps than that smaller startup might have to go through. But with more resources, with the ability to to interact with other global players on a on a far more um stronger playing field, we're able to move quite quickly. On on decision-m though, you know, this is one where where large firms do tend to find themselves lost in the wilderness. You know, I'll tell my colleagues all the time. They they put something to my desk for input from me. I'll give them a date. I'll be back to you in 72 hours, 48 hours, 96 hours. If you don't hear from me, I gave you an a yes. It's your call. Like, don't let yourself in management be an impediment to decision-m by those who are junior to you. And in some sense, in some negative consent to move forward is really powerful. because it tells people that they have agency that they can make a decision. You know, one of our one of our key internal principles is the most junior person who is closest to the information. That's the person who optimally should make the decision as often or as frequently as possible. Now, will they make mistakes? Of course they will. But they will grow much faster in a culture where they're empowered with agency to make decisions. They will learn from their successes and they will learn from their failures. But most importantly, they are rapidly learning and that's how we create leaders.
>> So it's a good point and talking about developing people. So the Wall Street Journal reported that you spend several weeks every year reviewing the performance assessments for thousands of employees. So how why is that where you choose to spend your time and what does it say about the culture at Citadel?
>> Well, first of all, I think it says that I deeply care about how my colleagues are advancing in their careers. And what I'm looking for is I'm looking for patterns of where we are not developing talent strongly enough and aggressively enough. So where in the business are are our newest hires, whether they're out of college, out of a PhD program, a lateral hire from another global investment bank or global investment management firm, where are people not flourishing? And I'm trying to understand what do we need to do as a firm? What do we need to do differently? Whether it's whether it's professional development, whether it's the experience that people have, whether it's the trust that are placed in our in our newer hires, what do we need to do differently to get more out of people? You know, one of the things I'm I'm most proud of at Citadel is the extraordinary amount of human capital that we've developed over 35 years. people who run today one of the world's most successful hedge funds who run one of the most successful securities dealers in the world and bluntly countless people who run most of the many of the financial institutions around the world whose roots trace back to Citadel. I think these are all a testament to our consistent focus on developing people to be the best that they can be. So, Citadel was a pioneer in quantitative investing and you've been using machine learning for well longer than most of us knew what that was. So, how do you with that head start? So, 10 years of head starts on on the AI movement today. How do you make sure you stay ahead?
>> Well, I think that's actually a wonderful story about the kind of firm we want to be. I remember when TensorFlow was released and five of my colleagues came to my office like the day it came out and they literally said TensorFlow which was Google's machine learning toolkit was going to revolutionize the world like with with complete conviction and I said okay and they they were basically saying we want to go spend the next couple of weeks really engrossed in what this body of knowledge means and how we can apply it in in marketmaking in securities. And I said, "Well, I mean, of course, like
>> go for it."
>> And and really the point of the meeting was not permission. It was their excitement over this transformative technology. Like they wanted to bring me behind the curtain to think about what machine learning was going to mean for our business. And I remember calling one of those colleagues about four weeks later and saying, "Okay, so what what are your initial findings? Like what have you gleaned so far from using TensorFlow? He goes, "Well, it's it's it's in production." And I'm like, "What? What do you mean it's in production?" He goes, "We use it to quote the US equity portfolio. We've been doing that for the last two weeks." And I'm like, "It's been four weeks since the meeting." He goes, "No, no, like a group of us work pretty much every single day, 12 to 14 hours a day, because this is one of the coolest things we've ever worked on, and this is going to transform the world, and and we're already using it in production. That's a winning culture.
>> That's a winning culture. And around technology, so uh with Genai technology is not only for the techn technologies but for everyone. So have you changed the culture around how you manage um well the culture around technology adoption in the firm?
>> So so I think it's important to remember that that about one in three people at Citadel are a software engineer. So the firm is very very deeply invested invested in technology like it's it's core to what we do. I think it's just important to keep that in the back of your mind when you when you touch on this topic. So for us with with generative AI, I think I think frankly one of the biggest problems out of the gate was there was perhaps too much enthusiasm for embracing geni that the the early generation large language models were really really fascinating to people because for the first time machine learning didn't create a vector of zeros and ones. It created written word.
>> It could write a poem. It could write a song. Could write a story. It could write a narrative. I mean, it it interacted with people in a way that technology has rarely interacted with with individuals and it was incredibly alluring to people to how do I use this to change what I was doing at work. Um, one of the tougher conversations I have with a colleague is I said, "All right, I want I want a list of all the genai based projects that we have at Citadel." And he came back with 200 projects. I said, "No, no, five. We're going to do five." And he's like, "Well, what about the other 195?" He said, "We're going to kill all those. We're going to do five. We're going to actually push them really hard. We're going to see what works and what doesn't work.
>> But we can't afford to let everybody be pursuing um random ad hoc projects. like it's just it's just too expensive. It's too much of a distraction. Now, of the five that we pursued, we had a real success with just over half. Now, of note, the gen models have gotten marketkedly better. I don't think we incurred any cost of killing 195 projects. And I do believe that over the course of the last six months with the introduction of of OpenAI uh 50 with with cloud 4647 I think you have a transformative sea change taking place you've got many more use cases today that are practical that are implementable that are meaningful in impact than you did two years ago. So I think one of the one of the key challenges for a business is always that dilemma be between being on the bleeding edge and being on the leading edge. And I think good companies think very long and hard about where's it worth being on the bleeding edge. So it was with TensorFlow.
>> And where do you want to be on the leading edge? Where do you want to be a fast follower? Where do you want others to sort of pave the way in front of you and you can follow quickly and capitalize on their learnings? I think it's very important in running a big business to think about when do you want to be in the bleeding edge when do you want to be in the leading edge
>> and pick that path with valition don't let that come down to random happen stance
>> so one of the places where you're in the leading edge is hiring the top people you have thous hundreds of thousands of applications every year and you said Citadel hires winners in life and not just winners in business so say I'm applying for a job at Citadel and I'm sitting uh next to you for for a job interview. So, what's the one question you would ask me to see if I was the right cultural fit for Citadel?
>> Oh, I I wish one question would do the trick.
>> What's the most essential question?
>> Look, I I don't think there's it's not one. It's a mosaic. Okay, we're all we're all people. We're complicated. And what you want to understand is is what is the mosaic of this person and how does that fit into our team holistically and the team they're going to be a part of. So there there are a few things that I'm I'm deeply interested in in in learning about you. Nikolai, you spoke about aspir ambition. Okay. Um I actually prefer the word aspiration over ambition because I think I think it it it appeals to our deeper inner meaning more directly. What do we aspire to do in this world? What do we aspire to create or to change? I want to know your am ambitions or aspirations. I want to know what does success look like to you? You know, I I had a young man from Harvard with me years ago and I I asked him, you know, this is going to this is going to be right to the point. If you made $10 million, what would you do? And he goes, I would quit and I would climb the highest peaks around the world. I said, okay. I said, "I don't think this is the right firm for you." And he goes, "Well, you've already made an offer to me." I said, "That's wonderful. I strongly urge you not to accept it because I don't want to hear from somebody who's 22 years old that like there's some number that represents their magic number. If they made that much money, they're going to climb mountains out around the world. I want to hear how they're going to climb the next mountain at Citadel, how they're going to grow a business for us, how they're going to change the firm, how they want to lead our Asian business, or like look, if I made $10 million, I'd like to think it was done because I was very successful at X and that I'd have more responsibility here to have a bigger impact on the firm. That's what I want to hear, right? So, I look for I look for people's aspirations. I look for their track record of being a winner. You know, I I love people who competed in competitive sports in high school and college. They're not going to play tennis for Citadel's tennis team, but their willingness to get up every single day and go to practice. Their willingness to put it all out, in this case, on the court and to win or to be beaten says a lot about their resiliency and their perseverance. And those are really important life skills that you learn in playing competitive sports. In fact, in choosing to compete in any arena, speech and debate as a musician, competing in any arena tells me that you are willing to win and to lose. And that is such an important life skill. You know, people forget that my average equity portfolio manager is right in about 53% of their stock picks. Okay. Could you imagine like you're going to your surgeon, he goes, "Yeah, about 53% of my patients live, right?" What a humbling job. You're right about 53% of the time. If you're right about 53% of the time with the right upside downside ratio, you're actually extraordinarily good as a portfolio manager. But that means you go home a lot of days really wrong and really humbled. Do you have the mental fortitude to come back to work the next day and get right back at it?
>> Well, I think those are some great advice and insights to a winning culture and I think that's a good note to end on. So, thank you so much, Ken. This has been very insightful. Thank you, Kenneth and Maron. Our next speaker brings a distinctive approach to culture. Michael Olyri is the group CEO of Ryan Air and previously served as CEO of the airline. He transformed a struggling airline through a lowcost model. Today, it is Europe's largest and one of the most profitable airlines. His approach, a relentless focus on cost and execution. The result, a culture of extreme efficiency and an airline that has made travel affordable for millions. Daniel Balthazar, co-chief investment officer of Active Strategies, will explore how he did this. Please welcome Michael and Daniel. Daniel, good morning.
>> Morning,
>> Michael. Warm welcome to our conference.
>> Thank you very much. Great pleasure to be here.
>> We met in this office a couple of years ago for an investor meeting.
>> We did.
>> After that, I received a letter from you thanking me for the meeting, which made me really feel really, really special. Never happened to me in my 25 years of doing this. What does that tell me about you and Ryan? Well, firstly, it tells me you didn't buy enough our stock after that meeting, which is why I had to do the follow-up letter to encourage you to buy more. Um, and and
>> we we have a cost focus as well. We like to buy low.
>> Oh, you there's never been a better opportunity. Stock is down about 25%. Just don't tell anybody because we're buying it as fast as we can at the moment and I don't want to be competing with anybody else in the room.
>> Very good. So if the culture is set at the top,
>> how does that translate into how 25,000 people behave every single day?
>> I get very nervous at these culture smuler meetings y skeptical when we do all the cultural stuff. I respect David, but you know, I don't want to be running a company that survives 300 years and for 55 generations. We want to make money for the next 5 10 years. uh and if we do that there's a reasonable prospect we'll survive 15 20 years but ultimately somebody's going to come along and reinvent the wheel. I don't think Nokia failed by the way because you know the mar the management were arrogant or there was a culture of fear in Nokia. Nokia failed because fundamentally the iPhone came along and totally transformed the technology and that bevils all of us. What keeps me awake at night? Star Trek. uh because it doesn't matter how bloody cheap my fairs are going to be. And when it comes to flying in Europe, no one's going to beat Ryan on price ever, but somebody sometime is going to invent some way of beaming people across Europe. Uh although the European Commission will probably find some way to tax it. uh for some environmental cause, da da da da da da, but ultimately we will get uh the technology or some sort of transform of technology will come along and it doesn't matter how good our culture was or how good our cost base was, we're going to get blown out of the water. Until that time comes, our culture is we kind of we do not and I I kind of shout and rant and rave at everybody. We're not interested in explaining our culture. Our culture is we want to deliver the lowest fair most on time flights and we'll do it by having the lowest cost bar nobody in the industry and we will keep transforming our cost base. We lead the aeron industry across the world. We were the first people to uh buy get rid of travel agents. You know when the internet came along because we've been paying 20% for distribution for you know 15 years in an industry that had a 1% margin. Why the hell we paying 20% to mom and pop travel agents? internet came along, we were out the door, banned the travel agents and were gone. Um, we were the first people 15 years ago to charge for bags. And as you know, as it says in the good Bible, Moses came down from the mountaintop and the fourth commandment is thou shalt be entitled to bring free bags on board aircraft forever more. Um but by charging for bags we went from 80% of passengers on our flights uh bringing a bag on a a stay duration of one and a of 2.5 days to 20% of passengers today now bring a bag in which means not alone have we gotten rid of huge amounts of labor at our airports and again I slightly disagree with David I want to treat people well but ultimately I want to get rid of as many people as I can within the business uh but and the ones who remain I'll treat well Um, pilots, for example, you know, are egregiously expensive employees. By law, they can't fly more than 800 hours a year, which is 18 hours a week, which I think is ridiculously unproductive. And for that, I paid them about a quarter million uh each. So, but technology will in time come along. You know, if the US military can fly drones or fly, you know, aircraft across, pilots will ultimately get competed out of the system. I want to treat my pilots very well. I want to treat my camera crew very well, but at the back I also want to find some way of finding a technology that'll replace them all. And then the cost of flying across Europe, even with the European EU EU's environmental taxes and ridiculous regulation, will become even cheaper than it ever has before. So our focus and our culture is all about make it cheap, make it on time. After that, go away, you're not getting anything else. and then be viciously obsessively focused on how do we make it cheaper, cheaper, cheaper by constantly reinvesting the reinventing the system and fundamentally changing customer behavior. Charging for bags was one of the greatest initiatives we've ever come up with in not because and everybody's obsessed with oh I we just want the money. I would happily give away the money ultimately to shareholders but give away the money if I can get rid of the last 20% of bags. I would have no uh check-in staff. I'd have no baggage handling staff. I'd have no lost baggage staff. The aircraft fly about 3% lighter, which reduces my fuel consumption. My fuel bills about 5 billion a year. Uh so the hidden benefits of getting rid of checked in bloody bags is that we're consuming less fuel. And with jet oil today at about $157 a barrel, anything I can do to get out that kind of those kind of costs, we will do. And that's why we are the most profitable airline in the world. We are certainly the biggest international airline in the world. And yet we plan to grow in size from 200 million passengers last year to 300 million passengers in the next 8 years by ordering 300 by order taking delivery of 300 new aircraft which from Boeing the Max 10 aircraft which are 20% bigger in terms of seats but they burn 20% less fuel per seat. I am going to transform my economics for the next uh 10 years with this new technology. Uh and but and they'll be flown by the same two pilots, the same four or five cabin crew. Uh which should make us hugely lower cost, widen the price advantage I have over every other airline in Europe. And I'm going to blow them all up and own the industry until somebody in a back bedroom somewhere invents some way of beaming people across Europe and then I'm screwed.
>> Excellent. You operate in a hyperco competitive industry.
>> Are you competitive industry? Hyper competitive is Europe? No, they're all useless. Government owned, heavily regulated, hugely government subsidized. All the legacies are running around at the moment trying to get bailouts. God bless the Republicans in the United States. They're now about to bail out two of the most bankrupt airlines, Spirit and JetBlue, who should have been allowed to go to the wall many years ago. So, no, it's not a hyperco competitive industry. It's a very badly regulated industry. uh it is governmentowned which is why it it is inefficient uh hugely expensive and inefficient in Europe. So all I have to be is modestly competitive to be better than the rest of the competition in Europe but that's not setting the bar very high.
>> Amazing.
>> Most people though most employees they don't like an over focus on cost. How do you keep them motivated?
>> Fear, terror, stalking the corridors late at night. Um we don't I mean you know the great thing about Rhiner is we've been doing it this way for 30 years. So you know we hire about 50 graduates every year. Um we hire people who want to work hard. We try to set an example there. It is a very slim kind of man. There is only three layers of management between somebody on the front line and me. Um and therefore we keep it very flat. But the advantage we have is we're a single you know we're a one goof kind of operation. It's only an airline. All we have to sell is a seat. So we don't need complexity. We avoid M&A. We don't get involved in, you know, buying hotels or buying airports or buying whatever else it is. We buy aircraft hopefully at times of distress when Boeing or Airbus needs orders and then all we do is sell seats all day long. So we don't need a lot of complicated management and then but we are very good because I think we have a very flat management structure. We're very good at pouncing on new initiatives as they come along. And the great advantage of being the great strength of Ryan Air is we're not very much beloved. We finished last in almost every passenger survey. We have never won. There's a there's an award in Ireland for the Irish Travel Agents Association uh which there's only two airlines in Ireland. Airlingers have won those awards which is the exate airline. He lingers have won the travel agent airline of the year award for 30 years in a row. I have promised that we will I will quit if we ever win that award. Um, so but the advantage of sorry I just cut the advantage of not being overly sensitive about my reputation or our image or being culturally popular is we're ruthlessly low cost and that gives us huge freedom to chase those kind of costsaving measures or to reinvent the way we uh the way we drive the airlines and then ultimately all the other morons will follow us along. I mean the American airlines have just discovered charging for bags 15 20 years after we started doing it. Now they're trying to make it do it as a way of gaining revenue whereas we did it not as a way of generating revenue but as a way of eliminating cost.
>> It's fascinating because most of the CEOs we talked to they talk about more customer centricity keep the customer heck put the customer in the center of everything. Yet you're doing the opposite but win.
>> But that's because we have an enormous price advantage over everybody else. customers ultimately in every survey. Oh, I wish they were nicer. I want a refund of a non-refund. What part of no refund don't you understand? I don't care if your granny died or you know your cat was ill and you couldn't travel on the day. It was a non-refundable fair. Now I want you to fly because I can sell you about 6 of ancillary revenues on board my aircraft. But I'm 216 million and we appear occasionally we it happens even to us. We occasionally mismanage situations. We get a huge amount of adverse publicity and what I notice every time we get a lot of adverse publicity is bookings go up. Elon Musk who I have never met uh never had any interaction with it. We had this issue we were trying to put Wi-Fi on board our aircraft uh at the start of the year. I think Wi-Fi free Wi-Fi on board aircraft is coming. The problem at the moment is the technology doesn't yet exist. We have to put couple of dimples on the outside of the aircraft. It would be about a 2% fuel drag and my fuel bill is 5 billion a year. 2% fuel drag is something of the order about a hundred million and I'm not paying 100 million to put free Wi-Fi on board for my passengers. Uh Starlink which is a terrific technology. I have no issue with the starting technology. Starling believe passengers will pay you €12 you know and it'll pay for itself. Uh clearly they've never met any round air passengers. Um because that by the time we've gone up and down the cabin selling them teas, coffee, scratch cards and anything else we can kind of think to sell them. we don't have time to be running up and down taking one euro transactions any so I happen to say look Starink is great but you know the system doesn't work uh we're not taking a fuel penalty of 100 million a year because that would be you know 50 cents on every ticket and he uh someone told Elon Musk that I'd slagged off Starling so he popped up something on his internet feed going who is this wanker in Ryionaire who's this Ryanire gobshite he's clearly an idiot he knows nothing about flying so I pop back who is this Egypt in uh Twitter running that cesspace that is Twitter having a pop off me I'm correct it does have a fuel drag uh he says it doesn't have a fuel drag and then he says I know nothing about avionics which is probably true I know very little about avionics but he knows nothing about flying lowcost airlines either he then ran a poll on his Twitter ex I don't have a Twitter site by the way thankfully I have better things to do with my life but he ran a poll at his 1.5 should I buy Ryan we politely pointed out you're American therefore You can't buy a Ryan Air. We're European and you have to be more than 50%. You won't. And next thing it exploded during the second week of January, which is one of the quietest weeks for bookings in uh in Europe. And my bookings just took off. Next thing we're running around, how do we manif how do we manif? So, we ran a big idiot seat sale. We got AI to come up with some ads of me smacking him over the head with some and him choking me. Da da da. And we manufactured about $30 million of free publicity. I was holding a press conference in Dublin back in January to do my kind of usual this summer. We'll do 25 do roots. They took the press conference live on Sky CBC went live to this Egypt in Dublin talking desperately trying to make some news about how Elon Musk is wrong. We got about 30 million free publicity out of it and bookings for about 6 weeks went up by about 3 percentage points.
>> Did you send him a thank you letter?
>> Pardon me.
>> Did you send Elon Musk a thank you?
>> No, actually we sent him a free voucher for a free Ryan flight round to the Twitter Twitter offices in Dublin. and got a photograph of me handing in the free radier voucher. He hasn't claimed it yet, but I hope he will at some point in time in the not too distant future. So, one of the other things we do is we will jump on any bit of cheap publicity we can uh because cheap publicity uh in our business where you have such a price advantage drives enormous sales and enormous bookings. And so as long as it doesn't revolve around safety, if you know, and I remember Trump getting elected the first time said if he murdered somebody on Fifth Avenue that he'd still get elected. And we were thinking, well, maybe if we murdered somebody on Fifth Avenue, would it drive bookings up on Ryan Air? We thought, no, that was probably pushing the envelope a little bit too far. But other than that, if it doesn't involve safety, we're up for any bit of cheap publicity we can get. Okay, so to summarize, a cost focus, free marketing and an incredible sense of humor definitely created a winning culture. Thank you very much, Michael. Please join me with a show. Thank you very much.
>> Michael and Daniel, Michael, could I ask you, Michael, could I ask you to remain seated for a panel discussion? Okay. So far,
>> by no.
>> Fantastic. So far, we've heard some very different approaches to building winning cultures. Now, let's bring those perspectives together. David and Kenneth will be joining this panel, and joining them is Robin Group, the CEO of MAN Group, a global alternative investment firm with over $200 billion in assets. She brings another lens to high performance culture. David will moderate this session. Please help me welcome them to the stage. Good to see you again, my friend. I get to follow that act. That's going to be tough.
>> Right.
>> So, um, Robin, you are the CEO of Mand Group, right?
>> Correct.
>> And you're not a man, right?
>> I So I Well, since I last looked. Yeah.
>> And you're the first woman to be the CEO of Man Group in 250 years or something like that.
>> Something like that. Yeah. So, how did you get to that job?
>> Yeah, determination. Um, how did I get to that job? One, I worked there for a decent amount of time. Two, I've held lots of different roles. And I've got lots of war wounds to show for it. Um, and I was the best person for the job when it came open.
>> Okay. And the best person for the job always gets the job.
>> I like to think so.
>> Okay. And uh Ken um your firm has been extraordinarily successful in everything it's touched. Um but in the great recession of 0708, you came very close to not being that successful. Were you ever worried that you weren't going to survive in the 0708 period?
>> So 07 no 07 was actually phenomenal year for us. But there was a there was a day 08 I remember getting the elevator at home and saying like literally I I hope when I come back we're still in business. and CNBC had a van parked outside of our four walls trying to get that bankruptcy footage. So, it was a it was a tough 16 weeks in 2008. Now, the good news is history's written by the winners. We've had a great run since 2008 and that moment's largely become a footnote in our history, but one that I'll never forget.
>> Michael, um you're identified as the CEO for a long time of Ryan Air, but you didn't start Ryionaire. U Mr. Ryan started it. Had you not um been working for him, do you think you would ever have wound up in some capacity like your job you have now? Because did you the personality you have now is a personality? Did you have that personality before or did you grow it as you kind of were running this airline? Was did I always have a deformed personality? Probably. I was educated by Christian Brothers and then Jesuits. So it was a miracle I survived that. Would I be in the airline industry? No. I would hopefully have gotten a job in a proper functioning industry where you could make money like Kenny. Um, but the unlike Robin in my case, I got the job in Raire because nobody else wanted it. Uh, the Ryans had set Brian Air to be at the start of EU deregulation back in 1987. They wanted to kind of compete with their lingus on the Irish UK roots and they lost 20 million in three years and the thing was going bust. Uh I was this bright young uh guy coming out of college had my accountancy degree. I was actually very quiet reticent. I don't want to be a uh never wanted the publicity. Um and eventually they ran out of chief executives. There was nobody left to run the bloody place. So I was sent in to just staunch the losses. Do whatever you want and go whatever you want to do. My first recommendation was close this turkey. It's never going to make money. It's doomed to bloody fail. This industry is for the birds. Uh and Tony thankfully uh sent me off to see Southwest in the States at the time when Herb Keller was doing what he did so well in Austin in Texas. Uh he was a legend and he was the guy who kind of created the lowfare industry. Um and I was sent off to see him. Um and I have this legendary dinner with Herb Keller. What do you I mean what do you remember at the dinner with Herb Keller? Absolutely bloody nothing. Uh I was he was at the time about 65. I was about 26. He drank me under the table before the starters had even got there. But I saw a southwest I we I come from Europe. Oh, everything was slow. A plane would drive in and an hour and 15 minutes later turn around cuz the pilots had to have a smoke and the camera crew had to have a winge and everybody had to call their union to see whether they were feeling like going out in the next fight of the day. This thing arrived. It was like a Formula 1 pit stop. Aircraft in everybody on it. Aircraft out gone. And it was pretty clear if you could turn planes around in 15 or 20 minutes instead of an hour and 15 minutes, you get two more, three more free flights per day per aircraft. So that's where it all came from. So it was the combination of Tony Ryan's stupidity in setting up an airline, but Herb Keller's vision in say you can actually run a very efficient airline, which is the uh key to Ryan Air success. Now, earlier you mentioned a couple times safety as being an exception to some things, but sometimes people would say, well, if it's a lowcost airline, maybe they're going to scrimp on safety. How can you assure people you're not scrimping on safety? Uh, you can't. Uh, but ultimately, we've now been doing this for about 35 years. We have the youngest, newest fleet of aircraft in Europe. We have a fleet of 300, 650 Boeing 737s. We bought them all from new. We own them all. They're not owned by some bloody leasing company. So, you know, we own them all. depreciation only charge. We have no debt on the balance sheet. We train all our own pilots. We have 16 simulator centers. We do all our own aircraft maintenance in aircraft maintenance in-house and we're about to take the engine maintenance in-house as well. So the best you can do is you point to your record over 35 years and certainly in our first 15 or 20 years it was a bit cheap and you know they don't do the maintenance. I think that's kind of disappeared. But you're only as good as today. We do three and a half thousand flights a day. will carry 700,000 people today. Today we have to do everything safely. Tomorrow we have to do everything safely. And I it always makes me worry statistically the bigger and bigger and bigger we get. I always worry statistically you're likely to have a screw up somewhere along the way. But so far for 35 years we've managed to avoid it. Okay. Ken, many people don't realize you operate two big businesses. One is the most profitable hedge fund ever, um, Citadel, but you have a separate business, uh, Citadel Securities. What is Citadel Securities and why did you start that business when you already had a very profitable hedge fund?
>> So, Sil Securities is one of the largest market makers in the world. In fact, we we trade about 25% of the US equity turnover every day. And over the course of the last couple weeks, we've averaged about a trillion dollars a day in turnover. So, it is a a firm that is at the center point of liquidity around the world. It is powered by world-class technology, great predictive analytics, and a really, really brilliant management team. So, it shares much of the same DNA as the as the hedge fund side of the house. Great people, great technology, great analytics. It's it's very much similar to what we do in the hedge fund in terms of the the culture and ethos, but we do it with a very different commercial intent.
>> Now, there's a story that might be apocryphal. Many stories about people who are famous have apocryphal background stories. One of the apocryphal background stories about you is that when you were in college, you got Harvard University to allow you to set up a antenna that would receive stock quotes. So as a student, you could trade stock. Is that true? So it was a satellite dish actually. Yeah. I was I was updating my Xbox with my son next to me and he was about 13. He's he's 18 now. He looks at me goes, "Dad, you were alive before the internet." And and back in the 80s, there was no internet. There was no like stock quotes were actually hard to get. So, I had a satellite dish on top of the dorm room. Uh the cable actually came through a fourth floor window down an unused elevator shaft and into my room. And that gave me access to real-time prices from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
>> And it worked.
>> It worked.
>> And if you hadn't done that or if your early trades had worked, would you be doing something more important like being a lawyer or something?
>> I'd be doing private equity, David.
>> Right. Okay. Well, there's no higher calling than private equity. Of course, I'm chasing girls around the college dorm.
>> So, Robin, um,
>> gratification, Michael.
>> Um, you're a publicly traded hedge fund.
>> Yeah.
>> Most hedge funds are privately owned. Why are you publicly owned? And what's the advantage of being publicly owned in the hedge fund world?
>> Well, not my choice, by the way. So, I haven't sat in that seat. So, 35 years roughly of listing. So advantages, everybody knows what's going on at Mang Group. There is nothing to hide. And so in those quarterly updates that we do that Michael looks so forward to doing, um, we are completely transparent. And clients like that institutionally, if you're going to be in a space where people are looking at you and saying, "Hang on a second. Are these people who want to do business with?" Sometimes there's an advantage to having to tell everybody what's going on in your firm every quarter. So that's an advantage.
>> Right. You came to this firm uh largely as a lawyer and as a compliance officer. Yeah.
>> Usually compliance officers are people tell you you can't do this, you can't do that. How did you go from
>> Didn't say I was a good compliance officer. Um
>> people are telling you you can't you can't do this, you can't do that. You usually don't rise up to be the CEO. So were you a not that good compliance officer?
>> That um I believe that sometimes the best people to understand risk are the people who want to take the risk as well. If you sit me in in my executive team, they'll probably sit down and tell you um perhaps the person with the highest risk tolerance in the organization is me. And that's something that either I've grown up on because I've I was a sort of a litigator I guess in American terms or a barristister if you go back into the UK. So I'm an advocate. I understand risk. I've grown up in risk. I've run towards risks when sensible people have run away from them. And that makes my understanding of risk management, which is what we do all day, what we deliver all day, um, quite acute. So, no, it's not usual. Was I a terrible compliance officer? I'm not going I don't think I was terrible, but I understand risk.
>> Okay, Michael. Not long ago, you said that you wanted to charge people to go to the bathroom in your planes. Did that plan ever work or and why were so people so upset about that? Because couldn't they go for 45 minutes without going to the bathroom if they didn't want to pay?
>> This is one of the great free stories that keeps on giving about I did an interview with some BBC news journalists about 25 years ago. I don't but we were on about something else. I I think taking seats out and putting sand in cabins and you know like the tube in London they'd be hanging on to the rails and she said what's next you going to charge for toilets? And I Yeah, we have a team working on that at the moment. And you know, if we could take out the two toilets at the back, we could put in six seats and six seats, we'd put 4% lower fairs that are and it still comes back every 25. You're the guy who wants to charge for toilets on board planes. There is actually we won't do it, but there is a theory in it. Actually, if you could take out two of the LS only have one toilet left and charge for the planes. You look at the extent to which people obsess about not paying for our baggage fees on board. You people packing up and weighing their scales in their bathrooms. I'm not going to pay bloody rare for the bag. They do the same thing with the toilet as well on board and we could put extra seats on the plane and with extra seats we'd be able to charge lower airfares but we're not going to do it.
>> You talked about once about charging extra for people overweight.
>> No, no, we were very good. We that that we actually never did that one because it wouldn't make
>> Don't give him ideas. Never mind. That was actually that that came out of the states. I think we're with respect uh quite a lot of physically challenged people. Uh the Europeans are a bit slimmer although you because we're paying so much environ stupid environmental taxation over here. Uh no we've never planned to aircraft weights are done on average weights for adults and children. So it would make no difference anyway.
>> You have a good business in Europe. Why don't you just take that business to the United States? Why don't you go to the United States?
>> Because that is where the culture starts to go wrong. You believe in your own This we work this very well in Europe because we have pretty much incompetent competition in Europe. Lufanza, Air France, KLM and these guys run by incompetent European government owned airlines. The US airlines are a bit more aggressive. You they are much stronger and much more well embedded. And the minute we and our management team says this has worked great in Europe, let's go all go off to America, California or Florida and we can run an airline over there, they'll all be out the door to go to the sunshine. I mean, if you've spent any winter in Ireland, everybody wants to get the hell out of the place.
>> So, that would be distraction. The other I mean, I think Kenny's demonstrated over many years in Citadel. Zealous focus on your business. Do not get distracted. And I don't want to go to Europe is a deregulated market. The only good thing about Europe is it is a deregulated market for air travel. So, thankfully, I get very little government interference. The minute I go outside of Europe to the Middle East, to Asia, to the US, it is hugely government regulated. and the states is already a reasonably well-run a although it's quite expensive. It wouldn't work because and it would undermine Ryder because we'd all get distracted.
>> Now, you were trained as an accountant, but usually the accountants I know are usually low-key people, very boring people. How did you get this personality as an accountant?
>> I mean, well, firstly, I mean, a lot of people question whether I was trained or even trainable. Um, I did pass the exams, but only barely. Um, you know, I grew up on a farm. Uh I so I'm a farm boy. Uh we we w learned how to work hard. I was always I if I came through accountancy I didn't I I wanted to be very kind of quiet and retired. I don't like the publicity. Uh but I recognized when I got into Ryan we had no money for advertising. So it had to do something. Branson at the time was running around getting you know getting do all the cheap publicity. Herb was very good at in the states as well. So it was the obvious thing to do was okay you can't be successful here if you're going to be a kind of quiet as a mouse accountant. So, let's reinvent now. And remember, the Irish are generally good at being brash bullshitters. So, there is a gene in all of us, uh, where we just talk a lot of rubbish and we're very good at talking lots of rubbish. In fact, we've built generation.
>> Would you hire an accountant with your personality?
>> Um, would I hire an accountant? Well, thankfully that I have much more sensible people hiring accountants than the likes of me. You're not doing that. I would hire people. I mean, I I look at CVS. So, Kenny looks at CVS. He gets these Small Lotus out of Harvard. I want people if they grew up on a farm, they're in the door straight away. And I the thing I look for is not what your degree was, is what summer jobs did you do uh you know during your holidays from school and from college. And if you worked hard and you went out, you know, to be you got part-time jobs. Those are the people I want working in RER. I want people who work hard.
>> Brains. It's the airline industry. We don't need a lot of brains and we don't need very bright internets cuz it's a stupid industry anyway. Ken K can uh recently the mayor of New York um pointed out that you had bought an apartment in New York and he wanted you to pay a so-called Pieta terror tax even though you um have employed thousands of people in New York. You're building a new building in New York. You're contributing a lot of tax money to New York. Did that upset you? Uh what upset me was the actual the the personal attack. Like we're you you were at the White House correspondence dinner on Saturday where they tried to assassinate the president and not too far from where I live in New York is where they assassinated the CEO of United Healthcare.
>> So I think the willingness of the mayor of New York to make this a policy debate, a personal attack, just demonstrated a profound lack of judgment. Just a profound lack of judgment. And I I understand that New York has bills to pay. Would you like to run New York for us for a couple years?
>> I'm unelectable, Kenny. Nobody would vote for me.
>> Yes, but like you actually be a distraction from running.
>> Are you going to Ken? You're going to go ahead with your building in New York?
>> Well, you know, I'm meeting with the governor um Thursday.
>> Okay, you'll figure it out.
>> And we'll we'll talk about our future direction in New York. Here's the real question. Is New York going to put their fiscal house to order and run itself from a position of a strong government that's pro business or are they looking to play like like why do the Americans think we can do socialism? Like we have none of that in our DNA and we're just going to screw it up. Now Ken, you are a very large maybe the largest donor in the United States of various political candidates and you've met many of these political candidates. Uh you're probably smarter than all of them. Why don't you just run for president yourself? Have you ever thought of that?
>> Didn't you just say I was smarter than all of them?
>> I mean, David, like what what a nightmarish job these people sign up for.
>> To be the president of United States, you wouldn't want to do that job.
>> Okay, if you could snap your fingers and be in the Oval Office, of course, I'd love to do that job. That would be like such I I love solving problems,
>> but it's not that simple. You've got to go through a a campaign cycle, which is just the most humiliating, and degrading process in the American American society. So, uh, you're also a very large donor to lots of charitable causes. How do you deal with people coming to you every hour on the hour for charitable contributions?
>> Uh, Kase and Julia,
>> you have somebody that takes care of it for you.
>> I do. I've got two outstanding people that take care of it. You know, my job, my job is to manufacture money. We spoke with that early on. I've got my investment team. I focus on the business as much as I possibly can. I've got great people around me who are involved in our philanthropic efforts, who are involved in our political efforts. They know the values that are important to me. They know the key objectives that we're trying to, you know, obtain. Like, how do we educate American children to be the future leaders of the free world, but my day in and day out, it's about driving the returns for our shareholders.
>> The US hasn't had a recession for more than 10 years, a technical, more than a technical recession. Um, usually have them every seven years or so. Are you worried about a recession in part because of the war in Iran or anything else coming to the United States?
>> I mean, look, the business cycle has been banned. We We both know this. You know this. We all know this. Everybody in this room knows this. The business cycle has not been banned. We're going to have a recession around the world at some point here in the in the foreseeable future. What worries me is not the fact that we're going to have a recession. It's that we're losing the fiscal space to engage in counteryclical spending to keep the economy on the strongest possible footing. And and frankly if there were a panic in the credit quality of the of the leading sovereign debts around the world the US happened in the UK just what about 18 months ago now was it Liz Trust's moment
>> 10 days
>> 10 days of excitement. Yep.
>> I mean terrifying is it not as a risk manager.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So the key is the western world has to put its fiscal house in order. so that we have more flexibility and more capacity in the next downturn to keep people employed, to keep our businesses going, to keep our economies as strong as possible when they're under duress.
>> Okay, Robin, uh this week in the United States, uh uh the the king of England is visiting the president. You're a British citizen.
>> I am.
>> What do you want to have the king get out of those meetings? many people in England focused on on that and why send the king why not send the prime minister to meet with the president of the United States.
>> There's it's great when you're asked to speak about why the king is doing something anyway. So I I saw on social media I do that thing uh interviews with the American general population about did you know the king and the queen is coming and a lot of them said not really and I'm not sure why. And when asked what they should do, the American population, these folks on social media said they recommended certain burger joints that they could go and visit, which I thought was very useful. Um, in the UK, when asked, there were at least five interviews where people felt sorry for the king having to do this visit because what were they going to do? And how predictable or unpredictable is that conversation? How meaningful is it going to be? I have to say I haven't spent much time thinking about what I think the king should be doing. I I strangely I'm a little like you. I'm kind of focused on what we're supposed to be doing every day which is returning value to clients. Nevertheless, these are difficult times and what we need is sense and stability and what we need is some version of how we find solutions and things. And if the king can add to that debate, terrific. But I don't think I'd be holding my breath. Let's suppose I have some money and I want to invest the man group and I say I don't really know much about investing but I'm going to give you I don't know $100,000 or $100,000. Uh what kind of rate of return could I expect to get if I went into a reasonably safe but hopefully profitable uh investment that you would get to buy from me?
>> So number one let me just explain man Group deals with institutions and we don't deal directly with wealth and retail. So, I'm just being mindful that somebody doesn't ring up the phone at the end of this. Um, number two, it depends what you're after at the moment. And I think if we really think about wealth portfolios right now, what worries me or what I think about a lot is whether wealth and retail are having the access to diversified portfolios that they should have to try and weather the storms of these volatility that we're seeing in markets. So, with 100,000, it depends on where your risk profile is. It sort of depends on how old you are. sort of depends on how much risk you want to take. Sort of depends about whether you want to be in Europe or whether you want to be diversified. Sort of depends whether you want to lock your money up or not for a period of time. So I think it depends on a bunch of questions in the middle of that. But the thing that worries me or the things that I think we talk about a lot with the people in this room about how do you navigate markets at the moment when you have such volatility and such dispersion? if you want to go into something relatively flat and relatively safe.
>> In the u in the hedge fund world, there seem to be many more men running hedge funds than women. Why do you think that is and is that going to change anytime in in our lifetime?
>> Um it's an interesting question about whether the the the historical bunch of people who have gone into these careers are right. There's a certain gendered to nature to this. When we started looking at this years ago, we started to look at hang on a second, what are we recruiting from? And is there some bias in the pool or and then we looked at the pool and then we looked at universities and we looked at who was taking the courses from whom we were hiring from and they were predominantly being populated by men. That is changing, but it's changing slowly. And what you're not going to do is find us clicking our fingers and finding different populations of gender makeup. We want the very best people to run money and ultimately there is a little bit of bias in that or a little bit of gendered nature in the in the pool of people. Would I like to see it change? For sure.
>> Michael, let's suppose you want to go on a vacation outside of Europe and would you fly another airline and do you fly other airlines to find out what mistakes they're making? And what airline do you think is the best next to Ryan Air? I occasionally have to go to the states on investor road shows uh David to explain to investors like you don't put the hundred grand into man put it into Raire shares at a 22% discount year to date. Um I mean I fly whoever's cheapest going across the Atlantic. That's my only other kind of uh
>> you don't when you fly for you're going on vacation with your family. You don't fly first class on some other airline. You always want to be in the coach.
>> You know I I want to be on Ryan Air. I want to be seen on Ryer. The great thing of flying on Rhiner 2 is I can't fly I have to fly in rows three, four or five because if I'm up in the front row of seats everything's we're doing some VIP kind of nonsense that Yeah. So and the great advantage of it too is when I'm flying with RER I'll go up and pull the boarding cards at the boarding gate. Uh inevitably I get about 25 Facebook pictures and I appear on the all these people. So God your man is up there doing cutting edge front line back to the shop floor kind of stuff. No actually I'm going on the same flight as you but it's good for cheap PR.
>> You ever have you have complaints? Do you tell them right then and there or do you
>> I have lots of complaints usually that I'm pulling the boarding care passes too slowly or I'm the reason the flight is going to get uh go delayed but I'm also respond I I run our complaints department uh where we have a very prompt uh policy of responding to all complaints within 24 hours usually with a polite no.
>> For most for most passengers what's the most important thing price safety or getting there on time? uh safety is but but I mean assume that safety is a given because without safety you have nothing 99.999% of passengers want making a booking what's the cheapest fair to XY Z it is not available same it is not I destination obviously route frequency but 99.99% which is why the internet has transformed air travel and a machine learning uh which we had they probably didn't spend enough time machine learning is going to transform it again for the next 10 or 20 years. Okay. Uh Ken, when you're hiring people, do you want people that are high IQ, are hard workers, good athletes? I mean, somebody comes in front of you, but they're first in their class at Harvard, but they're kind of nerdy and they don't really talk very well. Uh do you hire them or you rather have an all-American athlete who looks great? Uh what kind of people do you want to hire? So, I I need both. I need both. I need I need people who are that all-American athlete with with a lot of charisma, a lot of leadership and a lot of intellect because I need people who have like the innate leadership skills that go with that. But I also need some of the people who are just wickedly smart, often a bit introverted, but we've got tough problems that need to be solved and they know how to solve them.
>> Final question. What is the best sovereign wealth fund in the world in your view? I would have to say Nor except they don't have enough exposure to Ryan Air. But we're getting there. That's why I'm back up in Oslo again and again and again trying to persuade them to upweight their investments.
>> All right, Ken, you have the same view on the best sovereign wealth fund.
>> You have many of them invest with you. This this is an absolute no-win question for me. Okay,
>> but I will say this. I will say that the fact that the leadership team of this Commonwealth fund is so committed to the betterment of the people of Norway is actually really touching. And I I think everyone should give a huge round of applause to Nikolai and his team for their commitment to bringing the best and brightest to this organization and the consistent focus on how to deliver for the people of Norway. It's really quite remarkable.
>> Robin, I assume you would have the you would have the same view. The best sovereign wealth fund that you invest with or that you're with today.
>> What he said plus because it why why say something when something's been said so eloquently plus this. We all get better all of us on the financial provision side when we work with the smartest people in the world. And so that there is nothing better than working with a team, an investor, a sovereign wealth with no who make us better at what we do and that's what this team does.
>> Thank you all very much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you, David, Kenneth, Michael, and Robin. We will now take a 30 minute break. We resume at 1:45. Please help yourself to refreshments and do introduce yourself to somebody new. Norway is a small country, yet we produce worldclass athletes. I've spent 20 years studying what separates good from exceptional in cockpits, on football pitches, and investment teams. The answer is rarely talent or resources. Transforming a culture is the footprint of leadership. It requires a shared sense of ownership. Not only identifying what's broken, but naming what works and being able to protect just that. We can celebrate past success, but we are never better than our next performance. Welcome back. The second part of the conference explores one of the most difficult challenges in business. Cultural transformation in companies.
>> Building a culture from scratch is hard. Transforming the culture in an existing organization that might be harder.
>> Our first speaker is Ajay Banga, the president of the World Bank Group. He's led cultural transformation twice. once in a phenomenal manner at Mastercard where he was the CEO for 12 years and now at the World Bank.
>> The private sector tends to move faster. The public sector has decades of history, multiple shareholders, stakeholders.
>> How do you drive cultural transformation when the rules are completely different?
>> We'd love to hear more.
>> Please welcome AJ. So they say that culture trumps strategy every time and the pun is intended. So that's where we're going to start from. Everyone in this room has built or led organizations. You've all done something of that type. You've shaped teams. You've kind of made decisions under pressure. You have uh lived the reality that culture is not something abstract. Uh you've got your own hard one views on it. No doubt. But I'm not here to tell you that I've figured it out. I just uh have an unusual vantage point as you said. I've had the chance to be the CEO of a of a public company. That's Mastercard. And and now at the World Bank Group, it's quite different. It's 25,000 plus people with uh 189 governments as my shareholders with 25 uh executive directors resident in my building with 20 advisers each, which means a lot of people who want to know what I'm doing. So, so, so, so I can't really goof off either. So, what we all know there is that as a CEO, I think culture is what determines our success. I think culture is what is the single most important thing all of us work on. And and it's easy to talk about it, but what exactly is the darn thing? And I think what is it and how do you build it are the two most important questions that most of us have to answer. So, so in an effort to be faithful to Nicola, I I actually have written a speech down on culture, which is pretty interesting. I've never done that, but I'm going to read this out to you so I don't miss a few things. I spent a lot of time working on this one. I think what culture is depends on your organization. I think regardless of your unique circumstances, culture is the glue. It is absolutely the glue. how people make decisions, how they take a risk, how they work together to deliver whatever your mission is. It's how you drive an organization to say yes if rather than no. Every organization has plenty of people incented to say no. There are never enough people who say yes if you do it this way. Finding that culture is important. Culture is not a value statement. It is not a poster on the wall and definitely it is not what the CEO says at town halls. It's just not. So at the simplest culture is what gets measured, what gets rewarded, what gets tolerated. But most importantly, it's what happens when you're not in the room. And so that's the culture that I'm talking about. And I think the idea of it's what happens when you're not in the room is what makes it a force multiplier. And the how is where culture lives or dies. Because while everybody's context is different, there are some common things between the public and the private sector and there are some very big differences. So first what I call the decency quotient DQ. I learned very quickly that IQ and EQ were important while I was growing up. But I believe that now what you need in leadership is what's called the decency quotient. And so I I just named it that. I was making a joke in a town hall and I'd just come out of listening to Warren Buffett talk about DQ. In his case, that was Dairy Queen, the ice cream. And so you could see how my mind works. And I was looking for something to talk about to tell people what I meant and to give a word to what I was trying to explain to them about culture. And this idea of decency quotient came. But decency is not about being nice. It's actually about being fair, direct, and consistent. Tell the truth to your people even when it's uncomfortable. Give that feedback with clarity. Speak up when it's difficult. Treat people with respect. All that. It doesn't actually slow the organization down. It does quite the opposite because it allows you to move faster because people trust the system. And it improves decisions because people are willing to challenge and to be challenged. And so it actually works in the right way if you do it the right way. Fear drives behavior for a while, but it doesn't build judgment. It doesn't build ownership, and it doesn't build initiative. Decency does. And so, leadership has to feel like a hand on your back. You got to push people forward, but not a finger in their face. And that's what decency quotient is all about. That's the first thing. The second one is clarity of purpose. In a large organization, I think the biggest cultural problem is often not resistance. And James can talk to this uh adnauseium. It's actually confusion more than resistance. Clarity in his case in Morgan Stanley, he very clearly delivered a message of what they were going to focus on which was wealth management as the way that Morgan Stanley would grow, right? In that changed an organization that had multiple ideas of how they would grow to very focused, very simple, very focused. And I think simplicity is the key. And making something simple is actually the hardest thing to do. So people think that in simplicity you've lost detail. Actually conversing in simple terms without jargon is the world's most difficult thing to do as a leader. At Mastercard the company had to redefine itself from a payments processor to a technology platform. How did I simplify it? I united everybody around one set of mission and it said kill cash. just kill cash as compared to thinking about everything else. And that included technology, it included payments, included analytics, it included data, it included anything that you could do. Financial inclusion, working with the downtrodden, getting social security payments into their hands, figuring out digital identities all came inside the idea of killing cash. It gave them a very clear sense of direction. So at the World Bank, similar issue, how do you kill poverty? And I've got come around to saying instead of having many different causes, let's do this for climate, let's do that for gender, let's build a hospital, let's do a skilling center, let's do schools. At the end of the day, what you're trying to do to kill poverty is to give people a job. not necessarily working for a big company or a small company or as an entrepreneur or just staying in their small farm and being content with the productivity they get by connecting up to technology to a cooperative. I'm just giving you many ways to do this. The point is a job earning is the best way to drive people's hope and dignity. And if you sort of think about this carefully, a friend of mine once said that poverty is both a state of mind and a state of being. Being you can solve by giving grants, by giving aid, by giving donations, by writing philanthropic dollars. Mind doesn't get solved with that. Mind needs you to feel productive every morning, optimistic, feeling that you've got a future. So I think the most important thing is the job gives you both a way to defeat a state of being and a state of mind to drive a nail into the coffin of poverty. That's the clarity that has settled in and I think once you start doing that you get this multiplier effect of people making decisions on it. The last thing about clarity, just never tire of discussing what you've decided is very simple because leaders get bored saying the same things. Organizations don't get bored hearing it. And I think if you want something to stick, you got to say it again and again and again and again until it shows up in how people make their decisions. So that's the that was the second topic. The third is measure what matters. Align your incentives. You guys are all pretty clear on that. At Mastercard, we had some simple metrics. At the World Bank, I had a corporate scorecard. For those of you from the private sector, you will love this. I had a corporate scorecard of 155 items when I showed up. And I tried to explain to my board of those 25 people that 155 items is about 130 too many for a corporate scorecard. Because at 155 items, I will always get an A+ because I would have delivered on 30. and you'll never get me to discuss the other 125. That's how it works. It took a long time. We got ourselves down to 22 items and all 22 now on our website. You can go and click on them and you can track where I am every month project by project on delivering against that. And I keep telling our board, sunlight is the best disinfectant. And so transparency of your targets, simplifying them, fewer are what we're trying to do. So now all this is lovely but here's the context difference between the private sector and the public sector. In the private sector pressure comes from markets comes from shareholders comes from profit motive performance competition crisis. You got clear levers compensation hiring firing capital allocation. At Mastercard if something wasn't working I could use all those levers jiggle with them fix it quickly. In the public sector the challenge is completely different. We've got a mission, but we also have 189 shareholders, each with a different and nuanced way of looking based on their domestic politics, which they bring to my office every day. You've got long-standing processes. Tenure is long. Risk aversion is very real. We're kind of like an academic institution trying to get real work done. So, you can imagine how complex that is. And you cannot reset that system overnight. And compensation is not a lever of the type that you have in the private sector. So you work all the levers you have. You align teams around the outcomes. You simplify what you say. Simplify structures. You become explicit in what gets recognized. You become explicit in what gets funded. It takes longer. But the principle is exactly the same. If you don't align the system, culture will not move. And alignment comes from simplicity and focus and leading from the front with how you speak about what you're doing. So it's just a closing thought for you. I have told everybody who worked with me over the years that leadership is not a privilege. It's not your birthright. You weren't born with it. It is absolutely what you have to earn. And at some point in your career, someone trusted you like someone trusted me with the responsibility for other people. And at that point, your job changes forever. And so it's not long about just delivering results. It's about creating the conditions where the people who work for you can feel your hand on their back pushing them forward. And that is what culture is all about. Because actually you're not going to be there to put your hand on their back all the time, but they have to feel it anyway. And that's culture. Thank you very much. Thank you, AJ. We continue our exploration of cultural transformation. Next stop, Wall Street. James Gorman became CEO of Morgan Stanley in 2010 in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Over 14 years, he transformed the firm, not just the business model, but the culture itself. Today he is chairman emeritus of Morgan Stanley, chairman of Disney and a senior adviser to general Atlantic. Joining him on stage to explore this journey is Ruler Kof, editor of the Financial Times. Please welcome James and Ruler. Hello everyone. Um, and hello James. I haven't seen you in a in a while. Uh,
>> I'm retired that's why.
>> Yes. Yes. Uh, so looking back at um culture, I came across all sorts of statements that I then discovered were actually called gorminisms. And so I thought that I would throw at you a few of your gormanisms. And
>> this could be dangerous. But anyway,
>> well, only one of them. I think I think the rest are fine. Uh, so
>> and then you can you can talk to us about it.
>> Yeah.
>> The first one, strategy earns you the right to talk about culture.
>> Mhm.
>> Tell us about that. Yeah. Um it's very hard to talk about culture if the business isn't
>> isn't working you know
>> which is what happened when you were when you came into more
>> you can go I mean how this came up the board of directors came to me when uh Barclay's bank um had a new chairman new co and they did a global tour which was a culture tour and they said to me kind of why aren't you doing that I said because firstly we're still figuring out what we're going to be when we grow up. I don't know what Blay is going to be when they grow up. What do you do if you go around the world, you tell people, "This is our culture. This is what it means. These are our core values." A week later, you come back and say, "Unfortunately, you're fired." But it's still a great culture. So, you've got to have a strategy which is viable, uh, which gives people an opportunity and promise for the future, and then build the cultural values around it. And those values is what let you change your strategy over time because it gives you the confidence it's coming from the right place. So strong companies I think of it as it's it's like you know different cabins on a a a train. You've got the strategy then the culture then the strategy then the culture then the strategy and that's how companies stay around for decades you know centuries is they're prepared to reinvent. They reinvent with the strong bones that come from confidence in their culture. But you've al you've also said that nothing drives culture more than winning. So winning people have to feel that they're winning before you can forge a real culture.
>> Well, that's something I think I agree with with was it Michael today? Although I'd have to say I just want to say and I'm not saying this to pander to you. I flew in on SAS this morning. It was a fabulous flight. The food was great. The people were nice. They didn't charge me for my bags. everything. It arrived 50 minutes early. 50. I was the first person through customs. I loved it. So, I'm sure Ryan Air is good. I just haven't been on it. Um,
>> where the toilet's free?
>> It's Yeah, toilets for free. It was good. Um, you know, I I think if again people will people will support a a non-winning culture, but you'll get a certain type of people who support that. If you want real goers, people who are prepared to put themselves, you know, on the line of fire, run to where the drama is, then they need to know that they're part of a winning organization. Charisma works great once you tell people to, you know, charge up the hill and they get all shot out and they say, "Well, that's not a really good idea." You say, "It didn't work so well, but charge again." And they say, "Have you got another way of getting there?" You know, it's like, so people need to be part of something. And if it's winning, it's infectious. And if it's infectious, they truly do exceptional things. So, yeah, your job as a leader is to figure out a winning strategy that puts everybody in a position where they can thrive. Employees should stop feeling like tenants looking for their next bonus and start feeling like landlords. It's it's quite difficult to tell bankers not to be thinking about their next bonus.
>> Well, I said it in the nicest possible way. Um, you know, at the end of the day, uh, you've got to decide. This is another thing I had a discussion with the board. I said if I have a dream which is to get a really smart you know neuroscientist and really smart software developer and a computer scientist and put them in a room together and say come up with a camera and the camera has to take a picture of the inside of people's heads. So when they go to work in the morning they stand in front of the gates like you know the floppy gates whatever they are you don't pull out your card to get in. The gate opens if it takes a picture of your head and you've passed the test. And the test is half of you has to be coming in for yourself. Cuz to deal with adversity, to drive forward, you've got to have ego, confidence, whatever. But half of you has to be coming in for the institution. So the the the rallying cry to the to the the bankers or the traders or anybody was, you know, it only works if we all make it work. And if it's just about you getting your piece, 98% is you. If everybody does that, that's a war of attrition that won't end well. And by the way, you're paid in the stock. And the stock is going to go up if it goes well. So why wouldn't you want this all to work? And that means putting a little bit of yourself aside to do what's right in the institutions. And happily, our investment bankers did. They were fantastic about it. But but blunt language and expressing it as you you know, I don't come in for James Gman Securities. I came in for Morgan Stanley. and I respected its history. I respected the people who'd led it before me and I respect the people after it. Your job is to take the ship from one port to another, not to take over the ship only for yourself.
>> Was it was it much harder particularly during the the um uh the co pandemic and with younger you often hear today that younger people want experiences. They're not necessarily looking for a career in in one uh in one uh institution. Um, and you know, you've had a few controversial comments like, uh, if you're not, if you're so unhappy, just leave- w
>> sort of thing my dad would say to me. You know, it's like it's the truth.
>> But you've also said if you're in career land, you're building a professional life and that requires being around other human beings to pick up soft cues. Young people are nuts if they're not in the office. That's where mentoring happens.
>> Yeah. I you know I felt very strongly as CO was going on and and I was criticized by a lot of people for what I said and partly was I'd had CO very early and got through it. So their attitude was it's easy for you to say what I said was I don't know if it's on your list. Um if you can go to a restaurant you can go to the office.
>> There's one on the Hampton.
>> What happened was I was at I was at a restaurant in New York picking up my food. I've been to the gym. I was picking up my food at this little Japanese restaurant called Bond Street ST and a big dude walks up to me, puts his arm around me, he says, "Great to see you." I said, "Who are you?" He said, "I work in the organization blah blah blah." And he said, "It's fantastic and crowded restaurant." And and he said, "Can we get a selfie with his table? We all do a selfie together. Everybody's high-fiving each other." And I said, "Hey, finding being back at the office." I couldn't go in the office. Not safe. Like what? What about all the kids? He's the senior management director. What about the young kids who are coming back to an apartment with three other kids in them? There's no privacy. There's a dog barking. You know, the neighbors are yelling and they're supposed to be doing work and they want to go in the office and their bosses aren't there. I said, "It doesn't work that way." We got the opportunity. We were mentored. We were developed because other senior people were around. Even as simple as would you, when I was a young lawyer, one of the senior partners one day said, "Would you walk with me?" It was like four blocks to the court for a trial. had I wasn't involved in the trial, but he was smart enough to realize that just being together for four blocks would change my day, change my month, I think, and I got to talk to him and no, you've got an obligation if you've come through that mentoring to give back. I feel that very strongly. One of the most important um uh things that you've done uh at Morgan Stanley was to manage the succession and you've become a bit of an expert in managing uh success succession smoothly and you've been charged with doing that more recently at Disney. Um, what does it really take? And isn't it just throwing money at the other candidates, which you also did?
>> Well, we um I don't know that we we certainly we gave sign on bon b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b bonuses to couple of people at Morgan Sunday. We did none of that at Disney. So there's not like one model. Um I mean this could be a very long conversation but the the cliffotes are um transparency. Yes, we're having a process. These people of the succession committee the board will decide. There will be a start date. There will be a transition date and there will be a finish date. And after the finish date, the C old CEO will be gone. There won't be like hanging around the hoop. They're gone. the new CEO will be put in place and they'll either have a non-executive chairman or an executive chairman for periods of time. So, transparency of process, total respect, tell people the great news is you're being considered.
>> If you're really ticked off about the twoing and throwing, there's an option here. Take yourself out of consideration. Nobody did that, right? So, you're considered. I want to give you absolute respect, but our job is to find the best candidate for this company for the next 10 years. And that means we're going to be rigorous. We're going to ask you questions. We're going to make you I had the Morgan Sandy people write strategy papers. Um I only gave them two weeks. I said, "Come to my office. Send it to me in advance. I'll read it. I don't want any paper. I'm just going to ask you questions." So that way if somebody wrote it for you, it's not going to be good, right? It's got to be real. It's what you think. We did health checks. We did all sorts of stuff. So clarity around the process, honesty, transparency. Uh when the when the the king the king has to be dead for the new king to succeed. So the king has to leave. And that's and I I left. I said to the board, they said, "Stay, you know, you could stay a little longer." I said, "We can, but is it the right thing for the company, for the institution? You need somebody to do it 10 years. The fact I can eek out another couple doesn't work." So all of those are the elements but it really starts with with clarity, transparency um and intentionality. There will be a result. You know Disney had messed up succession had problems I should say for some years going back many decades. And we were absolutely convicted as a board it was going to be clean and Bob Iger to his credit did a great job through the transition. We have a terrific new CEO Josh Tamara
>> but he was his choice. What's that?
>> He was Baba Iger's choice, wasn't he?
>> No, it's the board's choice. No, that's No,
>> but he was happy with it.
>> Yes. Very. Um, the job of a
>> think he won't he won't come back anymore.
>> Absolutely not. The job of a CEO is to present viable candidates fit for purpose. The job of the board with the succession committee doing a lot of the leg work is to ensure inside and outside the company you've considered all options and then properly test and arrive at decision and it requires a board vote. We looked at I I mean I had so many people giving me names of people they thought could run Disney. It was a joke. I said, "Do you even know who the internal people are?" "No, I don't know them, but my guy is the right person." Right? So I said, "Fine. I'll look at I'll look at anything." I went on looked at podcasts. I looked at TV interviews they did. I looked at speeches. I did reference checking on a whole bunch of outside people. We decided the best person was inside and they beat all comers and that's the right answer. But it's important.
>> You managed you managed to also keep another internal candidate who didn't get.
>> We kept we kept three internal candidates at at Disney and we kept the two other alternatives at Morgan Stanley. All of them were kept and everybody said it wouldn't happen. and I said, "We'll see."
>> Um,
>> treat people with respect. It makes a real difference.
>> Is it true that you reach out to all to new CEOs in the US and share your advice? What do you do when you hear somebody's a new CEO? Call them up and you say, "What?"
>> Yeah. I called, I didn't do it in the early years, been late years. I called every Fortune 500 CEO within a month or so of getting their job. and many of the international cos European more than Asian to be honest. Um it was just say congratulations. Uh I'm not here to sell you anything. I just want to introduce myself. If you ever got issues you want to talk about and they immediately start talking about their chairman won't leave. They've got an activist dysfunctional member on the board. Their kids are unhappy about them doing the job. They're going through a divorce. I mean suddenly it was like whoa. I didn't mean that. thought I was just saying hi and you get into a long therapy discussion. Um there was only one guy turned me down, a French guy. I forget who he was. Um and he said, "I don't talk to bankers." I said, "Well, that's good because I'm not a banker." But anyway, there you go.
>> Uh so we've got exactly 16 seconds. Uh no, yeah, 16 seconds actually left. Uh, last night the president and the first lady both demanded that ABC get rid of Jimmy Kim.
>> Ah, the journalist that you is sneaking out right at the end.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> What are you going to do?
>> What am I going to do about what? About their demand.
>> Yeah. I there I have I have 12 seconds. The ro the role of directors on any issue um of consequence is to advise not to do and the reason for that is the people who make the decisions live with the consequences.
>> What would your advice be?
>> I'm not going to share my advice. That's that's obviously between the board and and the CEO. But these these are not these kinds of issues happen at time to time in large companies and um it's the job of the CEO with their team to figure out the right answer and they'll be guided you know by the board but it's like anything if you throw 10 15 people together they might have different views but I'm highly we have a terrific new CEO Josh um he's world class so I'm sure he'll rise to the occasion and do what the right thing is. Okay, you wiggled out of it. Thank you, James.
>> Thank you, James and Rula. Our next speaker faces a different kind of transformation challenge. Karen Rodstrom is the president and CEO of Danlier Truck, the company that invented the truck in 1896. That's 130 years of industrial heritage, which today is both their strength and their challenge. As the industry reinvents itself, how do you transform a culture built on engineering perfection to move at the speed this moment demands? Please welcome Karen. So, I uh started as the CEO of Daimler Truck two years ago. Um didn't get called actually uh by Morgan Stanley, but maybe I'm still waiting for that. Um one of the first things I did, which I think is quite reasonable when you start as a new CEO, working through the strategy. So I worked with my management board of course strategy department uh some consultants who wanted to give us advice um top down bottom up bringing in the talents and sort of coming out with um what I thought and the whole board thought was a really really strong strategy. five pillars, very clear uh vision, mission, we know what to do. And then the first time we were going to present the strategy was in our top leadership meeting with the top 200 leaders of the company. And just a couple of days before actually just kind of out of curiosity, I started looking, you know, what have we said in the past in these conferences and what did the former CEOs talk about? And then I realized when we started flipping through the old slides, uh, a lot of the strategy was kind of the same as what we had been talking about for or not me but my predecessors for like the last 15 20 years. Uh, for sure there were new elements like digitalization, AI, servitization etc. But if you looked at the bulk of it really to be very honest a lot was quite similar. And then we realized that we actually don't really have a strategy problem in our company. We have an execution problem. And this is really tricky because as you mentioned in the introduction, we're 130 years old. Uh engineering excellence, always innovation leader. Um today we're the biggest truck and bus company in the world. Um so obviously we did a lot of things right to get to where we are today but that does not guarantee success not even the next quarter and definitely not for the next 10 20 or even 130 years and besides that as we talked about a lot uh the world is really changing um you have everything kind of macro or um on a large scale that's happening in the world with AI technology, geopolitics, the shift of power balance in the world. But besides that, in our industry, we also have the transformation of technology. Uh we've been developing diesel trucks for the last 100 plus years. Now we're looking at electrification, hydrogen. We have softwaredefined vehicles. Uh we also do a lot of work into self-driving vehicles. There's new business models. People don't want to own the assets anymore. So our industry is also changing and besides that Daimler truck is changing. On the one hand we're 130 years old. On the other hand actually we were spun off out of this big Daimler conglomerate just four years ago. So in many ways we're just a fouryear-old company learning what it's like to be to be a listed company um and and to function in that environment. So without putting any blame on the past, we needed to focus a lot more on how do we drive transformation going forward. And then we came up with these um three kind of simple worlds, simpler, faster, stronger. And that's a mindset that we now try to bring into everything we do in the company. And it's sounds very easy. Someone else also talked about doing things simpler, but I mean we are a German company. I would say we're a global company, but our headquarters in South Germany and we're very proud of our heritage and what we come from. But for sure we had in order to build the engineering excellence that built our strong history, we needed to pay attention to detail. And I think German success is really built on strong structures, clear decisions, strong direction. So that's not so easy to change. It's not enough to put simpler, faster, stronger on the wall and expect everyone to run. But where I see it really positive is it's actually a license for anyone in the company to question how we do things. And that's maybe also not the historical strength of German companies that people really stand up and ask why do we do it like that? But I've heard now from many people in the company it's like yeah is there a simpler faster way we can do this and that kind of opens a different kind of conversation than when you're just perceived like you're complaining about your boss potentially. Um but we wanted to do it even more let's say concrete. So we started looking more broadly on culture and what is culture and the way we defined it in our company is the culture is the sum of all the practices you have in the company and practices can be a couple of different things. So first of all it's the values. It's kind of the the words on the wall and and what you put in your uh annual reports and and what you say that you stand for. But practices is also all the processes that you have in the company. The formal processes on how you recruit people, how you um pay for performance, budgeting, whatever. And then it's also all the informal processes um which is the way you do things in a company which is actually not a formal process but everyone just kind of knows that's how we always do it here and that's how it always has been done. And we started looking at all these practices and actually we found a very structured way that we are picking three to four practices every month that we want to change and we look at it we describe how do we do it today and what's the desired state on how we want to do it in the future and then we're rolling out new practices in waves. So every one to two months we have a wave and there's three to four new practices coming and I think that's a very concrete way to drive a change of culture in a very old company and it can be you know some of it is like super well sounds basic but even the small things are not easy. Um so what we do now is we start every meeting by looking at who's sitting around the table. Why are you here? Are you here because you want to add to the discussion? you want to be part of the decision making. Are you just here to gather information or are you here because this guy is presenting and I'm his boss and then the boss of the boss and then the boss of the boss. So I just have to be in the room to be sure what's being said. And by doing that we have realized actually we can walk a lot of people out of the room uh who are not there to really contribute to a to a result. Um also I got crazy when I joined Daimler. There's powerpoints for everything. So every meeting I get a PowerPoint. It's like 50 pages. I have to pre-eread. I come in. Um so that's we have not totally banned PowerPoints but we have stopped having powerpoints by default. Um and we see that it drives a completely different quality of discussion because you really focus on the problem and how to solve it instead of sometime spending a lot of time describing all the backgrounds. Um so those are some small ones. Then there's some bigger ones. uh trying to kill the budget process right now. Um normally we would already now actually start to plan the budget for 2027. Um it's you know starts with what's the total market going to be what's macro etc. And then we build from bottom up. It's a huge process very structured. Um so now we're killing the budget process. uh we will not start until October, November because then we have to prepare it for the board. That's a really interesting one. Um and it's very fundamental um in our company because it's it's one of the real core processes that that some people love. Um so yeah, not me. Um so maybe that's a little bit just the practical approach to to how to change culture and I think we're just getting started on this journey. Um when people already now start to get frustrated I tell them you know this is not a campaign this is really something we need to go out and focus on and I think I will do it for my whole CEO tenure to really push push push push and slowly move step by step by step by step. Um, but that's what makes it so fun and interesting to be in these old industries that are transforming very fast. Thank you Karen. We now move from industrial engineering to retail with another story of transformation. A company where the culture itself is the brand. Yes. Broaden served as CEO of IKEA Group from 2017 to 2025. As CEO, he led major transformation, making IKEA sustainable, digital, ready for a new generation of customers. But here's the paradox. IKEA's culture is what makes it IKEA. Swedish values, affordable design, accessibility. Evolving that without losing that which people love could not have been easy. Please welcome Yes. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I feel terrible. I have a PowerPoint. Uh Cory, so I don't know what to do now. Uh but listen, I I think um for a couple of moments I would take the opportunity uh uh to actually try to give a couple of images of culture uh the tension, the harmony and all of it. Um let me start um eight years as a CTO CEO a little bit more. Uh I had 30 years in IKEA last uh August and you know what happened? I got an email from myself congratulating me to 30 years in IKEA. And here comes the culture part offering me three extra days of vacation. Now I I can't remember the the company who was on the stage before talking about cost consciousness but that sets the level I think for all of us. Now um I wanted to take uh I wanted to bring a couple of u bad pictures from my own iPhone as well but just to share how does actually culture look like and for me there are a couple of things we can talk about but for me it's really the notion of that if you're a leader you have to live the culture you have to be the culture. So the first picture I brought is this beautiful uh picture of me doing if you look at our uh files it says we're doing front tweaks in IKEA because we think it's genuinely important for us to follow our decisions in reality. I am absolutely crap at selling kitchens. I I don't know all the mistakes I've done over the years. So my people recommend I do the dishes. I do that quite well actually. Um and now I tell you a story about culture. This is actually me on the first week of being CEO. I was on a trip around the world to meet a lot of countries, customers, co-workers, and get myself an opinion about where we were as an organization. And this actually happened. So, I was doing the dishes and the restaurant manager at this store, he came up to me and said, "Are you actually a manager?" He said to me and I was doing the dishes, very occupied. I said, "Yes, I have to admit." And then he didn't recognize me. And then he said, "Are you reporting to the Swedish country manager?" And I was doing the dishes and I said, "No, it's actually the other way around." And he looked at me and he bursted out in laughter hysterically. And then he gave me a hug and he said, "Keep on dreaming." So that's a key for you. There you go. Now, um, the interesting thing, this is also absolutely the truth. I went on this trip because I felt I think I felt some sort of obligation to show up and meet people. I I was a bit nervous in my role and I for once I didn't want to get lost into the boardrooms and in the head office. So I went out there when I came back I had a report a travel report uh brought to my management group and at the moment when I shared it uh actually one of my colleagues said that's not a report it's a strategy. I said no it's a report. He said, "No, it's a strategy." But the interesting thing with the trip was the report was only listening to customers and to co-workers and we having a very strong culture at IKEA with all its benefits and all its strength um had actually over the years stopped listening. I think our front window became smaller and our back uh review mirror became bigger. So we almost almost missed the digital transformation and the online because back then we were absolutely just analog and I will fast forward in a moment to what happened during the pandemic because actually that trip and that moment uh potentially saved the company. Um I wanted to talk about this uh man some of you um might recognize him the founder of IKEA. Somebody asked me yesterday what is the name IKEA come from? And actually he was 16 years old when he went to the registrate to form his company. His father had to be with him. He told me this story himself. And then the register said, "So what is the company name going to be?" And he had no clue. So he said, "What's your name? Ingvar I Camprad K. Where do you come from?" El Aaron. That's a So that's IKEA how it was actually started. Um he passed away nine years ago. And I haven't told this story before, but I think it also says something about uh culture. I was in the boardroom last time I met him uh trying to convince my board to actually make historic investments into digital and that was seen as a problem by the board at the discussion we were having and in came uh Ingval. He could hardly walk, 91 years old. And obviously all the attention went from me to him in the room. And then he stopped and he said, "So what are you doing?" He asked and I I think I was a bit annoyed and I said with trying to solve a problem in then he started crying and he said, "Oh, how wonderful to have a problem." And then he left and that's actually the last time I met him. Yeah. So um this was not part of my uh job description but this is what happened during the years uh and probably a couple of more things and we could add to the uh I think the weight on the shoulders that are on all leaders of today. I think potentially the generation who's been leading in different positions the last 10 years has had more trouble than any of the generations before. So we certainly got our share of of challenges. At IKEA, we decided among all these challenges, we believe and we're happy to speak to it that climate change is going to be the most dramatic and it's based on ethics, if you like, a morality that we are happy to claim as leaders, but also that a majority of our customers and our co-workers are deeply concerned and expect us to take action on it. Third, which I want to talk about, is what we discovered down the road, the economic benefits, which we didn't know when we committed ourselves a few years ago. So I'm going to skip to uh some of the achievements and I'm not here to to brag about the numbers that we have produced the last years but in the backdrop of all these crisis IKEA has had an incredibly strong path of of growth. There are three real reasons behind it and probably more than I you know will ever know. But the first one I would claim is culture because during crisis IKEA as a constituency I found out during the pandemic uh the benefit of a culture that has invested years and years in acknowledging people to do mistakes. We didn't experience paralysis actually people all over IKEA took action simultaneously. We had to steer up some things. We have to coordinate of course but we had a lot of uh willingness to actually be part of the crisis. So I think uh the 24% growth we see here is mostly dedicated to a bloody strong culture. Secondly, it comes from the transformation into online. We went from a fully analog company to today do about 30% thereabouts in online. During the pandemic, we had 100% online. Note that IKEA at the start of the pandemic had only one market out of 14 up and running on online. We had a plan of two and a half years to scale out online. It took six weeks due to the crisis that we were into. But the cool thing I wanted to share with you because I think it's less known is that during these years we have actually taken the company from a carbon perspective minus 30%. So plus 24 in business revenue minus 30% in absolute carbon and this is not scope one two only what we buy or what we do in the company. This is the full value chain upstream and downstream and I have brought the numbers to you. So now somebody talked about nerd nerds before. Now I'm going to get super nerdy here and share with you the equation about this because I find it fascinating. To start with, we were um having all sorts of speculation about what our carbon footprint was until we actually got data. And this is the Paris agreement approximate numbers of IKEA's carbon footprint. It holds a couple of very interesting elements. Um first of all most people would think transport was a biggest uh element and it turns out that customers transport or home deliveries is the inefficient one if you like um but the transport of flat packs around the world as you can see on the number here is not the biggest one raw material and stay with that raw material is actually IKEA's achilles he seal if you like both from a carbon point of view now would I transpose the uh cost elements of IKEA's value chain from retail and upstream the numbers will actually resonate quite similar. We have about 36% of our cost today sits in raw material in IKEA production, transport, retail approximately the same. So what we realized when we looked at these numbers is that if we touch carbon we might actually touch cost. And it turns out when we uh go a few years down the line what you see is that IKEA has actually managed to reduce carbon in each and every segment of of uh the journey. Um audited reported numbers this has led to the minus 30 in totality. Last two years the biggest financial contribution within the P&L has been cost reductions. thanks to being climate smart and I think it's worth to tell that story in all this mythical environment we have uh about sustainability I think this is just a gold mine how do we did we do that there were not like one single strategy but of course investments in renewable energies has saved us a lot of money and by the way made us independent on some of the crisis we see today electrical mobility innovation within uh materials circ which is still I think one of the biggest opportunities to ripe in the future when more people will share less material of the planet. But here you have it. Um so um what I wanted to finish with is talking about I wanted to go a little bit pessimistic first. This is not my quote. It's somebody I met uh a year ago in in uh uh Geneva actually on a world economic forum meeting. This is like the best pessimist I ever met who said things are much worse than last year but they are much better than next year. I mean it's just wonderful. And I had an argument with this gentleman. I said I like to be a pessimistic because if I'm wrong I'm happy and I didn't argue against that. So I left it. But you know what I have chosen to be an optimist and IKEA if you study us we actually have said that optimism is not something that comes to us. It is a choice we are made because we think that makes us solution oriented and we think it's actually how we drive the business. So I'm going to finish with three things that I picked up over the years. Um one of the first uh learning being an optimist is that I and we in the management group of IKEA felt that we were almost stuck in being problem solvers with all these issues on our menu. It almost felt embarrassing to talk about dreams and opportunities at the moment. So we actually agreed and shook hands on that we're going to be good at managing problems but we will lead from opportunities because that's how the world is created. Second I think this is a picture I took uh by the way when we took the world to a forestry to bring activists people critical to us uh our board who was is part of this picture as well to go deep on a topic just believing that transparency would make us better. Culture saved IKEA during the pandemic and made us actually a much stronger company. And I think the aspect of building culture is probably the most modern effective way of leading with speed of today. And finally, I think um and I truly believe culture is about allowing visions and dreams to be real. Um when you combine that with the financial power, that's when I think you get the true true power of leading a company from a culture point of view. I'm going to finish with Oh, it's red now. That's bad. That means I need to wrap it up. I will do. So, the second last time I met our founder, it was we had a a coffee on the porch and we asked him as we used to do. He said, "So, Ingva, how should we think about the future?" And he said, "Oh, you should think long term." He said, he always said that. And then my colleague Yand said, so a genius question. He said, "How long term should we think?" And in I thought and I said 200 years is good and I can't get that out of my system really you know but I tell you this when we look at the issues today and we look at what's going to happen in hormones what what happens in the year to come and so which we need to do um widen your gaze look maybe not 200 years but look 5 10 20 years into the future some things will disappear some politicians will but some of the challenges that we are combating in this time will not unfortunately. So I think that perspective helps us build culture and drive business in a better way. Thank you for listening.
>> This is by the way this is not an IKEA furniture so I'm not allowed to
>> we apologize for that. That's great. Thank you. Yes. Esper, could I ask you to take a seat for a panel discussion? Thank you. So far, we've heard four very different cultural transformation stories. But what connects them? What's universal about transformation? We'll explore that now. Rua will moderate this session and she'll be taking questions from the audience present here. If you have a question, simply scan the QR code on the screen and send it through. Joining Rula and Yes are AJ and Karen. Please help me welcome them to the stage inspiring uh talks from from uh all three of you. Um let me first ask a question of uh of all of you. First day in the job, what shocks you most? AJ?
>> Depends which job you're talking about, but uh
>> World Bank definitely. Yeah.
>> The quality of people was amazing. They've lived in everywhere. Their knowledge base is amazing. Uh they have taken their families from one difficult situation to another. So the quality of people was amazing. The dysfunctionality of how the place worked was frightening. And so when you brought together this quality of people with this 189 shareholders and 25 resident executive boards and 20 advisers each that was a daunting task and in all this I was trying to make the place you Karen was talking about uh three adjectives she used mine were I was trying to make it faster better and simpler and try and get the place be faster better and simpler when you have uh 400 advisers and 25 board members All well-intentioned. Everybody's well-intentioned, but the combination is complicated.
>> Karen,
>> I was trying to remember. I mean, I started in Daimler Truck, not as the CEO, but I was running one of the divisions. So, I think um
>> I was a bit nervous.
>> When you are in charge, there are things that suddenly jump at you.
>> So, I was I was running one of the biggest divisions. Uh I think my first was very simple. I moved from Sweden to Germany. So I thought I have to buy a lot of suits and people are going to be really dressed up. H but actually they just been running this culture program. So I came in really dressed up but everyone else had started dressing down. Um so I was totally overdressed. Uh so that was my first culture shock but then when the meeting started then then it turned a little bit the other way. So I was a little bit shocked just yeah I mean I mentioned some of it like there were just 18 people to discuss very simple topics. So just the amount of people and how complicated we were making everything.
>> Jasper. Well, I I think maybe the thing that was striking for me was meeting a lot of customers. And one customer lady in Japan told me when I visited her home said that basically she liked IKEA and she was a old customer of IKEA, but on a Tuesday night, she said when I put the kids to bed and I've done the dishes, I'm not going to go to IKEA. So, if you don't show up in my telephone, I'm going to shoot somebody else. And that shook me. And what shook me secondly was that we had stopped listening to customers and I think there was an intent and a drive within the company to stay away from unnecessary cost and so forth but we hadn't really got a 360 of what happened in the world. I think the interesting thing was we were so used to be the disruptor so we didn't see when disruption happened to ourselves and that was an interesting moment. It's always um there's always a question as you know disruption is coming and I think everyone in this room is now going through uh this phase uh everyone you we don't know exactly how AI will change a lot of businesses but we know for certain that that it will what you chose to do was to sort of confront it headon and and rush into into it. Um doesn't culture often prevent you from doing that? So I mean we've spent most of the day about the positives of culture
>> but there is also a negative in that it can breed complacency because you are so comfortable in in the culture
>> that you have a strong culture and this is what drives you know this is what has driven the institution to excellence for a long time
>> is did you feel that
>> massively I think it was one of the themes during my years as was this debate so I think what I learned now if I described it mathematically. I don't know why but we tend to put the future and the past against each other in a linear way. At least I experienced that in IKEA. Strong culture means strong legacy, strong beliefs in how we have always done it. And of course there comes a point where you start to shut down to the curiosity of what the future looks like even if your value is curiosity. So I think the the beauty is love the past, understand the past and create the future but not as a linear equation and then you will be able to find I think u the beauty in it. If you drop the past who you are and all of that of course you will take enormous risks but that that is easily as an intellectual exercise but you have to fight for it. You had moments I know you've been you've been quoted in the FTS saying sometimes you just have to go with your gut.
>> Did I say that?
>> You have. Yeah, I have to admit I have it.
>> I can prove it.
>> Yeah. But the thing is the the the the problem with the future versus the past is that the past has proof but the future doesn't. So therefore you need to invest more than 50% of your energy in the future. You need to be prepared to make all sorts of mistakes in it. I like the conversation before about calculated mistakes. Can somebody get hurt? Can the company go uh beyond? But I think in I just heard that in in IKEA even in IKEA being an entrepreneurship culture, I met so many people who said they were afraid of making mistakes. So I invented this um go banana card which is b it was a sign of desperation I think for my side. It's basically the card that gives you if you make a mistake and you're in trouble, I have already co-signed the mistake together with you. So that gives you and I think I've issued thousands of them. And the first one I issued to he came back and said I have made a mistake. I said that was fast. What did you do? I copied it to all my people in my organization. 10,000 people. So anyways,
>> one thing that you often hear from um I think more American CEOs uh talking about Europe is that there is that what we lack in Europe is a culture of risktaking. This is why you know we're afraid we don't actually promote uh build a company but fail. Failure is okay. Uh to what extent do you do you feel that? Um I was just reflecting on the question before. So I worked 16 years in Scania and uh has that company hasn't had a negative quarter for hundred years. Um and I think in that context it was harder than when I came into Daimler the truck where in Mercedes-Benz trucks my my first job I mean we needed to change things because we weren't earning any money. So I think then it's much easier and and the culture supports driving change. Um, so I think it it depends a little bit and I and now we're not, you know, a restructuring case anymore. We're doing pretty good. So I think to focus on the why, why we still need to change is very important.
>> Um, in terms of this European versus American, I mean, I have almost as many people in the US as in as in Europe. So one thing that we started doing much more actively the last couple of years, it's to move people between to get a little bit more American optimism into our into our European part of the organization, get a little bit more of maybe German diligence sometime into some of the the American parts of of the company. So I think that that helps to balance. But it is true that um that in a in our culture as a company people are still quite afraid to make mistakes. So we have to become even better at allowing that to happen.
>> AJ do do you feel that in your interactions with your with your uh members but also with staff? Yeah. Well, you know, remember in my case, uh, I deal with members who are governments and then my clients are both, uh, governments in the emerging markets, but also private sector companies and and it's quite a wide range of people. What I'm trying to instill in the bank is uh, three values that I brought with me from from when I was at Mastercard. My first year at Mastercard as the CEO, I got a calendar. You know the old things you used to get when you actually had a calendar, you turn pages. And I got that. And on the other side was sayings, one for each month. I found three of them very useful. They're in my office. You can see them anytime you come. And the first one is uh done is better than perfect. And I think people don't really understand how deep that is as a thought
>> at the bank. It's a politically challenging issue, but done is better than perfect. The second one is fail faster and harder. So that's kind of the idea of uh taking a risk and taking the risk of failing is kind of important. And the third is the most important in the bank and earlier was question everything always. And the the issue there is you get told when you come to an a company or a organization with an old history, legacy history, it will tell you, oh no, we tried that 28 years ago and it didn't work. Yeah, but that doesn't matter because 28 years ago, you know, oil was priced at $20 or $9. Uh today it's not. 28 years ago X had changed, Y had changed. And so this issue of uh it didn't work and therefore it won't work now is kind of a cancer in an organization. And to be able to change these things, those three I found useful. I kind of carry them with me even now. And I've converted it to uh in our development plan for employees at Mastercard and now at the World Bank. This is common across these two private and public. There are only four uh every employee gets every year a conversation with their boss and it has four boxes and the first box is what do I like about you? The second box is what you can do better. The third box is how do I think about you on three attributes a sense of urgency a sense of thoughtful risk takingaking and the willingness to be empowered but then be accountable. And then the last box is what do I think you can do in 1 to three years and 3 to 5 years and whose job is it to get you there? And if you can't fill up that box for one of your subordinates in less than 5 minutes I in Mastercard used to keep you know those old things with sand runs out. It had a 5minute measure and I would keep it in front of the employee and say write the card. If you couldn't finish it in 5 minutes you didn't know your employee well.
>> How does the staff react to this? And in the beginning they thought I was crazy but as you go along they begin to realize the value of this idea. I think in the World Bank it is similar. When I first started talking about this they began to think that this is crazy and he doesn't know what he's talking about and it won't work in the public sector. Today I think if you walk around the halls of the World Bank there are three kinds of people in every organization. I have them too. Uh onethird of the people are delighted I'm there and want me to succeed every day. One-third of the people just wish I would die tomorrow morning. And one third of the people are waiting to see what happens to me. And your job as a cultural change leader is to get the last one/3 to come on the side of the first one/3. You're never going to win over the ones who want you to die.
>> So what do you do with the ones in the middle?
>> You just work at them. I'm busy working at the guys who are on the fence to come to the correct side. And I think if you get that right, you get two/3s on your side and two/3 is a winning combination. you will change the whole place. And that is the point that James was making about winning. You have to get that one-third onto the side of saying I'm on the winning side and then you're you know
>> it is much harder for you though because you you're you're not in the you're not in the private sector and that's a that's must be quite a culture shock. Uh
>> well I I chose to leave the private sector. I retired a year or so before James and he and I talked a lot about succession and planning and I went through this whole process. I chose to leave and I thought I was retiring. David knows me from a long time and knows I was busy trying to do this retirement thing and then I ended up uh doing a combination of three things. I joined General Atlantic where James now is as vice chair. I became chair of John Elen's uh family holding company Exor. Uh he stepped down and became CEO. I became chair and I joined Tamasic and I thought I had died and gone to heaven. I used to work half a day and make more money. And so it felt very good until I got called into this job and now I earn no money and I work 16 hours a day. So there's something wrong with what's going on here and I don't know what it is but I'll get there. The thing is at the end of the day uh I am very proud of what the bank is. I firmly believe that you need more of it in the coming 20 years not less. But I do believe it needs to change to be perfected for the next 20 as compared to living off the last 80. And I think that's what all of us are trying to say. I want to pick up on your decency um question because uh
>> Daddy Queen
>> because we often I mean we often talk about uh decency and every company wants to to treat its staff uh decently and you know to a certain extent you can explain some of the difficult decisions that you that you are making but you often also need to let people go
>> right.
>> Yeah. How do you how do you handle that? Is that one of the Karen, I'm looking at you. Is that one one of the most difficult uh things that you've had to do? And is there a good way of doing it?
>> Yeah, I think it's always difficult on a human level. Uh but the way I try to think of it personally is um I'm doing something which is better for the company long term and I know it's the right thing. So, I have to do it. And now, to be honest, I've done it enough that it's something I'm I'm quite used to. Um, and then it's about really explaining the why. Um, and doing it in a respectable way. Um, different in different countries, exactly the process, but but always showing respect and, uh, just being honest and and straight on it.
>> Do we show far too much respect in Europe? show too much respect
>> in Europe.
>> Wow.
>> It's very difficult to let people go.
>> Yeah. You mean in that sense? Well, you know what? I I don't have that experience. I think I had the uh unfortunate situation u on many occasions to have to let people go and organize for it. Once when I was in China, it was structurally we were we were sort of totally outdated strategically in the structure. And then I think as um transformation hit IKEA and uh such we had to do a lot of changes. Now I think I think I I hate it. I uh I'm not sleepless about a lot of things but but this is one of them. And I think in the how to say the coward within me who would love to delegate this says that you have to confront people and be part of it. I think the only way um I know of it is to engage and be present and be around when it happens. Um I've not had anyone I can remember that question the decision. Um but so combining professionalism and being caring I think is is the model because you have to care also for the people who stay with the company. And then the best thing you can do is to remember when you've done that that you don't want to do this too often. So be a little bit mindful of your decisions and how you actually in particular the uh complacency that sometimes come to us as leaders right that you because basic organizations are like plants they grow whether you like it or not they won't shrink or get more efficient or simple by time they're going to get more complicated bureaucratic and outdated so the more you can be there and garden it I think you can avoid uh bigger things in the future sometimes
>> you might want to spend a bit more time with Mr. Sir Li it will stiffen you. Uh there is a question from the audience uh about AI which I think is a good is a good followup. Will leading people and AI workers or agents uh change the way um change the way that you lead as a you know as a CEO as a as a business leader
>> if you're looking.
>> Okay. Very good. So I massively I think u I think it's uh maybe in ways that we don't fundamentally understand today also it's incredibly interesting. It's one of those topics that in our conversations we like to draw some sort of average but in AI I think the the uh opportunities are amazing um quality efficiencies whatnot but the risks uh from from a human perspective I don't think we have fully embraced yet. So, but it gives us an opportunity, I think, to maybe go a bit deeper in ourselves also as leaders and and as humans to reflect on what is truth, what is what is the value of something that is human led and human created and those questions. But I think the the thing that IKEA and I did was um so I belong to the first generation of parents I think that thought we gave our kids a telephone but it was something a little bit more powerful. Um today we we in our family we are okay except my wife she's not listening. So she's the only one we have to help sometimes with the addiction to social media and whatnot. Um the promise of making us connected in social media came with an incredible depth of uh loneliness and mental damage. And I think personally I think after listening to people who know much more than I do about AI the risks with AI might be much much uh higher than so. So therefore I think we need to work faster on catching up to the negative sides how it's going to impact us.
>> So so you think of it more as a as the the social impact
>> I think so.
>> Yeah.
>> I think again wonderful opportunities uh for us. Um and it it will happen. It always been in in I think history of humankind. Whatever can be automized or made efficient will be made efficient automized. And it gives us an opportunity to ask where do we as humans add value and in this case maybe also are we okay to be you do we see ourselves as mastering a tool or are we the opposite and this is the first time I think u we've been in that situation so it's very interesting and scary
>> Karen how do you think about it
>> h well first of all I think it it brings new business opportunities so one big bet that we do uh we have a software company in the US to figure out how to make the trucks self-driving um which would take away u 25 to 30% of the cost for our customers when we make that happen and that's only possible with AI or at least greatly accelerated the path to productization um then on like the company side I think it just it kind of amplifies what was already starting to happen with technology and software and so on which is we guys on the board were definitely not the experts uh even if we all grew up in engineering and and did a lot of great things. Um so it even further
>> uh puts demands on us to be able to push out decision making and make sure that people are enabled to drive business
>> who are closest to it. A do you find um your uh employees excited about uh AI or do you find that you know there are very few people who actually use it? Do do and and you track you uh usage.
>> Employees are beginning to use it quite a bit. We've kind of, you know, in our case, for example, if you're going to put up a water project to do desalination in Jordan, you would love to be able to learn from 10 prior experiences, but to actually dig through those 10 projects, find the learnings, synthesize them, produce them together would take weeks of work for a loan officer. And now you can actually go onto a platform we have and ask that question. And it'll dig out all this for you. And it'll also allow you to know when the AI may be hallucinating because you can scroll over the numbers and it shows you the source of the data. So it's useful. I will say if I could just zoom back for a second. My clients are the emerging markets, not the developed world. I'll speak from that perspective. The the AI we all talk about in the developed world is large language models and and the like. Uh that requires four things. Computing power, lots of it. electricity, a heck of a lot of it. Uh data, lots of it kept in its simplest form with privacy. And the more data you have, the more predictive the model is. And fourth, people who know how to do all this. The emerging markets don't have these four. I you know, computing power, electrification, data, and people who know how to do this are not exactly what the strength is of a developing country. And so to me, they could get left behind if that's the only thing we think about. And so what we're talking about to the emerging markets is actually the use of AI to create applications for an illiterate woman farmer to be able to use a phone and look at the backside of a leaf and say I don't know what that disease is but that insecticide from my cooperative for 25 rupees will kill it. or a nurse in a primary health center in a village in Egypt gets somebody coming in and says I have a rash and they can go to their doctor who's remote and figure out whether it's eczema or something more serious and needs an appointment and so on. So I think the use of AI AI apps which is kind of what we're all playing with is actually quite interesting for the future of what I deliver. I think getting stuck in LLM being the only model is going to be hard. And then the last part I'd say is LLM assumes that the global flow of data is seamless. I would tell you we need to be very careful thinking about how quickly how long before governments start thinking of data as a national security asset.
>> And when that starts happening just as today we've all realized that energy is a national security policy.
>> We kind of didn't know that it feels till one month ago but now we're all thinking that way. In the same way I believe data of your citizens will become something that will be a fairly complex national security topic. So I'm not fully sure that I know that I can predict which way this AI development will go. I think right now it just feels there's only one way. Big box centers, lots of data, stuff getting churned out, stuff coming out the other side and it'll replace you in your job. I think that narrative is a broken narrative. But that's me. Could I um can we end by um some with some advice? This is a question from the audience. What's the best advice that you would give to younger generation, people in their 20s? I don't know if there are many of them in the audience.
>> I don't see one,
>> but someone did ask. So, Jasper, you go.
>> Wow. I'm I'm going to pass on uh the advice I got from my mother when I was in that age. What am I going to do with my life? And she said, "Look for what you're good at. look what you love to do and if you find both you will be happy she said so now the advice is yours that goes for elderly people as well so it's
>> true
>> Karen
>> yeah completely agree I think do the things that you're passionate about um and I would also say something I would have needed to hear maybe when I was 20 just believe in yourself you know ultimately you can do much more than what you might think so who says you're not going going to change the world. You know that's in your head. So just go for it.
>> One truck at a time. Yes.
>> One truck at a time.
>> I think life is 50% luck. The other 50% is what you do with the luck when it comes your way. Most people don't seize their luck when it comes their way. If you're not willing to take a risk, you're going to be left on that platform and the train will leave and you'll be waving goodbye to your luck. So you have to learn how to take risks. Take them, play with them, embrace them, embrace your passions. Be optimistic. Number one, two, and three. It will all be fine. It'll all be fine.
>> Yeah.
>> Most of the time, thank you, AJ, Ruler, Kin, and Yesper. We'll now take a 30inut break. We resume at 3:35. Do you remember your first cell phone? Mine was a Nokia 3310. No camera, no apps. But in June 2007, the world changed overnight. And 20 years later, we're fast approaching the iPhone moment of AI. With every technology shift, there are winners and losers. And as an investor, my job is to figure out who will come out on top. But it's not as simple as picking whoever has the best technology. Because history tells us that the companies who win aren't just the ones with the most advanced tech, they're the ones with a winning culture. Are they able to change direction when markets shift overnight? Great technology is just the starting point. The culture is the real competitive advantage.
>> Welcome back. We explored what makes a winning culture and how to transform it.
>> In this third part, we ask what does high performance culture look like in the age of AI? AI is reshaping organizations. How they're structured, how decisions get made, the impact that young people can make on day one.
>> Before we meet our speakers, let's hear a message from Anthropic co-founder and president Daniela Amod on how AI is already changing the way we work.
>> Hi everyone, I'm Daniela Amode, co-founder and president of Anthropic. We build Claude, the most trusted AI used by enterprises. I want to thank Noris Bank for having me. 600 people across the organization devoted to building AI fluency is what it looks like when leadership treats AI as a culture decision, not just a technology decision. At Anthropic, our mission includes a core belief, which is that AI will have a vast impact on the world. And we're honest about both the opportunities and the risks. In fact, one of our cultural values is to hold light and shade. That's why we publish research like the economic index, which details how AI is affecting jobs. Some of what we find is complicated, but we publish the index because our mission calls for honesty. One of our other values is to put the mission first, and this value is put to the test in challenging moments. At times, we've delayed product launches because of safety concerns, and we've turned away brilliant candidates because they didn't share our values. These are not easy decisions in the fastest moving industry on Earth. But that's what makes our culture so unique. Something I've learned in this role is that culture is a mission amplifier. If you're consistent, these actions create a culture that your team and your community rally behind. Nikolai and the whole team at Norris Bank have been forwardleaning on exactly these topics. Rethinking the work, not just the tools. That's a leadership story as much as it is a technology one. Thank you again to Norris Bank and I hope you all enjoy the rest of your conference. And that's the world we operating in. So, what does a future ready organization actually look like?
>> Our next speaker may have the answer. Crystal Hederman is the CEO of Orange Group, a worldleading telecom with 340 million customers across 26 countries.
>> She's now leading it into a world being disrupted by AI, where the technology never stops moving and the competition never slows down.
>> In a fastmoving industry, how do you build a culture that can keep pace? Pedro Federado Ree, the co-chief investment officer for active strategies joins her to find out.
>> Please welcome Crystal and Pedro.
>> A big welcome to also Crystal.
>> Thank you. Great to be here.
>> So let's just get jump straight into it. So as we just learned from anthropic, there's a lot of change happening in leadership and in technology at the stage. How are you leading Orange to operate at a new and much faster pace now?
>> Well, I think a company like Orange that operates in 26 countries that have a mission that's so clear it's somehow and we've been passionate about technology. Of course, we started with copper networks and 2G GSM at the time. We had Nokia phones as we've seen earlier and so the company loves technology changes. So that's the easy part. Now the difficult part is speed. I think AI is just mind-blowing and it feels like it keeps accelerating. And so the speed of course in a company with 130,000 employees in 26 country is not a startup. And so it's all about taking decisions understanding what are one way decision what are two ways where you can go backwards and that makes a huge difference. So we are just testing testing testing and of course there's a number of of things we are we have to address not just orange but as a society because security I mean entropic knows with mitos I mean there's a lot of debate that are happening with country leadership with security agencies about okay what are we going to unleash when this technology goes in all our hands whether they are bad or or good hands And beyond the need for speed, um, where is AI already having the most impact for your teams or for your customers right now?
>> So, we've trained thousands of our teams and we've put tools in the hands of our team so that they could use Genai. So, and of course this if you use Genai to I mean go faster in your analysis, email work, etc. That's the basics. That doesn't really change the company itself. We've launched a number of assistants in our customer service. Of course, when we serve more than 300 million of customers that's a lot of data in terms of I mean how do we manage the portfolio of offers we have across countries? How do we simplify? So we have AI tools for our sales teams. I mean to be able to propose the best information and and to know the customer journey and these are things we just cannot do without AI. Uh we have of course uh our networks and cyber security. I mean today we have orange cyber defense that's preventing and helping customers cope with cyber attacks. I mean our networks are so complex. The data that flows through your network through our networks is so complex that without AI it's just not possible. So there's I mean many many areas where we already see the potential of AI. We are not a software development company. So when I meet with Entropic and I'm told that I'm going to have unlimited capabilities to develop software. I like that promise because it feels like we're gonna be able to do things that frankly speaking we just could not do because of I mean now the cost of it is still something we haven't uh we haven't tackled.
>> I imagine that there's a lot of experimentation going on at the moment. H how do you create that room for bold innovation and risk takingaking in a company that at the end of the day is built on critical infrastructure that simply cannot fail? Well, that's a very good question and that's really the culture of a company whose purpose is very clear. No matter what happens, extreme events, cyber attacks, I mean our networks, our connectivity services have to work.
>> Which means that the design and the way we work is absolutely zero risk to a point where now of course if we think about AI, we are not going to let AI agents manage our core networks because that's not an option. So, so we've made it very clear and and the company and especially we come I mean in France or in many countries actually we have been the incumbent. So we come from being an administration. So the company value and when I joined the company I was very surprised that people think that doing good is applying the process. If I apply the process I'm safe. I'm doing my job that's all good. And sometime we have to challenge actually very often we have to challenge because the process is not fast enough the process was designed for different intent and sometime we have way too many processes that end up being contradicting each others. So that's all the work we're we're doing on on on changing that. But uh but in the end it's been said earlier the the winning mindset and and I've been reflecting on what does winning mean in a company like Orange because our teams are excellent in managing crisis. So you would think that the today's world is awful. We go from one crisis to another. At Orange, our teams are excellent because extreme events, network outage, cyber attacks, this is when the company unites around one purpose which is very clear. Restore the service, serve our customers. So that's the good thing given the current environment. Now of course when we think about innovation,
>> we have to move from a culture where we were thinking you know we launch a service for millions of customer, tens of millions of customers. So everything has to be ready training the salespeople etc. which does not work if you want to incubate new solutions. And so we've been designing things where it's okay to fail. It's okay to test and not scale a solution and to find new fine-tune it. And one of the challenges, of course, like like any big industrial company, you're not launching a product for tens of millions of customers unless you know it's going to work. But you can launch a solution beta test like software development and then when it's ready you really scale it. So we've been we've had to to to change that and we've done a lot I mean on on cyber security uh today we talk about satellite connectivity complementing our mobile networks. We talk a lot about AI solution, AI agent for our sales team, AI agent for our customers, I mean customer service and it's back to you know telecom operators somehow have been good at taking technology and bringing it to market but I don't think as an industry we are very good at coming from the customer needs the real needs and then pulling back what type of innovation could go with it and when I joined the company I was amazed by the number the failure rate we had when people move into a store they sign up for broadband fiber and guess what 40% of the time we would send the technician fail with the connectivity and so I was challenging the team saying think about companies like Airbus if 40% of the time you ship you ship the plane it crashes so why are we not collectively in the company trying to address that but the mindset of the company was well it's for a fact that is 40% failure rate and they did not realize that maybe we could optimize that. So we've been working on that. This is the type of innovation that maybe is not visible by the engineers, maybe it's not visible by the shop people because they turn up that people are signing up for broadband and they get the service and then they get the bill and they pay and they get their bonus when on the contrary we had people waiting for weeks and eventually cancelling their their order. So that's the type of innovation which is focused on quality customer experience going into the details of our processes and and working with our partners on it.
>> You've mentioned winning and we heard many simple words from many companies today. You chose for orange bold, responsible and caring. So my question is how do you move that how do you bring that to life to the 26 countries from France to the rest of Europe to Africa to AJ's words before how do you make sure that those are the values when you're not in the room
>> well first when I joined the company and I asked okay what what are our values and there wasn't one answer so we had values in Africa we had values in France we had values for our B2B business and so I told the team okay what makes a group then what's what's the many in one value that brings us which is more than just a sum of of of divisions and we spend a lot of time and and given our purpose and the the service we provide it was actually very easy to come up with what creates excitement for for our teams. Then we worked on these values around caring. Caring for our customers and our people of course responsible and responsible people think about responsible but but we've been very clear that responsible is also you're responsible to call it out and to speak up when things go wrong etc. So it's and then bold is probably the value where the company is more eager to transform because this is an expectation from our teams that we want to innovate. who want to be bold and if you think about the orange brand when it was created I mean more than 20 years ago it was very bold so there's also link with the past and where we come from but but in the end it's all about leadership it's all about as you said it's when you're not in the room that things happen and and it's about I mean if I take both for instance first of all the values work together it's not just one or the other it's also about speaking speaking up about our failures being it I I mean, and it's it's okay to fail. I mean, it's not okay to lose billions. It's okay to fail and to fail fast if you fail. And it's okay to speak about it as part of our culture. So, there's a lot of things we've changed starting in the management team and then of course we worked on how do we assess leaders, who do we promote, why do we promote people and and that's where you connect the dots between the values that can't be just words on the wall and the different the different actions we take on a day-to-day basis. And it's very clear that I realized I mean being a CEO that sometime there's a lot more comments in the company about the type of questions I asked than about the the answers that we we made to those question. And so and sometime people tell me in the field oh it seems that you're interested in understanding what we do there. And so there's a lot of myth as well about the CEO who what what I say what we discuss in the management team and that's also how we shape. So we tell stories about as well the the way we work as a management team and uh and then it's about being in the field focusing on customers and uh and and again I mean our teams are super proud they are very knowledgeable they have deep technical knowhow and so the the I mean we spend a lot of time understanding what are those jewel and and talents in the field that we are not I mean enabling to do more for the company. So, and there's a lot of reasons for that in a company of our size, of course.
>> And you spent five years in the board before becoming CEO. How does that experience influenced the way that you dealt uh with a company from day one? Well, first of all, I have a very direct relationship with my board because I've been sitting on the board and I realized I mean, of course, I came with my experience from different companies, very different culture and so when I came to the company, I knew about I I had a feeling about the culture from the topics that we were not discussing in the board and I thought they were important to discuss and then of course I mean the CEO is not being a director and so but there's a lot of thing I still discovered by by joining the company but I had already very clear ideas about what are the things we should fix what are the the question I was frustrated somehow as a director not having answers and and I remember and I had a lot of discussion with our investors there there was a kind of myth that orange was a company where I mean the French government owns 23% of orange and there was a lot of myth around I mean investors and the French government and things that we could not do because of that. And so being on the board for five years, I was very clear on the type of debates we had where there was absolutely full consensus amongst shareholders and and and board members. And so there was a lot of I mean myth around some of our shareholding structure that actually were neither true in the company nor on the board. And so that's the type of thing as well that was very useful engaging with investors and all type of stakeholders having that history of the five years having in mind some of the debates where we couldn't I mean conclude as as a board and uh and and I think the world keeps on having a very direct relationship and and transparent relationship with my board and I've met with a lot of CEOs when they get appointed from the company and they have they have difficult times understanding what should I discuss with my board why should I hide from my board etc. And I've been very open from day one saying look these are the things we really have to tackle as a board because being I felt like I was a peer joining and I'm still a director on the board as well.
>> Let's bring it home for a second and focus on Europe. There's a lot of uh of chatter around competitiveness of Europe in the global stage. The scale is is scale required for high performance? It depends depends on your business. But if you are in telecom, telecom is uh I mean capital intensive business where we invest a lot in our infrastructure. So scale matters. We're a fixed cost business. It's very simple to explain that if you're number one in your market, you have more margin to invest and and to and to do things than if you're number two, three or four. And this is I mean very easy. You look at the math etc. And so that's the type of discussion where I mean and I've been very open with I mean all the stakeholders in in Europe being country leaders, regulators uh that I mean we have to change something because I mean first of all our networks are critical infrastructure and I think nobody would challenge that these days and we've been in Europe for quite some time in a situation where many telecom operators had to sell their assets to continue to invest in next generation assets. That doesn't sound right. And so I think this is where we need we've probably gone too far in in a number of areas. We need regulation. I mean our business is very critical. So we need regulation. But Europe is missing the scale of Europe. I mean I operate in eight countries in Europe. I mean I can't copy paste the service. If I have a successful service that we launch in Spain, it's impossible to copy paste across Europe simply because I mean I'm not going to go but the list of things we would have to unleash to be able to do that is quite long and and and it's I mean it's easy to say simplify if we go into the details there's always a good reason why and sometime by the way the company itself loves this type of complexity because I have country CEOs who love to be the king of their empire. They don't want to share. And so we need to create pride in pride as well in copying from others and being fast. So I think speed is really the thing we use now to to measure because I mean in a world of unlimited capital, unlimited time, it's very easy for everyone to do the same thing. That's not the world we live in these days. So that's also the type of thing we're driving in the company.
>> Well, it's clear that Orange is not just about being everywhere. It's more like leading from the front in technology, in speed, and in culture. So, thank you so much, Crystal, for being with us today.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Crystal and Pedro. Our next speaker leads an organization where milliseconds make the difference between winning and losing. Stfano Dominicali is the president and CEO of Formula 1. F1 has a unique cultural challenge. Hundreds work behind the scenes, but only the driver gets to stand on the podium. How do you create a high performance culture when only one person is in the spotlight? F1's approach, obsess over marginal gains. Every detail compounds, milliseconds add up. Please welcome Stefano. This is Formula 1 is the pinnacle of motorsport. Driving the fastest car in the world. One of the most exhilarating feelings you get inside the car. Cars that are pushed to be absolutely winning the world championship. That's every single day what I'm thinking about. I got to cut to the tape. And Formula 1 is racing on throttle building up to 200 mph. All or nothing. Yeah.
>> I do anything for the win at the end.
>> Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I hope that the my voice is loud and clear. Nikolai, thank you for this opportunity. Thanks to Nor Bank. I mean it's for me personally but also for our organization an incredible opportunity to stand here today in front of you. If you think that back a couple of years ago this was not possible. So great responsibility on board but we want to take our opin opportunity to explain who we are in this context. I was listening you know to all the things that have been said today. I'm not a teacher. I'm trying to explain who we are and to be effective because at the end of the day I do believe if I read behind me high performance culture what does it mean personally me it's a state of mind state of mind that you have to deliver first of all to yourself and to the people that are around you F1 is not a sport is a a platform in of entertainment where a lot of stakeholders are part of it and it is true it's a matter of millisecond to the top performers to be the winner or to be the loser but not only on the track and if I look back of what our organization has done in the last couple of years not many years ago a lot of people were thinking that the investment for one has been very bad or uh we're thinking that F1 was almost there to die and the beauty that we are here in the other way around I mean we are very strong today and I would say worldwide sport platform today we have been seen as a reference because we were able to turn you know the situation in such a short term and there's no secret it's just we were able to have this approach in all the elements we are trying to control I give you one example we were hated by co at all organization all people and for us co could have been a slide into a moment taking our bags go home and say hello to all the people watching us and we were able to create in very very short time the possib ability for us to run our show, our business around the world to create protocol to travel. of course not being able to perform in front of the fans of the track but able to perform around the around the world because at that moment there was the need to have countence that was be able to be seen on the screen of television computer iPhone and that was a moment that was really a sort of great spring for the push of uh being what we are today and at that moment we were able to change completely our way to communicate with our fans. We basically open up and to say that today seems to be ridiculous to the social media. We were the first to create a new contest trying to keep our drivers as our jewel to communicate behind the scene. We did something that at that time even to present that project was crazy to to say that in front of the traditional people like dry to survive a Netflix product that had been instrumental for our growth mainly in the new markets and the other way was trying to be effective in connecting with the new fans that were approaching us. Of course we have to be respectful of all the ones that are uh novel formula one but the only way to be relevant that is the word I want to keep connected to this kind of sentence is really to try to understand who is watching us who is needs to be connected with the right way of working with the right narrative with the way the right rhythm and and the right content that they want to listen and of course by doing that we have changed completely the way to to to explain who we are. We are now in a situation where if I divide all the things that are relevant for us is a a sport where all the countries wants to participate. We have 24 events around the world and the beauty that we have today is that a lot of countries more than 24 would like to host one because they see that as a possibility to showcase and to create business opportunity in the country and this is behind the scene. I give you one reference in term of numbers in a big events we are hosting today around 450 or 500,000 people and the global chain of work that is behind that we're talking about 25 30,000 people working for an event and uh if I compare you know for other sport I would say one thing that is very relevant in American culture and I will come back to that because I think it's a very important point for us is we were able to be in the same place uh in the same city when there was a Super Bowl and in term of business we were bigger and you can imagine for an American to recognize that a small sport is creating more opportunity if you compare with the legends well it's something relevant and then if I take the other stream of our important portfolio we're managing of course managing the technology behind what we are doing big manufacturer teams that are working relentless to try to be the best and of course on that side I would say the beauty of what we are doing is that we are able to capture the attention of the highest company at all the technology level that is relevant for them to be seen in our platform and one thing is mobility for sure one thing is motorsport but if you look the involvement of the automotive industry in a moment of crisis where we living that wants to be with us it shows that the the platform that we are offering is the right one Then partnership just couple of years ago there were not so many who believed in what we are doing not so many investing money in our platform today thanks god we move to B2B partnership to B2C partnership that are very very strong they will enable us to get in touch with a younger generation that for us are the future because they want to be connect with us and this is something that is not given for granted. I go back to the last point that for us is relevancy related to who we are there for that is our fan our people to watch us who wants to live the event either of the track or watching on the devices that they are connected with that's the most important thing that we want to keep at the center of the attention and for to be relevant for them we need to make sure that all the dimension that they everyone wants to be connected with are activated. So every moment for us in form one is is really important to understand what is the landscape today our I would say race is not only with other sports I always said to my people you know today if you want to be successful in an in a entertainment platform you need to understand what is the ecosystem you need to understand that we are competing with the theater with music with with with movie that's why we did a movie last year that has been very successful in a in a in an audience who are not really keen on understanding what is form one in other things that are socially important to live together. And in this moment I we need to have people with a lot of energy with a lot of passion because without that you cannot be once again on the track the day after when you lose when you lose a race and this mentality is part of all the people that are involved in our ecosystem. This is absolutely totally relevant for us and if you think you know we are big one today but we are a very lean company when the example given by our leaders is affecting all the people that are working in our organization technology as I said before we are always talking about AI today what I can assure you that F1 will keep the people at the center you will never see our cars driven by automatic auto autonomous was driving. There will be always people that will maximize the work that the engineers will bring to them because at the end of the day is a team work. But that's the beauty of what we have. We want to give emotion to the to the people that are coming with us. We want to give something that is in this moment quite unique because we connect people and and above all we going back to this this important sentence we try to be reactive of the situation that we have to manage. You know the world is complicated. We were we we we travel all around the world and we have to cancel to races because of the actor situation. We have to be ready to react on what is happening today but we won't give up. We have plans. We want to make sure that everyone understand that no one can stop us. That's the mentality that we need to have and that's what I want to share with you because I know that there is already a light that is blinking to me that I said it's time to go. So as I said I really hope that you can follow us. I really hope that one day you can have the time to experience what we can offer to us because without the people that are loving our sport, we cannot be here without the people that are cheering for their drivers who are aspirational model for our fans. We cannot be here. We cannot be here if the world of technology is not coming with us. And if it's coming with that, that means that we can offer what they need. In a nutshell, we are here to serve the emotion and the world that is moving ahead with something that has to be unique. So F1 will be definitely you know endorse this this important moment of our life to be something that we can rely on to have fun to connect and enjoy. Thank you for your attention and see you soon.
>> Thank you Stefano. Our next speaker has spent four decades at the forefront of technologies evolution from the rise of software to the age of AI. Nandan Nilani is the co-founder and chairman of Infosys. He built Infosys from Bangalore in the 1980s into one of India's premier IT companies. Then came a different challenge. The Indian government asked him to create Aadhaar which is the world's largest biometric identification system. He's of the view that in the age of AI, the most important thing a company can protect is a strategic autonomy and that it's culture that determines whether they get to keep it or lose it. Please welcome my fellow Indian friend Nandan Nilkani stage. Uh thank you Shilpi and it's really wonderful to be here and I want to thank Nikolai for this opportunity. I thought I'll tell you a bit of my story and the connection to today's topic. I am one of the founders of Infosys, a company set up 45 years back and in these 45 years except for three years there has been one or more founder in the company and the three years where there was no founder the company went through a tumultuous time. So in 2017 because of a certain situation that had arisen I had left by then I had done all the work at UIDA Aadhaar and all that I had to go back I thought I was going back for a few months 9 years later I'm still there so I am the last founder you know like the last dinosaur the last moan the last founder so I was already in my mind grappling with the issue, how do I do a transition to a leader who will not be a founder? In other words, while we have normal succession planning where we replace one CEO with another, when it comes to replacing a founder with a non-founder, it's a order of magnitude more complicated because it's all about, you know, the values that you have and and and the culture and so on. So I was already grappling with this question of how do I do this transition and then this whole AI thing came along and people started questioning why we exist. If software development is going to be done on cloud or cursor or codeex or whatever then why do we even need you people? Do you need to exist? So we had suddenly come to this existential question. So then I realized you know I also then realized that maybe this was an opportunity for me because being an optimist I always look for the upside. I said maybe this point where there will be a transition to a future leader at some point as the chairman. I could also use this opportunity to embed the values once again into the company so that it would be instead for a long time. And so in some sense I made the AI transition of Infosys actually become also a way to change the culture to create a sense of urgency to get speed and getting speed. This is a company with 300,000 people and 20 billion in revenue. So to get speed in this company is you know over 40 countries. How do we get all this? You should welcome Jamie. Good Jamie, have a seat. Yeah, it's like the head of state had come in or something. So, uh, so I think for my first job was how do we get this and then I also realized that we have to do this only by ensuring that we have strategic autonomy in the world. how to be relevant in the world of AI. And a few things that stood out to us, one was that the role of a firm like Infosys would be to orchestrate all the things in a company in an enterprise because a enterprise needs orchestration of all the various tools it uses and so on. It was also about helping our clients retain optionality in the choice of the AI tools because I firmly believe that the leaders in AI will keep changing. There'll be new companies, new new ways of doing things. All that is going to come in and that's going to be requires therefore companies to be nimble and agile in being able to adjust to these changes. So one of the key value ads we could offer was how do we how do we allow optionality in the choice of our technologies. The third thing is we realize that enterprise context is so important that an enterprise is defined by its context, its rules, its policies, its its processes, its data and some of it would be tacet knowledge in people's heads, post-it notes stuck on the computer. So fundamentally getting enterprise context together we realized was something very useful for our customers. So we figured out how to think about what would be our value proposition and relevance in this new world. But equally importantly, I think we use this as an opportunity to get speed because we had to move very quickly. We had to move the whole whole company 300,000 people. We had to train everyone to be ready with these new skills. We had to learn how to do agents. We had to learn how to combine agents and humans in doing things. All this required a lot of work. It was also an opportunity to break down the silos of the company because there were different silos. people are doing different things and we said let's use the AI transformation as a way to completely break down the silos and have everyone in the company working on the same have the same way of doing things and that took some effort because people were quite possessive about the way they did things but we have used use this to actually break that down because I firmly believe that you cannot have AI benefits and AI productivity Unless the company works with one voice with in unison everybody has to work to the same goals in for I think AI is not just applied artificial intelligence it's aligned individuals all the individuals in the company have to be going in the same otherwise AI could make it worse a dysfunctional company can go into warp speed with AI you know if I'm sending a mail to somebody I may I may write a one paragraph email use AI to make it 10 paragraphs send it to that guy and he use AI to reduce 10 paragraphs to one paragraph what have we achieved both of us have used AI on either side but the company's productivity has not gone up if you have a company which is having camps and different people then for all you know agent swarms of one business will be fighting with the agent swarms of another business and you'll be doing it 24 by7 so in other words we have to be very careful ful that we don't implement AI in a way that is dysfunctional because that could actually be counterproductive and therefore I think the lesson I learned is use this AI transformation to also get the company to march to a single drummer to get everyone aligned to do the things that they they had to do and to make sure that innovation was captured from every part of the company onto a common way of of doing things a common fabric. So I feel now that while there will be at some time in the future a transition to a non-founder the AI has actually given us an opportunity to also recalibrate and re-energize and reduce bureaucracy reduce silos and take people to a different level. So finally I think I feel confident that whenever we do the AI transition we will also do a chairman and founder transition. Thank you very much.
>> What a day it has been Patrick.
>> Absolutely. Shall be from the fundamentals of winning cultures to stories of transformation under pressure.
>> From building high performance culture in the age of AI to building cultures that survive crisis after crisis.
>> To all of our speakers that have shared their stories with us today, thank you for your openness and willingness to talk about what works and what doesn't.
>> To everyone here in the room, thank you for your attention, your energy, and your questions. To those joining us via live stream from around the world, thanks for being part of this.
>> And to our colleagues who made this happen, months of planning, countless details. Thank you.
>> We hope that you leave with some new perceptions, new questions,
>> and perhaps a few answers, too.
>> Which brings us to next year, Investment Conference 2027.
>> Save the date. The topic is innovation.
>> We already have an exciting lineup of speakers in store for you. We can't wait and we'll see you then.
>> To those of you in the audience, can you please remain seated? To those on the L live stream, thanks again for joining.