feels. I to do it. I Heat up here.
>> [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music]
>> I love
>> [music] [music]
>> I hate you. I miss you. Miss you. I know you hate you. I love you. I miss you. She's going to I hate you. Here we go. Hey buy it. This is Oh, garage.
>> [music] [music]
>> Heat [music] up.
>> [music]
>> Hey [music] baby. Hey.
>> [music] [music] [music]
>> And in the end, [music] there is no well is dry. All right.
>> [music]
>> Hallelujah. Hallelujah. [music] Hallelujah. Hallelujah. [music]
>> [music]
>> Hallelujah. Hallelujah. [music] Happy bel. So the Good morning and welcome back to day two of AI I engineer Melbourne. I hope you had a really good day yesterday. See how animated people are today. Did you have a good day yesterday?
>> Oh, yeah. See, that's how it happens. All right. So, thanks for coming along, being involved. Hope you had a great night at the drinks. There's a lot of energy there. We got a whole other day today. We got a lot for you and then we have some drinks to finish up as well. But we are beginning with a genuine privilege. So Jeremy Howard is one of the really unsung legends. I mean he's sung but I think not as much as he should be in particular because he's Australian. Uh but his work in machine learning and AI go back many years in fact and before that he's the founder of fastmail which [snorts] many of us will use. uh uh he he wrote a paper a developer technique called ulm fit which is essentially the foundation of modern large language models and the work that he did there sort of helped kick off the revolution that we're all kind of being part of. So we we owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Jeremy and his work there. Uh he is now the founding CEO of Answer.ai AI and the co-founder of Fast AI who are looking to make deep learning accessible. So to kick off this morning, would you please welcome and let's express a huge round of gratitude for the work that he's done over many years for the Australian industry and then around machine learning and AI Jeremy Howard. Cheers. Thanks for that. It's uh nice to be back in my hometown. Um it's good to see you all. Um I have a bit of a um unusual talk I wanted to give today. Um the first half of it's about psychology rather than AI. um and ends the title which is about uh growing on purpose and the work that makes you. Um, it's such a critical moment in our history right now and the the work that we're all doing is changing and I want to share with you some key findings from the last 50 years of research uh about how your work makes you and so then you can make informed choices about the work that you choose to do. Um and in particular I want to draw on uh this this paper. It's not just a paper. It's uh this was a review paper at the end of 30 years of research representing hundreds and hundreds of experiments uh that that led to this huge overarching thing called self-determination theory or SDT. But I I just want to read you the first two paragraphs of this um and and I want you to have a think about it. The fullest representations of humanity show people to be curious, vital, and self-motivated. At their best, they are agentic and inspired, striving to learn, extend themselves, master new skills, and apply their talents responsibly. that most people show considerable effort, agency, and commitment in their lives appears in fact to be more normative than exceptional. In other words, this appears to be how humans are born to be, suggesting some very positive and persistent features of human nature. The very next paragraph continues, "Yet it is also clear," the human spirit can be diminished or crushed, and that individuals sometimes reject growth and responsibility. Examples of both children and adults who are apathetic, alienated, and irresponsible are abundant. Such nonoptimal human functioning can be observed not only in our clinics but also among the millions who for hours a day sit passively before their televisions, stare blankly from the back of their classrooms or wait listlessly for the weekend as they go about their jobs. So here we have an interesting bifurcation of the observations about the nature of of human flourishing and the fullest representations of humanity that we observe. Uh there's been um thousands of years of history uh um and uh more recently many decades of psychological research looking at this difference between udemonia and hedonia. So hydonia is where we get the word hydonics or hedonism. There's nothing wrong with it per se. Um it's that frictionless pleasant ease uh pacificity uh and uh uh kind of easy pleasures. Um uh udeonia on the other hand is what it turns out that these fullest representations of humanity are about. Uh fully actualizing your capacities. that turns out to be what it means to to live well. And as I say, there's there's hundreds of experiments, there's randomized control trials, there's bucketloads of research behind this. This is not just a a crazy idea somebody randomly came up with. So, one of the subpieces of um of SDT, self-determination theory, a key subpiece is around motivation. Now, why is motivation important? Interestingly, when I've read about motivation in books like uh Dan Pink's Drive, which is a great book and some of this ideas come from his uh the research in that book, [sighs] tends to talk about like how do you get people to do stuff for you? You know, how do you get people how do you get workers to be productive? But it turns out actually motivation is much much much more important than productivity. It turns out that the research shows people whose motivation is is authentic have more interest, excitement, and confidence. And yes, that does manifest as enhanced performance and persistence and creativity. But it also has enhanced vitality, self-esteem, and general well-being. So motivation is key to this kind of flourishing this udemonia. Um SDT uh has three particular axes and then I've added on one more which is very commonly seen to create these four um which is it comes from autonomy, mastery, relatedness and purpose. Uh relatedness is all about connecting with other human beings uh and feeling supported and part of a group. And purpose is all about what you're doing something for. Is there something worth doing? I'm not going to talk much about those two today. They're very important, but they're rather orthogonal to the points I want to make. So I'm going to focus on autonomy and mastery. Um, interestingly there's another few decades of research from a completely different part of the research community that have looked at the opposite question which is um rather than what helps achieve human flourishing is for those who are very much not the very much not which is those with um clinical depression. How do we pull them out of it? And interestingly the research shows something very similar which is perhaps the most effective action uh even versus um anti-depressants uh cod behavioral therapy um so forth is this thing called behavioral activation which is basically the same thing helping patients to engage with actions which bring a sense of accomplishment. So from both angles, you know, going from kind of yeah, I'm fine, I guess, to I'm thriving, uh, or going from Jesus, life's getting me down to getting by. The same actions, uh, from very different parts of the research community show to be very effective. [snorts] You've probably heard about um, flow and flow fits in here a lot. Uh this is particularly the work of uh Czechra Mahaly. Um and I wanted to be careful to define flow here because flow is so key to this this sense um that leads to flourishing. So flow should be a sense that one's skills are adequate to cope with the challenges at hand in a goal-directed rulebound system that provides clear clues as to how well one is performing. So, one of the greatest experiences in my life was getting really good at riding a motorcycle fast around the Philip Island circuit. And that is exactly that very goal- directed rulebound action system. Very clear clues as to how I was performing. Um, and and that sense I'll never forget, you know, of extraordinary flow. Interestingly however uh Tech Maheli also talks about junk flow or dark flow which is something that can look a lot like flow but is very bad which is you can get addicted to a superficial experience that may be flow at the beginning but after a while becomes something you become addicted to instead [snorts] of something that makes you grow. Um and there's a lot of research and studies around this. And in fact, uh the way um gambling establishments, the way casinos are set up is specifically designed to capture this kind of dark flow to give you what's called an illusion of control um and to to to create this kind of addiction. Um so, uh uh Rachel Thomas, I really encourage you to read this article if you have a chance. um talked about uh breaking the spell of vibe coding in which she noted how certain kinds of interactions coding interactions with an AI can absolutely harness this kind of dark flow. So you get this kind of positive flow when you have a high level of challenge and a high level of skill. Um so um it's it's it's interesting and a bit scary to note how it's quite possible to end up uh with this kind of uh pulling the slot machine lever version of flow if not careful. So interestingly a lot of people are now saying oh um that's happened to me or that's happened to my friends um um people who have previously been extremely positive about about agents and using uh uh AI in coding and so forth. Um I think uh Ammon was one of the particularly interesting ones. Uh he you might know him as the guy who created Flask uh been a very important software developer. Um, and of course also George Hotz who uh created the comma self-driving AI system and the original iPhone hacker and so forth. Um, I've got some quotes from from Ammon here though that I thought was interesting. He said uh when when you know for months he he was in this situation where the dopamine hit from working with these agents is so very real saying you feel productive, you feel like everything's amazing and you go deeper and deeper in this belief that it all makes perfect sense but it's decoupled from any external validation. Um um and so we're kind of starting to see this this these concerns. Um, I saw this like two days ago from um, a guy who's been working on this kind of new GPU functional programming system who was saying like how cool it was that he went from naugh to 95% in his me most recent project in five hours and then realized like oh 15 hours later I'm still not there. Um, and I keep finding problems and I actually don't know if there's still problems. And so actually at this point I don't even know where I stand. But getting the first 95% done in five hours sure felt good. But did I actually achieve anything by using AI other than that dopamine anticipation? So I think it's very encouraging that uh thoughtful people in our community are reflecting and sharing their reflections. Um, in fact, one of our own community members um put this on up on our Discord the other day and was asking for feedback from from our community. You saying talking about the product he works on, it's genuinely interesting. The problem requires deep domain expertise. Um, but it's hard for us to verify because we've got 200,000 lines of of kind of vibe coded um software at this point. and he he's actually realized the pace we've moved at has slowed down um as models get better and token speed spend increases because we generate more and more code with less and less careful engineering uh debugging failures he told us uh you know is super painful uh and interestingly again I guess this kind of dark flow idea most of his colleagues feel they're making great progress um but then when they have quarterly meetings with management they get a reality check when they have to So, what have you shipped? What's the accuracy? How many clients have you signed? And they suddenly realized the results actually weren't good. Um, so, you know, I'm I'm not going to go uh too deep into negativity. We've all seen it. It's in mainstream um newspaper articles nowadays, Wall Street Journal, you know. Um I think just today, you know, Uber is now saying they're putting a strict budget on token use because they're not seeing the ROI. And so rather than uh dive into some kind of like AI negativity, I instead actually want to point out something that is you can go in two totally different directions with AI. Uh and I'm looking at two of those key motivation platforms of autonomy and mastery. And it's certainly true that AI can decay those things. So I'm sure anybody who's kind of done uh lot of agentic work and vibe coding has been in that situation where we have what psychologists call an illusion of control. The agents asking you like hey do you want to go with a distributed system here or would you rather use green threads in with a polling loop or whatever whatever and you're like I don't know what any of that means A or B A. Um so this is um this is uh something that actually decays your economy. Uh on the other hand AI can be used to support your growth. It can be teaching you things. You can be trying things. It isn't necessarily creating more outputs more quickly. Um but it's definitely uh something that can happen. So ditto with mastery, right? Um, mastery is not in in uh SDT. It's not about uh creating more outputs, creating more products. It's about creating this uh genuine ability to craft something. Uh it's effortful um and involves uh learning from that effortful work. So with AI you can tackle more complex tasks and you can focus on learning those under demand and underlying foundational principles and master your craft or not right you could focus on uh outsourcing more and more to AI more and more quickly with less and less effortful practice getting less and less learning. So AI is neither good nor bad for you for your psyche. Um, but warning, the people getting you to use AI don't care about your autonomy and mastery. They care about your outputs. And so, they're going to put you in the decay world all the damn time. the people who are selling you the AI models, platforms, harnesses, and your bosses at work who need to be able to show their quarterly token maxing metrics. So, you need to look after yourself in this world. So, I want to show what it looks like to have amazing mastery over a computer and how that's changed over a period of time. So, this is Ivan Southerntherland. left and done this at 2x back in 1963. 1963. And he's shown how he's able to create a direct interface between himself and a computer where he's drawing with a light pen. He's uh you don't see it with one other hand. He's pressing buttons to set constraints as he's drawing. Um and he's using it directly against one of these I think this is one of these fancy vector monitors. And he's showing the the uh interviewer here how he can create an arc for example um using these constraints by drawing directly on the screen and he can adjust it. [snorts] This is an extraordinary level of deep connection between the human and the computer. Um you might have seen this the mother of all demos. Uh this was uh 1968 that this happened. Um very similar idea. So um in the mother of all demos, Douglas Angelbart show introduced for the first time the mouse, hypertext, real-time collaborative editing, video conferencing, word processing, screen windowing, and dynamic file linking. Uh this quote was in 1962 towards the start of this project and what the demo was in 1968 and his goal was the same augmenting the human intellect so that the entity to be produced will exhibit more of what could be called intelligence than an unaded human could. We've amplified the intelligence of a human by organizing his intellectual capabilities into higher levels of synergistic structuring. So you see it's very similar between what Southerntherland was doing, what Anglebar was doing and this this was this was their mission was to amplify and augment human intelligence. Um uh one of the most uh underappreciated most most extraordinary people in the history of computer science is Kenneth Iverson. I mean not that underappreciated. He got the cheering award. Um but uh he designed APL. Uh APL is a new notation or was a new notation for representing um computation and mathematical thinking. Um this is from his cheing award um uh presentation paper. Um and uh if you don't know APL, it won't look very familiar, but what he's showing here is he's uh proofing some um characteristics of um the inner product um in his new notation. And one of the really interesting things about this if you ever get into APL and I strongly recommend it is it turns out that this generalizes in a much deeper way than normal mathematical nomature in that the inner product in APL can actually is a is an operator that can combine any two functions. Uh it's not necessarily multiplication and addition. And so suddenly he's proved a whole class of features about a whole class of functions many of which never been looked at by a mathematician before just through notation. uh and this can go a really long way. Some of you might have seen this very famous single line of code in APL which is a complete implementation of Conway's gain of life. So here in this video um uh that uh life function is being applied over these two characters and off it goes. Um again it's the same thing right Iver was passionate about creating this connection between between the human and and supporting the human's thinking notation as a tool of thought um perhaps most mind-blowingly um Brett Victor who spent a couple of years as he described being a hermit living on a train and he came out the end of those two years of hermitood having built the most extraordinary and inspiring array of real world demos showing about how to understand climate, how to understand electricity, how to understand um how to how to build uh games, how to build graphics, how to understand waveforms. Um and he shared this all with the world. This is his coding environment whereas he changes it graphically. This is this amazing game playing demo where he actually created a time machine for his code. Um, if you haven't seen this, please watch everything Brett Victor's done because it's incredibly inspiring. And all of it, you'll see it's all of it's the same thing. It's creating this connection between the the human and the computer that they're working with so that they can craft. This is this is all effortful craft that he is supporting. Um Chris Latner uh this is his playground system. He's created a whole amazing hierarchy um from from LLVM Clang um Swift Playground ML Mojo you know at every level trying to improve this ability for humans to to connect to and work with their computers. Um my argument is that actually we're still on this chain. uh we we we can continue working in in along this history from the mother or demos in a really deep and powerful way. Uh uh AI is a marvelous way to connect more deeply with our computers um and achieve this fullest representation of humanity. So this has actually been kind of my mission for the last 30 years and very dramatically for the last 10 and at answer AI it's all of my focus this idea that we should be seeking to augment human creativity not to replace it. It's interesting to see hopefully this resonates with you, but also hopefully you see this is almost never what you actually see is being marketed when somebody's trying to sell you a piece of AI. It's like it's it's going to summarize this for you. It's going to write this for you. It's going to do this for you. It's all about being done for you. So, um, I want to quickly demo something we've built, um, to give you a sense of what it looks like to have a tool that that is specifically designed for this augmenting human creativity uh, and understanding indeed. And so, I'm going to do it. I'm going to just show you a couple examples of actual dialogues I've gone through with the help of AI in the last three days. Um so one was I wanted to learn about recursive language models. So probably a lot of you have um know about recursive language models. They've been kind of taking over the world. So I u we've got this system called solit um and um so I should show you uh solve its solve.it.com com. Um, and I loaded the paper, recursive language models paper into solve it, and you could just read it in the normal way. Um, piece at a time. Um, but make sure you understand it. And so here, um, uh, I looked at figure one. I was like, well, I don't know what this is or this is or this is. And so, normally I might just skip over it. But here, I can just say, hey, what's this figure? And it's it tells me like okay these are the three evals that the RLM authors are doing here. Um and and interestingly it's like why it's going from a constant to a linear to a quadratic complexity which is not actually captured in the original paper. So that's really helpful information. Um now I don't work very well at an abstract level. I need things to be concrete. So I could ask for an example of each task and this is much easier than going into the papers and trying to dig them out and so forth. And so here I'm getting little examples. It's like, okay, I get it. Right? So I always tell people, don't move on when you're learning a new thing or working on something until you you get it. So I was like, okay, I get it. Um, so then there's another figure um where they describe it. And I didn't fully understand this figure to be honest at first. Um, and so I just it it tells me what the the key pieces are, which is very handy. Um, so I I when I'm reading this, I'm thinking like, okay, I want to push beyond this. I want to understand it, but try and go a bit past it. So, I'm thinking like, okay, I wonder if we can replicate uh all of the features of an RLM right now. So I kind of had a hypothesis about how to do that and I kind of check with the AI like I think we can try this ourselves and it clarified some key points about um where sub aents fit and uh as it turns out solvit has a sub aent. So I said yeah you've got a sub aent why don't you try it? So in this case, it spawns an agent um and tells it to use Python to solve the complex square root. And we can also write code here, right? So I can then try it myself and I can compare. I'm like, oh, cool. Okay, so I've kind of confirmed I'm in an environment where I can actually do the same things that the RLM paper did. Um, so another thing I mentioned as I read papers is often it's very easy to skip over citations, right? But here it says, well, here's re recent work. I like, well, okay, I don't know any of these, so I shouldn't keep moving. So I said like, stop. Can you please go and read all those papers for me and tell me basically what they are and why they're here? I can decide whether to click on those links, read them orselves. Um, and I want to kind of test my understanding at this point. So anyway, to skip ahead a little bit, um, I'm thinking like, okay, let's, uh, let's try it. So they've got their table of results here for four different tasks. Uh, so I'm kind of thinking like, I'm not sure that this thing called anm even exists. It just feels like a normal tool loop that happens to have particular tools in it. Nice and seem to have the same tools right now. So I think we can be an RLM, can't we? Um, so I said, let's try it. Let's try this code QA thing. I've never heard of this before. So it tells me where to find the data. Um, and so I start. So it writes some code for me. Um, which actually didn't work. Um but then we can it can help me debug it. Um and then I can test it and I then I could experiment and look at this data carefully. Make sure I understand what this eval is and how it works. And then I just tell it like okay solve it go you know go ahead and just solve this right now. And so this is one of the things in one of the evals and it goes ahead and tries to do it and it says I think the answer is B. And I check oh it is B. No, no. Tell me how you did that. And then Okay, let's try another Eval. Um, and answer a C. Yep. Answer a C. And so this is very interesting. So I did this for a few different um tasks including the hardest um quadratic tasks. Um, so I downloaded another of these data sets, went through them and um, yeah, discovered that solve it correctly solved every one of the tasks. Um, and so I've now not only do I understand RLM, I've reimplemented it. Um, this is all in the space of a couple of hours. Uh, and in fact discovered that this is a much more powerful platform than even RLM is. Um, another example was I was looking at uh Julia Evans who's a fantastic uh writer, always really interesting and she uh I'm very I'm not a fan of Tailwind and I was keen to see how she had done this year this article called moving away from Tailwind. Um, which had a particular structure uh this is the structure she had and I decided okay I want to go through her blog post. So I loaded the blog post as you can see into solve it and I started reading it and again so the red is me asking questions as I go through the article. Um and so she said she used something called Tailwind pre-flight as her starting point for her styles and I was like well there other options. Um, so I went and grabbed it. And actually, one of the cool things about solve it is it's because it's in a browser, I've got actual styles, HTML here. So I'm actually modifying my environment as I go. Um, and so I can see uh see this happening and then I can try it out. So I'm trying out layers. I'd never really I'd never done anything with layers before. So make sure I understand how they work. But again, I'm actually using them. So before I actually used RLM, you know, or rebuilt RLM inside a dialogue. Here I am rebuilding Julia's styles inside a dialogue. She had a section about components and again same thing. I started creating the components myself as you can see with the help of AI to make sure I understand. So here I've got a badge component for example. Uh and yeah, this is all real, right? I'm creating actual code. I'm seeing it actually um running um button components. Um then very interested in colors. I kind of had some ideas about how to create a new color framework. So I kind of bit of a discussion as you see with the AI but again the AI um didn't write it for me. Right? I kind of came up with this idea of what I think I wanted to do and then I um tried it and you can see I've created my own new color palette that I'm very happy with and I thought oh cool I'll try and map those to kind of semantics now um so I like okay which should danger be so like it helps me show me what it looks like different colors on different backgrounds um inverted ones um it helps me create these uh full swatches so I can see how my color palette looks. Um did a similar thing with font sizes. I had an idea of how I wanted to create nice topography. Um so again kind of write the code, talk through it and have a look to see and I'm like, "Oh yeah, they all look pretty good."
>> Thank you. So
>> by craft field, right? I I normally talk about software engineering being a bit of a canary in the AI coal mine because we applied it there very early and it's very applicable to software engineering. But, you know, it's all still changing and we don't really know where it's all going yet. We certainly have more questions than we have answers, which is why we're all here to share and learn from one another. But I'd love a show of hands actually. Who in the room thinks that it's just another evolution, another step change in the long history of computing? A few hands. Okay. And who thinks it's more of a revolution, something that's genuinely new? Okay. I I think I see more revolution hands, but you know, it's actually pretty mixed. Well, I think we're all still trying to work that out. Nobody really knows where this is all going. And it's those very questions that took me back to university at the beginning of 2024 because I really wanted to understand this more deeply. So I I did a masters of engineering took me two years part-time and um I designed a longitudinal study with two questionnaires spaced six months apart that I ran at the end of 2024 beginning of 2025 to look at the lived experience of professional software engineers who are using AI either at work or at home. I got participants from 28 countries and today I'm going to share four of the findings from that research for you to contemplate take away with you. So one of the things I was really interested in understanding was whether AI coding assistants shift our perceived focus across these common development tasks that we all do. And most engineers felt that they spend less time on all but one. reviewing code was the only one that was slightly in those two time points because over that six-month period we saw a statistically significant shift from the more creation focused tasks to the more verification focused ones. And what that tells us is that the very nature of the work we do or the craft of software engineering is changed those common tasks. Does that mean that we've got a whole bunch of free time on our hands now and we're all going home at midday and we're going to the beach and relaxing? I don't think that's what we're feeling at all. I know that it's not what I'm feeling. I'm busier than I ever have been. And it was different enough to the other standard sort of software development tasks I just mentioned. So I've given it a new name, supervisory engineering work. It's made up of directing AI evalument. I think it sits right in the middle in a new loop. I've called the middle loop. But note that the dimensions of craft, they don't disappear. We're now just applying them to a new type of work. Productivity and developer experience travel together. They're correlated. And leaders have been told, if you want to improve the productivity of your team, focus on improve improving the developer. So I asked engineers in my study, did they feel more productive with AI? And of course, most said yes. 84% did at both time points. Very stable. But those same engineers were starting to report a decline in their developer experience. And by that I mean one of three dimensions, cognitive load, flow state or feedback loops. Said that at least one of those three had declined or gotten worse. And by the second time point, 6 months later, that number had almost doubled to 27%. And it was flow state that was the most negatively affected followed by cognitive load that was increasing. Feedback loops was improving though. Fact that we're getting more feedback more frequently is actually interrupting our flow. Correlation there. Side effects, right? But note what's happening. We feel more productive, but the very things that made the work feel like a craft is starting to erode. So if you're feeling a version of this, know that you're not imagining it. The research is starting to show it and giving it names like AI burnout. If you haven't read it yet, Steve Yi has a really great blog post called the AI vampire on which he talks about this as well. And for the leaders in the room, please make sure that you're taking note of this as well. It's not sufficient to try and measure productivity alone because you'll So anyway, this is all sounding pretty grim. So I hope that the next and last finding that I'll share with you will give you as much hope as it gave me. So of all the research questions that I had to answer, um I figured that demographics would play a big part that they would matter. So things like your seniority, the size of the company you're working for, that sort of thing. Well, this turns out the strongest predictor of productivity and those three dimensions of developer experience was something called self-efficacy. So self-efficacy is your own belief in your own ability to accomplish something. So engineers who felt more confident software were over 10 times more likely to report higher productivity gains. That's a really big effect. And I'll tell you why it matters. [cough] Because self-efficacy is a belief. And you can change your belief much more easily than you can change your demographics or your work situation. Right? Stuck where you are. You don't have to wait for the perfect title or the perfect tool to come along. You can actually get going right now. And self-efficacy is built up through mastery experiences which you can gain through experimentation. The more you experiment, the more you learn. The more you learn, the more confidence you gain. The more confidence you gain, the the virtuous cycle builds from there. Right? So, you're far more in control of how you react to this moment than you might have thought. All right. So, the very nature of our work is changing. The craft is relocating. What does the future even look like for us? I'm not an oracle. I don't have a crystal ball. By a paper that I read recently was written by the same some of the same researchers that created the space framework if you're familiar with that. And they described these three possible futures. Now, I've given them slightly different names, but I was inspired by their work here. So on the one hand you've got the artisal developer that's you know think hand possibly restricted to the more safety domains or heavily regulated environments. Now I think this type of um there will be a demand for this type of work but it might be quite rare. On [snorts] the other hand you've got the clerical coder. Now this is the one to watch out for because I think it's the one that's probably got the least amount of joy built in. it's doing a lot of work overnight. You come in in the morning and you just accept those those PRs uncritically. Where's the creativity in that? Right? So, that's the one to avoid. And in the middle, we've got the orchestrator or the code conductor. We're going to give these things funny names, but that's probably the land. Think building software with agents at scale. Now, depending on where you find your joy, you might find yourself leaning towards one of at least two different directions. If you're more interested in really understanding the problem, the domain, then you might lean towards being more domain focused, capturing the what and the why in in tense in well-written specs, and you're feeding that to the agents. On the other hand, if you're more interested in building the machine that builds the machine, then you might be more, you know, leaning towards that harness, making the harness by the future of work looks like. And then create the pathways by opening up the opportunities, blurring the lines, and encouraging them to move towards it. And remember that pride and joy, they don't just happen by accident. their outcomes that you can design into your system. So that my friends is the leadership work for you. All right, to wrap this up, nobody has this all figured out yet, right? Literally nobody. Not the top practitioners, not the tech leaders, and not the academics. Trust me, I know. I have been in rooms with all of these people just this year, and they all have more questions than they have answers. We've all been rebooted. We're all just explorers now. And we're writing the path as we walk along it together. The future is yours to imagine. So take the opportunity to design the craft that brings you the most pride and joy in your work. Because as engineers, we've always designed for the future. And now we get to design our own. And that's all.
>> [applause]
>> Thank you so much Annie. Uh lots of thoughts, lots of anxiety uh that I hear from many folks in the industry and very understandable. So uh very very helpful way of framing the challenges we have whether we're leading folks or whether we're kind of being directed around So, next up we have Mike Neil. I've known Mike for far too long. Not not because he's an awesome person, but it demonstrates where we're getting on in years. Uh, and he has been involved in the Australian technology industry in many ways over a very extended uh period over 20 or more years now that I've known him. So he was an open source architect at Red Hat, the cloud, the found co-founder of cloud bees, and he's now the principal engineer at block where he works extensively on open source and their goose uh project goose product. But he's here to talk about something different. So obviously we have a massive constraint in computation. Uh meanwhile there's lots of computation in the world. It's not sitting in data centers. It's sitting in this room. I don't I don't know what the rough estimate will be, but would would we have the equivalent of of of what sitting on our phones and our laptops and so on in this room and and it's just going to waste almost all the time? Like we build these devices. So, we're very concerned about for example the climate impact of data centers and computation. I think it's a very legitimate concern. But it's not just the electricity to do the computation. We are making phones. We are making laptops. We're making desktops. And that embodies probably the significant majority of of of the total energy consumption of that device over its lifetime. And then we have them sitting there completely idle almost all the time. So Mike is trying to do protocol, devices, implications about who owns computation, where sovereignty sits. Are we going to be forever dependent on a small number of hyperscalers who have the the capital and the wherewithal to build the compute that we all then just rent from them or is there another way? Well, Mike has some thoughts and more importantly actions around that. It's amazing work and it's a privilege to have him come and speak about it. Please welcome Mike Neil.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Uh you can hear me? Okay, great. Yeah. So, uh, yeah, compute is all around us. It's in this very room, I guess. Uh, quite a lot, actually. A lot of it's idle. Um, not all of it's idle. I can see a lot of people. exciting right now. It's getting expensive as people are starting to find. It's very very resourceheavy. It's not always the most efficient thing uh with the hardware that's used. And of course, you know, there's lots of Antium stuff together versus the deployed uh fleet of AI specialist stuff from 2025. The bar chart kind of looks like that. There's a lot of consumer stuff out there. And it's not like you're not comparing apples with with Apples, but it just gives you a taste of what's going on that just the sheer power of compute that comes out of Apple devices and and other things um out there uh that's just being bought every year, renewed, or just sitting there idle. It's been there for years. So, why do we want to do that? Uh well, John and K talked about this a bit. Um sovereignty has been talked about this this week a bit. sovereignty is uh just kind of giving you optionality of where things run. So you don't have to rely on a uh optic fiber um that that goes out uh that's the one that goes out from Bondi uh Bondai Beach and heads across to California. Your data doesn't have to go there if you've got uh you know national sovereignty and and for some reason this diagram it's going by New Zealand which is chilling. Um there's uh would you do things differently if you had zero marginal cost like if you had uh you know this is one of the things about local models or uh or you know personal stuff is you're not you collaborating from all over different companies. So um there's no incentives for the public one. This is not a scam. This is not an attempt or anything. It's really just a proof point. So uh yeah that's where we are. So uh thanks again uh everyone for having me. Uh this is the technology we use and this is some links you can follow up. So thanks [applause] thank you so much Mike. [clears throat] You can probably hear my voice is going. Don't worry if you're sick of my voice. Imagine how I feel. All right. Now, to round out this uh round of talks this morning, we have a genuine uh treat for you. So, I was up at the sister conference AI engineer Singapore uh just a couple of weeks ago. Some really amazing speakers up there and one of them I heard speaking on the first day of the leadership track was Jishuan Lee. Now, Jishuan is the head of ZAI. That's how it's pronounced. It's not Zai, it's not Z. And Z is, and I'm not going to pronounce it. Uh, go and find Shiau or Zishuan. Uh, it's the Chinese word for intelligence. It stands for that. Um, Zai is one of a number of Chinese uh companies uh model labs who are very