Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Thursday, December 11th. I am in a little bit of a different setting. Um, I know it looks like I'm in some random room in someone's basement, and that's because I am back in the mom's basement. Dude, I'm trying to get back to being that kid with that uh underdog mentality. I just needed to get back there. No, the apartment once again is doing some I pay way too much in rent for this to be happening for the third time, but it's like some some they're they're moving on to a new generator for the entire building and they said this is the last time they have to do it, but it's uh it's requiring eight hours of no power for like pretty much every single floor. And I was just I got I saw the email last night and I was like, goodness gracious, bro. All right. Well, show's got to go on. Show has got to go on. So, we came back, but we will be live from here uh for the morning and for the afternoon. I hope this is the last time. This has happened two times. And I'm just like I think my conspiracy theory is that these freaking data centers in New Jersey, you know, Nebus bought some land in New Jersey that is taking up all the energy. And I'm like, I get it because I want my stocks to go up in the data center space, but goodness, it's annoying. So hopefully this is the last time. But yeah, we are live. We got a lot to talk about. Oracle earnings big deal yesterday. Uh we will talk about what happened with Oracle and where it went from there along with Adobe earnings. Two big companies in the AI space. Oracle obviously being the biggest one in terms of market perception. You also had JPAL that had the FOMC meeting. We will discuss what happened with JPAL. I think a lot of you guys were live with me yesterday when we uh went through what he had to say and the implications of it on the market. Now, overall, it was doubbish and we'll talk about why I thought it was doubbish. Unfortunately, and I don't know why exactly, the markets are red right here and why they started puking last night. Oracle, as you can see right here, down 13% uh 193 and and Oracle, I can understand why it's red, and we'll we'll discuss why. I don't know why Oracle has to take the rest of the market down with it, which it seems like started happening late last night. It was not the 10-year bond. It was not Japanese bonds. It was not some random macro event. It was not yen carry trade. I really think at around 8, 900 pm Eastern last night, Oracle started just getting hit a little harder and then you saw everything. Coreweave down 4%. Nvidia down 2%. Nebus down 3%. All the data center plays along with uh Oracle are getting hit. Broadcom which has earnings today that's down 1.3%. S&P down.3%. Palunteer down 1.4 for not downside reversing a lot of the Rocket Lab was pushing 59 was very exciting for a lot of the market. It seems like Oracle decided to take all that down which I don't think is warranted but nonetheless when the market opens today we're going to see how how they actually interpret what happened with Oracle. So we got a lot to talk about. We'll discuss Oracle, we'll discuss Adobe. preview broadcast and we'll get into what happened with PAL and why it quite frankly I think really surprised the market honestly Tom Lee was right. Everyone was expecting a hawkish cut and so it was kind of baked in to be bearish. We ended up getting a dovish cut and that dovish cut completely changed the trajectory of how the market was thinking about it which I thought was also very exciting and then unfortunately Oracle came back and ended up messing up everything. So that's what we got. We'll talk about it. We'll get into it. We also have some bunch of headlines this morning on what's going on with some of the AI trade which again you have one thing that seems to not be effective or or starts to like move the narrative against the positivity of the AI trade which which is this oracle earnings and then everything starts to compound and you start to get people thinking well this well that and unfortunately it creates a bad narrative. I don't know if that's enough to destroy or make you know make the Santa Claus rally not be a thing. I guess we'll find out, but I I I wouldn't be excited to be owning Oracle stock right now, just from a perceptive perspective. Now, again, Oracle, I mean, I don't know. Is this this thing bottomed at 185 a couple weeks ago? Is this really going back to 170, 160? The Liberation Day lows were 120. So, it's already down from 350. maybe never deserved to be up at 350, but still I don't know if it really has to get hit that much further because the earnings were decent except there were certain elements of their debt that were not the best that we'll talk about. But in about 45 minutes, we'll see how the market opens and see how they interpreted what happens with Oracle. Cor right there down about 5%. I ran down 2%. Neb is down 3%. All the data center names basically getting hit with Mr. Oracle as that one is down 13%. All right, let's get into it. Thank you everybody for being here. Let's start up with JPAL because I think this was the most important thing and I think this kind of frames everything that played out. So this was the clip that when JPAL said this yesterday. There's two clips. I'm going to play this one right here. Um my jaw dropped to the floor. I think a lot of you guys saw me live. Uh because I was like, "Wait a second." He just said something relatively bullish, something that we didn't expect him to say. And it kind of framed how the market was thinking about the Fed's perspective on inflation. Nine people voted for a cut. One person voted for 50 bips, nine people voted for 25 bips, and two people voted for no cuts at all. To ask you, um the inflation expectations uh has has come down in your SCP report. Um do you see the tariff price increases as passing through in the next three months? Is it a six-month process that we're looking for that to end? And then because of that, is jobs the threat to the economy? So with with tariff inflation, you know, it takes there's the announcement of a tariff and then there's, you know, they start to take effect and then it takes some months. Goods may have to be shipped from other parts of the, you know, it may take, you know, quite a while for an individual tariff to take its full effect. But once it's had that effect, then the question is, isn't that just a one-time price increase? So we've actually we actually look at all of the announcements and and and and what you get from all that you see sort of a for each one of them there's a time period and then then it's fully in. So if there are no new tariff announcements and we don't know that but let's assume there are no major new tariff announcements inflation from goods uh should peak in the first quarter or so right roughly you know we haven't been able he's saying inflation shouldn't be an issue next year everyone thought the consensus view that he would say the opposite even I was like all right J Pal's going to be like hey we give you your cut but inflation is rising so don't expect one in January don't expect one in April now the chances for an April cut are actually 40%. Which means you had pal go rather dovish on the idea that yes the labor market is declining but also inflation is not necessarily picking up as aggressively as people thought to predict this with any precision. No one is but call it the first quarter or or so of next year should be the peak and from here it should be it shouldn't be big. It should be a couple ten or or even less than that. We don't really have precision on this but and after that again if there are no new tariffs that that are being announced that will take 9 months to get fully in 9 months is also an estimate um then you should start to see that coming down in the back half of next year
>> and and I want
>> so he he goes on to say that inflation is coming in lower tariffs may not be running the economy hot. He also then went on to say that if inflation or if tariffs weren't an issue we would already have inflation down at 2%. um which is basically him implying, hey, like tariffs are the only reason we're in this situation. And then as you can see in the clip, he said tariffs should peak in Q1. He doesn't know that for sure. Maybe we have more tariffs, maybe we don't. Maybe we have significantly less tariffs because of the Supreme Court decision. But at its core, he's making the argument that inflation should not be the largest issue. And so the bond market, which you know, yields were spiking in the morning last yesterday at at 4.2, yields are down, at least on the tenure and on the Japanese tenure. 4.125. I mean, it's the lowest it's been in the past uh week. And the tenure yield also coming down for Japanese bonds. So, it's not like the credit market is screaming that they don't believe the easiest way for the credit mark to say we don't believe PAL and we think inflation is going to be an issue and we think they shouldn't be cutting rates because if they're cutting rates, then the yield they're getting on the uh bond would also hypothetically go down. which means, you know, like the credit market would be selling off those bonds to give a signal to the Fed that we want a higher rate or we want you to control inflation for you to get our money in the bond market. But the fact that they're buying bonds says the opposite, says they're going along with the plan. So like anything you could possibly imagine for uh the the sort of setup for a really nice Santa Claus rally, which was very contingent on JPAL being doubbish. And I think all of us expected him to be hawkish. So, we were all like, "All right, at least we'll get the cut and we'll figure out what happens later, but like we just need to get the cut." We got the cut, but then we got a supportive Fed president into the cut, which I just think wasn't priced in, quite frankly. And we saw that the S&P 500 got within 30 cents of an alltime high or like 40 50 cents of an all-time high. So, I mean, when you think of it from that perspective, it's very exciting to see what happened yesterday. But then came Oracle. I guess that which I don't think should be enough to like completely reverse all that momentum because it's freaking Oracle. Like Oracle, like look, Oracle's important, but they're not Nvidia. They're not Broadcom important, you know? They're not Google or Amazon important. They're Oracle. It's like, okay, fine. Like cloud computing, database, like yeah, that's cool. But I guess that was more important than what the street thought. And then unfortunately that got hit. And yes, and then and last point on the Fed and then we'll get into Oracle. As Chris says right here, they are buying short-term bonds to boost um to boost liquidity. So, this is not necessarily massive quantitative easing. You had a little bit of debate yesterday on X on if this this is officially quantitative easing or not. And it's closer to QE than QT, right? So, is it the type of QE that we saw in 2020 when the Fed was just buying, you know, hundreds of billions of bonds on the balance sheet? No. But they're buying 40 billion. That's the number going into the end of the year. They're going to be starting to buy bonds in two uh two days. So, one day, December 12th, and that 40 billion is going to be in short-term T bills, that essentially will start the end of quantitative tightening. So, look, the the fact that they're not selling bonds off their balance sheet is close to QE, even if it's not explicitly QE in terms of the level of quantitative easing that we had years ago, because, you know, I don't know if we're going to get back to that anytime soon. That was during a pandemic. rates were at near zero, but it's also not bearish. So, you have the Fed buying treasuries. You have JPAL incredibly bullish on the frame of reference for inflation. I mean, you had nine pe remember in November that one day. I mean, the last week of the last the second to last week of November sucked. But during that second to last week after Nvidia earnings, Nvidia went up 500 billion, then it went down 500 billion literally within an hour. And they it took the entire market down with it. And it wasn't only because of Nvidia earnings. was cuz two Fed presidents came out and said, "We don't think we should have a cut." And like Fed speak was enough to create that much pain in the market. You just had the biggest Fed speaker in the Fed yesterday give us very very strong Fed speak around the idea of inflation not being a concern. And you had eight other people agree with him. So it is a bit confusing for why markets are not making larger move right here. Now obviously could there be a sell the news? of course, right? There there could definitely be sort of a component of, hey, let's sell the news because maybe this stuff was priced in, even though I do think we got a bit of a surprise yesterday. But I think what actually happened yesterday after all the momentum, I I don't think it's a carryen trade. I don't think it's Japanese bonds. I I really do think it ended up being Oracle. So, let's get into Oracle and see what happened right here. Oracle down 13%. And because I think it's Oracle, I think it can also easily reverse, aka the market can wake up and be like, it's freaking Oracle. Who cares? Like, this is not that serious. But the problem is the implications that Oracle is setting for the broader data center trade is what the market is upset about and that's why I think it's really important to to discuss them. Robert says this is tiring. I agree. Especially Bitcoin yesterday. I mean that was annoying. Bitcoin got to 94 and then this was at what time? This was at 10:35 p.m. Bitcoin dropped back below 90 at uh 89 89672. And this is what I tweeted. I'm tired of this grandpa. This is just it's getting annoying, bro. You think we're making a run. You think we're having a r This is the nature of the markets. You can't fight it. You got to embrace it. But I can I I can uh sympathize with people who are just tired of this. I mean, we probably a lot of people had portfolios either get to alltime highs or close to all-time highs yesterday and then boom, last night completely whipsaw to the downside and unfortunately that's some of the pain that we're seeing right now. All right, Oracle. So, what happened? So, first of all, I listened to the Oracle call. I'll be live with Sam today, by the way, listening to Broadcom. So, for those that are on um for those that want to listen to Broadcom, then uh I'll be live today for the market close. Sam will join me and we'll try to see what Broadcom says and what they do. Broadcom basically up like 80% year to date. So they are they are priced to perfection. They've got to deliver a very good quarter. Yes. 78%. So we'll see what they end up saying later today. Um in terms of Oracle, I was listening to the call. The call was horrendous. Let me just say that right now. The call was absolutely horrendous. If anyone was there listening to me, I don't understand how you have a $650 billion company and the mic doesn't work. There were five moments where the audio just completely cut out. Like I I thought for a second it was my Wi-Fi. It wasn't my internet. It was just like Oracle's call not working. Someone was texting. If you have an iPhone, you know exactly what it sounds like when you receive a text or send a text. Three times you could hear someone getting a text or sending a text during an earnings call for a $650 billion company that tens of thousands of people are listening to. So, I mean, you had that going on. And I can't even finish what I'm talking about because there's a headline right here. this entire week has been uh messing up any segment I try to get into because there's a headline, what the hell is this? Disney to get warrants to buy additional OpenAI equity. What? They're trying to talk about Oracle and then Disney makes the news. What What is going Hold on. Is Disney up right here? Disney's pumping I guess 1%. What? What? Disney gets warrants to buy OpenAI equity. Well, Cactus, this is additional. Do they already have OpenAI equity because of an agreement for OpenAI to leverage their content, their IP? Dude, what Disney now? Oh, I mean, it kind of makes sense. It's not like it's crazy to imagine Disney getting some of this. Okay, here it is. Shout out to Evan. We got the We got the deal right here. Let me pull this up. Um, the Walt Disney Company and Open Eye reached landmark agreement to bring beloved customers or characters from across Disney's brands to Sora. Wow. We're going to be able to make AIS of Mickey Mouse. Oh, that's not going to be good for anybody. That's not going to be I The prompting of Mickey Mouse inside of people's random AI prompts is not going to be good for anybody. Disney's investing a billion in Open AI and receive warrants to purchase additional equity. As a part of this three-year licensing agreement, Sor will be able to generate short user prompted social videos that can be viewed and shared by fans drawing on more than 200 Disney, Marvel, Pixar, and Star Wars characters. Agreement will make a selection of these fan-ins inspired short form videos available to stream on D. Wow, hold on. That is a big deal. That is the beginning of AI generated content on these streaming services. There will be a day 10 years from now where you will just be able to prompt to Netflix that you want a season 7 of Dawson's Creek. Lord knows I've been waiting for that day. That day looks like it's coming sooner than later. Disney and opening I affirm a shared commitment to responsible use of AI responsible respons the amount of short form videos we're about to get that are not necessarily going to be responsible. Remember OpenAI had to had to shut down the use of Martin Luther King Jr. because people were prompting uh his like estate to to you know his his his character to to say like really crazy stuff and they had to literally ban people from using MLK in their prompts because the estate was like dude this is like horrible. I don't know if people are going to have the friendliest responsible safe prompts for for Mickey Mouse. Alongside the licensing agreement Disney will become a major customer for OpenAI using its API to build new products tools and experiences including for Disney Plus and deploying ChachiBT. As part of the agreement, Disney will make a $1 billion equity investment in OpenAI. I know it sounds like I'm kind of bearish on this. I not even from a stock. I mean, I I I really don't care that much about Disney stock. I don't think there's much to save on Disney stock. I don't know why anyone is like meaningfully excited about this for the next five years. I just think from an AI perspective, this is not going to go well because you've got a lot of people that are going to have a lot of random prompts on some beloved characters that we all know that are going to end up saying and doing some wild stuff. Like, it's inevitable. I mean, this is like the human imagination is going to go crazy on this stuff. And I wonder what Disney's going to do to decide if some of that should be available on Disney Plus, as they said. Now, this is for Sora, which look, Sora is just AI slop at the end of the day, right? I I think it's probably the worst use of our data centers. Like, I mean, if Tik Tok is garbage, then Sora is just like garbage 2.0, but it's AI garbage. So, I I I wonder how effective this is going to be. I wonder if this is where, you know, OpenAI sees a monetization path. But now that these characters that have been beloved for the past hundred years in Disney are going to turn into I mean, Iron Man, right? All these Star Wars, all these characters from from these franchises are going to turn into AI. I wonder how that's going to play out. Yeah. See, some of the stuff you guys are typing in in the chat right now, this is what I'm saying, bro. These prompts are not going to be responsible, safe prompts. So, all right. Disney open eye news. I guess we'll get some more updates on that. But Disney investing a billion dollars into open. I mean, good for open eye. They get a billion dollars. I mean, this is super bullish open. get a billion dollars and they get to use the best IP on the planet in Disney Plus to AI generate content. I think it's bearish Disney cuz I'm like the fact that you have to give this up to AI slop and you're losing a billion dollars here. I mean, I guess you're getting the distribution of Mickey Mouse to the new generation. My thesis on Disney for a while has been I don't think the new generation, my kids kids are going to care about Mickey Mouse and I don't think Disney is really putting in the work to make them care. I guess this is their first step of trying to make people care about these uh these characters. Okay, so that's what we got with Disney. Uh back to Oracle again. The call sucked. It was very weird. The biggest issue I had with the call that I think a lot of people agreed with is that there was no excitement. This is a company that increased RPO by 68 billion, 15% quarter quarter. They now have 523 billion. Last year was 423 billion in remaining performance obligations. 300 billion of that is OpenAI, which when they were asked on the call, hey, like you know, what do you guys think about one of your customers not being able to pay you? They didn't, you know, the person asking the question didn't mention OpenAI, but they basically implied it was OpenAI. And I think the co-CEOs didn't really have a response. So, there was no real response to the remaining performance obligations being substantial, but not necessarily being strong enough to warrant uh a massive multiple. And the number two is just like the stuff they were talking about in AI had to do with retrieval, augmented generation, rag pipelines, securing your data on their servers. They're talking about how they were multiloud within their database and now they're trying to incorporate customer data within those clouds, which is fair. It's a growth opportunity. It makes sense. It's trying to do a lot of the stuff that the software companies are doing are doing in in the context of like uh operationalizing data with the LMS. They mentioned how they can use the LMS to make sense of your data. The problem is it was very boring. It's nothing ex you know it's not like some magical new workflow inside of the agentic enterprise that I think will get people excited and and so there was just no excitement on a you know you would think if you have half a trillion dollars of RPO you would have a lot more excitement for how you're talking about it and just in general if you listen to the call there was zero excitement there was zero energy for how they were speaking about this stuff and the number two is that they didn't really shake off the the the uh the fears of debt and I think that's why the street is really getting upset right here so They increased capex by 15 billion which is super bullish right because they're going to be spending more on capex. The problem is when they had to explain you know how they're they're navigating that capex. This is the only thing that they had to say. So the CEO said we've been reading a lot of analyst reports and we read quite a few that show an expectation of upwards of 100 billion for Oracle to go out and kind of complete these buildouts. Based on what we see right now we expect we'll need to see less if not substantially less. So they said, "Hey, like we're not going to have to spend a hundred billion dollars." But then you had some analysts come out. Uh in particular, you had city analysts Tyler Radkkey come out and said, "We think Oracle will have to spend 20 billion over the next three years each, which means 60 billion." Now, they already issued 40 billion. So if you put 60 and 40 together, that's 100. So maybe they're not going to have to issue a new hundred billion of debt, but they're assuming there will be a minimum of a hundred billion over the next three years in total, which is still a lot of money that Oracle is going to be putting out there. And they didn't really calm those fears of kind of what's going on. On top of that, the operating cash flow for Oracle, uh, last year was 20 billion. This year 22.2 billion. Okay, that's up by 2.2 billion. Reasonable growth. The problem is the capital expenditures went from 10 billion to 35 billion. So their capex is growing at a pretty exponential rate which in the market of AI you've been rewarded for that. The problem is the companies that have been rewarded for that Meta not as of recently but over the past couple years Google Amazon Microsoft have grown their operating cash flow faster than their capex because their businesses are more diversified than Oracle. Oracle's growing two billion a year, which is amazing, but their capex growing at 20 billion a year is not amazing. So there there's a 10x leverage between the amount of money they're spending, which they don't have that money because they only have two billion in cash flow. So they have to go to the debt markets, which is why their credit default spikes are spiking or credit default swaps are spiking again in the pre-markets in order to finance this entire buildup. So, I think the reason all the data center stocks are down and I think the reason Oracle is taking down a lot of the AI narrative right now is because the market does not believe that there's anything exciting or innovative in terms of what uh what Oracle is doing, which is fair because if you listen to the call, it was, you know, not something that would get you super excited. And then two, um they are spending a lot of money that they don't have for a buildout that should end up working long term. It's just right now the ROI on that is not as apparent and as a result, this stock is taking a hit. And so that's why we're seeing this take place right now. You know, I was thinking of playing Oracle before the earnings. I really was. And then this was the number one reason I didn't do it. Earnings are always a gamble. Like you just never know what's going to happen. But the number one reason to not have played it yesterday is because if they don't explicitly address two things. If they don't explicitly address the debt situation, which they didn't, I mean, they really didn't give investors any calm here. Or they don't have another customer that increases RPO by like some massive 300%, which they didn't again because, you know, the only time they did it was from OpenAI, which no one even knows if that's going to be real. Then this stock was probably headed down. I didn't expect 13%. Five, six% I was like, okay, that's fine. 13% I think is a bit aggressive. So I do think there should be a rebound here, but that is the fear that we're having on Oracle as well. Free cash flow also is negative, which is another thing to remember, and it's looked like it's going to be negative for a long time. And capex is now 75% of their revenue. Not most hyperscalers have capex being 75% of the revenues, but Oracle does, and that's why we are seeing some of the pain right here from Oracle. So that's what we got. We're going to see how this ends up playing out. Uh we got about 18 minutes until the market opens and we'll see how the market ultimately interprets this. But I mean the actual growth itself on the earnings they beat EPS by 40%. A lot of people wondering why isn't the stock up because of that. They bought a company so the two billion gain they got from the companies was factor. So it was more like a tax thing accounting thing versus like a they're growing super fast which fooled me as well because when it was up 40% on EPS I was like goodness like why is the street down 7% on this? Unfortunately you know it wasn't necessarily the most exciting exciting uh EPS growth. So, I think this is a good earnings and they gave a lot of frameworks for how they're going to be able to finance this buildout. It's just we don't know exactly when this is going to happen, how this is going to happen, and how much capex is going to be needed for this buildout to take place. I don't think this is bearish AI though, like like the point here is that Oracle's in a precarious situation. It does not have a contagion effect in my opinion across the entire industry. It might have some implications of contagion in certain areas obviously with OpenAI but uh it is not like hey the AI trade is done and that's how people were talking about it last night and I'm like no the call sucked they didn't give that much clarity this is probably going to be a three to four year story it's not going to back to 350 anytime soon but this is still Oracle I mean they're still generating billions of free cash flow there this is not a company that should be you know back to like $80 like four years ago unfortunately it's just uh a situation where the street now is going to be thinking a little bit more deeply about the financing of capex and that's why a lot of these data center names are getting hit. Yeah, Oracle's 5-year credit default swap spreads have surged their highest level since the 2008 financial crisis, rising about 128 basis points. Now, again, this to me is not bearish. This to me is if you're issuing 40 billion of debt. Of course, the bond market is going to hedge your debt with credit default swaps. So, this is not, you know, housing market. Hey, the housing market's going to crash. We have to buy these credit default swaps. This is more so like, look, Oracle is a great company, but they're issuing a lot of debt. So, in order to hedge that debt, if we're long, we need to have some type of hedge. And the credit default swap is the easiest way to do it. The problem is, um, we just don't know how the market's going to interpret the overall argument around their AI capex buildup. But that is what we're seeing right here with Oracle. I would not be surprised if this thing reverses early at the market open, but I'd also not be surprised if it tests that one that we hit a couple of weeks ago. So that is we got that is what we got on Oracle in terms of um Adobe. Yeah, they had a decent earnings. Again, my thought on Adobe all year has been the narrative on this stock has hit bad. It is cheap. It is undervalued. I agree with everyone who says like if you look at it on a DCF basis, this thing should probably be worth closer to 450. I get it. I've looked at those numbers. A lot of it makes sense. I've had a simple Peter Lynch type of narrative on this one. I don't use the product. I tried using it years ago. It's way too complicated for the average person in my opinion. Canvas is easier. Canva has more monthly active users. Adobe has like 70 million. Canvas has 220 million. And Canva is cheaper. Canvas like 13 bucks a month. Adobe's like 30 bucks a month. So that's been my simple reason to not be in it. On top of the fact that, you know, the growing 10% in the age of AI is just not exciting. I do think the stock eventually will get back up, but nothing they said on the call yesterday, nothing they said in the earnings was like, "Oh my goodness, I have to be long Adobe. Maybe I don't have to sell Adobe, which is why the stock is flat, but I don't have to be long." And that's why I think you got Adobe that's flat right here in the in the pre-markets. All right, so that is what we got. JPAL was bullish. Oracle and Adobe were not necessarily the most bullish. Uh and that's why you're seeing some of the red pre-markets that we are seeing right now. We got about 15 minutes until the market opens. The other big piece of news yesterday, and I don't know if people caught this, but Elon Musk, and I I actually have a very important question about this. I'm I'm very uh curious what people have to say. Elon Musk basically confirmed that SpaceX is going to IPO. So, someone wrote an article and the article was t titled, "Here's why I think SpaceX is going public soon." And then Elon Musk commented, "As usual, Eric is accurate." This was his first official comment on the idea of SpaceX going public. We've had a lot of reports over the past couple of days. $ 1.5 trillion IPO has been pitched. Wall Street Journal is talking about how the space data center, which has now become the biggest thing that everyone is talking about in the AI space, is part of the pitch to private investors on how uh Elon Musk is justifying a $ 1.5 trillion valuation. And uh that is why you're seeing a lot more people get excited about the space names. That's why Rock Lab was pushing $60 yesterday as well. TripleV, thank you for being here. Thank you for the $200 super chat. And thank you for being here as well. And and uh I guess I'll ask this question to everybody now, including Mr. TripleV, which I think I think you can let me know. I think he owns a little bit of SpaceX in the private markets. You know, a lot of people tend to own SpaceX in the private markets, but uh this is a question for everybody. Would you buy SpaceX at a $ 1.5 trillion valuation? And before you say yes, take all my money, I'll sell my kidney to buy, I was thinking about it last night after Elon confirmed this. If you own SpaceX in the private markets, I think you probably don't sell in in in into the IPO because it's, you know, it could go from 1.5 trillion to two trillion given how crazy retail piles in on this. But I was thinking about it last night. Why the hell are you buying a $ 1.5 trillion IPO? What is your upside? Like like like I I really after I saw this tweet, I was like, "Okay, cool. So Elon's probably taking this public. They're going to raise probably 60 to 70 billion." And then I'm thinking to myself as an investor, I'm going to be exit liquidity for people that have been trading the most liquid secondary stock in the entire private markets, which is why I was asking if Triple V has it because I know he has a lot of private investments, but SpaceX is one that gets pitched so many times. SpaceX, Anthropic, and OpenAI are three of the most liquid private stocks. SpaceX, you know, has been there for the past 10 years. And you got a lot of people that are probably going to want to sell and take some profits, right? But they're going to be taking profits and they're going to get the ability to take profits from people like you and I. Theoretically, they'll be like, "Oh, SpaceX, I finally get to be part of Elon's, you know, space mission." But if you're buying it at 1.5 trillion, I mean, let's just say you expect to double on SpaceX. I think that's reasonable, right? You're not being you're not being insanely greedy, but you're also, if you're buying it for a 10% return every year, you buy the S&P. I mean, is this thing going to three trillion anytime soon? Probably not. And then number two, I mean, from what I saw yesterday, and these aren't officially uh audited numbers, but but this is like what has been reported so far. SpaceX does 15 billion in revenue. I'm sorry, but I'm not paying 1.5 trillion. Like I I don't care if this thing pumps to 2.5 trillion. 1.5 trillion for 15 billion in revenue. Even if Elon is pitching this whole data center and space fantasy that that might end up becoming real, 15 billion. Most of that being from Starlink. Come on, bro. That's that's like like and that also to me the other reason I'm bringing this conversation up is because that feels toppy. That feels like peak bull market euphoria when you're putting out a public company at 1.5 trillion only doing about 15 billion in revenue. I don't know. It's hard for me. I'll make the poll and you know I might end up just like trading it on the earnings day because there's gonna be so much hyper momentum. realistically buying a company at 1.5 trillion, you know, it's not like Nvidia, Google or Amazon that have this massive massive level of growth that's baked in doing hundreds of billion dollars of net income. Forget revenue. Um I I just feel like it's a bit aggressive to pay that much. Would you buy the SpaceX IPO uh the day it comes out? It's not even about trusting Elon, dude, because I love Elon. I'm a I mean, I'm an Elon Stan. I I I respect Elon deeply. I supported Doge all through January, even though that [ __ ] didn't work out. But like, it's it's it's not it's not about trusting Elon or not. It's just like, dude, like at some point, we're talking about a massive massive valuation that we're paying. And for Elon, it's great because they'll probably have a ton of buyers that that want to pay. And that's why it seems like you're getting all these leaks about him pitching this new because look, in the private markets, he's probably trying to raise some money in the short term. And for him to raise money, he needs to get people to believe in SpaceX even at a I think it's $800 billion valuation. Well, they've got to believe in a new story. And Starlink is a great story, but it's an old story. Data centers in space is a new story. Is that enough to get people super excited in this? Yeah, some people already have a little bit of SpaceX due to to Robin's tokenization. But look, it does seem like it's going to happen and it is very exciting because if SpaceX goes public, you know, Anthropic and Open AAI are going to be looking like, wait a second, the public markets are there uh for accessibility. And if the public markets are there and you know people are ready to engage in paying these types of valuations then you're probably going to get a lot more people that want to want to invest in these companies. So we're going to see how this ends up playing out. But that was another big piece of news yesterday. And uh you know maybe Elon is saying yes SpaceX should go public but maybe it's not going to happen next year. So I think there's a lot of time we have before we figure this out. But if it does happen soon, then we will have a SpaceX that potentially is supposed to a trillion dollar valuation over the coming years. Uh Lutnik, he's live. Let's see what he has to say and then we will keep going from there.
>> President Trump rolling out his gold here. Um families have been here for years as as immigrants, mind you. But how do you get beyond that optics, Mr. Secretary? Well, look, the whole the whole idea is we're the only country we're the only great country that lets other people just come in without vetting them and deciding whether they're really going to help the economy of America. So, you know, in our current visa system, why shouldn't we expedite the people who are willing to step up, give a million dollars to the United States, go through the most rigorous vetting process that the United States has ever done, $15,000 of vetting to make sure they're the right people, and let's bring in the top of the of the best. And let's bring those people in. Let's help them grow America and build America. Why should we take people who are below average? It just doesn't make any sense. Let's think this through. Let's pick the best. Every other country does. It's time for America to do it correctly.
>> Where do you want to go from here? So many things to talk about. You want to talk about the the controversy about the H200, whether uh whether we didn't, you know, get much back. There's a big piece in the Wall Street Journal and the
>> the Trump gold card officially rolled out yesterday. So, I guess we'll see if it has any implications on the um on the immigration situation, but you can pay a million or five million for the platinum to get access to to the United States. I know they launched it like five different times, but yesterday they like officially put it out there.
>> Vidia and the president of the United States, they spoke together. They talked about it a lot. I mean, I would say more than a dozen times. And the idea from the president's perspective is that the technology, the American technology stack, he wants the developers in China to also be using the American technology stack. If you let all the developers in China, and this was Jensen's argument, if you let all the developers in China just use Chinese technology, they're going to get used to it. They're going to get better at it, and they're going to go faster. So, let's break break them apart. let them use the American technology stack and therefore you split their developers. That was Jensen Wang's argument. The president decided that he was willing to go with that for certain parts of this technology and and that's the business deal. So it's the great American technologist talking to the great businessman president and they they reached what they thought was the right answer for this particular moment. I mean, some people uh call it common sense. Some of the things that the president arrives at the 25% of of revenues that that flows to the government from this. Um you're an uber capitalist obvious obviously you've been how long have you been an an uber capitalist? Um is that what you is that what you would say in terms of justifying some of what other people call industrial policy?
>> No, the I think the 25% is a sideline. the the choice was do you sell them those chips or not where what development process are they in where are they and how does the H200 fit that was really the analysis and the 25% is really the president always ends up saying and how can we help America how can we do better for America but that the 25% was not a driver it was a sideline
>> right that's just an example of a bigger uh perception that that a lot of I guess you'd call them critics say I mean people that didn't like the chips act or didn't like any of the uh you know the Biden administration picking winners and losers uh in terms of companies. It almost looks like uh uh maybe the the president has done things that are maybe not exactly the same but maybe rhyme with with some of that with you know taking stakes in companies with the government. Does any of that raise an eyebrow for you or do you just say it's just common sense it's fine? Well, if you're going to give like we were giving the Biden administration gave 11 billion dollars like like a shareholder Christmas card to Intel. Why? So why shouldn't if you're going to give them the money, why shouldn't we at least get a stake? I mean, you know, TSMC is different, right? They gave them a $6 billion to build 60 billion worth of plants. Now, we thought that wasn't right. They went up to 160 billion. I think we're going to get them up to 200 plus billion in plants in America. 30,000 jobs, that's what we're supposed to do. So, you know, if the money in America really brings in jobs, fine. But otherwise, of course, we should take care of the American people. This concept of the government just being a giveaway. This is nonsense. There is one reason that the Trump administration approved Nvidia to go to China and it's called 401k. That's it. Like, it's either a security issue or it's not. when it comes to selling chips to China. And he didn't answer the question. It's not a security issue. Apparently, if we're selling chips to China, why? Because we care more about Nvidia's market cap. We care more about Nvidia's growth. Like, if you don't want China to have access to AI chips, you can't be like, "Oh, well, let's give them the the crappier chip, not the best chip." Because the crappier chip, H200, is still pretty damn good. So, if you're not going to give them uh Blackwell, but you're going to give them the H200, which by the way, a lot of the reports that came out yesterday uh say that Baba, Tencent, these guys are screaming for the H200, like the Chinese government came out on Tuesday and said, "Ah, we don't really want it." They tried to seem like, "H, we don't need it." And then the Chinese tech executives came out and said, "Please, can we get our hands on these chips?" So, there's plenty of demand for the chips. The only reason we're selling them those chips is because we want Nvidia to make money, because we want the American economy to continue sustaining itself. If we really wanted Nvidia to make more money, we would let us do Blackwell. But there is no logical argument for why we're giving them a worse version of the chip and how that's, you know, somewhat conducive with the administration's view on national security because at the end of the day, that chip is still pretty good. And if you have any level of innovation in China, which we've seen with Deepseek, they're able to do a lot with little, you know, they can still use the H200 to do a good job on potentially training new models and potentially having more breakthroughs. So, at the end of the day, this is a purely economic decision. no matter what the administration says. Um, and as a result, you know, I think that's how they should be upfront about it. But that is why Nvidia is going to be able to sell to China. Nvidia right here down about 1.82%. Wow. Oracle 14% down. We got 3 minutes until the market opens and or two minutes until the market opens, I guess. Let's do this poll in the chat. Oracle pump or dump. By the way, 60% of you said no, you would not buy the SpaceX IPO the day it comes out. Dude, if it was at like 850 billion, even a trillion, I would be more excited. 1.5 trillion. If that is the IPO price, I don't know if I could justify buying that. 401k is a retirement account in the United States, by the way, for those that didn't know. I don't know if I could justify saying, "Yep, that's easy to bet on because I expect it to go to two trillion." That's another 500 billion in market cap we're expecting on a company that probably will be pretty capital intensive. It just might not be the easiest to see that happen. All right, green or red today? What do we think? We had a bullish bullish JPAL. Um, we had a crappy Oracle earnings in about one minute. We're going to see how the market interprets this. Someone's saying, "What do you think about Netflix?" So, we do have some updates on Netflix. Trump yesterday said that any sale of uh Warren Brothers should include the sale of CNN, which is kind of crazy, but I mean, it looks like he really does care about CNN. I am not interested in Netflix right here because I want to see what happens. If the acquisition doesn't happen and the stock recovers, it's like cool. Then I don't have this massive opportunity. Uh if the acquisition does happen and the stock gets hit because of just all the growing pains of actually being able to acquire uh a big entity like Warner Bros. then I think there's a better opportunity. But it is at close to liberation day lows. So if you're really interested in Netflix, it's down from 130 to 92. You know, maybe it's where you nipple. I would want to see it closer to 80 to nibble. If not, then I don't own Netflix. And you know, it is what it is. I'm not dying to to be part of Netflix. So, we're going to see how that story ends up playing out over the coming days. But, I think Oracle will be the story of the day in about 10 seconds. We're going to see if the street hates it or if they don't. Here we go. Thursday, December 11th. Thank everybody for being here. 9:30 a.m. The stock market is once again open. All right. Wake your ass up. Let's get into it. 190.3 on Oracle, 15% down, which means Larry Ellison just lost 42 billion or $4.5 billion of his net worth, which is kind of crazy. I've lost some money in a single day. I never lost 40 billion. But there you go. Oracle right there. 15% down. Wow. 189. 185 was the low in November. Let's see if it breaks 185. That would be actually aggressive. But we already are down 15%. Adobe right there, that's down 2%. Adobe, which had a pretty decent earnings. That one's still not getting any momentum. S&P is down43%. Broadcom's down 3%. Nabi down 6%. All the data center plays are getting hit with this. Ethereum and Bitcoin probably getting nuked. Ethereum, yep, 34 to 31. Uh, Bitcoin, are we below 90? We are 89.8. By the way, Disney and OpenAI, the headline in the morning, Disney is investing a billion dollars into OpenAI. OpenAI will license their their IP. Disney also just sent a a cease and desist letter to Google. Disney sends cease and desist letter to Google after investing a billion in OpenAI. So, whatever Google was doing with their data uh or with their IP, Disney is not going to allow them to do that. Cororeweave down 7%. Nvidia below 180. Palunteer down 2%. Micron down 1%. Planet Labs had a great earnings again another space name in the right niche right now. That's up 20%. Synopsis had a decent earnings. That's flat. Oscar that's up 2%. BMR down 5%. Rocket Lab actually going green. That space data center narrative really holding it up. AS down 1.3%. Google's down half a percent. Meta's down 1.3. Meta from 650 to 641. So Meta also uh getting hit. It was at 680 the other day. Microsoft is Bitcoin back above 90. Microsoft 478. Microsoft actually going green. So Microsoft holding on. How about Amazon? That broke 231 yesterday. Back to 229. That's down 1%. Oracle, how are we doing? Nvidia still down 2%. Oracle. Wow. Low of the day. 188. It's about it. No, we touched 187. We're back at 187. 15.7%. My goodness, this is ugly. And and this is probably why the mark, for everyone wondering, why is the market dropping? It's not because of JPA. It's not because the Fed. I I I really think it's because of because of Oracle. Amcore right there, that's down 2%. Oracle now, are we going below 187 1870? Let's see. Let's see where the pain stops on this one. And you know, for those that are asking, why are people dumping the Oracle shares? I really just think it has to do with the debt financing build out of data centers. 186. There you go. They did not give any clarity on the call on them capping the spend of D, which is actually bullish Nvidia because they're going to be using all that debt to buy GPUs, which if they get an ROI on that debt, it really doesn't matter in the short term, but the market might not like it in the short term, which is why the stock is taking a hit. Nebia's down seven, Iran down three, Cororeweave down eight, Nvidia down two. Doesn't make sense for Nvidia to be down here, but Nvidia is down 2.5, Palunteer down 2.4. Uh Warner Brothers also down a little bit. Some fears potentially of this deal going through. Where is Netflix? I think that was pumping in the pre-market. Netflix uh basically going flat at 93 in the in the market open right here. Adobe goes green little bit of green. There you go. Actually, a little bit more 2% close to where it was yesterday when it pumped green immediately after the earnings. I think it got up to like 4% at one point. 146 billion market cap. 350 on Adobe. That's holding on. Amazon also getting back to 230. S&P little green candle, very small green candle. Maybe, just maybe. There it is right there. Maybe there's a shot. And then Disney getting the Open AI pump. They said OpenAI's name. They gave them a billion bucks and Open AAI allowing Disney to go up 2% on the day. I don't know, dude. The Disney Open I think is weird. I really think you're going to have people uh I guess take advantage of that IP via AI. And I'm very surprised Disney kind of made, you know, Disney, they're very protective of their IP. For them to come out and be like, "Yep, you can leverage all of our characters that we worked hundreds of years to be able to build the brands of and protect and you can just throw it into some AI video slop." Like, I I am quite surprised that Disney did this. Like is that is that is that just crazy to me or does anyone else think that might not go in the best route? And we already have evidence of someone's estate forcing open AI to take down the ability to prompt in terms of Dr. MLK Jr. um their their likeliness because like people end up prompting crazy stuff and I feel like that's going to happen with Disney. Oracle right there recovering a little bit. Still down 15, but 186 to 188 is where you have your bounce right there. Um, okay. Not hundreds of years, but a hundred years. I mean, Disney's been around since since like early 1900, right? When did Disney start? Or like 19 20. Yeah, 1923. All right. So, yeah, basically a hundred years. A century of creating these characters. I mean now that's going to be an AI slop. Pounder 183. Micron that's down a little bit. Nvidia 17855. Core reef still down six. Iron down 3%. Nebia's down four. S&P again a little bounce. 685. We got to 682 688.9 we had yesterday. Maybe we could get a little bit of a rebound here if the oracle news is not that serious. Hoodie 130. Unfortunately, Robin Hood getting hit with the rest of the market. Look, if we close at 130 for the year on hood, I'd be happy. I mean, I didn't even expect to get back to 130 after we fell to 100. Uh, also, we had the Hood monthly metrics yesterday. The monthly metrics were pretty good. I mean, I know some people tainted them as as bearish, but you have to remember there are four less trading days in November due to Thanksgiving and Black Friday uh than October. So, you have to take that into account because if you had those trading days, you would have the numbers go higher. Number two is October was just crazy. like there was no way they were going to live up to the October numbers just because October was a we had all-time highs, b it was extremely volatile because then we had the China liquidation or the soybean China tweet which caused the crypto liquidation. So you just had massive amounts of volume in the options in crypto and equity market. So November was pretty good. Margin still increased from 16.4 to 6.8 billion, but it's not like the type of increase we saw from September to October. So Q4 should be fine for Robin Hood. And I don't think it's down on the metrics. I think is down just cuz the entire market's taking a hit after those Oracle earnings. S&P right there at 685. Nvidia still tanking 17893 trying to bottom at 17820 and then Palanteer right there at 183 as well on the day. Uh Tom Lee S&P 500 did he put out his prediction officially? I guess he did. 7700 in 2026 extending the bull market to a fourth year and implying a 12% gain. the wall of worry effect, strong AIdriven tech growth, and potential do. Okay, I guess we got Tom Le's official, we're going to get a lot of these analysts come out with their official 2026 uh targets over the coming weeks. 7700 for Mr. Tom Lee on the S&P app that goes green on the day 708 as that's green. I think Lemonade also is doing okay today. Lemonade. Yep. Oh, wow. Lemonade. Look at that. 30% after earnings, another 5% today. That one's just been a champ throughout all the volatility. Also, Oscar got a bump yesterday cuz there was some conversation about a vote on healthcare subsidies coming up soon for the ACA. So, uh, that's why Oscar had a 7% move yesterday and a 2% move right here. 7700 S&P. I don't think that's crazy. I still think Tom Lee is arguing for, you know, Bitcoin all-time highs in January, which would assume at least 127,000 that I don't know. I don't know if we can easily make that big of a a reversal, but if we were going to, we needed what happened yesterday with the Fed to happen. So, like, if there was any hope of Bitcoin getting even close to like that $200,000 level that he's been talking about, you needed the Fed to cooperate. And the Fed really did cooperate yesterday. like it it's just hard to look at what the Fed said yesterday and think that they're not necessarily on the side of the doves going into next year. Now, that could change, but it did feel more dovish than not. Rocket Lab back to 58. I Okay, so the one thing I forgot to say during the SpaceX conversation is that if SpaceX is too expensive at 1.5 trillion, I think Rocket Lab becomes a sympathy plane. I really do think Rocket Lab becomes a sympathy. People are going to look at what's in space. They're going to look at what quality is in space and they're going to say, "All right, I can't own SpaceX, but I can own a 30 billion if I'm willing to pay 1.5 trillion for SpaceX." And I know SpaceX is vastly different than Rock Lab in terms of their scale, but am I willing to pay a hundred billion for Rocket Lab? Right now, it's at 30 billion. Yeah, I think people will say that's not crazy. Now, SpaceX takes a hit, then Rock Lab's probably going to take a hit as well. I do think ASX, Rocket Lab, these are going to be sympathy plays next year regardless of their earnings if SpaceX ends up going out in the in the public markets and being as big as they are. Tom Lee only forecasting 13% may as well be a full-on recession. I think he's trying to be conservative here, which look 7,700. I mean we are ask all of us are basically asking the market to give us a fourth year of momentum in this bull market because uh hood right there below 130 this would be this would be the the third year right 2026 would be completing the third year so or sorry 2025 so 2026 would be a fourth year um there is a stat on four-year bull markets and they tend to be relatively strong the problem is next year which we haven't talked about this in a while but it is still a thing uh is a midterm year and there have been some historical arguments for why midterms midterm years have not been the best. But then again, you had Trump who was talking yesterday about why he really wants to make sure the midterms go in his way, which means he's going to be focused on making sure the markets do okay. This is year four of a bull market tends to be strong. As you can see right here, the average return is a 14.6%. uh if the first 3 years of the bull market is exceeding upwards of 35%. Which so far we've had an 83% gain from October 12th, 2022 to October 13, 2025, not factoring in November, but it does say that the fourth month uh the fourth year ends up not being not being horrible. Trump did lose his last midterms. That is fair. 2018, he did not win those midterms. So I think he's not going to want to have a repeat of that going into this year and that's why this affordability thing I think is going to be coming up more and more and more. That's what he was talking about in Pennsylvania to get other people on his side of the argument. Pounder right there at 183. Nvidia again there is no logical reason I think for why Nvidia should be down 3% with Oracle down 15. If anything Oracle's increased capex which is now 75% of the revenue is going into Nvidia chips. So the street can be upset about Nvidia's or Oracle's uh data center practices. They can be upset about Corey. They can be upset about Nebius. All of those are just customers of Nvidia. And it's not like Nvidia is doing some massive strategic investment in Oracle saying, "Hey, we'll give you $500 billion so you can buy our chips." Like, "No, Oracle is their own independent company. They they're tapping the debt markets, not equity, to buy these GPUs." So, this is not bearish Nvidia, but you know, if the entire AI thesis is in question, then obviously Nvidia is going to get going to get hidden as well. Uh, Invid right there 177, lowest we've seen in about two weeks on this one. Broadcom 400, that's down 3%. S&P again 685. Applovin's green, Lemonade's green, Austra is green, Netflix is green, Adobe is green, and Microsoft is green. Everything else pretty much taking a hit right here. What do you think about SoFi? I like SoFi. I like SoFi. Um, I bought more two days ago at 2680. It's basically at 2685 right here. I think SoFi is going to do well next year, guys. And like I'm actually starting to build a position in SoFi. It's it's been years since I've like legit built a real position in SoFi. I think they're going to keep growing upwards of 30%. They're probably going to do 70 to 80% 70 to 80 cents of EPS. And then I'm kind of just trusting not that all this money they've been raising is for a reason. I don't know what the reason is. Maybe it's acquisition. Maybe it's more loan originations. But the dude has half a billion dollars waiting for him on these PSUs by June of 2026. Now maybe he doesn't achieve the highest level of the target but which is 45 but at 35 he still gets like $200 million or something stocks at 27 27 to 35 on a company that we all know relatively well and the downside theoretically uh should be limited unless we get into like some massive recession like yes we could see it hit 22 23 but it consolidated in that range for over a year and then it broke out. I don't hate it here at all. I really don't. So I think this should be okay. And it is going to be probably boring because it's not as volatile to the upside and when it goes down, it goes down heavy and then it recovers, but then it kind of stays stuck when it recovers. So, it's going to need a catalyst. I'm not expecting it to make a massive move up to 30 anytime soon, but I think it will make that move next year. And so, I really am not scared buying around 2627 and I don't want to buy at 2829. So, I think if I'm going to buy it, like this is the price that I'd be buying it at. Warner Brothers, that one's flat. Eli Liy, that's down a little bit down from that 1100 level. Meta 647, that's down. Apple 275 and then Tesla 445. That one continues to get hit. Uber, so I don't know if people saw the Whimo stats yesterday. The Russell is up as well. IWM hit all-time highs. Whimo's crushing it. Wow. S&P down. Small caps are up. That is some weird price action today. Oracle's down. So, it's taking down Nvidia and the S&P, but small caps are reacting to JP being doubbish. So, Nvidia is not reacting to JPO being doubbish, but small caps are. Uh Whimo did 14 million paid trips last year or this year. They're targeting a million rides per 2026 per week by 2026 and they're on track to do 20 million lifetime rides. 20 new cities are planned for next year, including Tokyo and London. I don't think this should be hurting Uber, but unfortunately it's hurting Uber because the market once again is like, well, is Uber going to exist if robo taxis end up becoming as strong as they do? Which again, it's going to take time for that to play out. And Uber has partnerships with Whimo. So I don't think Uber is just going to go away from the robo taxi battle. But it's it's it's super bullish Google. I mean just like unbelievable progress on Whimo. And you know this is technically Google's moonshot that's turning more and more into a legitimate business. They're not making any money yet, but in terms of profits, but it looks like this could become a massive massive competitor to FSD and Tesla over the coming coming years. So we could see some more momentum there. Would you imagine a rotation into small caps? January, uh, Jason talked about this a couple weeks ago. January historically has been very good for small caps. You tend to get people selling out of their large caps, taking profits, and transitioning into things that haven't run as much, which in this case, yeah, small caps would be a theoretical play, but I I I am not a big believer of just buying IWM. I know some people thematically like doing it. When it comes to small and midcaps, I really think you have to pick something in a sector or a niche that is trending and that is at an appropriate valuation because a lot of these small caps have a ton of debt and yes, rates are coming down so that's bullish for their debt, but still they have a ton of debt. Like they have to grow to be able to pay back that debt and yes, they can refinance, but it's not like their stocks just go to the moon because they do that. Like you have to be good, high quality small caps. So yeah, maybe IWWM catches a bid in January as we get into that month. But I've never been a fan of just trusting the small caps finally. At least I know if the S&P goes down, my money is in, you know, the best companies in the world and eventually recovers. But small caps, you know, a lot of people, I don't think a lot of people can even name 10 small caps in the IWM, whereas you can easily name the top 10 companies in the in the S&P. Um, Farzod sold Tesla and bought Lemonade. I don't think he sold Tesla. I think he just bought Lemonade from my understanding. And he did this a while ago. Yeah, he's like Lemonade for a while. Um, and he likes kind of the the AI thesis around insurance here. I I I doubt he actually sold his Tesla to I mean, he just transferred all of his Tesla to Robin Hood, so I don't I don't think he sold his Tesla, but yes, he does like Lemonade. We did a deep dive on Lemonade. Again, insurance name AI is the catalyst. Um, if you really believe Oracle, by the way, getting a little recovery here, 191. If you really believe that AI should be the massive tailwind for insurance as an industry growing, then Lemonade is your play. It's also relatively small, five, six billion dollar company. But yeah, he has liked them for for a couple months now. He sold a little bit of Tesla. All right, it is what it is. He's probably overweight Tesla. He's worked at Tesla for he sold 50% of his retirement account in Tesla. Look, I don't I mean, look, the guy's owned Tesla for a long time. So, it is what it is. And also, you know, his retirement account versus his brokerage account may be fundamentally different in terms of, you know, his actual Tesla position versus extra Tesla shares that he had lying around, but he's diversifying. It is what it is. I just I personally don't love the Lemonade thesis. I think the stock's done great. Had a great earnings. I think it deserves the premium that it's getting ready. I don't love the thesis. I don't really care to hold on to it long term, but you know, if he does, then it makes sense for him to take a a bigger position. Oscar right there, that's up 2%. Adobe's actually moving 350. That's getting some love. And then Netflix trying to recover back to 95, but that's at 9360 right now. Mastercard, are we getting a move right there? Yeah, Mastercard 2.268. Uh GE Veronova increased their dividend and their buybacks yesterday. That stock is down 5%. Uh it did peak at 7:30 yesterday, so it did get some love based on that news. Visa, are we up on Visa? Wow, Visa's up. Visa and Mastercard both moving together. We do have Visa in the ETF. Um what about PayPal? PayPal's red. All the payment stocks are up and PayPal is red. Let's uh let's go to the stock draft. Let's see what's going on there. Uh oh wow, Matt is finally beating me again. Matt's been uh second place for like the past couple weeks. Matt's at 29. Well, Rocket Lab's coming back, of course. Dude, Matt might end up w if SpaceX goes IPO. Matt's going to win this challenge because he has Rocket Lab and AS. And those things are probably going to the moon with SpaceX. So Matt's at 29.8, I'm at 27.9. Our Visa is still down 5%. Steve's at five. Tanner's at 20. Then Chris is at 6.2. Space race coming back and that's getting the market a lot more excited about what we've got going on in uh in the stock draft challenge. PayPal continues to be red. That's correct. Silver. Are we still pumping on silver? Oh my goodness, dude. Up three, dude. I have to hear so much [ __ ] from my uncle about this stupid freaking silver commodity. Goodness gracious. We were on a bus in India when this thing was like 20 bucks. And he was like, "Buy silver. Buy silver." I was like, "Dude, I don't care about silver." Like, now granted, I bought hood at 20. Like that that time hood was 25. So the thing is he took my advice. I didn't take his advice. He also bought a lot of hood at 20. He ended up selling it at like 115 or whatever. Um he had some covered calls that got called away, but I didn't take his advice. So like he listened to me so I can't say [ __ ] to him. I didn't listen to him and I have to deal this freaking silver pumping. Goodness gracious dude. Alltime highs on silver once again up 3% on the day. IWM at 255. Nvidia continues to go lower 17758. 17758. Um, yeah, Lily still red. Uh, VG, again, I know I've been getting a lot of questions about this, guys. I'm not the VG expert. Chris and Matt are. I don't own this thing. I don't understand oil and gas that well. Um, is it a buy right here? I mean, if you ask Chris and Matt, yeah, but they would tell you you have to buy it with a true 10-year time horizon. So, if you don't have 10 years to like not stress about this thing reversing every day, then you don't buy it because then you're going to get stuck in a position and then you're going to blame Chris and Matt. So, I think uh I think if you buy this, you have to really understand it or you just have to trust that like in the next 5 to 10 years, free cash flows will explode, which requires actually knowing about their pipelines and I I can't tell you about any of that. I really have not I can't even speak about it because I don't know about it. But I I do believe those guys have done a lot of research on this name. Bitcoin right there 897 and then Ethereum 3160 as that one is continuing to uh to get hit. VIX is the VIX spiking. The VIX is up still under 20 today, but we are up. It's been below 20 for a while. Again, for those asking where this dip came from, I guess it came from Oracle. Maybe it was a sell the news on JPAL, which is again just weird because a sell the news would imply something good but not really good and therefore all right, you take your profits, you got the right cut. We got a really good JPAL meeting yesterday, which was just fundamentally not what I think the market expected. Like everyone you looked at in terms of how they were thinking about JPAL was going to be hawkish cut. We got dovish cut. So I think that surprise in and of itself created momentum. We could still get us all the news on that. But then Oracle kind of just solidified more AI fears, which is stupid. Like the Oracle AI fears are stupid. They're not real. Like, yes, they're taking out a lot of debt. Okay. Like, we'll see in the next five years if that debt goes if Oracle goes under, you know, if a $600 billion company goes to zero and the credit default swaps go to the moon. It'll be the best trade of the next five years. I would take the under on that. But if that's how the market's pricing it, then this ends up being a dip that potentially you can take advantage of. But Oracle right there 192 red on the day. Tariq, thank you for the super chat. Historical data suggests that when the Fed cuts rates with the S&P 500 near alltime highs within 2%, the next 12 months have an average return of 13% with 100% success rate. Yes, we looked at this stat yesterday and I think that stat likely will take into account uh this rate cut that we're getting. But it really depends. The AI bubble fear is going into next year as well, which look, some of the AI bubble stuff kind of calmed down uh over the past couple weeks. Unfortunately, Oracle bringing some of that back, which is annoying, but it is what it is. Uh Lincoln, thank you for the super chat. Could you do a PayPal deep dive? So, there are a lot of people who have done PayPal deep dives. I'm going to link my friend Amir, his ex, he and his Substack. I'll link it right here in the chat. You can follow him. He is a massive massive bull on PayPal. Um, look, I just don't think it's worth doing a super super big deep dive because we all know it's undervalued. We all know they're buying back their stock. The problem is if you've listened to the recent conferences with the CEO and the CFO, they have both said the consumer is struggling, at least PayPal's consumer. And two, they've explicitly said that we are going through a longer recovery period than expected. As soon as a seauite like explicitly mentions publicly that our recovery is taking longer than expected that's them admitting you're not going to get returns soon like this is going to take some time because you know most CEOs and and seuitees try to not say that this is going to be a long recovery they try to say hey we're making progress yada yada but when they admit like yeah this is not going to happen as quick as we thought and they started this back in January of 2024 when Dan Schulman was replaced you know it's taken way longer than everyone thought. So I just think from that perspective, if you buy it, maybe your downside is limited, but your upside is not really there. So honestly, to me, it becomes a stock you can sell some aggressive covered calls on every week and maybe use it as an income generating vehicle, not necessarily you buy it at 60 hoping for a $80 $80 move. But outside of that, I don't think there's anything that much more exciting about the the broader thesis. The advertising stuff is a big deal. I just don't know if that's going to, you know, massively increase free cash flow to the point where the street's like, "Yep, we got to own PayPal." Micro Strategy right there, that's down 5% on the day. That one continues to get hit. BMR right there down 5.4% as well. Um, Rocket Lab, are we still holding 58 5820? The fact that Rocket Lab and which is a high beta name is holding on to green on a day where high beta is getting crushed just shows you that this space narrative is being frontr run by people that want exposure to it and they know they probably can't get into SpaceX. I really think that's what's happening which is great for everyone who owns Rocket Lab. Reddit right here that's down 2.3%. Um and then Oracle still down 14% on the day. Robin Hood as well getting hit as high beta gets hit 127 that's down 6%. Just yesterday B&R was 42. Yeah. Unfortunately Ethereum which was almost 3500 is not at 3500 anymore. The market giveth the market take away. I mean dude Nvidia was 190 on Monday. It's annoying, but it is what it is. It's just annoying that it was Oracle, bro. Like, I would have rather had a hawkish Powell to cause this red. The fact that freaking Oracle is doing it is annoying. Like, give us a better reason than freaking Oracle saying they're going to spend more on Capex. Like, really? That's that's the reason. I don't know. just feels feels like it's a bit aggressive to create all this downturn. By the way, this is the clip of Trump yesterday. Um, doesn't look like Netflix is easily going to get the sale without Trump's input on CNN.
>> That the people that have run CNN into the ground, by the way, nobody watches. Very few people watch. I don't think they should be entrusted with running CNN any longer. So I think any deal should it should be guaranteed and certain that CNN is part of it or sold separately. But I don't think the people that are running that company right now and running CNN, which is a very dishonest uh group of people, I don't think that should be allowed to continue. I think CNN should be sold along with everything else.
>> That the people
>> I mean, look, that would be kind of crazy if CNN ends up getting sold with everything else. That would indeed be kind of crazy, but maybe that is the route that Trump wants it to go um on Oracle. Oh wow. Hold on. If this is true, this is another reason you're getting some pain on Oracle. Let me pull this up right here. Uh they got downgraded aggressively, dude. Wow. Okay. So, uh uh uh Oracle price targets and video right there 176 now. Oh, I didn't see this this morning. Oracle price targets are Goldman 320 to 220. JP Morgan 270 to 230. Caner 400 to 320. Barkclays 330 to 310. Evercore 385 to 275. Scotia Bank 360 to 260. TD Cohen 400 to 350. Melius Research 400 to 260. That's seven downgrades this morning. I mean, yeah, that's another reason this thing's tanking. You get seven big Wall Street firms to say, "We're taking our targets down by almost an average of 30% on each of them." I mean, you're probably just getting a ton of institutional investors that are like, "All right, we're dumping it." I did not see that. That is ugly. Oracle 190 right there down 14. And maybe that's the buy signal to be maybe that's maybe that's when we get bullish. But that one's going to get Rocket Lab now going red. Could not withstand it. Nvidia 176, Google 313. Mastercard's holding up. Visa's holding up. How about Verizon? Verizon is holding up a little bit right here. SoFi 2660. Amcor is down to S&P low of day 682. S&P is almost down 1% folks. S&P is almost down 1% here. Why is Abbercrombie up 3.5%. That's a great question. Like today's market action doesn't make sense to me. I'm sorry. Abberrombi up three and a half%. They already had earnings last week. Like Lulu has earnings today. Are they front running Lulu or something? like Nvidia down 5% overpriced hoodies up three and a half as Oracle like what cutting rates is going to make the hoodies cheaper or something like none of this price action to like hood down 7% really I get it because crypto's down and the market's but still I don't know dude it feels like a buy the dip it really does you know maybe this ends up turning into a little bit more pain over the coming days maybe the market's going to factor and what JPA actually said and make some decisions. Maybe the market's got to think more about Oracle, but it's not the most explainable downside unless we blame Oracle, which is fine. We could blame Oracle, but eventually that narrative's going to get old. By the way, for those asking about the Santa Claus rally, that usually starts December 26. Remember like we are using the term Santa Claus rally for the month of December, but December 26th historically is when you actually see that one and a half% move within about a week. And it makes sense, right? That's, you know, that's near Christmas. That's actually when Santa Claus is coming to town theoretically. So yeah, I mean it's not really supposed to start for a couple weeks if it does happen. Nvidia lows of the day, but maybe it is having some more challenges to take place. Now granted, maybe you get a sell-off and the Santa Claus rally is a recovery. I mean, that happened last year. People forget December 2024. We did not push to crazy all-time highs. We actually fell on December 18th because JPA actually gave us a hawkish cut in December. Like, you want to talk about a real hawkish cut, that was December 20, 2024. And then by the end of the year, we ended up recovering to a relatively strong level, but it wasn't like busting through alltime highs. We actually got close there in February. That's when pounder first started getting into that 120 range. Everything was moving and then the liberation day took everything back down 30%. So, you know, we're really going to have to see towards the end of the year if that can end up playing out. I mean, nobody's talking about the 1010 crypto event and millions of accounts getting wiped out. They are not coming back soon and this is liquidity gone for a long time, which means shaky markets. Yeah, that's fair. Look, October was ugly. A lot of people got margin called. Um, I'm sure a lot of people even know friends or family that ended up getting way too levered and, you know, they got wiped out. And those people aren't coming back anytime soon. That's a fair point. However, we did have stocks go on a massive discount a month later in November. And I think some of that became very attractive for institutional fund managers as well. And we have all the data. I mean, we looked at it last week. Multiple multiple charts from Bank of America Research and Goldman Sachs Research saying that hedge funds, particularly around the week before Thanksgiving, was they went on their the highest buying spree, the highest two-day buying spree Thursday and Friday when we had Nvidia earnings collapse um since 2020. And then institutional investors have been allocating the most since 2022 over the past month. So, it's not like the tootses haven't been buying here. It's just this, you know, broader narrative, I guess, around the AI bubble which continues to to concern the markets. Um, yeah, money market funds did get a lot last week as well. Money market funds now have 7.65 trillion, 86.82 billion last Thursday at you know that ended up going green as well in terms of money funds. But I would not be surprised if this gets closer to 8 trillion. And if that's the case, then we are just going to have a lot of money on the sidelines that's, you know, going to be waiting for lower rates. I mean, all that money is now getting 25 pips less of interest that they were getting before. Uh, wholesale inventories. We have that data. Let's pull that up and see what we've got here. Do we have the Disney? Okay, let's listen. Oh, wow. Sam Alman and Bob Iger are going to be live in 30 minutes. Oh, that's going to be interesting to see.
>> Valuation, which we all assume is right around a half half a trillion dollars. That's where employees recently sold stock at least at that valuation. And it also does include warrants. Don't have any specifics in terms of where they're priced for Disney to increase its equity investment over time. So certainly plenty of questions around this guys that we will be able to uh to put to both Mr. Iger and Mr. Alman a little less than a half hour from now. Not to mention of
>> final read on wholesale inventories and it jumps to up half a 1%. That equals ties where we were in February this year. To find a higher number, you go to January this year, which means it's tied for the second biggest inventory pop of 2025. But here's the fly in the ointment. While inventories are going up, sales are going down. We're expecting up 4/10 to up half% on the sales side. comes in down two tents. Down two tents will be the weakest since May of this year. And it really does underscore that both of those are moving in directions we'd rather not see. You'd rather see inventories closer to zero and the sales basically cleaning up the shelves. This morning we saw a 100,000 drop on continuing claims. And if you recall last week, we had a kind of questionable drop on initial claims which reversed this week. The culprit most likely seasonal adjustments for the Thanksgiving holiday off. Remember that continuing claims is a week in a rears to initial claims. Back to you.
>> Okay, thank you Rick.
>> We did get jobless claims. We'll get back to that in a second. I forgot we had jobless claims this morning. Uh let's pull that up real quick. S&P right there 683 trying to recover from that 682 level. So jobless claims once again aren't as bad. Last week they came in at 190. uh this week 236. Market thought it would be 220. So 16,000 more than expected, nowhere near recessionary levels at 350 to 375, which is reasonable. Uh but yes, jobless claims did get a bit of an increase right there with the wholesale inventories going down. Google is launching Gemini on Apple's iPad. So the iPad app for Gemini 3 is launching. We have that announcement right here. again, 236,000 for the jobless claims. September trade deficit was 52.8 billion. That's the smallest is June 2020. You also had that data come out this morning. And then uh I don't know if people saw this yesterday as well. Rocket Lab trying to push to go back green. Robinet as well at 127. Wow. Rocket Lab almost 60. Dude, there's no fundamental news on Rocket Lab that I've seen today or yesterday. I know they had the the hungry hippo stuff a couple days ago, which is bullish, but the stock was at 50 when that came out. The stock's at almost 60 right now. This has to be the space trade getting people excited. Um, the time AI person of the year or the person of the year came out and it's called the architects of AI and this is who they put on the list on or on the cover. I don't know, dude. I'm not a fan of this. I thought it was really weird. I I don't know. It didn't make sense to me. They put Jensen in between Sam and Elon. Like, I feel like they just could have picked one person. Where's Sundar, by the way? Like, how do you not have Sundar? His stocks up 70% this year. So, it was a bit weird, but this was the time architects of AI. And that's what they put out. All right, let's get some more coverage on what we're seeing in the labor market, and then we'll hear from uh Disney and open OpenAI soon on on this partnership
>> that the Fed chair made when it comes to the dual mandate, jobs, and inflation. that I think bode well for more cuts. Listen to what Fed Cher Powell said on jobs.
>> There's an overcount in the payroll job numbers we think continuing and it will be corrected. I don't have the exact month in my head right now but and that's just I don't again I think forecasters generally understand that. So and we think it's about
>> aka JPA was saying we we overstated the amount of jobs which means the labor market is weaker than expected justifying the rate cut
>> about 60,000 a month. though 40,000 jobs could be -20. I think a world where job creation is negative. I just think we need to watch that situation very carefully and be in a position where we're where we're not, you know, pushing down on job creation with our policy.
>> Going through the research this morning, I think that surprised a lot of people, guys, that he that he suggested that job creation is actually negative. Um because you know you could look at the numbers and say we're still adding jobs but they you know they look back at the track record for instance and the forecasting where those jobs are overestimated and he went there. I mean he said that there is a likely chance that they could be negative and if that's the case then the Fed's got work to do to you know preserve the the labor market. And then on inflation you know obviously there's this argument that inflation is high is sticky. A lot of the members don't want to be cutting rates because of inflation but listen to what he said on that front. Actually, I'll read it. Um, we don't have the soundbite. That's my bad. So, he basically said it's really tariffs that's causing most of the inflation overshoot. Overshoot means higher than our target. Tariffs likely create a one-time increase to prices. Our job is to make sure that it is. I think the hint there, David, is that, you know, as far as the overshoot, the fact that inflation is higher than they would like, the fact that he's pinning it on tariffs and saying that that's a one-time effect is actually code for we're not as worried about it. And look, that might be just his own thing because we know that there were two descents that wanted to hold rates, and we know that there were a lot of dots that didn't move from this year, which suggests that there were a lot of other members, too, that didn't want to move rates. But the two statements from Powell that I thought were most notable were jobs are negative and inflation is tariffs.
>> Yeah. When do we start to annualize some of the tariffs? Like I mean we we all think of April second but it's very much unclear what really is applied when and how and to what.
>> Right. Well, a lot of people think that the peak is coming either in this quarter or the next quarter because you know a lot of the retailers hoarded inventories and they're just starting to pass on some price increases. So, it happens in next year where we start to come off of that the one-time effect, if it is a one-time effect,
>> but also what happens next year, the next decision January 28th from the Fed, there'll be new voting members. And so, this matters because the composition of those changes. And I just wanted to highlight
>> Rocket Lab hit 60, just below 60 right here, 5970, but it hit 6017. this AI space trade. I mean, I don't know if it's a fad, but it looks like it's becoming very real and people are front running it, especially after Elon confirmed last night that SpaceX is thinking of going public. So, who's going to be added to the voting committee because it's important. Here's the four districts, okay? Because all the regional districts, those are the ones that rotate. Dallas, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Minneapolis. Let's take Dallas and Cleveland. Those two ladies have been some of the most hawkish voices. both of them saying we do not need to be cutting in December. So, doesn't sound like they were in favor. They didn't get a vote this time, but guess what? They get a vote in January. So, the committee is going to become a little bit more hawkish. I would put Kashgari also in that kind of cautious camp. Didn't sound like he was too game to be cutting even though again he didn't get a vote, but will in in January. And then Philadelphia, I followed some of her recent comments. Pollson and she was she's kind of on the fence. sounds like she could go either way which is only to highlight that you know the bar is going to be higher next year I think for cuts if nothing else because of the composition of the committee so we so we will have to see weaker labor market data for I think Powell and the others to really sway the committee towards keep cutting
>> how many more meetings does he have Powell
>> he's got January he's got like two
>> he's got four meetings but if we don't cut rates again then this was his last rate cut. So, you know, JPAL was asked Rock Library right there 5982 about his legacy yesterday. Um, and he didn't really have a sort of deep philosophical answer. He just said he wants to leave the economy in a better spot than when he entered. Look, the guy had inflation at 10%, brought it down to 2%. And one could argue that that's an amazing legacy. The bare case is that the guy let inflation get up to 10% because he didn't increase rates earlier in 2021, which I think is a fair point. The problem is Trump and Biden printed a lot of money and I mean the guy kind of had to let it happen, right? Because we have this global pandemic. So I mean like there are definitely ways to uh critique JPL's legacy, but if the ultimate argument is he he brought inflation down aggressively and he got a little bit of a a pickme up with Chachi and AI becoming as big of a thing as it did which allowed the market to thrive then I don't think that's the worst legacy in the world. Ethereum right there 3100. Oracle little recovery from 186 down up to 193. So you're getting some green candles come in. That's helping the S&P. Is it helping Nvidia? Nvidia is 178 up from 176. Jobless claims came in at 236,000. So 16,000 more than expected. Um not too bad and consistent with what the market's been thinking for the past couple weeks. But yes, Nvidia right there at 177. Yeah, technically without a recession. I mean, we had a recession in 2022 with two quarters of negative GDP growth. So, there was like a technical recession, but like in terms of like a legit legit recession that like actually caused massive massive levels of pain in the economy. We didn't have that as JPA was there. I mean, I guess you can say COVID, but again, that's do we really blame JPAL for CO? like you can't you can't blame anyone for something like that happening. So from that perspective, I think the past couple years has been pretty strong for him. It's just I do think this whole year he was a bit late on interest rates. Now again, I think he would have cut interest rates way further. It's just when Trump introduced the tariffs, it created a lot of complications perceptually to be like, okay, we can lower rates when we know that prices are going to go up. The data though has shown that prices have not gone up that massively because of tariffs. That's literally what JPL said yesterday. And if it did, it's, you know, a onetime price increase. It's just, do you think the Fed should have been able to easily recognize in January or in April that the tariffs would not have that big of an impact? Like I don't know if the I don't know if any Fed chair would be smart enough to be like, "Yeah, the tariffs are not going to have any impact on prices. Therefore, we're not going to cut rates." And maybe they should. Maybe maybe that's why they are the Fed. They should be able to and and I do agree to an extent that instead of hosting conferences, they should be focused on really looking at the data if they're going to be so data dependent and they should have come to that conclusion quicker than everybody else. But that is the reason for why they ended up holding rates steady this whole year. Carvana right there 468 that is also green. Goldman Sachs at 9004. Is that an all-time high on Goldman Sachs? Yeah, that's an alltime high on Goldman Sachs. just under 9006 which is your all-time high as that one continues to to make move. Netflix right there up 1.5 as that is up as well. Are you going to stream Rivian AI day today? I didn't even know Rivian was having an AI day so probably not but we'll cover it after it's done. Rivian right there down 4% on the day. Um, look, I don't love Rivian here, but I do think that they are progressing and they are getting closer to profitability. I just every time I think of Rivian, I'm like, why wouldn't I buy Tesla? Now, granted, Rivian's valuation is way better than Tesla, so that's fair. But Rivian is also not growing like crazy or in some, you know, dramatic way that would make you want to be excited over for Rivian over Tesla. But at the end of day, Rivian is just a car company. Now, this AI day, maybe we're going to see something else that's not to do with cars, but Tesla is obviously not just a car company. Whenever I think of Rivian, I'm like, "Okay, I'm buying a car company, so expectation should be relatively low." And I'm buying an EV car company, which, you know, the EV sort of excitement has died down significantly over the past couple years. The self-driving excitement is up significantly, and actually owning a EV is like not the coolest thing in the world anymore. They do have Amazon, though. That's correct. They do have Big purchase orders from Mr. Amazon. Rocket Lab, are we still holding 60? Rocket Lab. 5930. 5930 on the day. Ravine isn't profitable on the cars. Why the hell would they be able to sell so much when R2 is going to be profitable? That's a fair point. That is a fair point. I mean, look, the other thing is like EVs in general are just like not like in 2019, owning a EV was like a cool thing. I remember when my friend owned a Tesla and I was like so excited just to like be in it. I was like, man, it's a Tesla. Now it's like, dude, I mean, I don't think people care that much. It's like, okay, cool. You have a Tesla, whatever. Like, it's not like a status symbol by any sense of the imagination. I I really don't think so. I mean, not in New Jersey, not in California, not in Texas. Like, there's plenty of Teslas on the road. And then number two, it's like, okay, you have an EV, but the whole environmental, remember when Elon actually cared about the environment? Elon had an environmental phase, dude. Elon had a phase where for years he was talking about climate change. Like, I don't think Elon's talked about climate change in at least three to four years. Last time he talked about climate change was 2018 on the Joe Rogan podcast. I remember watching this live. It was his first appearance and he was really talking about how big of a deal greenhouse gas emissions are and all this stuff. Elon doesn't give a [ __ ] about climate change and like he's moved on for the stuff that he cares about. So there's not even an environmentally friendly reason that's propagated around getting excited for for EVs because Trump is anti I don't even think it's just because of Trump though. I think it's because like Elon's had an entire political change and ideology to an extent and I think climate change has become the least of his concerns over other things that he cares about. Like he cares a lot more about other social issues which which dramatically get more attention from him than the environment. Maybe it's partly because of Trump as well, but yeah, that's not been a a defining factor of the the Tesla brand anymore. 685 on the S&P still down.34% trying to recover. We'll get this Bob Iger Sam Alman interview soon I guess and we'll see what goes on. Let's get some more coverage on Oracle and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Yeah, I I think there's a lot of things but look I would say put simply the debt market is control in control of the narrative right now, right? So you saw them obviously I think come in with a very strong booking quarter, their second strongest booking quarter they've ever delivered. Uh but you didn't see near-term numbers move up. Now they did raise next year's revenue by four billion uh analyst day two months ago. They they put out some pretty ambitious 2030 targets over $20 of earnings. So we're focused on where is this company going? There's definitely a little bit of uncertainty, some some near-term revision issues in the model, but this is something we're hearing from Microsoft, right? They're continuing to see the capacity constraints that's weighing on near-term growth, but overall growth is accelerating. Bookings are accelerating, cloud revenue is growing faster than it was last quarter. We think that continues. Uh clearly there is a little bit of uncertainty though on on the financing side of the equation. I think that's what the market wants to hear.
>> Is is open AI sort of a weight around its ankles? And and by the way, we're going to talk more about it with Disney. Does that change any of that?
>> Yeah, I mean that I think that is issue number one or two from investors. It's the financing thing and hey, what's going on with OpenAI? Can they pay you $300 billion uh in their contractual commitments longer term? So obviously we'll we'll get an update uh in a little bit here, but our view is look AI this is a massive market opportunity. If it's not open AI, it's going to be somebody else. These data centers are funible. If it's if it's not being sold to OpenAI, they could go around and quickly reconfigure that.
>> That's a good point. This is why the data center stock's tanking today. A lot of that land, a lot of those GPUs, it takes time to build them out, but there is more demand than supply as Jensen said for these data centers. So even if OpenAI is not paying Oracle, they're going to find a way to get it uh into some customer hands. And if that's the case, maybe that RPO is not affected as aggressively if OpenAI can't pay up
>> to somebody else. Um we think that they're, you know, they can make very good money selling this over $20 of earnings uh by 2030. So I think in a year from now um this this this provides a good entry point.
>> How extreme can the the capex the revenue to capex the capex to revenue ratio get? Where are we right now? three quarters or so of your revenue.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and look, I think the the the reality is the capex is a read on that that forward revenue, right? So we're we're expecting revenue to grow 3 4x from where it is now. But of course, you have to frontload those investments, right? Data centers are are very capital intensive. I think a good analogy though is you look at the early days of public cloud. What were Amazon with their AWS business doing? They were not free cash flow positive for so many years, right? So this stuff you have to put in the money early but it's very fruitful as as customers ramp up you start to sell on more profitable services. That's what we think is going on uh at Oracle.
>> But in some ways it's asking a lot of Oracle investors at least long-term ones who are very much accustomed to a company that generated a lot of cash flow.
>> Absolutely. I mean their free cash flow is is negative. They they're they're increasing their leverage. This is a more capital intensive business. But you're seeing it across big tech, right? Meta's uh free cash flows come down significantly. Microsoft they're not you know dipping into the red but you know 80 hundred billion dollars of capex is a huge number that Microsoft wasn't doing uh in in in the past Oracle it's more outsized because they're they are playing catch-up right they missed the early days of of public cloud but we do think that they have something differentiated here and so I think this this investment makes sense provided you have that confidence
>> when does the stock start to reflect your optimism
>> I think you need to get an update on the financing right which which you should get in the next one to two quarters so I think you know over the six to 12 month uh time frame obviously if if open AI uh monthly active user growth starts to reacelerate that that helps too that's that's difficult to predict but uh certainly looking forward to hearing what uh what CMS is saying
>> but they I mean they're likely to maintain investment grade aren't they
>> yeah so
>> isn't that an important point and they have alternative I mean I think they talked about that they have alternative financing solutions
>> right and so they can they can tolerate another downgrade uh to tripleB negative I believe before they kind of get out of that investment grade. They they talked to us last night. They said, "We're very focused on maintaining that investment grade rating." Um, but again, there's there's other options. Customers could bring their own chips. Um, there's there's, you know, vendor financing. We've seen a lot of these creative financing moves uh in the
>> We are seeing a little bit of reversal. Are we getting our V today? Look at that. S&P that looks like a V to me. Nvidia looks like a V. Rocket Lab looks like a rocket ship, but also a V. Hoodie trying to create a V. Oracle high of day 19480. Google looks like a V. App loving 220 or 718 up 2.2%. Adobe 350. Netflix 94. AS up three. SoFi trying to crack 27. The market giveth. The market take it away. The market giveth again. Maybe the market will take away again, but so far the market's trying to potentially give us this little Vshape here. What about Bitcoin? We should be above 90 here. We should be 90.4. I mean, I honestly I think this is just one of those days in the market where you have a lot of stuff happened yesterday. The market's trying to digest all of it. It feels stupid, which is pretty much what all of us thought in the pre-market. the stupidity ends up going into 9:30 and then an hour later maybe people wake up and say, "Yeah, this was kind of a stupid thing to do." And you start seeing some buying coming back in. I mean, again, if if you didn't listen to the entire Fed stream yesterday, just like statement after statement kept being bullish and doubbish. The AI stuff was doubbish, inflation stuff, it's like everything he said, I was just like I couldn't believe how doubbish it was. and you thought things were relatively decent until the Oracle earnings, but but then again, you have to ask yourself like, does Oracle deserve to take down the whole market? It's like that just feels a bit aggressive, especially based on what Tyler is saying right there from City, which is that look, even if OpenAI can't pay them, they're going to get these data centers into the hands of customers because there's too much demand for cloud computing in these data centers. So, yeah, maybe Oracle is not the best stock to own right now because of the concerns about financing, but it's not like I mean, company's going out of business or something. And that's how the street has been pricing it over the past couple weeks. Rocket Lab right there 60.40. That's up 5%. S&P really trying to push 687 right there. And then Nvidia potentially trying to get up to up to 180. Uh as still moving as well. Yeah. The thing about Broadcom is and Neil made a good point yesterday on the stream. He said Broadcom might be bearish for Nvidia because the Broadcom has such a good earnings than uh you know maybe the A6R exciting and like I think shortterm the perception to be bearish Nvidia but I think realistically it's not going to be bearish in video. Broadcom is growing AI revenues which I think right now they're growing it at about 80%. That just means that there's a lot of demand for these chips even if they're custom AS6 but it also means there's a lot of companies that want to train because they want to utilize AI in their workflows and their new frontier models whatever it may be. So I think Broadcom's going to crush it. But I don't I don't know if the stock has room to the upside just because it's up so much. Maybe it does, maybe it's flat. I don't think it's going to have an oracle down 15% type of I think they would have to say something really bad for that to happen. But I also don't think Broadcom succeeding necessarily takes down Nvidia just because of the whole chip market being as uh as big as it is. No, I mean Neil, not Jose, even though I called him Jose like five times. I don't know why, bro. It's cuz like when I watch them together, like I don't know, they've just like become the same and they stream a lot together and Neil hasn't been on the stream for a while. So like usually, you know, from that duo, Jose's on the stream and so I end up just saying Jose, but I didn't mean to say Jose. He doesn't look like Jose. They look like different people. But yeah, we had Mr. Neil on the stream. 60.02 for Rocklab. It's up 4.3%. European Jose. Um, you miss Jose? Yes. I was I was texting him yesterday. He was supposed to join the stream, but he um he had to he had to do some stuff with his kid, so he couldn't join yesterday. All right. What else do we got? What else? What else? What else do we got? Um, new home listings see the sharpest drop in over two years. Dude, has anyone has anyone been thinking of buying a house recently or like selling their house, especially with rates coming down? Like, has anyone even entertaining? I know mortgage rates are not going down dramatically, but are people like considering it more? US new home listings fell 1.7% year-over-year in the four weeks ending December 7th. Uh, pending home sales dropped 4.1% and homes are taking longer to sell, 51 days on average. Higher costs, economic uncertainty, and tight inventory are keeping buyers cautious. The other reason I'm asking is my dad keeps telling me to buy a house. He's like, "You need a house. You need a house. You need an investment." I was like, "I get it, Dad." He was like, "No, we need to get you a house." feel like he's making me look at all these different not to live in, but like as an investment property. So, I don't know, bro. My dad's been badgering me about it a lot more. I think, you know, as I get closer to 30 years old, he's thinking I need like a legit property to at least have, even if I'm renting it out to somebody. Which, look, I think it's a fair point. I think it's a fair point. Obviously, I don't love real estate as much as the markets, but there are in New Jersey in particular, there are a lot of new buildings that are being created, either town homes, condos, or houses. Like, New Jersey is one of those states where there is constantly new property being developed. It's it's actually quite incredible. It's an amazing state for real estate. And, you know, even in Jersey City, near New York, you're getting some places that are popping up that aren't that crazy. I mean, they're expensive, but you know, if you can put 10% down, the mortgage doesn't become that wild. So, I don't know, maybe that'll be a 2026 plan as well. But obviously, there's a lot of nuance to to being able to actually getting that there. Joyce says, "I'm forever renting out my house. I got a 3% getting 1k a month more than the mortgage." I mean, dude, it's the amount of people that have these two to 3%. My my parents got a 3.25% 25% on this house. Like I don't know if we see that time again. It's going to be hard to see less than 3% rates on a 30-year. I mean, that is crazy, bro. Like, I don't know if people recognized it at the time, but I I was I was way too young to really see what was happen. I don't even know what an interest rate, dude. I graduated business school and barely knew what interest rates were. This is why business school is pointless. like like I don't even think we had a class on the dynamic between interest rates and like inflation. Like I I like a lot of this stuff was useless, but once I learned it on my own and I look back at 2020, I'm like, "Oh my goodness." Like I I would have tried to figure out how I can get something at 3%. I was broke at the time. I would have tried to figure something out like 3% mortgage rates. Insanity. Absolute insanity. App right there, 715. And then Google pushing 316 right here. We'll see it again in a couple years with Trump. Maybe. Maybe. But I don't know. That would be Last time we saw that we had inflation basically getting ready to go up to 10%, highest in 40 years. And uh we printed $10 trillion. So I don't know. Would you buy it in cash? No. I I would probably put 10% down in cash. Um, I mean I I you know you I know 20% is the standard, but there's a lot of different ways to end up putting down 10%. So, I don't know. I've started to think about it. I haven't like seriously seriously gone down the rabbit hole, but you know, I would try to find a spot 10% down and then see where to go from there. There's just some really really good properties in New Jersey, dude. Like some really good areas and they're not even crazy. I mean, there's some that are 5 600 grand, which is like not wild in the in the locations that they're at, and you could easily rent them out. I mean, finding tenants would not be an issue for that. Pounder at their 184 also bouncing a little bit from 180. Let's see if Altman and Iger are live. I am very curious to see how they justify this. By the way, why isn't OpenAI paying Disney for this? Disney's putting a billion into OpenAI. How is Disney not getting any of the revenue from this?
>> Disney to get paid as well.
>> All right, they're live. Let's see how they explain this partnership.
>> The program, I believe, for what's the first time.
>> Bob, you and I have done this a few times. I want to start with you if I can, Bob. You know, just first of all, why are you doing this deal and what led to it? Well, this is a great opportunity for the company to enable uh consumers to engage with our characters on what is probably the most modern of technology and media platforms today. uh and it not only gives consumers or users an opportunity to do so but it also is significant because in this deal uh open AI is both respecting and valuing our creativity both our characters but also those that have created those characters. So it gives us an opportunity really to play a part in what is really a a breathtaking breathtaking growth in essentially uh AI and new forms of media and entertainment.
>> Um does it represent any risks for you? You know when I think about it I know the voices of actors are not going to be a part of this. It's going to be the images Bob. But that said, um, your own imagineers, those who've created obviously these untold stories for you that have made the company it is, do they look at this announcement and worry at some point people who are manipulating short-term video using your characters are going to replace them?
>> Well, first of all, uh, what we're doing here is we're licensing about 200 characters for users of Sora to create their own basically videos using Sora. and those characters. We are not including name and likeness nor are we including character voices. And so in reality uh this does not in any way uh cause uh represent a threat to
>> so um AI Mickey Mouse that looks like Mickey Mouse with a deep voice instead of a high voice is not going to threaten the brand of Mickey Mouse. Am I crazy here or is this is is this is he trying to gaslight us into thinking that this is not going to be an issue? Like I can't be the only one thinking that that's not the actual plan to protect the brand and likeliness of these characters,
>> the creators at all. In fact, the opposite. I think it honors them and respects them in part because there's a license fee associated with it. Uh the other thing it does is it enables us to uh be comfortable that us open AI is putting guard rails essentially around how these are used. Uh so that really there's nothing for us to be concerned about from a consumer perspective. Meaning this
>> okay so that's Bob Iger saying I trust Sam Alman to create guard rails around how my Disney characters are going to be used. I I I just don't know if I would trust Sam Alman out of all people to create those guardrails given Anthropic, which is a $300 billion competitor, the founder, literally left OpenAI because Sam Alman didn't care about guardrails.
>> Will be a safe environment and a safe way for consumers to engage with our characters in a new way. And so, and also, let's let's be mindful of the fact that these are 30-second videos. So, we're not talking about creating either shorts or movies for that matter. And we know because we've seen a significant amount of growth in consumption of short form video. We also think this is an era where almost everybody can be a creator of sorts and we've seen that in breathtaking fashion on other platforms and this is a way for us as a company really to provide experiences to particularly younger audiences engaging with our characters in new ways.
>> Yeah. Uh Sam, obviously Sora's success has been significant. And it's one of the reasons you cite for all the compute that you need to to uh to continue to build given the usage rates there. How do you view it? Uh do you expect that it's in fact going to lead to more activity on the platform, the ability to use these characters?
>> Yeah, the we hear so much from users about how much they love Disney's characters. Uh Disney, I think, is the greatest storytelling company in the world bar none. And people really want to connect with Disney characters and express creativity in new ways. And we are confident from everything we've heard from our users that they're going to respond very well to being able to do this. And I hope that it'll
>> Bro, am I going crazy or what are we hearing? Are are we actually hearing two CEOs say that we think the general population is going to respectfully and responsibly prompt intellectual property that has been coveted for the past century in a way that does not turn out to be I don't know, a little dicey. I mean, I think Doug has a good point right here. The first video where someone prompts Mickey Mouse in the Oval Office shaking hands with Donald Trump, I mean, how does that not immediately trigger so many people? And that's just like the the the the least version of the craziest things I can think of right now. Like this, I really don't get it. I really don't believe there's going to be guardrails. And if there are guardrails, then you're not going to get any creative videos. So, this does not make sense to me. And I really am I'm just I'm just questioning hardcore what they're trying to make us believe here because to think that the general public is not going to run crazy with these prompts doesn't feel like that's realistic to believe.
>> Unleash a sort of a whole new way that people use this technology and a new model for the companies making the technology and rights holders to to sort of responsibly figure out how to get this done together.
>> Can you expand on that? What do you mean when you say unleash a new wave, Sam? I you know one thing we found again and again uh is that we have underestimated the amount of latent creativity in the world that if you lower the uh the effort, skill, time required to create new things, people very quickly are able to bring ideas to life and uh you know make new kinds of entertainment, art, code, all sorts of things uh with this new tool of AI. And if we can enable people to do that and give them more flexibility like with these uh 200 Disney characters, I don't know exactly what we're going to see, but I think people will come up with amazing kinds of ideas.
>> Right. And to that point, and I know Sarah is very concerned here about the princesses. There are going to be guard rails around the usage. Is that right, Sam?
>> Yeah. Uh again, Disney is a great partner for us for this because they're they've been so willing to work out how this new world is going to work together. But the there will of course be guardrails. Uh it's very important that we enable Disney to set and evolve those guardrails over time. But uh they will they will of course be in there.
>> Bob, is the deal exclusive or is it possible for you to go out and sign a similar deal with other short uh short form video uh or companies that provide that that ability? This is a three-year license agreement and there is exclusivity uh at basically the uh the beginning of the three-year agreement. So yes, it is partially exclusive.
>> So for the first year, for example, I would guess something along those lines.
>> That that would be a good guess.
>> Now, why did you decide to invest a billion dollars in Open AI along with this deal? Well, obviously we've been mindful of the significant growth in AI to begin with and extremely impressed with the progress that Sam and Open AAI have made and uh that includes, by the way, as I said earlier, uh their agreement to both honor and value and respect our content. Uh and we want to participate in in in in what Sam is creating and what his team is creating. We think this is a good investment for the company. It's kind of a weigh-in of sorts for us to appreciate even more what is obviously something that is has significance in terms of the long-term uh impact on our business.
>> And there are warrants that came along with it. I guess you're not giving us any specifics though in terms of where those are struck. Is that correct?
>> That's correct.
>> I think that's correct.
>> Okay. Um Bob, at the same time you you announced this deal, uh you I I've reported on a cease and desist letter that was sent to Google. I I would imagine that's not a coincidence in terms of the timing. I'm curious as to what your conversations have been like with other platforms, including Google, and why you chose to make that move today. Well, we've been aggressive at protecting our IP and um and we've we've gone after other companies uh that have not honored our IP, not respected our IP, not valued it. Uh and this is another example of us doing just that. We've been in conversation with Google uh basically expressing our concerns about this and ultimately because we didn't really make any progress that the conversations didn't bear fruit, we felt we had no choice but to send them a cease and desist. And Sam, on that same note, did did your conversations with Bob and you're reaching a deal here come out of conversations around IP or can you give us some sense as to how we got here? We always have wanted to respect IP. When we launched Sora initially, um we had a lot of blocks in place, but we knew that if there was one company that we wanted to start partnering with, uh Disney was the obvious one. And so we have had a long discussion going with Disney. Um and we found them to be a sort of open-minded partner as this technology has evolved. And it was very clear to us that we we really wanted to find a deal to do here. Is it possible you'll sign similar deals with other companies as well?
>> The demand for Disney characters in particular from our users is sort of off the charts. So, I won't rule out anything in the future, but we think this alone is going to be a wonderful start uh for what our customers want to do when it comes to, you know, putting themselves in that one lightsaber scene from uh lightsaber fight from Star Wars or making like a a Buzz Lightyear custom birthday video for their kid. Uh, I think this is going to be like quite a big deal for our users and then we can we can reevaluate from there.
>> You really? Yes. So you I I just want to understand sort of you're looking at obviously what people are doing and you're seeing them interact with these Disney characters on a frequent basis. I guess that's what I'm hearing, right, Sam?
>> Well, they they'd like to be interacting. There's desire to do it. They haven't been able to yet. Yeah,
>> they'd like to be. When does this start, by the way?
>> I don't know if we have the launch date yet, but uh we'll try to get it in there as soon as we can. Um, and okay. Uh, and Bob, in terms of the use of Sora videos on the Disney Plus platform, which is also a part of the announcement, can you give us some sense as to how you're envisioning that or how that would work?
>> Well, we've wanted for a long time to have what we'll call usergenerated content on our platform. In this case, it will be user prompted Sora generated content. We'll be licensing AI Sora tools in order to do that. Initially what we'll do is we'll curate some of the videos that have been created on the Sora platform and put them onto Disney Plus which we think is a great way to increase engagement with our Disney Plus users particularly the younger users and we're going to do that as soon as we possibly can.
>> Right. So there'll be I don't know some sort of a tile or something that I can access as a Disney Plus user to look at what people have been creating that you guys have decided is worthy of of showcasing.
>> Yes. And then ultimately to enable users to prompt Sora to create what they want to create on our platform. Yeah, that's a big step for us.
>> Sam, I'd love to come to you if I can.
>> There you go, David. See, if you
>> Yeah. What am I looking at?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, you put it up very quickly, but there you go. There's a case of someone who wants to have a race against Lightning McQueen from Cars.
>> This is what I think Sam's ultimate fantasy is, which is ultimately to hold the lightsaber himself.
>> That would be cool. That's surfing with Stitch.
>> Um, is it it so it's Bob? It is includ inclusive of most of the Disney characters that we know well and obviously because they range far and wide at this point between Star Wars and Marvel, not to mention the Simpsons. I mean, it goes all over the place. It's not just Mickey Mouse.
>> There are many characters here, and I think there there's almost a character for everybody in this set. And I think it's going to be really fun and interesting to see what people do with them. And again, it's a it's a great step for us. We, you know, we've always been forward thinking when it comes to applying technology to both engage with consumers at a closer and a higher level uh to improve our business uh to essentially uh create new experiences in general. We were the first to license television shows and movies to the iTunes platform back in 2005 and 2006. as an example. And this is a step in another step in in essentially that direction, which is uh you know to to get on board with what is clearly an incredibly impactful and um and profound wave in terms of change in our society and certainly change in our industry.
>> Yeah. Uh I I asked this a bit earlier, but I just want to come back to it. I mean, I'm curious, Bob, what you think the reaction is in your company itself and amongst those who are your creators of animated IP? I mean, are they going to view this positively, do you think? And if so, why?
>> Well, they should.
>> Uh, Trump tweet stock market just hit an all-time high, which is not true. When will the fake polls show that I'm doing a great job on the economy and much more? Thank you. stock market did not just hit an all-time high. That's not correct. But as you can see, Donnie T cares about the stock market, which is why he's going to try to protect it next year, I think. Uh but if I'm not wrong, I don't think the stock market has hit an all-time high. We're close, even though we're down on the day, but we have not hit a new alltime high today. Our goal is in in using AI is to continue to uh honor, respect, value the creative community in general. And we don't believe that in in this case it does anything but that really again because we're not using name and likeness, we're not using character voices. Uh that's certainly um example of that. And again, the fact that that we're getting paid for this recognizes the value that's been created really in this case, you know, over over decades. Mickey Mouse was created in 1928 as a for instance. It's kind of extraordinary when you think about that a character was created almost a hundred years ago was going to end up on the Sora platform. And I think that speaks volumes not just about the value of the character and the interest that people still have in that character uh but the fact that the you know that that that users will be able to engage with a character that they've loved for so many years so many decades uh in in in really modern and and I think pretty enjoyable ways.
>> Yeah. No, it is interesting. Of course, Steamboat Willie was kind of a short of its own about eight minutes long. Obviously a lot longer than 30 seconds, but nonetheless not uh not particularly long. Sam, I I wanted to come to you on some broader issues uh in the time that we have here as well. You're going to exit the year, I believe, with about 1.9 gawatts of compute. Uh you've said, I believe publicly around a 20 billion annual revenue uh rate. Um does a deal like this help you think about an increase in terms of revenues andor your need for compute?
>> Uh yes. I mean, we expect this to drive incremental revenue. Uh, and also just delightful services for our users. We have a lot of other things that we expect will drive incremental revenue. Uh, but the only way we can deliver on that is with more compute. So, we will continue to build out compute. We'll try to do a big multiple on that 1.9 gawatts over the course of the next year and we'll keep going from there.
>> Yeah. Uh we've been talking a lot about Oracle this morning, of course, and so much of the uh investment perspective on that company comes back to your own and your ability to make good on the $300 billion commitment you've made in terms of buying compute from them. Why are you confident because others certainly are at least questioning uh in your ability to meet that obligation over over these next five years? Sam,
>> the value that we see people getting from this technology and thus their willingness to pay uh already today to say nothing of the models that we have coming in the coming months and years makes us confident that we will be able to significantly ramp revenue. Um it's obviously unusual to be growing this fast at this kind of scale. Um but it is what we see in our current data. The model's ability to do really increasingly valuable economic work in larger and larger chunks. I think you'll start to see this with our next model and then more of the next one and the one after that. Um we are confident we can continue to drive the revenue growth to to meet this compute ramp. Uh without the compute ramp, of course we can't drive the revenue growth, but uh we see way more reasons to be optimistic than reasons to be pessimistic. Of course, we'll continue to be responsible and of course we'll adjust our plans if as necessary if something happens that's not what we expect. But given what we see right now, uh the demand in the market is is pretty extreme and the overhang of what these models are capable of um that the world has not yet figured out how to build into their workflows is is also quite significant,
>> right? You know, I do wonder though specific to SOAR and the discussion we're having, it's more expensive for you, right? I mean requires more compute I would assume. Are you losing more money on every sort of video than than on simp a simple query? And do you start charging in a significant way particularly given you're going to be paying a licensing fee as well to to Disney?
>> Uh we do charge today for storage generations beyond uh some included free ones.
>> And I'm sure we'll continue to evolve the business model there but users have not indicated any lack of willingness to pay for generating videos that they love. Uh, in fact, if anything, it's that's there's been much more of that than we initially expected. Um, so yes, it's more expensive, but people pay much more and expect to pay much more than they do for an image.
>> And you see price elasticity there in terms of what you can charge.
>> It seems like it.
>> I have always wanted to be a Disney princess. Um, Sam, it's Sarah. There we go. Thanks for the solution. Look, as you know, in the market, it's it's gone from very optimistic to a little more scrutiny on the AI trade. And I know you're not public, but there are questions. For instance, following up on the revenue question, can you tell us a little bit about trends in chat GPT since Gemini 3 was launched by Google uh and and outperformed a lot of the open AI models?
>> Uh Gemini 3 has had less of an impact on our metrics than maybe we we feared. Um we will very soon launch a new model that we're quite excited about. Uh as well as a handful of other features in response to their launch. Um, you know, we we have twice before seen a competitive threat and uh I believe that when a competitive threat happens, you want to focus on it, deal with it quickly. We call that a code red, sort of a six or eight week focus period and then you deal with whatever you're going to deal with and and you know get back to a position of clear leadership and move on. So that's what we're doing with Gemini. This is a pretty standard thing for us. I expect we'll exit it uh by January uh in in a very strong position. Yeah, because that's that's sort of the question now is is it's obviously becoming a very competitive race both both technologically and for market share. So, how do you expect the the sort of market share battle to play out both on the consumer side and the enterprise side?
>> Um, on the consumer side, there's no company I would want to trade positions with. I I it will clearly be competitive, but I love where we are relative to anybody else. I think ChachiBT is the you know by far market share leader and with these upcoming launches I expect that distance to increase not decrease. I expect our market share to go up. Uh the enterprise side is still earlier. Uh we intend to go in there but we have a lot of work in front of us and it it won't be easy. um the the the the the set of services we want to offer finally has I think come into clarity and the models are getting strong enough that I think enterprises can really transform but that will be one of the big stories of 2026 is the companies competing for that again I love the position we're in and I think our strength in consumer is going to really translate and we're going to try our hardest to go in enterprise
>> and Sam to those who say well you know simply looking at it on a cost per token per dollar per watt to quote Satya Nadella, one of your partners. You guys are not going to be able to beat uh Alphabet. How do you respond?
>> We I mean we expect to beat Alphabet. We're incredibly excited about our upcoming chip.
>> Your upcoming chip? When when when do you expect to actually be deploying that?
>> I just as soon as I said that, I realized you were going to ask me. Um we're not ready to talk about that part yet, but uh we will talk about it. And we we are very focused on having the cheapest cost per token in the industry at the highest level of intelligence.
>> Yeah. Bob, I know you've been listening here and you know I'm curious as to how you viewed the landscape as well in terms of who you wanted to partner with and whether Chad GPT was always sort of the number one target. Sam and I first met actually when I was uh retired from Disney in 2022 and he gave me a bit of a road map of where open AI and AI was going. And everything that he predicted has come true a lot faster actually than he thought would unfold or would happen when we met in 2022. So, we've been extremely impressed with OpenAI's growth and what Sam and his team have been able to achieve. And of course, on top of that was their uh appreciation for our content and their willingness to license it and their willingness to help us protect it and to protect value. So, we're very excited about what we see. We also think there are great opportunities for our company to license other product from open AI to make our company more efficient uh to grow the top line uh to essentially accomplish a lot of what we feel we need to accomplish in the years ahead.
>> Yeah. Well, you say you're going to become a major customer of Open AI. What does that mean, Bob? Again, we think there are a lot of opportunities here beyond Sora to license to license product from OpenAI and um and and and and we intend to do just that. All right, that was the Disney Open AI partnership. I don't know. I I just I find it very hard to believe that they're going to have meaningful guard rails to be able to protect from the prompts of millions of people that are going to go wild with these characters. They gave you the good examples of a Buzz Lightyear birthday video, but for every good example, there's a lot of bad examples. And the only reason I'm even harping on that is because literally a month and a half ago on this show, we covered the MLK estate told OpenAI they have to stop uh allowing that to be prompted MLK to be prompted into userenerated queries around Sora prompts because people were typing in some really crazy stuff. To imagine that's not going to happen is insane. And if they're going to ban any creative thing that someone says, un unless it's the most politically correct, oh, give me a Mickey Mouse saying happy birthday, like then where's the creativity going to come from, you know? So, I I think it's going to be a harder challenge than not. And I guess Disney thought this was the opportunity to reach distribution for the younger generation, but we're going to see if this ends up actually working out for them. 1.3% $1 billion investment in Open AI. A couple quotes from Sam that I thought were pretty interesting is number one, we have a new model coming out and that new model is going to be better than Gemini along with the new chip. Uh Troy, thanks for the super chat. This chip is in partnership with Broadcom. Um I don't know if we're going to see that early 2026. They announced it in I think September of 2025. So the custom ASIC they've been working on with Broadcom. Maybe that ends up coming out going into early next year. But that was one of the big updates they gave. And then number two was uh that Gemini apparently Sam Alman which I mean how could he say anything different but his argument was it's not really having an impact on our growth. Um again you have this kind of code red thing that came out over the past couple weeks. I mean, quite frankly, this entire Disney partnership to me is an extension of Code Red because like you probably think, hey, if Disney bans Google from using their characters, but we get access to all these characters, that gives us a little bit more of an advantage, at least from a Sora perspective, that Nano Banana is never going to have access to because they don't have the licensing rights to Disney characters. So although he's saying Gemini 3 is not having an issue, I mean, we're really going to have to see the growth in the uh users and revenue over the coming months to see if it's actually having an issue or not. EST, right, they're up 2.76%. Oscar is up 3%. Mastercard still up 3%. Oracle was down 17 at the worst. Oracle is now down 14. So still down, but not down as much as it was before. I guess the guardrail will only be for older people prompting which will be no one. Yeah. I mean like like there's not going to be many many many older people that are going to be you know you're not talking about 65 to 75 year old people that are be going to be spending their time on sword. You're going to have dude you're going to have 15 year olds that have crazy stupid 15-year-old brains which we all had at one point and they're going to be prompting some dumb [ __ ] like it's inevitable and I if I I don't know if I was a Disney CEO I just wouldn't feel comfortable doing that. You have to embrace AI if you're a media company but there's also a certain way to embrace it and if anything if I'm Disney I would trust Sundar way more with the guardrails of protecting the IP of the characters versus Sam but I guess this is the route that they're going in Rocket Lab right there that's a 5% 60.45 45 Rocket Lab does not look like it wants to slow down. The space data center stuff continues to get a lot more people to be excited. Yes, technically the Dow Jones did hit an all-time high. So, I guess if the stock market is referred to as the Dow Jones, Trump is right. We did hit an all-time high. Um, I guess from Trump's perspective, he he thinks the Dow Jones is the market. For a lot of us and for a lot of retirement accounts, I'm pretty sure most people here are not invested in the Dow Jones. Most people have VO, VTI, S&P 500, something that's tracking the top 500 companies in America. Not the top 30 companies in they're not even the top 30 companies. They're just 30 companies that the Dow Jones happens to think are like really good companies. So he said the stock market. He didn't he didn't say the Dow Jones, but I guess if you interpret the Dow Jones as the stock market, then yes, that's at an all-time high. Um, unfortunately, Oracle not helping the more tech heavy indices get some love right there. Oracle 192 still down 14% on the day. Okay, Hood is down. So, again, I will say this over and over again, and we said this all throughout November, but if you're going to be a Robin Hood investor, you've got to be ready for this type of volatility. Now, people may be saying, "Wait a second, Ethereum and Bitcoin are only down 1%. Why is Hood down 8%. Well, Ethereum and Bitcoin were also only up one or two% over the past couple weeks and Hood went from 100 to 130. So, the upside that Hood gets even when crypto is going up a little bit is at a at a much higher beta to Bitcoin and Ethereum for a variety of reasons. But then so is the downside. So, I mean, my analysis on why this is happening today is because two things. Number one, crypto is getting hit. I mean, Bitcoin was at 94 yesterday. Now it's at 89. So, you know, Hood going from 132 to 124 isn't that crazy. But the the the other thing here is that if the market is taking a dip, remember Hood is a bull market proxy at the end of the day. And I've been very honest about that. As much as I love Hood, it has worked over the past couple years because we had a bull market. We don't have a bull market. Hood doesn't get to a hundred billion dollar market cap. And so, if you're going to hold this name, you just got to be ready for those swings up and down, which should be mitigated by the diversity of their business model. But nonetheless, just like Rocket Lab, right? Like why is Rocket Lab up 5% today? Nothing changed in terms of the fundamentals of their business, but it's in the niche of space and you've got the entire world now thinking space data centers are going to become a massive thing. SpaceX potentially going public that's going to create a bid and if that narrative dies out, Rocket Lab probably goes down 5% because the reason it's getting hyped up right here is not because of something fundamental, but because of this narrative. But that's the benefit of being long a space name from the lows. just like if you're, you know, long robin it from the lows. So I I think that would be the explanation for for here why it's down 8%. Would you buy Oracle for a swing trade? I I want to see it actually get back to 185 before I get interested in that. And maybe we don't get that. We got close at 188 or 186, but that's what it touched two weeks ago. I mean, you know, 185, 192. Maybe there's not that much of a difference right here. But the problem for a swing trade is like what is your swing? Like, do you think this gets back to 200, which maybe it does, maybe that's your target? I could see 195 in an easier way, but I think the riskreward is not the best. Granted, the risk should be mitigated because it's down 15% and it bounced. So, I'm not taking the trade, but I don't think it's crazy to take a bet on it there below that $200 level. No one's putting data centers in space. It's a terrible idea. Well, Elon again, he put out a bunch more tweets about it yesterday. He thinks it's a phenomenal idea. You do have a lot I am seeing a lot of push back though from people saying this is a really stupid idea. Um, I am not educated enough to have an opinion yet. I really have to go deep into it. All I know is the narrative is what's getting people excited and that narrative might be enough enough to keep it going. Um, is Nvidia still down? Did anyone buy anything today? I have I did not buy anything here today. Let me know in the chat if anyone bought anything. Nvidia right here is still down 3.4. I mean, dude, I've been buying Nvidia for the past couple weeks. So, if this thing's got to go back to 170 for me to be excited to buy again. So, if we actually get that decline, then I'll see. Oh, dude. Yeah, now I can be in High School Musical. I mean, if Disney's licensing all this stuff, now I can be in High School Musical. I can prompt myself with Gabriella in High School Musical. That would be perfect, right? That'd be that'd be a dream come true. See a lot of SoFi. I see a lot of Nebuses, Iren, Nvidiaas. Are you guys really buying Next? Because Mr. Eric Jackson is pumping it. Oh, no. He's doing Next Door. Sorry. Next decade is different. What is that ticker? NXDR. This thing's up another 21%. Another hundagger. This guy can find 100 baggers every month. I mean, it's quite incredible. So, there you go. That one should be $300 if it's $3 at this point. Palunteer, Nvidia, some Rare Earths. Uh, I see some more Netflix, Circle. All right, so people are definitely taking advantage of a little bit of the dip today. Dude, South or Southeast Asia with C Limited. This one is incredible that it's got hit as bad as it did. I I really have to go through the earnings and see what the street hated about it, but this one just got wrecked. This was having a great year. It was pushing $200 and now back down to 125. I I know you don't like penny stocks, but look at GPUs. I've actually heard of GPUs. Um yeah, another data center play. This is a hundred million dollar stock. I mean, I haven't looked that deeply into it, but I've heard some chatter about it. It reminds me of SLNH, which is another data center place, Salana Holdings. Unfortunately, some of these names, dude, they have their moment, and then they just get out of style. Like, look at this thing. Went from 40 cents in August to $5 in October, and now it's back down to a$180. Like, that's the problem with some of these penny stocks in these thematics. Like, you got to really know how to trade them if you're going to be a small cap investor. not even a small kind of a penny stock investor to invest in them is just a little tough, right? Because at the end of the day, they are penny stocks and they're going to be incredibly volatile unless you're super super early. A firm, what happened to a firm? A firm is down 6%. I don't know. Why are Visa and Mastercard pumping but a firm is down? I don't know. That is weird. That is weird. All the pay all the payment stocks are getting a move. You know, honestly, SoFi, Affirm, Hood, all of them are down. Maybe maybe is there a report on FinTech today or something? A firm. I don't see any headlines. Oh, Clara partnered with a crypto company today. Maybe that's creating the CLA partnered with privy.io to launch their own Oh, maybe this is it. Clar is launching a stable coin. Is that enough to I don't think that should be enough to hurt a firm, but maybe that's creating pain. Yeah, city's pumping a little bit as well. CLA is green. Mastercard with the share buybacks. That is fair. Uh, Amcore DCA is closer to 4142 for me. If if you would DCA into that, AMCO's had a massive run. I wouldn't be buying here. I mean, it really is got to Yeah, 46, dude. From 30 to 46 in less than a month. It's hard to buy at 46. So, that thing's got to drop back to the 40s, the low 40s to get excited about. video 177, Oracle 192, and then Google here at 3:15. The Federal Reserve Board announced the termination of enforcement actions involving Credit Swiss Group, Credit Swiss, AG, and JP Morgan. Okay, so we have some investigations ending there, which is fine. Where's CLA? Then we'll look at the heat map. CLA 3250 that's up 1%. Uh, heat map is ugly for tech. Industrials are okay. Visa got a big upgrade. That's probably helping Visa and Mastercard together because they usually move with each other. Yeah, everything's ugly except industrials, utilities, healthcare, and financials. Everyone's selling everything for gold and silver. That also might be happening. I mean, the run on those two is just incredible. Chime. Yes, we have our boy Tanner who loves his Chime. Is this thing green? He did pitch it on the Twitter spaces we did a couple weeks ago. Yeah, look at Chime. That's weird, bro. Chime and Clara are green along with Visa and Mascard. And then hood, so fine, and a firm are red. Sle did get into the uh S&P 600 small caps. That's correct. That's why Szle is sle's up. Um I read some noise about QE reserve management purchases, which looks bearish for banks. I mean, but all the financials are pumping today outside of like the fintexs, which is kind of weird. Even after those JP Morgan comments the other day, look at Bank of America. Dude, Bank of America has outperformed so many tech stocks this year. It's up 23%. At this point, it's outperformed Amazon and Netflix together, which is kind of hilarious. I do not think Hood is down because of the low trading volume last month. Again, if you actually look at the four days they lost and divided by the numbers of trading, um, the numbers are actually very good. remember we didn't have, you know, we had the Thanksgiving break in November. And then number two, I I really think the volatility of Hood is contingent on the perception of the market being bullish or bearish. And this Oracle thing, whether it's justified or not, immediately shifted the perception to be kind of bearish. And if the perception is kind of bearish, then Hood's going to get hit with it because Hood is a proxy for a rather bullish market. Also, I mean, guys, I went from 100 to 137, right? Like even I didn't think that was normal. Like I said it yesterday, I'm going to say it again. I feel like SoFi is a better buy than Hood. And I know that's crazy from me out of all people to say, but at the end of the day, I think SoFi is going to be a little less cyclical going into next year. We don't know if Q1's going to be super bullish, which means Hood has to beat a billion dollars of revenue for 2026 uh in Q1. That's a pretty hefty thing they have to live up to. I think they will, but they're not going to put up 50 60% growth rates if we don't have a massive bull market. Like, they're just not going to have the trading volumes to justify that. Will SoFi have the loan originations to justify a healthier beat? I think so. As rates come down, unless I'm missing something here. So, I think Hood even holding the 120s to 130s to me is something I'd be grateful for. Now, again, if we have a really hard end of year rally, 7,000 S&P, we're probably pushing 140 150 again. But that depends, you know, are we actually going to have that big of a run? So, I think we got to see. Now, look, it's down 9% today. So, people that might be thinking, hey, this is me aggre aggressive. Maybe there's someone who's dumping a lot of shares. Maybe there's an institution. Maybe there's an insider saying, you know, I'm taking some heavy profits here. I mean, that could be a simple reason as well. We'll find out probably in a couple days when we get some of these disclosures. But yeah, outside of that, I think it has more to do with if Oracle goes down, the entire market goes down, and Hood is seen as a proxy for the entire market, then Hood's going to get hit. Not to mention, Bitcoin and Ethereum are down substantially from where they were yesterday when Hood was pushing 140. Oscar right there, that's still up 3%. App Love and 713 and then Adobe 345. Netflix as well is up. Cruise lines are up. That is correct. Cruise lines are up, which is good for the consumer, right? Again, this consumer week narrative. Look at that. Carnival Cruise up 4%. NCH up 5%. Royal Caribbean up 5%. Is anyone going on a cruise to end out the year? Or have you been on a cruise recently? Honestly, I don't like the concept of cruises, dude. I really Last time I went on a cruise, I think was like 11, 12 years ago. But I don't know. Being out in the middle of an ocean, it's not it's not the most exciting to me. I'd rather like be on land and do something else. But there's a big market for people that love cruises, especially for older people. And it looks like that's not stopping. Sammy says Disney cruise in March. Um he wouldn't do an AK meetup cruise. Yeah. Okay. So, for those asking for the meetups, we'll have So, I'm doing a stream tomorrow night with the new manager that I've hired 7:30 uh Eastern. It'll be a fun stream. We're going to have a lot of announcements for the future of the channel in 2026. Uh, and we will have announcements for the meetup. So, 7:30 tomorrow, Friday night Eastern, you guys will get to meet her. I think she's super cool. Um, and she's going to be a big part of this community, big part of the show, big part of organizing a lot of stuff. She's just going to be a big part in terms of managing my day-to-day and a lot of the opportunities that are coming up for next year. And I think at this point it was time to hire somebody because like I just I just can't manage everything else myself. Uh and we'll have a lot of announcements on the meet up tomorrow. So New York City, if anyone's thinking of a New York trip in January, then I will have a lot of details tomorrow and it should be pretty exciting. Uh yes, Singapore. Okay, so I'm talking with my uncle about Singapore as well. We are looking at April and June. We will probably have something more finalized by the end of December, but April and June, not July. Originally, we're thinking July. Now, we're thinking April and June. So, that one's still in the works. But, um, the new manager is also going to be navigating all the Singapore stuff. And yes, likely April and June. So, it should be fun. And my uncle already has a couple locations that we can go to. So, Singapore, I think, is definitely happening for sure. I've also got to see if my Grab investment is going to be worth anything in the future. So, definitely Southeast Asia. Would be excited to check that out into next year. Nate says Chicago. We're going to try Chicago. I mean, look, we got to get New York out of the way. This is the first meetup where it's a formal venue. It's a like real location. It's not just a random bar that I messaged two weeks before a meet up of like, hey, can I have 70 people show up? The bars were like, why? They're like, well, I'm a YouTuber and we're meeting up and I promise they'll buy drinks. And they're like, okay, I guess. This time it's actually like a legitimate thing. So, let's get New York out of the way and then we'll get ready for the other the other events. But LA is definitely on the list. I know people have been begging for that one. So, we'll do LA. hopefully Texas and then we'll try to get the UK and and Germany in there as well because those are big ones. But Cardo Libre little recovery from yesterday. That was down 5%. Now it's up 2%. JP Morgan also not bad. 318 to 300 back to 314. Look at that. 298 to 314 on JP Morgan. That's a hell of a recovery. That's why all the banks are pumping today except SoFi. But the rest of these banks making a pretty nice move. And then Uber still down based on the Whimo stuff from yesterday. Um, the manager is not the dentist. No, it is not. The the dentist has more important things to do than try to organize a meetup. They're like fixing root canals all day. Dude, dentists are underrated because the pain I was in two months ago on that root canal, I mean, the fact that a dentist could fix that in an hour, underrated, bro. Like, that [ __ ] And the root canal didn't even hurt. Root canal was fine, but the pain from everything else freaking hurt. Um, where does she live? She's from Canada. She's from Canada. She's likely moving to New York, but she is from Canada, which by the way, we'll talk about it tomorrow, but the [ __ ] she was telling me about Quebec and the language police. I didn't know there was language police in Quebec, but apparently there is. And I didn't believe her at first. And then she like told me and then I researched it and I was like, "That's crazy." Like apparently in Quebec you like every business sign has to be in French and if it's not you can go to jail. Like I couldn't believe it. Like like if you're a subway in Quebec, you can't have subway on the sign. You have to have the French version of what subway means. It's like intense how much they protect the French language. So yeah, we'll talk more about it tomorrow, but I I could not believe that Visa, look at that. Four and a half% for Visa and Mastercard. Mastercard up 3%. Both of these just making mass moves. I can confirm Starbucks is less cafe Starbucks. Yeah, I was just like that's a bit aggressive, bro. That's a bit aggressive. But I guess that's that's how Quebec operates. Their French is not French. They have a different French. Tanner says Quebec is the North Korea of Canada. Dude, that's what she was describing. I was like, that sounds authoritarian, bro. Like they And and then I looked it up because I didn't believe it and I looked it up and I was like, "Oh, no. They really enforce." Uh, American Express, by the way. Also, every financial is getting love today except Robin Hood firm and SoFi. Everything else and you would think Chime is in that bucket, but even Chime is getting some love with the larger financial companies. Yeah, the way she was describing it, it looked like the language police were aggressive there. But yeah, it'll be fun. I think it'll be a cool uh stream tomorrow and we'll have a lot of updates for the future of the channel. And so 7:30 p.m. Eastern, we will have all the details for that one. Okay, what else? What other macro news do we have? Do we have anything else crazy? I guess the biggest news today was the Disney OpenAI stuff. We had jobless claims. That was nothing burger. Oracle not recovering, but not down as bad as it was in the morning. Um, we'll see by the end of the day if this dip ends up getting bought. in any capacity right now. Still struggling to see it make a move. Treasury yields are doing good, dude. 10 years fine. Japanese bond yields are fine. I mean, they're not like amazing given where they were a couple weeks ago, but it's not like they're spiking to the moon, which would make you, you know, super afraid of what's going on with the tenure. Um, by the way, the the the the Warner Brothers stuff, remember David Ellison's entire argument about why they can afford to to to to buy Warner Brothers for 18 billion more in enterprise value than than Netflix is that the Ellison's are backstopping the entire financing. Well, Larry Ellison just lost $50 billion today on paper. I'm not saying he still can't backs stop the trade, but I mean, the dude just lost 50 billion. I I I don't think we've talked about if Oracle continues to decline. I I think Warner Brothers was like, "Wait a second, bro. The person you told us was going to backs stop everything. Yeah, they just lost $50 billion in a day. What if they lose another $50 billion if AI bubble concerns get a bit more aggressive?" And again, Ellison borrows against all his stock if the value of that stock goes down. like he's not going to go broke or anything, but still maybe Warner Brothers is like, "Well, we think Netflix is just a better person to guarantee that they have the money for us." And so maybe there's an argument we can make on that. I mean, if I was one of their lawyers, I would be like, "Dude, look at the stock. Oracle is volatile." Like, he's he's saying we got Yeah, it's a little bit of a better offer because they're buying everything, but if Oracle goes down for any reason, we have another Deep Seek 2.0 I know when Oracle gets hit to 130 like now Netflix will go down as well but nonetheless you know Netflix is actual equity versus just something that's super volatile for one person. So I don't know maybe that's an argument that they could be making as well. Yes, Larry Ellson is 81 years old. He sounds amazing by the way for being 81. He was on the earnings call yesterday. He sounds great. So he's one of the healthiest 81 year olds I think we've ever seen, especially functioning at the level that he's functioning at. But nonetheless, the stock is still incredibly volatile. Invid right there 177 still down. Yeah, 40% drop on Oracle from October highs. I mean, I think that could definitely be an argument for why you have Netflix instead. His girlfriend is not 26. His girlfriend is 31. It's a difference. It's 5 years. So his girlfriend's a tad bit younger than him, but it is what it is. Visa Bank of America upgrades to buy Visa underperformance is buying opportunity. Stock now trades near 10ear valuation. Low EPS growth 50% margin. Stable coins are opportunity not a threat. I mean look, I agree. I have Visa in my ETF as well. I didn't really factor in the whole stable coin stuff, but I do agree stable coin should be an opportunity for Visa, not something that's bearish. So, I don't necessarily think we should see that much pain on the uh the crypto element of of Visa, especially because all these banks are coming out with their own their own stable coins. So, I think it's just going to be a competition between all them back and forth. Uh what else? What else? What else? What else can we see? Uh oh, we got Howard Marx is live. We haven't heard from him in about a month. I guess let's take a little bit of a look of what he has to say. I mean, last time we talked to him, he said, "We are not in a bubble, but he did say valuations are aggressive." So, I guess we can see what he said. I enjoyed your interview with the young rapper, dude. He just text me this morning. He said, "You can let the chat know that I have now downsized to 60 positions from 250." So, we're we're getting him to consolidate. Hopefully, we get him down to 10 positions by the end of the year, but at least he's down to 60, which is not horrible. Um, okay, cool. So let's go to let's go to Howard Marks get his thoughts on current state of the economy right now
>> and these actually push society ahead uh and change it irreversibly uh but in the process there's a bubble surrounding their implementation which is overly uh accelerated and overly financed and goes to excess and end up destroying a lot of capital but leave society uh greatly changed and I'm sure that AI is in the latter category in terms effect on society and the question is will the implementation uh prove to have been excessive in scope and in in the way it's financed.
>> Just because something is excessive doesn't mean that you can't invest in it.
>> No, but but it it you know when when when investors hate everything and won't touch it with the 10-ft pole, chances are it's going to be on sale because nobody has pushed up the price. In fact, their disinterest has pushed down the price. But when everybody likes something is excited about something, chances are it may be overhyped and overpriced. So you just have to be careful.
>> So that's where we are right now. You said you can invest, you can participate, but you just have to be careful. What does being careful look like? Does it mean focusing more on debt versus equities? More on equities versus debt? More on small companies versus big ones? What does that look like?
>> Well, uh, what I say in the memo is that it's okay to lend for activities even if they're uncertain, but not if they are if the outcomes are purely conjectural. I mean, in order to be a smart lender, you have to have good visibility on the extent to which the thing has is likely to repay interest in principal. Uh, if it's just purely conjectural, uh, it's not you shouldn't be a lender. And in fact, it's I think the memo says that um, where that's the case, you should actually, if you want to participate, you should be in the equity. So, at least you get the upside. The lender has no upside. You you make it 9% loan. All you're going to get is 9% no matter how well the thing does. You certainly shouldn't do that in in in uh activities that have a high probability of not paying off at all because then you have unlimited downside and limited upside. That's absolutely the wrong combination.
>> So you think right now in some circumstances the equity might actually be a better option than the debt because of that potential upside.
>> Yes. Exactly. Because the point is that if you if you go into some startup which has a a poss you know let's say a small possibility of a of a raging success uh you know you wouldn't lend to it because you have a high probability of losing all your money and no probability of participating in the success that
>> that's actually quite a quite an interesting way of thinking about that. Howard Marks continuing to not be super bearish. Now a couple months ago I know some of the headlines were saying that he thinks the market's in a bubble. I guess he's changed a little bit of his perspective here, but um his argument here is you'd rather buy the equity because the upside on the asymmetry of the potential of AI is actually more exciting than the the the downside of of financing the debt because the downside is zero obviously because these companies could go out of business. So, you'd rather take a risk on the equity itself than the debt because if if you finance the debt, like your upside is not massive. Like, yeah, you'll get like maybe five 6% return, but the equity could go up 5 600% if the whole AI thesis works out. And we've been seeing a lot more of these AI startups continue to get funded as well. I think two days ago, I talked about a new chip company that got funded, $475 million seed round, um, $4.5 billion valuation. They're taking on Nvidia, which I know sounds crazy, but nonetheless, you got companies taking on Nvidia. And there's a lot of potential potentially from the equity side of these startups where the market is getting at least more curious about the different AI names that can be built. Um, this one sped up Howard Mark still sounds slow compared to a MIT. Uh, this this I saw was interesting yesterday. Shopify and Uber. So, Uber Direct just dropped in the Shopify app store. fulfill online orders in store for same day local delivery because customers want your products now, not next week. So, inside of Uber, you can literally order new things along inside of Shopify. So, kind of a sort of a symbiotic relationship right here and get your deliveries from the Uber while you're in or from the from the Uber app while you're also utilizing the Shopify API that they're building on top of. I thought this was really interesting because it's basically Uber Uber's attempted to e-commerce. Now, why does this make sense? Uber has a massive advertising business. I think they're doing about 1.5 billion a year in revenue just on ads. And I mean, if someone's waiting for their Uber and they see an ad and then they want to buy the product that they're seeing in the ad. Right now, the ads are like very brandoriented like Dunkin Donut. Like you're not going to buy Dunkin Donuts from your Uber app. You know, you're just going to get the idea of Duncan inside of your mind. But if it's like, "Hey, buy these Nike sneakers." and you feel like you want to buy them right then and there, then maybe that is a very interesting collaboration as well. However, that's not enough to get the market excited. The Whimo stuff, I think, is becoming a much bigger issue in terms of the robo taxi debate for the markets. Um, we have Warren who's live. My dude, my voice just cracked so heavy right there. Elizabeth Warren is live. Let's see what she had to say about the Fed cutting rates yesterday. I'm glad to see the Fed lower interest rates. I've been pushing for it for years. It helps bring down costs for families so that they can are more likely to be able to afford a mortgage, so that they can pay less on car loans, so they can pay less on credit cards. But don't make any mistake, they didn't lower interest rates because they think the news is just fabulous on inflation. They lowered interest rates because they expressed a lot of concern about the job market. And Jay Powell in fact talked yesterday about whether or not there's actual negative growth, that's how they put it, contraction overall in the labor market. And you know the long-term implications of that both at the family level for people not having jobs, not having job availability. We're seeing less churn, people leaving their jobs because they found something better. Instead, people hanging on to their jobs,
>> right? That all means a lot more pressure on families. So the news yesterday, look, I'd like for it to be better news, but right now there's still a lot of red flashing lights about this economy and the Fed's response.
>> You can tell how happy she is that the economy is not doing well because who does she get to blame, right? And it's on both sides. This is what the Republicans were doing when when Biden was president and and uh inflation was ramping up. So remember, Warren is the lady who sent a handwritten letter to JPAL in September begging him essentially to cut rates and he's cut rates, but he's cutting for a reason that she's going to get to weaponize essentially against the administration
>> response to it.
>> Does that mean you you'd like to see the Fed cut interest rates even faster? You agree with the president and Steven Myerin that they should have cut 50 basis points yesterday? You know, I I actually I I keep looking at this is why don't they? And the answer is Donald Trump. He's the one who has caused so much chaos with the tariffs that the Fed has said we can't. In fact, Jerome Pal said in July they would have started cutting interest rates substantially back in March. only the the president's work on the uh uh on the tariffs and the kind of economic chaos he was causing had caused them to delay and to delay and to delay. And another way to understand that is what the president's been doing on tariffs is not just a tax in the sense of driving prices up. It's a tax in the sense of keeping interest rates higher than they otherwise would be. But of course that goes to the other question you asked and that is about the independence of the Fed. You you rightly point out I have had no problem criticizing Jerome Pal when I think he's wrong and I thought he's been wrong a lot. But I think it's important to have an independent Fed and that's something that's shared on both sides of the aisle. Republicans and Democrats have said that if the president just turns around and puts his own guy in there, puts in a sock puppet, then one of the consequences of that is we will lose one more part of our economy that we've had literally for decades. This is the argument that a lot of the left has been making at the end of the day. And I think this is the argument they've been making around midterms, which is that the Trump tariffs have caused the lack of rate cuts and that the lack of rate cuts have caused a labor market, which ultimately goes back to the Trump tariffs. So Trump's going to have to combat that with a the tariffs have not hurt the economy and b affordability has gotten better, aka prices have not gone up, they've gone down over the next 365 days as we get into the midterms. But that is going to be the prevailing narrative back and forth in these debates. The other narrative is going to be that the tech companies care about data centers. They don't care about the average American. And that's what Mr. Bernie Sanders had to say today. The $165 billion data center that Open AI and Oracle are building in Abene, Texas will use as much electricity as 750,000 homes. One data center. Meta is building a data center in Louisiana, the size of Manhattan, that will use as much electricity as 1,200,000 homes. In community after community, Americans are fighting back against data centers being built by some of the largest and most powerful corporations in the world. They are opposing the destruction of their local environment, soaring electric bills, and the diversion of scarce water supplies. Nationally, how will continued construction of AI data centers impact our environment? Now again the the the the the push back here is that if Meta was not spending on that data center if Open Eye and Oracle were not building out data centers, not even just over the next coming months as they start to build out those but over the past two years the American economy would be dead. 50% of our GDP since 2023 has been essentially data centers. I mean it's capex but capex is for what for the data centers. So, you know, if we think we have a K-shaped economy, if we didn't have this data center buildout, which he's right about, it's going to increase electricity prices, and hopefully there's some way to navigate that, either by improving the grid, which is going to be very important. And I think there's a lot of opportunities there that will present themselves or by these companies potentially subsidizing the increase of prices which Google was thinking about in Ohio of just potentially like not a tax but them like giving more money to the I guess it's a functionally attack to the local community to to to help offset the electricity prices. But if we didn't have the data center buildout, we wouldn't have any GDP growth. And so it's a tricky thing to balance, but it's like when you paint it as black or white and and you know the the base of people that just hate billionaires and then they see the data centers and they see their electricity prices go up and they get pissed off about it's like yeah, but when you look under the hood and you you kind of understand economics like we also need GDP growth for the economy to keep moving so we can have jobs and over the past three years the GDP has come from capex which I don't know if that's necessarily healthy or not but it is what it is. And it's one of those things that we forget about a lot when we think about the increase of energy. I mean, the fact that I'm in my parents' basement right now is probably because Nebius's New Jersey data center took out the power in my apartment. So, I'm literally an example of this electricity stuff. But I'm not complaining about it. Shows got to go on. Got to keep moving. My dad is super happy cuz I came home last night. Dude, he he loves like I texted And I was like, "Yeah, I'm going to have to come home today." He's like, "All right, awesome. Great. Love it." Like, dude, he loves when I come home. He absolutely loves it. He just loves knowing that I'm home. Like, I think it's very It's just I think it's like an Indian dad thing, but they just love when they know that their kids are home. Like, welcome with open arms, like, "Hey, do you have dinner? You want to come home?" But the point is, look, data center stuff is ramping up and we're going to need that if we want to get any level of GDP growth. Um, Tanner says, "Pay your bills." Yeah, dude. I pay way too much in rent for that. This is the third time. They said it's the last time. And I'm just like, guys, this is getting ridiculous. Like, I didn't know I moved to a place that is being affected by electricity this much. I just feel bad for the other there's probably other people that can't just go back to their parents house and they probably have meetings that they have to deal with today and the apartment was like, "Oh, we'll set up a lounge on this floor. We'll have food. We'll have snacks." I'm like, "Bro, like, how is someone supposed to take a meeting?" Like, yeah, there's some office space, but first of all, you have to book that. I'm pretty sure that's booked out immediately as soon as that email came out. Second of all, it's like you can't get your [ __ ] done. You have no privacy. So, it's definitely something annoying. And I'm joking that it's about the data centers, but I I I can imagine over the next couple years, the data center stuff will lead to like real implications for a lot of people because it's going to put pressure on the grid. And at the end of the day, the grid is not as sustainable as we thought given all these data centers that are being built out. Micro strategy down 7% on the day. Bitcoin low of days basically 89.5 as that's down. Chances it's adapting. It's definitely adapting as well. As soon as I came home, dude, we talked the next because my dad now loves the stock market because my dad is selling options and he's like investing heavily. So, as soon as I came home, for the next two hours, we just end up talking about stocks. It really has been something that we've bonded over. you know, you know, I've been grateful for the markets for a lot of things, but uh one of the things is just helping create a better relationship with my dad because once you have something in common to talk about, it's just like, you know, it's easier to to hop on the phone and talk for 20 minutes about what's going on in the world. Silver 6340. Goodness freaking gracious. 5% on the day. This thing is now up year to date. Well, SLV is up 113%. I think silver is up 57%. My goodness, this is incredible. Better text your uncle. Oh, don't worry. He's He's gonna He just texted me. He said, "I'm still holding copper, too. Well, Copper's probably moving with silver. Paul Tudtor Jones is very bullish on silver even at this level. Oh my gosh, dude. See, the problem with now starting to do research on silver is like it's had a massive run. So now if you do all the research and you're like, "All right, I'm ready to get in." It's like, "Okay, how much more upside is there?" And I'm sure there probably is upside, but is it the asymmetric opportunity that's worth the time and attention like it was when it was at 20 bucks last year or in October 2024? I don't know. It does feel a little FOMO. I told you guys that stat yesterday that uh it was the uh second largest ETF in inflows outside of gold last week. 15.3 million ounces. It's on track to have the 10th largest monthly inflow this year. Uh actually no, it exceeded gold last week. It had a billion in net inflows exceeding the intakes of the largest gold fund. So people figured out this trade. This trade is happening now. I don't know if it's going to continue to be the most exciting trade. Iran, are we up on Iran today? Iran. Nope. Iron's down along with Nebius at 9193. Neb's a good entry at 90. I mean, look, I bought a 92 a week ago. Uh, I think the answer is yes. But obviously the data center narrative, the thing about the data center stocks is again if that narrative goes south, which it did today with Oracle, even though I think it's a stupid reason it went south, but nonetheless, these stocks get hit, but then randomly like I Navis was 104 a week ago like and it it's these are the most volatile stocks in the market. I think the data center names are literally Like these names are just super super super freaking volatile. But I agree with Mike Noatrat. You got to pick the right one, right? And if you pick the right one, then there's a better shot. Am I frozen? Am I frozen? Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Hold on. Let me check. It's good now. It's good. Oh, the audio is okay, but it's choppy. Okay, I think the internet probably lagged out for a second. We should be back. Should be back. Anyway, I was just saying the data center names are incredibly volatile and you you got to pick the right ones if you're going to really really hold on. Yeah, dude. Apply Digital was pushing 44 or sorry 34 the other day. Now it's back down to 29 but still up 283%. So these names really you got to have conviction with the ones that you actually dive into which Nebius look my conviction he I did my deep dive on Nebas. I'll link it again in the chat. I have more deep dives coming soon. Again just getting sick over the weekend really messed up the posting schedule. But for anyone who wants to read it, it's right there. And I think that'll that'll give some explanation. Um, Warner Brothers right there. 2949. 2949 on the day. What's your year to date, dude? Do we want to do year to dates? We haven't done it in a minute. I feel like we haven't done it since the November ugliness of freaking last month. That's when it was ugly. Okay, year to date. So, let me do the highest year to date I had first. Let me do the highest I had first. You can put it in the chat. The highest year to date, and I'm sure it's similar to other people, was October 9th for me. We should wait till end of year. Waiting more time to complete our homework. Oh my gosh. The highest year to date I had was 199.3%. That was October 8th. Currently, right now, 70%. 70%. Obviously, it's like an ugly ugly decline, but look, I'm not complaining, okay? 70% is amazing. S&P's at 15, so we're doing our job. We're beating the S&P. We're beating it by a wide margin. But that was when Pounder was 200, Robin Hood was 150, BMR was freaking 60, Bitcoin was at 126,000, uh, Rocket Lab was 75, SoFi was 32. What's the other big stock? Nvidia was 200. I mean, all those names have seriously and those are the names I'm Robin, Nvidia, Pounder, I'm very concentrated in those names. It's like a day like today, you know, I I'm not being nonchalant about Robin declining because I sold my hood. No, I have all my hood. I just become so normalized to these moves. So, you know, over 10,000 shares, $11 down. Like, yeah, that's that's an ugly day. And, you know, that that in November, that also really hurt it when it went back down to 100. But we've started to have a bit of recovery, which hopefully we continue to have. So, not too ungrateful for the year-to- date performance. I think we can get closer to that like 90% year-to- date by the end of the year. It really just depends on can Nvidia get back to around that 190 range. Pounder, look, I'm grateful for pounder, but it's back at 185. Like there's nothing I can complain. I I do not expect it to get back to 200. I think if it even stays at this level, I'll be happy. And then hoodie, you know, again, 120 to 130. We can get back to 130, I'd be happy by the end of the year. But Nvidia is the one that legitimately should not be at this level. Like this is stupid. And the only thing I can do is continue to to buy and allocate more here. Obviously, the biggest loser this year is for me has been Grab. I mean, if that position if that money was just in any of my top three names, I don't know if it would have made a massive difference in my year to date, like yeah, some of that, you know, it would have maybe increased it by another percent or two, but um if that money was like in Iran at $10, that would have made a massive difference. But, you know, it is what it is. So, that's been the biggest lagger in the portfolio. you know, hopefully that is an outperformer in 2026. But I think outside of that, I'm not upset with the portfolio performance this year. I mean, 70% is amazing. I think we can get closer to 90% by the end of year. And if Grab is the only real loser, and realistically, you know, Grab is stuck. I I wouldn't say it's a it's a loser in terms of it hasn't moved up in the way that some of these other names have moved up. So, in that case, yes, it's a loser, but not necessarily losing money on the position. Neb, thousand shares at 97, so that's not really doing much, but I also entered super late, so I'm not expecting that to make a massive massive move. Um, all right. I'm seeing some year to dates. I'm seeing a lot of people in that same range. 70% 42% from 58% 21% 29%. Ray said my highest was 167. Um I see 40.75 30%. Uh it's definitely I can see from the chat significantly lower than that October 8th high. That's when all of us were 115 175 234 97. So yeah, we're definitely all much lower than from those levels. But look, if you're beating 15% and if you're beating, which is the S&P, which that that lets you know if all the time that you spend caring about the markets is worth it. I mean, obviously it's worth it because you get to be with me every day and you get to laugh and you get to enjoy and you get to think philosophically about the nature of existence. I mean, all of that really, I mean, outside of the money, that's what really matters, right? So, so like excluding that part of the equation, the time you spend on the market, there has to be a justification for it. And I think double the S&P for all the time that we're spending should be the justification. So, realistically, S&Ps at 15. If you're doing 30, I think it's worth it. Which is not easy to do, by the way. Like, I hate sounding like this because it sounds so casual, but like 30% returns are crazy. And the [ __ ] we went through in November or in April just lets you know how grateful everyone has to be for any level of returns. But we're in a bull market, so the expectations are lifted, right? You know, most hedge funds are barely going to do 15% this year because obviously they're hedging a lot of their downside. Realistically, retail investors are the only one. I mean, Bill Aman's not doing 70%. Warren Buffett's not because they have a portfolio, man. They're managing hundreds of billions of dollars. Like, they just can't take that much risk. Bill Actton, I think, is doing like 22% this year because he's heavy in Google, which has basically made his entire year. Uber has done really well for him. He got in at 55. So, if you're beating the S&P, I think that's what matters. And if you can beat it by double, then I think it justifies a lot more of the the time as well. Chad says, "I can't get over how clear that beard is. Must be eating at Applebee's." Dude, we're growing out this beard. It's doing its thing. I haven't grown out the beard for years, but we're growing it out. We'll see if we can keep growing it out going into next year. Rocket Lab 61 on the day. She's moving. I own Rocket Lab, by the way. I, you know, sometimes people think I'm bearish on Rocket Lab. No, I've owned Rocket Lab since 25. That money got me into this thing. So, I love Rocket Lab. I do think at 75 it was a bit aggressive. I also think at 61 there's no reason for it to be up outside of this whole AI space data center stuff, but I mean I'll take it. It's helping the year to date if Rock Lab's going to make a run going into the end of the year. Chad, we need to get you on the stream again. We got to get you on the stream again with your forest as the background. We got to talk about good old Palunteer, which by the way, two updates on Palunteer. So, we talked about that $450 million announcement from um from uh from from the US Navy, but uh I didn't cover this because I was sick the day after this news came out, but Palinger did launch the Neurode Divergent Fellowship. Karp got a lot of flack. A lot of flack. Um, Chad says, "I was just looking at my bald eagle on my land right now." That's crazy, dude. The benefit of owning that much land. Um, he got a lot of flack for this for this for this interview. I'll play this 30 second clip. Um, and I thought it was unjustified, but this is the the clip that he's been getting a lot of [ __ ] for over the past week.
>> A lot of decisions when we began talking, annoying each other 10 years ago. Hopefully, I'm annoying you as much as 10 years ago. Uh, or more. uh when when when I made a you know this every decision Palanteer made FDA's going public building products no one enterprise large data sets going to government acknowledging American superiority being pro meritocracy launching an AI platform calling into question that AI models would actually be able to perform without orchestration every single one uh every single ourtology every single one of those was viewed as lot of decisions when we begin.
>> Okay, so for people who don't know Karp and for people who have never watched a single interview of Karp, I fundamentally disagree with people saying it's not a good look. I just disagree. It's okay for us to disagree, but I disagree. If you know Karp, you know this is who Karp is. He's going to be jittery. He's going to be jumping up and down. He's going to be saying uh between every other word. Like I know his profile has increased dramatically. He's not your Jensen Huang or your typical cookie cutter CEO that's able to like speak in proper sentences and like, you know, barely stutter in between his words. This is Karp we're talking about. I mean, part of the reason I invested in Palunteer 5 years ago is because I saw his crazy hair and I was like, dude, this guy's this guy is different. So, the fact of the matter is his brand profile has increased. So, now his content starts to get more viral distribution. And so, the thing that people look at immediately is like, "Oh, this guy's got to be on drugs." Which look, I understand why people immediately have that gut reaction. But that's why I think it was very important for Pounder to counteract that because he's not on drugs. He's just different. And if for anyone who read the the book that came out on him, I again I interviewed the the uh the author of that book a month ago, Karp is dyslexic. And he talks a lot in the book about being dyslexic and what that has done for him as an individual. And one of the things he talked about deeply is that when you're dyslexic, you have to think for yourself. you cannot think in the conventional way because when you think because you literally when your mind is reading the text on the screen it's unconventional. So I think he saw a lot of the [ __ ] that was going on online about people making fun of someone who in his own words is a bit neurode divergent and he said you know what screw this we're going to launch a new neurode divergent fellowship pounder said if you find yourself relating to him in this video unable to sit still or thinking faster than you can speak we encourage you to apply the final round of interviews will be conducted by Dr. car personally. 2,000 people have applied for this. 2,000 people. Like I look, the internet is an ugly place. The internet is a weird place. The internet is a mean place. And given I've been on social media for the past couple years, you get people that know nothing about you, know nothing about who you are, but just like want to take shots at you and jab at you and like it's a very nasty place. And you have to protect your mental health when you see that stuff. But at the end of the day, he has built a $450 billion company over the past 20 years, taking it from 0 to 450 billion, one of the most important companies in the world. And he's does it he he did it and Paler did it without conforming to the rest of the world standards. And for people to see that, which means you're obviously going to get someone who's a little weird, just like Elon, right? Elon is a little weird to say the least, but nonetheless, he's freaking Elon for a reason. that weirdness, that difference in his personality is his superpower. And I I just thought it was fascinating that the majority of X over the past week was like, "Oh, this guy's on drugs." It's like, first of all, like, have you built anything as substantial as he has in his life? Have you even tried? And if you haven't, and your first gut assumption is he's on drugs, it's like that it's just a loser take in my opinion. It's just a loser take. So, I thought it was a phenomenal idea to be like, "Oh, you think I'm crazy? You think I'm on drugs? Great. We're launching an application for people who are just like me, who are not crazy, who are not on drugs, but are different from the mainstream way of how tech entrepreneurs or people in general operate. And we're going to make a fallacy just for them. I thought it was a phenomenal idea and I think it was something very strong for a pounder to lean into. And again, this is why I love this company. They lean into their differences. They don't apologize for how Karp acted. He didn't do anything wrong. Being jittery on the chair is not doing anything wrong. In fact, if you actually listen to the talk, it was a phenomenal conversation and it was a really deep conversation on the nature of political correctness and ideological differences. But I think people judge off 30 secondond clips and I I'm kind of happy that Pounder leaned deep into it. Also, yeah, dude, there's a reason the stock trades at 100 times sales and Adobe can barely get a multiple. People are inspired by Palanteer. And like I think part of of of building any mission or movement, I mean as the CEO's job first and foremost for shareholders is to get that stock to go up. The job is to make the stock go higher at its core. And in order to make it go higher, yes, the company has to perform, which counter has obviously done very well in terms of their top and bottom line growth, but they also have to paint a story. I mean, what is Elon doing right now? He's painting a story about data centers in space, which none of us knows if is even possible or not. But guess what? There's probably a lot of sovereign wealth funds and institutional investors saying, "Hey, you know, maybe that's a $10 trillion business." And and and that story is getting them to be excited to invest. Like, you've got to be someone who can inspire and motivate people. And that requires passion. And by the way, Karp's rich. Like, he's been rich for the past couple years. Like to still have that type of passion to care about what you're doing on a day-to-day basis means it's not really about the money. It's about actually implementing a mission. That's why the employees at Palunteer tend not to leave. That's why their turn rate is the lowest in the tech industry because people are actually inspired by what they're doing and the purpose they have, not not by the check that they're getting. You see the same thing with uh Peter Beck at Rocket Lab when I hear him talk. Obviously, same thing with Elon. Same thing with Vlad at Robin. So, I just I don't know. Not every CEO is going to be as cookie cutter as Jensen, who has a lot of passion, but Jensen just is very eloquent with his words. But that doesn't also mean that they're on drugs. And I thought that was just a very weird tick. Um, let me put this up right here. This was the conversation that specifically they were having about dyslexia, which I think also framed a lot of the conversation. Ken says, "I'm 50 now and I learned to listen to what is being said rather than how it's said." like the talking habit, nitpicky stuff, know the message itself. It's much more productive for you to focus on. Yeah. And obviously the the way a message is distributed will have an impact on the perception of the message, but I think as you get older, you you also care about what is this person saying? Do I agree with the content of their message more than the style of how they're distributing it? And ultimately, you know, that's going to implicate how you care about the the message going forward and how the message is going to be distributed across multiple people that actually want to learn about the argument, not the person making the argument.
>> Your biographer says it comes from your childhood. You grew up dyslexic. Um, you grew up uh to a Jewish pediatrician was your father. African-American artist was your mother. And I want to know what you think has led to led to all of this. What's driving you?
>> Um it's very hard to know these question answer these questions. Um I mean my parents are extraordinarily talented. Um and uh to the point where I think most of the issues they confronted were just everyone says they want to be around extraordinarily smart people till they're around extraordinarily smart people. and uh and and everyone thinks you know the interaction with my parents will school you on what the level of aptitude is in the world and the rest of my family. Um and uh but I I think for me people always write about my parents and their background and you know the far right hates that you know we I grew up in a Jewish family and and defend Jews against the most disgusting and obvious vehement attacks. Uh, and the far left thinks because of my background I should somehow give up real progressive thought and support ideologies that only hurt the people they claim to support. Um, I I mean I so I think there's a those article those ways of thinking don't clear a certain level of thought philosophically. Um, but and so I tend to find them fairly boring and wish the world someone else would speak up. The dyslexia thing has been which I was totally in the closet about is the formative moment of my life and it's simply because if you are massively dyslexic you cannot play a playbook. There is no playbook a dyslexic can master and therefore we learn to think freely. And so you know one definition of dyslexia would be you have there are many definitions one definition is that I think is a clearing function is you have a attenuated uh relationship to um to to to text meaning a non-dyslexic will read the text and the text will become them deacto the more you lead the more the more the text becomes you no dyslexic works that way and so there are huge disadvantages honestly I would cut off my arms and legs probably at least something to to get rid of the dyslexia but the central advantage is I process in a way that has very little to do with what anyone else thinks and that that has powered a lot combined with obviously obvious aptitude and I believe in what we're doing. So we work we're very aggressive in making it work. Um I I think that was really really important to understand because look I don't have dyslexia. Uh I have been open on the channel that I I do have OCD and not in the typical like oh you're OCD about this. I'm like no I'm actually diagnosed with OCD. So, you know, I tend to be a little bit more compulsive and uh you know, I think that comes out in in ways that I talk and I definitely think faster than I speak. And, you know, I know we make fun of the pronunciation stuff, but a lot of it is based on the OCD and just talking faster than you speak. My grandfather had OCD. My dad had OCD. I'm talking about the OCD where you check the door to see if it's locked 15 times before we can go to work. Like before my dad dropped me. We would be on the way to school 5 minutes from getting to school. My dad would turn around the car, go back home, make sure the door was closed, and then we would go back to school. Like, that's the type of OC. Now, it's gotten better, still not the best, but that's the type of OCD my dad had back when he was in his 30s and 40s. You know, now he's in his 60s. It's calmed down a little bit, but I I I was born with that as well. And so, I have it to an extent. Now, it's not as intense as dyslexia, which is much much more aggressive, especially in terms of how you're reading. But notice what he says. Like when you're dyslexic, you have to think for yourself because you can't think in the way that conventional people think because you can't read properly. The words on on on the on the paper jump at you. They don't become you as more people as traditional conventional people would have when they actually read text. And that means you're going to be a little jittery. You know, you're going to you're going to move in a certain way. You're going to talk in a certain way. You're not going to be just sitting with your legs crossed the whole time during an interview. And and I think that is what people ignored in that interview because that clip didn't go viral about Karp being dyslexic. But the part of him saying something where he's jumping around did go viral. And I think it makes sense that they leaned into it. It makes sense that they leaned into it and actually did create this entire fellowship for for people that also feel different. OCD has to be good for stockpicking, right? I mean, maybe maybe it does. I don't know. I mean, I I I've tried to use my OCD as a superpower. A lot of my OCD also came from this idea of like being ritualistic. So again I mentioned one of my dad's ritual was like checking the door 10 and it's a real disease guys. Like when you check the door and the door is locked, the door is locked, you can leave to go back multiple I remember this like it was I remember being in the car seeing my dad get in the car, exit the car, go back or start drive, he turns around and goes back like it is a disease where your brain cannot function that something is happening and and what he's telling himself after I did a lot of research growing up about this is that your mind is telling yourself something bad will happen if the door is not locked. Now, you already checked that the door is locked five times, but on that sixth or seventh time, I can't believe I just said that, but nonetheless, on the sixth or seventh time, um that your mind will will tell you, "No, no, something really bad is going to happen if you don't check it again." And it's almost uncontrollable, you know, if you don't really either take meds for it or, you know, just just get a hold of yourself to be like, I don't need to check it again because the door is freaking locked. And my mom saw this in me growing up in little minute ways. And you know that's when she took me to the doctor. I think this was around fourth grade and that's when he was like, "Yeah, he has OCD." So it never got to the point where it's like destroying me or like a really really big disadvantage. But nonetheless, it's there. And I think you just have to weaponize it in a in a more meaningful way. Yes. Like like checking the free cash flow multiple 20 times before you hit buy. Exactly. That's that's the way to potentially use it to your advantage. Well, I think we all have a little bit of OCD check in our portfolio more than 10 times a day. But the point is a disability doesn't have to be a disability, especially if it's a mental one. And it can be something that is much more productive than not. App right there, 707, Adobe 345, Netflix 95, Microsoft 479, Amazon goes red once again on the day. Nvidia unfortunately still down 3.3%. Robin at a little bit of a bounce from 123 to 124 and then pounding holding on to 184 as well. Does your beard have OCD? Maybe it does. Maybe my beard does have OCD. Get your dad a smart lock. Much easier to check your phone seven times to remind yourself of the lock door. You know, honestly, it it really wasn't even about that. It was just about his compulsion to constantly check if uh if the door was closed. And that's just one example. There's plenty more examples cuz again my dad used to run a liquor store. So imagine all the different things in a liquor store that you have to take care of. And then imagine checking it in, you know, every single day, multiple times a day. Like it becomes and I I would be in the liquor store for like eight hours a day, especially when I was younger. And I would see him go through all this stuff and it, you know, it just becomes one of those things that is either a superpower or it's not. And the way you weaponize it, I think becomes very important. Rocket Lab high of days, folks. 6120 up 6.4%. Rocket Lab is chasing silver. That is correct. Rocket Lab is freaking chasing silver. Silver 5.4% on the day. I think uh I think I think I think that there's a headline about JP Morgan on silver. Am I seeing this correctly? JP Morgan. Wow. Yeah. JP Morgan Financial Times going long on silver. The bank now holds over 750 million ounces. Oh, that's probably why this is pumping as well. Of silver. In just 6 weeks, it added 21 million ounces. And they sold their entire 200 million ounce short position on silver. Wow. JP Morgan got squeezed out of silver. Oh my. I mean that could and the 10 years down, dude. How like the 10 years down to 4.1. Silver's pushing an all-time high. Gold is not that far away. And then you got the space stocks going to the moon. Wow, that is quite incredible. You were seeing a massive divergence across a variety of different asset classes right there. Unfortunately, the S&P can't keep up with it because of Oracle. But the S&P also, I mean, it was not as not at 681 anymore. It was almost down 1%, now it's 686. I would not be surprised if we have a higher Vshape towards the end of the day just based on this silver catalyst alone. Maybe it's sucking some of the money out of the market, but people are also buying bonds, which is not the worst thing. Oracle right there down 13%. Is that one's at 192? Yeah. Then they might put it right into Bitcoin. Exactly. I actually I like to actually own precious metals, so I always went for gold. Where the hell would I put that much silver? Well, I get a lot of people I guess a lot of people just saw silver as a trade and then went deep into it. How is Hood Banking? It's good. I like the experience. I'll write a review on it a little bit later in the future, but I the app has been amazing so far. So, I've been enjoying using the product as well. Turned out yesterday's word of the day was spot on. Yeah, yesterday's word of the day was draw down. Now, this is not really an aggressive draw down. It's just I think we thought we would be higher after the the rate cut, which we were until Oracle. All right. Is that what we got for today? Dude, how is it 12:00 p.m.? I get like I guess your environment changes how you think of the time. Usually, we end at 11. How do we go for an extra hour today? Holy crap. 12:00 p.m. I didn't even notice the time in video right there. 1:7 still down about 3% on the day. All right, is that it? Are we done? We got Broadcom today because you start late every day because you're in a cave. It does feel like I'm in a cave. That's fair. Planet Labs. Yeah, look, they had a good earnings. They're in the right niche with space. So, if anyone's in this, congrats. I thought these guys sold weed, but that's Planet 13. So, uh, I was wrong on that, but Planet Labs, AS Rocket Lab, making a pretty big move because that's great. I'll be live with Sam 3:45. We'll cover Broadcom. We have Broadcom and Lulu. Is anyone playing those? I'll do a quick uh Broadcom pump or dump in the chat right now. Also, we have Steve's favorite stock in the market that's reporting today. We're gonna have to try to call Steve and get his reaction immediately. By the way, look at Steve in these thumbnails, bro. This guy is embracing the thumbnails. Look at these freaking thumbnails. Look at this. Look at this thing, bro. I'm gonna, you know, I'm going to call Steve right now. I haven't told him how impressed I am with these thumbnails. Let's see if he answers. He's Is he going live soon? Oh [ __ ] he's going live at 12:30. Okay, Steve.
>> Terrible timing, sir. What's up?
>> Are Are you Are you taking off from work today?
>> I took off from work.
>> You've been taking off more recently, I've noticed.
>> Yeah, because I'm only allowed to carry over two weeks of vacation time. And if I don't use it, I lose it. And I don't take time off during the year. So take time off to stream.
>> I was gonna say I think you like streaming more than your job. And that's why you're taking these days off. So
>> just saying, you know, if I'm going to take off, I might as well do something productive, right?
>> Okay. Well, I'm sending everybody your stream that starts at 12:30. But I wanted to say two I want to say two things first. Uh number one is these thumbnails are quite impressive.
>> Okay. Are you live right now?
>> Yeah, I'm live. Oh, okay. What's up, everyone?
>> I'm live and we we just I just logged on to YouTube and I see your thumbnail and I'm like I I think Steve is like getting his money out of Nano Banana.
>> Nano Banana is the truth, man.
>> I mean, this is a real this this is better than my thumbnails 100%. Like, this looks like a legit breaking news headline. And then you with your face, the way you're pointing to it, I mean, this is a great thumbnail. It's great.
>> And all I did, and I'll take a screenshot when I get in front of the computer. All I did was put a picture of myself in and said, "Make me a YouTube thumbnail about Oracle making the market decline."
>> That's what it made. That's all I did. That's what it made. But it had a different heading. So I said, "Make it say the NASDAQ instead of the market." And it that's what came out.
>> And wait, did was that on the free version or was that um paid? No, I pay for I pay for the more storage on Google Drive. So, I get whatever the upgraded version is.
>> So, Okay. So, that that's basically like a bundle you're paying for every month that gives you access to this.
>> Yeah. The $20 a month bundle. It's amazing.
>> It's like a really good thumbnail. Like, honestly, it's like nothing spelled wrong. Like, it's legit. I like this.
>> Oh, this is why I think Adobe is screwed. And Adobe looks incredibly cheap by the numbers and I know that they're buying back a lot of shares. The problem is if this is the and I'm going to take what Tanner says and steal it. He always says this is the worst AI is ever going to be when we look back at it. If this is the worst the nano banana is going to be, what's it going to be like in six months?
>> Yeah.
>> And then eventually you're going to have video editing and everything else. Like I'm very worried about Adobe at this point.
>> Okay. Well, the last thing I was going to say to you is that uh did you know your favorite company in the world has earnings today?
>> Uh Bronco. No, it's it's it's a company that actually I think you know you probably bought some of their hot dogs for a $150.
>> I don't eat hot dogs, so you know.
>> Oh, sorry. It's a company that you said their pizza is better than psies. I forgot.
>> Let's not do that because I will go with a sign to Costco and say your pizza sucks compared to.
>> All right. So, we got Costco today. So, I
>> listen, I'll come on the market closes. You want me to talk [ __ ] about Costco? I'm happy to do that.
>> Yeah, I'll be live with Sam. So, if you're free, hop on and we'll cover Broadcom, Costco, and Lulu tonight.
>> Yeah, I gotta get a few things done, but I'll come on for Costco because I gotta tell you, the more I look at Costco, the more that I get upset. And it doesn't make any sense that they're still trading where it is. And for Nvidia to go down today, because Oracle is insane. Nvidia is the biggest value player right now, and Costco trading 36 times forward is just stupid. Yeah, I agree. And if anything, Oracle spending all this money is good for Nvidia. So, this really doesn't make sense.
>> No, it doesn't make sense at all.
>> All right. Well, have a good stream. I'll see you when the market close. We'll talk later.
>> What time do you What time do you want me make the link for tonight? 9 9:30.
>> Um 9:30. 9:30 works.
>> Okay. All right. Sounds good.
>> All right. Later.
>> Later. All right. If you want some of the milkman at 12:30, I'll put his link right here. Um, again, Costco Broadcom Lulu tonight. We'll see what we got going on. Oh, did I even put the Broadcom pump or dump? No, I didn't do it. Okay, let me do that. I'm going to go with a Broadcom pump, but I'm saying that I was actually right about I said Adobe would dump or sorry, I said Oracle would dump. Adobe would pump. Now, I was right kind of because Adobe did pump and then it ended up going flat, but Adobe did not dump. Oracle definitely did dump. Um, and so today I'm going to go Broadcom Pump, Lulu Pump, and Costco Flat. And the only reason I'm saying Lulu Pump is cuz every retailer is up. So, I have to imagine that if people are buying hoodies at Abberrombi and Urban Outfitters, they have to be buying at Lulu. Like, if they're not, we've got issues with Lulu. Like, we've got some massive issues with Lulu. if people are buying stuff at the other retailers and not Lulu for relatively the same price. And then for Broadcom, I just think they're gonna have a massive quarter. I mean, TPUs are going well. OpenAI, A6, they've got a lot of different custom chips potentially working with Microsoft. You just have so many different deals. They've announced I know the stock is up a lot, but I I do think you get a little bit of a pump even if that pump is temporary. And so that's what I'm thinking for Broadcom. Sam said, "I went long Adobe and short Oracle for the wolf competition." Okay, well that was good. Does that end up working out? Do we have a Rivian Nvidia headline? Riven AI platform four times performance of prior Nvidia system. Rivian system can do hands-free point-to-point driving. Is this Rivian getting rid of the Nvidia stuff they were using or is this them doubling down? Hold on. They do have their AI day happening today. Um, oh wow, Rivian develops their own chip to replace Nvidia chips in future vehicles. Huh. Oh, that's not bullish in video. That's not the best thing to see. Rivian develops their own chip. What? These guys are a chip company. When did they become a I just said they were just a car company this morning. They're making me look stupid. Did anyone know they were working on their own freaking chip? Hold on. Let's go to R.J. What is this? operate a vehicle but your ability to understand nuance to respond to the compute massive shift in how years we've also been develop front-facing longrange LAR and at the core of this platform our first in-house Rivian autonomy processor Now, the first iteration of our in-house inference platform includes a neural engine with 800 tops. It's optimized to support camera ccentric AI in the physical world and enables a dramatic expansion of Rivian's autonomy capabilities. When integrated into what we call our Gen 3 autonomy compute platform, which video will go through later in detail, it will deliver 1,600 tops. The effectiveness and efficiency of our in-house processor has been a core focus in its development. Our Gen 3 computer is capable of processing 5 billion pixels per second. Now, you've heard me say this a couple of times. We've designed this entire architecture around an AIcentric approach where the data flywheel of our deployed fleet helps the model get better and better through reinforcement learning. Not only does this sensor set enable a much higher ceiling than what we have in our vehicle today, it also makes the platform much better to serve in building our model. We're going to continue to see improvements on our platform. Later this month, we'll be issuing an overtheair update to our R1, Gen 2 uh customers, and that will dramatically expand the existing hands-free capability.
>> All right, so I guess we'll get some more updates later on Rivian. Um I mean, cool. They're building their own hidden house chip. They probably thought there was a different architecture they could use outside of the Nvidia chips. It looks like they're using LiDAR, which is more in this sort of Whimo Google sense of way of thinking of autonomy versus Tesla. Uh, Rivian down 4%. It did get a little bit of a pump to 17, still down on the day. We'll see how the street thinks of it. Nvidia not really re I mean, at the end of the day, Rivian's a relatively small company even if Nvidia is not going to be having them as a customer. Um, Nvidia does have a lot of other partnerships with car companies like GM for their synthetic Cosmos platform. But that is really cool to see. I mean, Rivian developing their own chip definitely changes at least my immediate perception of how they think of or how I think of them as a car company. And maybe there's something deeper that they are that they are going for. Uh, Falling Knife, thank you for the $200 super chat. Deeply, deeply appreciated. Thank you for being here. And thank you for the $200 super chat. We will see today after hours what we get on Rivian, Broadcom, Lulu, and then Costco. And you guys have a couple hours if anyone wants to go long on any of these earnings names. Again, I think taking some of them is a bit risky on a day like this just given the sort of Oracle fears, but you definitely will have some people playing earnings. 73% of people saying Broadcom will pump. Okay, we're going to see if that happens along with Costco here today. Amit, I've seen less than 20 Rivians ever on the road. Lidar is never going to work. hands-free driving, only four years behind. Great job. Yeah, I don't know how much the market's going to love their new chip architecture as the basis to potentially introduce LAR and autonomy, but I guess they're doing it in-house and going a different direction. All right, folks. That's what we got today. Thank you everybody for being here. You do have Mr. Chad right here who has two rivions. I mean the car itself to be fair to the car. People have told me the car is amazing and they have a great I've never been in a Rivian but from the people I've talked to including Chad he loves the car. It's just you know we haven't seen the growth of the cars on the roads at a at a rapid scale like Tesla. So the question is can they change the narrative of them being a car company because you know that'll increase the multiple on the stock as well. And so we'll see over the coming months if that ends up being the case. All right so I'll be live on the close. Um, uh, Broadcom, Lulu, Costco. We'll have Steve on, we'll have Sam on. Broadcom's the big one. I don't think there's anything else crazy happening today. We'll see if this Oracle stuff recovers or not. Uh, silver continues to pump. I guess we'll see how that one plays out over the coming days. Oh, word of the day. And then I think we're done for today. Silver 64. My goodness. 5.78%. Just incredible. All right, word of the day. I don't know how to say this [ __ ] What is this? Heteroscadasticity. When the variance of returns changes over time, instead of saying constant, a core concept in volatility molding. During earning season, stock returns show clear heteroscadacity as volatility clusters around major announcements. Okay. So basically when you are going through a volatile time and an asset is uh reflecting that volatility, earnings obviously is one of the the core times where that'll when that'll happen. That is heterodasy. Okay, let's see how to pronounce this. Has anyone heard this word before? I've never heard this word before.
>> Okay, hold on. We had an ad pop up. Let me see how to pron This is a good word, though. This is like a It's one of those words you pull out and people are just like, "What did you say?" Okay, let's see right here. Okay, I think we got a Sofi going green with a mid. It's homoscada. Oh my goodness. I hate you guys. That's a good one though. That's a good one though. Oh my gosh. I don't want to watch a freaking ad, bro. Dude, this is We need ChatBT to just have audio stuff here to say this. Let me I think there's a YouTube video instead. Let me go here. Okay, let's see what we got. Let's see.
>> Heteroscadasticity.
>> Heteroscadasticity. Okay.
>> Heteroscadasticity.
>> Okay, there you go. heteroscadasticity today with Adobe and Lulu we will be seeing and Costco maybe not Costco that much because it's not as volatile but definitely with not Adobe Broadcom we are going to be seeing some heterosexisdasticity which I still butchered and we'll see how that ends up playing out. All right, that's it. Thank everybody for being here. Um, no wonder Amid has a problem pronouncing a word with hetero in it. Dude, when I have my new manager on the stream tomorrow, you guys cannot make any stupid jokes about, "Oh, girlfriend. Oh, you like her this and that." Because if you guys are going to be making these jokes, which imply that there's no way I could have a girlfriend or a girl in my life, then you can't be making the jokes that I know everyone's going to want to make tomorrow night on Friday. So, you have to pick a side, bro. You can't make both jokes. You can't have your cake and eat it too. You cannot If you're gonna make which that's a great that's Robert, that's a great comment. That's a good one. But then tomorrow night, don't be don't be going the opposite direction. 7:30. 7:30 tomorrow for the uh for the for the stream. All right. So, that's Steve's link. 12:30 he'll be live. Thank everybody for being here. I'll be here for the market close. Um we'll back to the new studio studio tomorrow. And yeah, Broadcom, Costco, Lulu, we'll get through that and then we'll keep going from there. You know, going long like an hour and a half today makes up for missing Monday. I think it makes up for Monday. So, we got to make up like market open is three hours. So, we got to make up another hour and a half and that'll that'll make us even for for missing Monday and we'll go from there. All right. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one. Oh, wait. We got to spam Steve. That's a good one. That's a Okay. What do we spam Steve with? Hold on. We got to spam something with Steve. Um, what do we spam? Someone think of something quick. What do we spam? Well, you already did Costco before, so that's that's boring. We got to do something different. Uh, yeah, let's just do this. All right, that's the word. Okay, that that is the the new word of the day. That's what we're doing. That's the word. Uh, heterodestice. I'll put it in the chat if anyone wants to copy and paste it. Steve's going to be like, "What the [ __ ] is like what is this word?" He goes live at 12:30. All right, so in six minutes, that's what we can spam in his chat. All right, thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys for Broadcom later today. Bye everybody. Have a good one.