Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Monday morning. We are live October 13th. We are back to action. Hope everyone had a good weekend. It is Monday and uh you know we are blessed to live another day on this planet and get to analyze the global capital equity markets and boy are they giving us something to analyze. This has been a wild weekend. I could argue this is one of the most wild weekends we've had all year. Obviously the April tariff liberation stuff was uh definitely a moment in time that created some crazy weekends, but this has been a crazy weekend as well. We're going to go through what happened on Friday, what happened on Saturday and Sunday, what happened literally this morning in regards to the equity markets. Obviously, the pre-markets are green. For those that missed the news, Trump had a little bit of a pivot, which maybe means, as Albert says right here, October, could be back. Uh, and the pivot essentially is Trump deescalating the situation that caused the nasty 3% day on Friday that hurt all of us. uh not only Trump JD Vance descent this morning everyone in the administration basically came out and said yeah it's not as serious as like you might have thought it was on Friday and as a result uh you're getting a green premarket you're getting a pretty green pre-market so it is a lot to analyze a lot to get into we got a bunch of other headlines in general that we'll go through but as you can take a look in the pre-markets Robin got to 132 it's at 144 pounder got to 170 it's at 179 Tesla got to 410 it's at 422 the S&P was 647 after hours on Friday. It's at 661. So I mean now we're still down from 673. It's obviously been a little bit of a rough 3 4 days based on that Trump China tweet which kind of caused all of this. But based on the pivot we got over the weekend and we'll talk about kind of what that pivot was. You're seeing a lot of green. Bitcoin and Ethereum they have uh rebounded. Ethereum was at 3,400. It's at 4160 down a little bit from where it was yesterday. Bitcoin was at 106 down from 126. Right now it's at 114. So, I don't think it's the worst thing in the world to at least get that bit of a rebound. But, you do have these two that have been hurt from the Trump Truth Social China announcements and hopefully throughout the coming week they'll be able to rebound and we'll be able to to go from there. So, there we go. We got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. Thank you everybody for being here again. It is Monday, Monday morning. Um, the sync of the audio, I noticed that last night. I think I genuinely I think that's a YouTube thing. It's either a YouTube thing or a Streamyard thing. I'm leaning more towards that's a YouTube thing. If you refresh that might get fixed, but also it might naturally just get fixed in a couple minutes because it was happening last week and it got fixed. So, I think the sync thing should be fixed pretty soon. But, it's definitely not I I don't think it's me. I don't think there's anything I'm doing to get the sync up here. There was a couple other streamers. Tanner was having that problem. There's a couple other streamers that were having that issue. So, hopefully it's not uh hopefully it's not just me and and YouTube will fix it. Just restart. Okay. Yeah, restart YouTube. Okay. So, uh, raw floor lore restarted YouTube and it fixed. So, restart it and, uh, if you do that, that should that should help out. Okay, cool. So, uh, let's get into it. I think we'll start off with a couple headlines that we got this morning and then we'll get into all the macro stuff that happened over the weekend. First of all, BMR, this broke literally five minutes before I went live. Um, and we got confirmation that Tom Lee bought more Ethereum. 3 million ETH Tom Lee has now put on the balance sheet. They bought 202,000 ETH over the weekend. He writes, "The crypto liquidation over the past few days created a price decline in ETH, which Bitmine took advantage of. We acquired 200,37 ETH tokens over the past few days, pushing our ETH holdings over to 3 million or 2.5% of the supply of ETH. We are now more than halfway towards our initial pursuit of the alchemy of 5%. Bit mine has not started staking yet, and they want to get into the staking game after they get to that alchemy of 5%. So it looks like they are going to work really hard to get to the process at which they could stake. Uh and you know at the rate at which they're going it seems like in the next what next coming I don't know couple months they're going to be able to get there. And if they do that would be quite incredible. So you do have Tom Lee issuing that update as soon as uh five minutes ago about the Ethereum that they have on their balance sheet. Now, I believe their net asset value is around 12.9 billion if you add up everything else that they have as well. Uh, so they have, as you can see right here, yeah, 12.9 billion, 3 million ETH, unencumbered cash of 104 million. Other crypto holdings, they have $134 million stake in Orbs, and I think they have some Bitcoin as well. And so that gets you a 13 billion uh net asset value. Now, Bitine was hit the worst, I would argue, almost a 20% decline on Friday. It fell all the way to 47, rebounding right here at 5471. I don't think this thing has to jump back to 60 anytime soon, but it's nice to see it stabilize a bit because Ethereum is stabilizing. Nvidia as well. Nvidia fell all the way to 180, right back here to 188 after going to 195 in the morning on Friday. I mean, if you bought anything in the morning on Friday, unfortunately, it was just not the best timing and including myself, right? Uh but nonetheless, you did get an opportunity intraday and it seems like we are rebounding. Not fully recovered, but there is an opportunity still potentially to get into some of these names at a discount. And so you got BMR and Nvidia trying to recover back to where they were back on Friday. So yes, they are halfway to that 5% goal and that 5% goal obviously is going to be very strong for them to get to. But it is nice to see that they took advantage of it. And why did they take advantage of it? Well, you know, Tom Lee believes in the broader ETH ecosystem long term. And as a result of that belief in the ecosystem, they're not going to get scared if ETH falls 10 15%. They're probably going to use that as the best opportunity they can end up buying the dip. And it seems like that is what ended up playing out. So, uh we'll calculate their new NAV, but they do have 13 billion. And so, when the market opens, we'll see what the uh NAV is and what the premium to that NAV is as well. And uh and we'll keep going from there. So, that was the update we got on Ethereum with Tom Lee. Now, in terms of what's going on with US and China, so just do a quick little recap of what happened on Friday. Uh Trump said that we are going to be imposing 100% tariffs on China and that is what created the waterfall decline that we all experienced live. In fact, ironically, I clicked on Bitmine because someone sent a super chat asking a question about Bit Bitmine and we saw it go from 58 to 56 and I was like, "Oh, that's weird." We we clicked on the the ticker as soon as the uh the stock starts falling. They're probably diluting at this moment, right? So they're probably like Tom Le is literally dumping shares in front of us and we're watching it happen because that type of a precipitous decline you could only describe through some level of mass selling. But then we looked at the S&P, then we looked at Palanteer, then we looked at Robin, then looked at Rocket Lab, we're like, "Oh no, everything's selling off." And so that that actually started the discovery of what the hell is happening. And what ended up happening is Trump tweeted that, "Hey, uh, we have a very very big issue with China and we're going to have to take action." He said that China's threatening export controls and bans for countries across the world and we might have to respond to that. And then after hours he made it worse by confirming that America will impose a tariff of 100% on China over and above any tariff that they are currently paying on November 1st. I mean quite literally guys it this feels like April 2.0 because and I I think retail really did see through it. We're going to get more data in the next coming days of how much money retail put into this dip on Friday. But based on what I asked on the market close, I mean, a lot of you guys bought the dip because a lot of you guys just didn't believe that, oh, really, November 1st, we have a month for 100% tariffs? Yeah, I guess so. I mean, most people were like, we're probably going to negotiate something in a month and there's probably going to be a very low probability of Trump actually messing up the bull market by putting on tariffs on China after he just negotiated a China deal. Like, it just didn't make sense across the board. And it's not like it wasn't treated as something serious, but it was one of those things that was like really is this going to be the thing that messes up everything and it didn't feel like that. And as a result, you get this tweet Sunday afternoon and that's when the future started going crazy. Trump says, don't worry about China. It will all be fine. This is not literally, hey, it's a great time to buy, but I mean, how much more explicit can you get about probably it's a time to buy. You shouldn't worry about anything. Highly respected President Xi just had a bad moment. He doesn't want depression for this country and neither do I. the USA wants to help China, not hurt it. And that right there was the pivot. That right there was when uh you know, it wasn't Tuesday yesterday, but it but it might as well have been Tuesday because it was a taco Tuesday. And nonetheless, Trump said, "Well, Z had a bad moment. It's not that big of a deal and you know, we're going to be okay." And then you had JD Vance come out a couple hours before that and says, "We appreciate the friendship with China. Trump hopes that we don't have to use leverage. Trump is willing to be a reasonable negotiator." And then you had Bend this morning that said the USChina relationship is good. 100% tariffs doesn't have to happen aka we don't really want to impose tariffs and we'll see if China wants to be a reliable supplier for rare earths. Now China came out Saturday night which already began deescalating the situation. And they said look we're not even trying to be that aggressive with rare earth minerals and we want to work with the United States. This is the post right here translated uh from their language into the United into English. And basically they were saying export controls are not a ban. Global civilian supply chains aren't going to be impacted. We're only doing this because the US is being unfair in certain areas. We want to work with the US. We don't want to fight a trade war. It was a very kind of like, hey, let's come to the table. Let's have a conversation and let's talk. And the way Trump framed it on Friday, which is why it was kind of scary when you saw everything falling off is because Trump was like, China's isolating from the entire world and it's almost like it's a us against them and we're about to decouple. I mean, that was the tone that was being given off from the tweets. It created a $20 billion liquidation in crypto which has not been seen since co and and it wasn't even near any of those levels during co but it really created some issues only for all of this to just come back to normal and for the markets to realize oh it's not that big of a deal and uh we went down 3% on this Trump China tweet that had nothing to do with the earnings picture, nothing to do with the Fed. I guess the markets needed a reason to come down and Trump gave them a reason to come down but it wasn't actually as serious as a structural flaw in the broader thesis of the bull market right now. And as a result, you have markets starting to recover. So wild, wild, wild weekend. And as a result of that weekend, I think a lot of people got the opportunity to buy the dip. Now, does that mean you pile into the market today? I I I don't think the answer is yes. However, I think the perception of this dip could be as follows. This is my last opportunity to get in before Q4 run. uh these prices are likely not going to give me better entry better entries if there's not something structural that changes the economy aka the Fed interest rates earnings and we're going to talk about earnings but earnings this week look like they're going to be pretty good so I need to buy the dip and I think that is the the mentality that could be happening through retail investors and fund managers that are underperforming the S&P this year and might it might be saying look you know I missed the entire run and robbed at Nvidia but at least I'm getting it 10% lower than what I could get it at alltime highs and I don't know if there's going to be another shock to the system as aggressive as there was on Friday to get these prices, especially going into earning season. Now, maybe there are multiple shocks of the system and maybe Q4 is going to be very bumpy going throughout the end of the year, but I think the mentality might be from a lot of people, hey, this is my one last dip to get in. Uh, does that mean today's the day to to to to spend a ton of money? I don't think so because I think you still have to be cautious and I think if you did spend, you know, if you had 100,000 and you spent 20,000 on Friday, you know, maybe you spend another 20,000 a day and you still keep that 60,000 left in case there's other opportunities. But there might be some people that are underperforming massively this year and they may be saying, "You know what? I've got to put the final 80,000 I have into the market because I've been waiting so long for a dip. This probably is my opportunity. And if I don't get another one, I'm going to be on the sidelines until probably early 2026." And I and then I'm going to be have to be hoping that 2026 gives me a dip opportunity, which maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. But if you're hoping for that long, again, that might not also be the best idea in the world. So, as a result, yes, I do think it's going to be a volatile week, but we're going to have to see how much money ends up coming in. We also have to see, is this a rugpull? Is this a little bit of a bull trap? I mean, that's a possibility, right? I do think based on how the futures are going and based on Trump's statements, it might not easily be a bull trap, but you might have market makers that want to toy around and pump things up and then rug it midday and then maybe it comes back to normal. So, this is going to be a very important week. We do have earnings starting, so we're going to see how the earnings effects from those financials uh are going to have on the psych psychology of the market. But nonetheless, that is something that I think everyone does have to watch out for. What about government shutdown effect on on our economy? So, the government shutdown is still in place and hopefully it ends by the end of this week. I mean, if it continues this week, it'll be the second longest shutdown in history. The uh the Trump administration has come out and said that they are finding a way to pay military members. So, October 15th in two days is when a lot of those military members get paid. And it looks like the Trump administration is going to find a way to make sure they get paid. That's what Trump confirmed last night. But, they've already started laying off a lot of people. And so I mean I don't know what the impact is going to be. So far markets have basically said they don't much about it just based on the sheer price action. The reason we had a 3% decline is because of a China truth social post not because of the government shutdown. But if this goes any longer obviously won't be the work the best thing in the world. And so that's one thing we're going to have to keep an eye on as well going into uh going into the end of this week. I think the market maker is going to be choppy. Yeah, I agree. I think well the the thing is though if we get a strong earning cycle and we'll talk more about earnings I mean it you might just have a lot of money saying dude we cannot deny double digit earnings growth and the the most important companies in the financial space JP Morgan Wells Fargo City Bank etc. By the way JPM made a big announcement today that we'll talk about as well they they got to set the tone and if they set the tone I think it would be very very exciting to see where this market can go. Here is Tom Lee this morning on what he thought about the Friday selloff and where he thinks the opportunities may lie.
>> Morgan's announcement today uh really ties into why investors should stay pretty constructive on the US. I mean JP Morgan the biggest and one of the and the most powerful bank in the world is investing a trillion and a half dollars into the US into things that are going to strengthen sort of US advantages you know critically important areas and at a time when the US is dominating AI and of course now we have this big tailwind as as blockchain is an initiative that Wall Street is is building products on. So, I I think there's a lot of reasons for investors to stay optimistic. And I know there's a lot of talk about bubbles, but I think the thing I would just continue to point out is Nvidia trades at around 27 times Ford earnings. It's still on a PE basis cheaper than Walmart and Costco, which trade at around 47 and 34 times Ford earnings. Yeah, we've got you you've got positive um reasons to think that earnings are are going to do well in a time when interest rates are coming down. So that that's just like an elixir for stocks that that uh is very powerful.
>> That's right. And as you know, CEOs have not been that confident for the last two and a half years because the Fed's been running tight monetary policy. The ISM's been below 50 for 31 months now. That's the longest stretch in history. Um I think the sell off Friday is giving us a bit of a gift because that surge in the VIX 32% rise is the 39th highest ever one day surge and the one month median return is almost 3% um of the 38 other instances. So I think the S&P could add you know 200 points between today and and mid November. So, I think that's an important stat. Tom Lee basically saying, "Hey, every and we were talking about this last night on the on the future show. Every time the VIX has a dramatic uh upswing, a spike, as you could call it, of more than 30%. 38 out of the 39 times, Friday was the 39th time, the S&P is up a month later on average 3%. If that's the case, we're going to recover everything that we lost on Friday. If history repeats itself and we have a VIX spike of up plus 30%, which usually tends to be a panic moment, and usually in a panic moment, you buy. You know, if the VIX gradually goes up over the coming days and weeks, then you tend to have like a more prolonged sell-off. If you have a rapid one day 30%, and April it was one day 60% uh move on the VIX, that means there's a lot of panic and that tends to set a bottom in equities because that that that uh that that panic essentially signals that people should be buying right here because it's not as serious of an issue for why the markets are collapsing. By the way, Broadcom right here is up 10%. Not really sure why. The only headline I have on Broadcom is they got an upgrade um to $400 this morning, but I don't think there's anything deeper than that. Maybe Broadcom's just recovering everything it lost on uh on Friday. Now, it lost 5% on Friday. So, it's recovering. It's up 10% right here. Means it's up another net net 5%. I don't see any headlines though outside of the upgrade. So, maybe there's something else. I'll see if there's any other news. But, if you're in Broadcom, you're getting a 10% move right here in the pre-market. Oh, is this it? Open AAI chip deal with Broadcom covers 10 gigawatts of compute capacity. Broadcom shares up 12% based on the custom AI deal with OpenAI. So this AI deal with OpenAI was announced on their earnings. I guess the the this the street is reacting to Oh, hold on. I think I have some coverage on it. The street is reacting to the 10 gigawatt deployment of it, which maybe that number wasn't talked about, but the 10 billion dollar partnership was talked about. Now 10 gigawatts is way more than 10 billion. Like way more than 10 billion. That's closer to 100 billion. But let's uh let's get an update right here.
>> And
>> Trump against China with its rare earth magnet restrictions, you know, triggered some some fears that, you know, here we here we are again. I think the consolatory post from President Trump over the weekend toward China said it will all be fine. Highly respected pre tariffs on China. And I think Jim, the other the other important point here is that, you know, we are less.
>> Okay, so they're not talking about it yet, but it looks like that's the case, folks. Open AAI and Broadcom 10 gawatt. My goodness, that is massive, dude. That is not the simple $10 billion custom AS6 deal they had back in freaking back in freaking uh in in in in September when they announced their earnings. Dude, 10 gigawatts is different. That That's a lot of money, dude. I mean I mean Nvidia is doing a 10 gigawatt deal. It's up 13% right here. One could argue it should be up even more. Now granted, none of this is like finalized or real. All this stuff is just promises, but the perception of 10 gigawatts is Yeah, that's 500 billion, right? That's not even 100 billion. That's closer to 500. This is like And if this is all for AS6, I mean, if you're a Broadcom shareholder, you've got to be happy. These are custom-designed AI accelerators. These aren't uh regular general purpose GPUs. And one of the arguments the Broadcom had back then when they signed this deal with OpenAI is that, you know, OpenAI is going to need more custom chips than general purpose chips. Now, OpenAI said they're going to need a lot of chips. AMD chips, you know, Nvidia chips, Broadcom chips, but that's big. That is big. There you go. It looks like again open AI continues to be at the center of everything in AI. Whether it's getting AMD stock to go up or getting Nvidia stock to go up or getting Broadcom stock to go up or getting Oracle stock to go up, like whenever these stocks take a massive rise, it's an OpenAI partnership, which is a little scary to some extent, but it's also like my goodness, OpenAI might just be one of those companies that ends up becoming a multi multi- trillion dollar enterprise. So we'll talk more about this deal in a bit, but goodness gracious. There you go. Open eye and Broadcom 10 gawatt deal. Broadcom right there up 11% on the day.
>> Still got, you know, if people
>> I think with Friday's selloff, I I saw many people calling the top of the markets or declaring that the bubble is bursting or that, you know, this is the reason to be buying gold. And and if that's if investors are that quick to call a top just on a 2% 2.7% decline, I just think a lot of good news isn't really priced in. I think there's still a lot of reluctant investors on the sidelines.
>> You have found a kind of everything's about crypto. You found a reason gold's up and it's because of crypto. Not directly because of crypto, but you think the incremental buyer in gold are there's gold based stable coins and people need to buy gold to to back the stable coins and that do you think that's enough to be up $92 all all the way up to a new high? Well, there is an interesting correlation we found which is when I look at Tether's supply of dollars outstanding, it really started to rise uh about 3 months ago and that corresponded with a with gold essentially going up every day. I'm not positive of this, but I think stable coins, including Tether, may be one of the largest buyers of gold today. There has been some reporting over the weekend that Tether is launching essentially tokenized gold. So they're backing gold onetoone with the their gold stable coin. And as a result, I mean, it's quite fascinating. I I don't think I've heard this over the past couple months as we've been analyzing gold. One of the reasons gold could be running as much as it's running is because Tether, one of the largest stable coin issuers, is buying a ton of gold to custody it, which means there is gold demand, right? Because the reason they're buying it is because people want exposure to it. But it also means that a crypto company could be the reason for why there is this much um buying pressure coming in on gold. Here's some coverage on the Broadcom deal and then we'll keep going from there and see if we can get some of these details.
>> Talking about a collaboration of 10 gigawatts of custom AI accelerators, OpenAI designing these accelerators and systems. They'll de developed and deployed in partnership with Broadcom. uh essentially their own chips and systems for open AI that they can embed uh and again I'm reading from the release here what is learned from developing frontier models and products directly into the hardware Jim now as opposed to that Nvidia deal which captured the market's imagination a couple of weeks back there's no money changing hands here um and it's different obviously than the Oracle deal which has never been fully confirmed but which news reports have it's some 300 billion in terms of building compute for open AI essentially um over the next 5 years. This is for them to develop their own chips conceivably, I would think, to bring down the overall cost because, as you well know, you know, cost per token is sort of a key thing we're watching here in terms of these uh these LLMs and the like and they got to bring their cost down if they're ever going to hit the kind of numbers they need to to deal with how much they've got going out the door and how much the losses are ultimately going to be at least in the near term. Well, look, I'm glad I have uh Greg Brockman, OpenAI co-founder and president, and I also have Charlie Kawas, who's the Broadcom president in a few minutes to be able to talk more about this deal. Sarah, you talked to a lot of people. A lot of bankers and you know that what's happening here is OpenAI without having any real money in uh to be able to make these deals continues to make them. I I believe also I can't wait to speak to Oracle and David because they continue to make them. At the heart of all this is either a belief that this whole thing is a is precipitating the giant bubble uh this is separate from the raw earth mineral bubble or it's you as as open AI has said over and over again hey get with it this is an industrial revolution and and and the people who move first win. I don't know Sarah I heard Pat Gellinger talk earlier about how it's all a bubble but Pat's out. These guys are in and I think that the guys who are in are driving it and if they have the money, they're going to take it.
>> Here's the case against the bubble. So that that I hear actually from a lot of people that I trust. It's it's it's not being driven by irrational speculation, right? We don't know exactly. I mean, and I guess it hasn't been proven to be profitable growth ultimately, but it it is being driven by fundamental growth. And if you look I definitely open AI is at the heart of it but if you look in the public market at the companies that are at the heart of it it's dominated by a few incumbents that have very strong balance sheets and very strong growth Jim and that that to me that's the best that's the best case against it. Now again the case realistically against all this circular money going round and round is there will be an ROI on this but my goodness folks for those that are just joining OpenAI Broadcom custom ASIC deal here are some details of it openai will design the chipscom will build the racks the system will include accelerators and Ethernet solutions for scale up and scale out deployment starts second half of next year ends 2029 so three-year deal uh racks will will be deployed across OpenAI facilities the goal will be to embed frontier model learnings directly into the hardware. Total power capacity 10 gawatts. If one gigawatt is around 35 to 40 billion, this is a 350 to400 billion deal. I mean now again I I can't lie. It does feel a little scary seeing open AI at the center of every single major company that is had their stock go up 30 40% this year based on relying on OpenAI. AMD, Nvidia, Nvidia to a lesser extent. Uh but they did have a big move from the 170s once they announced that partnership. And then uh Oracle Oracle's entire move was was because of the RPO growth remaining performance obligations because of OpenAI. So OpenAI I think whether you like them or not whether you hate Sam Alman you love Sam Alman I mean he is responsible one could argue for this entire AI ecosystem manifesting in real revenues and real profits. And I mean we've got to hope that OpenAI success continues to to flourish because if it doesn't there's going to be some issues. But a lot of this money right now is not confirmed. I mean, how is OpenAI going to pay for this 400 billion from Broadcom? I mean, they're probably going to use some of the money they get from AMD or some of the stock they eventually get from AMD. They're going to probably have to sell that stock. They're going to have to use some of the $10 billion investments they get from Nvidia. Overall, a hundred billion is what Nvidia is pledging for them to be able to even pay for any of this stuff or they're going to have to actually, you know, do some real growth. Now, Brad Gersonner on the podcast said that they're going to do 20 billion of revenue or they're already doing 20 billion in the TTM and he thinks that can double by next year. So even if they'll still lose money, they're on track to do around 150 billion of revenues by 2030, which would be incredible. And if that growth, you know, doesn't keep up, then this is going to have an issue. But if it does, then hopefully there is a ability for them to pay on it. This is a chart that we've been looking at for the past couple weeks. But take a look at this. 13 years it took the internet to get to 800 million users. Chat GPT took two and a half. This is not Grock. This is not Gemini. This is not any of this is not anthropic. This is chat GPT. I mean that singular product seems to be the most successful startup idea of the past two decades and it is the fastest growing idea that we've seen in terms of pure user growth. 800 million weekly users now uh are on the product and Gemini and XAI although they are far behind XAI it's not like or far behind CHP it's not like they're slowing down. I mean they're growing pretty dramatically. Google said they're processing 1.8 trillion tokens an hour over the past seven months. So, I mean, like, if all of this is going to take more computing capacity and OpenAI needs AMD chips, Nvidia chips, and Broadcom chips, it's basically them admitting we need as many freaking chips as possible, and we are willing to work with anybody to get these deals. It's just they don't have the money for these deals. But I guess the money is inevitably going to come. Also, you have two updates this morning. Um, Salesforce is committing 15 billion to develop San Francisco as the global hub for artificial intelligence. So, you have another multi-billion dollar investment from a tech company. And you have Google that's launching a 9 billion investment in South Carolina through 2027. So, Google already announced they were going to do a $10 billion data center investment in uh India last week. And now you have Google saying we're going to do nine billion. So, 10 billion in one country, nine billion in one state is what Google is planning to do. all these companies realizing they need more data centers, they need more uh land and they are committing to different places to build out all those data centers. By the way, Grab got an upgrade today from Jeff. 630 to 680. 630 to 680 is the price target. Analysts expect strong 3Q execution with margin and GMV acceleration across segments. Grab got all the way to 550 on Friday. I mean, we had some really crazy opportunities on Friday in terms of the dip. We're going to see if the market recovers going into this morning, but you do have some upgrades across the board. So, there you go. Broadcom getting some love up now 10.6% on the day. Let's finish up with Tom Lee and then we will keep going from there.
>> That's perfect. So, the the people
>> a good meeting ground between Bitcoiners and gold people. Tom, can you just explain though to the extent we can understand it within at least the Bitcoin world just how much leverage there is in that system? Because I think one of the things that Friday
>> we were looking at Friday was the the possibility at least that some of that selling or maybe even a lot of that selling came from margin calls um at that time.
>> Andrew, there's a there there has always been a lot of leverage in crypto. I think that the volatility and leverage is what has drawn people into that space especially when you get outside of Bitcoin and Ethereum.
>> Uh those two are generally not held on margin. I mean there is some leverage with what they call perpetuals but that's why they held up so well uh over the weekend but this liquidation that was triggered over the last 3 days uh the estimates are at least 19 billion of liquidations but it's probably understated. it might be four times bigger. It's the largest since 2021. Um essentially you have to go back to FTX. Uh I think there is a lot of leverage in the way people use this product called perpetuals which is trading uh on margin you know like 3x 20x um and it and it lurks uh and it's held through collateral you know people like sort of pledging something that thinks it's safe but when the price of that collateral drops it triggers a cascade. And so I think people talk about
>> this thing called auto. So a lot of leverage. Yes.
>> Okay. So at its core what Tom Lee's talking about right there is that there was massive massive leverage in the system. I mean I don't know how many people read stories over the weekend but based on what I was reading I mean there are some people that took their own life over the weekend. It it got bad dude. People lost a lot of money. 19.5 billion is the estimated number. Tom Lee's argument is, wait a second, it's more than 19.5 billion. It's it might be 4x that. And as a result, you had a ton of crypto pain over the weekend only for the markets to kind of recover and the leverage wipes you out in the short term, but realistically, if it's not that big of a deal, then it ends up not being that painful. So, it was a pretty pretty wild week. AMD, what's going on? You guys are saying AMD is crashing. AMD, what are we seeing right here? AMD, I wouldn't say it's crashing. It's still up in the pre-markets, but there is a pretty big red candle right there as you can see. Let's see if there's some news. It might end up actually crashing if this news is legit. Um, I don't see any headlines on AMD. In fact, I see a bunch of price target increases. 205 to 275 at Mizuo. Is this because of the Broadcom deal? Is this because of Broadcom? Is this the reason? I feel like it I feel like it has to be Broadcom. I don't see anything specific. I wouldn't say it's crashing though. It's still up 1% in the pre-markets. It's just not up as much as it was. Yeah, it's probably because of Broadcom. Now, it's it's weird that it's because of Broadcom because at the end of the day, OpenAI said they are ready to buy what is it basically $80 billion worth of AMD chips. So, it's not like OpenAI is renegotiating on that. It's just apparently they need so much capacity they're ready to buy 350 billion of chips from Broadcom. Maybe it's kind of bearish because they could have done a $400 billion deal with AMD and they didn't and they only did like an $80 billion deal, but still it's a decent amount of money going to AMD. So, it'd be very weird to see that one kind of kind of change in the way that it's happening, but AMD is slightly red from the highs, but still green for the day. Um, but yeah, crypto was bad, dude. Crypto was really bad. $20 billion liquidations. A lot of people lost a lot of money. Bitcoin and Ethereum doesn't look like, you know, they're dead by any sense of the imagination. But if you were super levered on Bitcoin and if, you know, it falls a $20,000 candle, you get wiped out completely. And some of these perpetual future contracts that Tomley's talking about, I mean, you can lever up up to 250 times. You can turn $1 into 250 on leverage, which you know, that type of leverage and that type of margin, that type of borrowing to the to the tune of 250 times should only be done in a most sophisticated way, right? You should be a very there should be a hedging strategy. There should be not the average person doing that, but nonetheless, the average person if they are doing that, it can wipe you out really bad, especially if there's a random uh event like a Trump China tweet that plays out. Also, there were some issues with Binance's exchange and so like Binance put out a note saying there were some issues that caused some of the problem. So, there was just a lot of [ __ ] that happened on Friday, but it wiped out a ton of people. And I think, you know, to some extent Tom Lee's argument is it's not the worst thing in the world for some of that leverage to get out of the system because you had a lot of frothiness and to make the next move higher in the markets generally, you have to have a little bit of a pullback. And it seems like that's what we got on Friday across the equity markets as well. So that's what we got. Also, yeah, I agree with 30 and a wake up right here. Never take on leverage after a three-year bull market at alltime highs. When you're taking on leverage, like you're supposed to take on leverage when something's at a bottom, theoretically, or something's so beat up that it has nowhere to go but up. When you take on leverage after everything's running and like the inevitable conclusion is after 5 months, we haven't had a negative 2% day. We haven't had a negative 1.7% day, you're probably going to get some type of catalyst that creates a little bit of a sell-off, which is why I think most of us have not been buying that much until Friday. I mean, some dips here and there, but it's not like everyone's super eager to just put tons and tons of money into the market because things were at an all-time high. A lot of people were waiting for a dip and Friday ended up creating that opportunity. I think a lot of retail ended up buying on Friday, but as a result, when you lever up when things are already that high, it might not be the easiest to just go that much higher unless we get a pullback. And it seems like that's what we got on uh on Friday. So, there you go. Crypto was a little ugly. I saw a screenshot. Someone went from 15 million to 4K heavily leveraged. Yeah. I mean, there was a lot of screenshots over the weekend. People just lost a ton of money all over a Trump chi China tweet that wasn't even real, which is it's wild. It is absolutely wild how it played out. I mean, I think we were all expecting a dip. I didn't think we expected on something. Trump just went back to his normal playbook. He was like, "Oh, oh yeah, tariffs will create a dip. Let's do tariffs." He was like, "Oh, what creates a dip? Tariffs." And it went into tariffs. So that is that is what we ended up getting. Here's some analysis right here from Beijing on China's attitude towards all this and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Thanks David. Well, after getting a very strong reaction from the US, the Chinese are defending their newly expanded rare earth curves. Today the foreign ministry said the US has continuously introduced a series of restrictions and sanctions against China which have severely harmed China's interests. China firmly opposes this. So in other words, from China's perspective, Beijing is merely matching what Washington is already doing. The Chinese have also said that they are uh going to uh take counter measures against President Trump's uh threat of 100% tariffs. of the commerce ministry over the weekend said uh that they pledged to take quote corresponding measures. At the same time, the Chinese appear to be trying to mitigate some of the negative response. Uh the ministry had said that those curbs do not equate to a ban. Um there is speculation though as you could imagine about why the Chinese would make this decision at a time when there are ongoing negotiations between the US and China and also when President C and President Trump are supposed to meet or expected to meet um at the end of this month at APEC. One
>> by the way said this morning that the uh uh meeting between Trump and China which also was another reason why markets kind of took a hit um on Friday is still on. And Trump basically said that last night as well that he thinks he's going to meet with uh with Xi. So I mean as long as that meeting happens and it's not that hostile and you have both sides coming to some conclusion. I mean we were promised a trade deal like 10 months ago it hasn't manifested. Even though Trump said in June it was like getting close. And so it's been a long time coming for a real negotiation with China. Hopefully by the end of the year that takes place and if it does that could be another tailwind for the broader markets if we finally get a meaningful trade deal that's center around rare earth minerals. Um, and maybe that's what ends up happening. Now, MP Materials US AR, the only safety on Friday were these rare earth stocks that seemingly were getting the perception of having massive demand if China was going to isolate from providing the United States rare earth minerals, which is basically what Trump claimed. You had some of the energy names also be a little bit of a safe haven. All of them are up right here in the pre-markets. Look at energy. Fuels up 16%. My goodness. How about a 158 is up 7%. Now, Aqua fell to 147. It was still up for the day even though it fell, which is how crazy Friday was. You had Nvidia down 300 billion in market cap, but Ollo was down like two billion and it was still green for the day. So, it's it's just quite incredible. But these seem to be the sectors the markets piling into off the fear of uh growth, financials, industrials, anything that scares them, they get into utilities, which ends up being energy and rare earths, which is quite incredible. And obviously if you're in these names then you've been doing well on these names as well. MBS, thanks for the super chat. Emit, are you adding any spy hedges? I feel like the time to add spy hedges was Tuesday or Wednesday last week. Obviously in hindsight, uh, you know, that's when it made more sense given the spy was at all time highs. I don't think spy hedges are a bad thing right now. It's just the put premium you're paying is going to be more elevated because the markets have come down. So, um I don't know after you got the VIX spike and waterfall decline and now a potential recovery like it does it really make sense to be buying puts at these levels potentially if you're going out like a year or two years and you just want a long time of protection but realistically those that hedged last week by buying puts it I mean today is probably day you close some of those puts and you take some of those profits off the table in general I think going into 2026 there needs to be some strategy of hedging and we'll talk more about it but I don't know if today's the best day given we might get a decent recovery and the the you know if we do get a really good recovery then the put premiums become way cheaper so that's when you want to buy them because insurance is cheap whereas today it might not be it might not be as cheap Iran all the data center plays they are recovering look at that IN 64 bits is it back above five it's at 479 clean spark getting some momentum that's back at 20 bucks I mean all of these names continue to just do what they're doing and it looks like the data center momentum is not slowing Even with the Trump China tweets, uh, Bloom Energy, I don't know why this one's up as much as it's up, 24%. I don't think they had earnings or something. This one has to be catalyst driven. It feels like I don't see Oh, I got the headline. Bloom Energy and Brookfield announced a $5 billion partnership for global AI infrastructure facilities. My goodness, dude. Every day it's something else. The deal marks Brookfield's first investment into its AI infrastructure strategy and will use Bloom Fuel's cell technology to power data centers requiring massive always on electricity capacity. The company said a European site will be announced later this year. Dude, I get like whatever Trump tweeted about China, it's not enough. It's not enough to stop this tsunami of AI ecosystem spending that that's that's taking place. By the way, this is the news that we didn't get to talk about yet. JP Morgan came out this morning. Tom Lee was mentioning it and is launching a $ 1.5 trillion financing initiative over the next decade to back industries vital to US national security and economic dependence. Jamie Diamond said the US had become too reliant on unreliable sources of critical minerals, products, and manufacturing. This is basically what Trump has been saying as well, calling for faster policy action and initiatives, and the initiative aligns with Trump's administration's push to strengthen domestic production and infrastructure and builds on JP Morgan's earlier trillion dollar commitment. The plant focuses on supply chain resilience, defense and aerospace, energy independence, and frontier tech like AI and quantum computing. I mean, this makes a lot of sense for JP Morgan if we are getting into an industrial buildout that is fueled by data centers, land, and power initiatives. I mean, JPM, Black Rockck, they're going to be at the center of wanting to fund all that stuff. And those are massive opportunities to invest in. And so, you got JP Morgan right there committing a trillion dollars. Bloom Energy up 23% on the day on that Brookfield deal. a massive Brookfield deal, $5 billion partnership. I mean, Bloom Energy was tossed into the meme stock ETF that Roundhill launched last week. And I don't know that much about Bloom Energy, but I mean a $5 billion deal with Brookfield to in to ensure data center capacity and expand AI initiatives. That does not seem meish to me. That it is quite incredible how some of these companies are continuing to get more momentum. Let me see what I Let me see what you guys said in the chat. I did a poll on green or red day. Uh 81% of you say green. 81% of you say green. I'm assuming some people probably think it's a bull trap. We'll see in about two minutes when the market opens if this has the resemblance of a bull trap. But if not, maybe we go higher. Wow. Gold 4,90. Holy crap. Gold. My goodness. Gold futures are already above 4100. Gold futures already above 4,100. Silver, by the way, I think it's crossed 50 if I'm not wrong. Silver, um, I think it was it was at 50 last night. The Yeah, 50 right here in the pre-markets again. I mean, this is this is one of the most incredible years we've seen for precious metals. We have not had a 50% year in gold in a long time. But there is silver. I mean, it's taken 11 years for silver to get back here, but here it is. Incredible, incredible, incredible stuff. All right, we got a minute until the market opens. Put in the chat what dip you bought on Friday. If you did take advantage of any dips and we're going to see if those dips end up being rewarded and uh if they do end up being rewarded today, it will be very nice to see. Again, retail has continued to buy the dip. That has been the strategy. Friday gave a pretty strong opportunity. We're going to see if that opportunity is rewarded today. Trump pivoted on China, said literally do not worry about it. As long as he is not really bluffing here on the China pivot, then it looks like there is an opportunity for the markets potentially to have a massive amount of buying today as a lot of people think. Maybe this is the dip they've been waiting for. And as a result, we might have a chance to recover. Maybe not fully, but a decent chunk of what we lost on Friday. Here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. Monday, October 13th, 9:30. Snack market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Nvidia is up 3% on the day. There you go. 18880 on Nvidia again. 195 was that alltime high. Let's see if we can get back there. Pound share. That's up 1.63%. That is green hoodie 14475 that fell all the way to 132. That is back to being green. The S&P 500 up 1.2% on the day against 673 is that all-time high. If we get a recovery anywhere near that 665 level and close above it, I think that would be super bullish. But there you go. S&P that's up 1.2% on the day. SoFi is up 3%. Grabby Grab fell to 550, back up to 607, that's up three and a half% on the day. Google that's up 2% fell all the way to 232. Reddit's up 1%. Amazon fell to 210. That's now at 218. Meta right there is up 1%. Salesforce up half a percent. PayPal fell all the way down to 67. Back above 70. That's up 1.2% on the day. Apple right there is up 1.3%. SMCI is green. How about Open? Open is green. That's up 1.72% at 770. Tesla right there 2.4%. 425 fell all the way to 410. Robin right there at 145. Where is Rocket Lab which got to 7350 on Friday. Rocket Left 6843 back trying to get to that 75 level. Bit Bars is green 13% on the day. EOS, another energy name. That one is also green. Wow. 13%. My goodness. Take a look at that. Energy continues to be one of the sectors that does very well. Bloom Energy also up 27% on that Brookfield deal. Fantastic. Broadcom, for those that are just joining, signed a 10 gigawatt deal with OpenAI. It's up 7%. It was up about 15%. So, not up as much as it was in the pre-markets, but that is another deal with OpenAI. That stock right there up 7% on the day. How about Nebius? This fell all the way to 110. Nebius right there back up to 137 basically at all time highs. 141 was alltime highs. AS cross 91. AS 8877. 91 was alltime highs, but that one is up 8% on the day. Hims is up 1.63%. Uber's up 1.5%. IN is up 7%. on the day continues to go green. I mean, this is just a phenomenal recovery so far. I'm not saying it's a full recovery, but it's a phenomenal rebound post a 3% waterfall. And again, one of the the theories that I have today is a lot of money across the entire market. Uh, you know, retail investors, fund managers, institutional managers, they might be thinking this is it. This might be their final opportunity. I mean, if we get into a strong earnings, it's going to be tough for the market to go down another 3 4% when earnings are crushing it across the board from financials to industrials to utilities to tech companies. So, it's going to be one of those days where maybe money, even though the banks are closed today, the credit markets are closed today because of Columbus Day. TSM right there is up 5%. You still might have a lot of money that comes into the broader markets and maybe that's a tailwind. If the credit markets are closed, money might end up coming into the stock market instead. Rocket Lab back to 70. Rocket Lab back to 70. My goodness, dude. My goodness, absolutely incredible. BMR, we at 54. BMR is at 5470. Not too bad. That's up 4.3%. Fell all the way to 47. Again, Tom Lee bought 200,000 Ethereum over the week. Um, I should say over the weekend when Ethereum really dipped. And Ethereum right there at 46416. We don't know exact his exact average, but he probably got it anywhere below uh 37 to 3,800, which is not too bad given Ethereum was at 4,700 last week. Uh, Oaklow, is that one moving? probably with Bloom Energy. That one's moving. Yep. Wow. 11%. That's alltime highs on Oaklook from 6 to 160. What a run. What a run. ALD that is also moving as well. Another massive, massive move on the day for APLD. That's up another 15%. That stock is hitting alltime highs. It was at 35 on Friday. Then it took a hit when the Trump tweet came out and now it's right back here. MP materials, that one also moving as well. There you go. 9123 up 16%. US probably following. Yep, US AR right there up 22%. My goodness. How about Amcor? We did buy this one last week. We are at 2980. That's up 5 and a half%. That one fell like 10%. So, that one's recovering 50% of what it fell, which is not too bad. Robin Hood right there at 14361. Big Bear AI, I think, signed a partnership this morning with a government agency. That's why that's up 12%. And we did have a politician buy that a couple months ago. 50,000 worth of it at around $6. So that has been a bit of a catalyst for it as well. And then SoFi right here up 2% read it slightly flat and then grab up 3% on the day. Um I think a lot of people that were down a decent chunk on Friday, you're probably recovering at least 50% of what you were down from Friday, which is good to see. You do have some red candles on some of these names. You do have some selling pressure. Nvidia getting a red candle right there. But overall, not too bad. AMD at 219. AMD at 219. AMD did go down real quick in the pre-markets, back to 220 on that Broadcom news, but it looks like it's back. You're going to have some of the Broadcom officials come live soon, and we'll get to hear from them on this multi-year partnership to deploy custom chips. But Broadcom getting the benefit of this right here. That's up 7%. Coreweave is dumping. Where's Coreeave? Yeah, Cororee goes red. All right. So you're seeing some of the first names go red. The VIX is down 6%. Still above 20, but the VIX is down. Not a massive decline, but it is down from where it was on Friday. Tesla right there up 1.8. Hoodie losing 146 back to 143. And then Palanteer losing 179 back to 176. I wouldn't say it's a full-on reversal. S&P still up 1%. But you are seeing some red candles across the board. Now again the the the underlying uh tone of a lot of the bears today will be that this is a dead cat bounce and you should sell it. So I think the market will tell us over the coming over the coming hours if this has any momentum behind it or if it is a dead cat and maybe Trump's tweets are not enough for the market to be convinced that there is momentum. So we're going to have to see. But overall we are at least not continuing to fall as aggressively as we were on Friday. Um, Nvidia right there, 18776, the S&P 1.08%. All right, we have the OpenAI.com people. Let's hear from them real quick and see uh exactly why they just signed a basically $400 billion deal with Broadcom.
>> We need way more compute power than we are still on trajectory to build. And so I think that there's a whole industry that still needs to be created in terms of how to have both the power and the computational power available to power the AI revolution that we see coming. And so part of what we're looking for here, part of what we've been working with Charlie and his team on is how to actually build chips that are customized for specific workloads so that we can take our knowledge of how to build the AI models and combine it with the best possible way of implementing that into silicon.
>> Excellent. Well, Charlie, welcome aboard here. I've not met you. One of the things that I think people are skeptical about is the idea that still one more company has to be involved because there's just so much demand. Uh, and I know your company as being about maybe the most hard-nosed company in Silicon Valley. I don't I think that's fine. I talked I joke with Hawk about that. But the fact is is that your company is not idly thinking, you know, we're going to do this thing. no money's exchanged, but we we're confident that open AI is going to exist. Will you please dispel a narrative? It just says that this man and his company are spending like drunken sailors and it doesn't matter what they do because build if they come. Whereas I know Broadcom is saying we better meet this darn demand or else we're going to be left behind.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, Jim, thank you for having us here. It's an honor and a pleasure to be here with you and Greg. Um, at Broadcom, actually, we've been building and enabling the AI infrastructure for over a decade. So it's not new experience for us. But what's exciting here with Greg and the team is we're actually having a very unique collaboration. As you said, it's a co-development and it actually what I call a trifecta. So the first thing that we do is exactly that custom AI accelerator or custom GPU or XPU that Greg talked about. That's where the compute is. The second piece that we put together is the network. you need to connect all of these XPUs so that you actually can scale them. And one of the coolest things that we do is it's based on open standard Ethernet networking. And the best thing that
>> Okay, so we'll get back to that in a second. He's not fully answering the question yet. I mean, quite frankly, no one cares about the technicalities. They care about how they're going to finance this. Uh so, you know, at the end of the day, I think everyone feels a little bit of just uneasiness that OpenAI is part of all these deals and they're somehow coming up with billions of dollars out of nowhere. But if there is going to be an ROI, that's going to be how it ends up playing out. You got the S&P, there's that big red candle right there, folks. It's not a full-on bull market uh recovery yet. I mean, you have a decent amount of red. PayPal loses its momentum. Bitcoin and Ethereum, they lose their momentum. Palanteer just went red. You're seeing a ton of different names that are getting hit. I I cannot I mean I don't think anyone can say with confidence that you're seeing a a decent level of upward swing. I mean we are green but it's not the type of green that is a full-on pivot. Again DJT hasn't fully said it's time to buy. Hasn't he hasn't literally said that. It's just the explicitness of the China remarks yesterday one could argue might be the signal. The question is will it manifest into that signal? And we have to see. We have to see. Doug says, "You got to remember liberation day took a few days, dropped on 44. The big recovery was on 49." That's also a good point. I mean, expecting the recovery today might not be as easy. It might be asking for too much, but S&P still holding one. If we give up 1% on the day, you know, he goes down to only up half a percent, then you would see some real sellers coming in. You're not really seeing that yet, but you are getting that in certain pockets. Micro Strategy bought 220 Bitcoin last week at the beautiful price of 123,000. So, unfortunately, they did not get the Bitcoin dip. Archer right here, that's down. Intel, that's down. Verizon's down a little bit and then Dell is slightly up after increasing their financial projections. Pounder trying to go back to green. Let's go back to Broadcom and see get some more details on that deal.
>> That comes on top of this is the software and that's where Greg and Sam and the team come together. So when we combine all of these things things together and we fine-tune them, we actually create the best AI platform that delivers the highest performance at really unprecedented power as you were saying and costs. And so we're very excited about this. We've been doing this for a while with Greg and I. We actually talk about it multiple times a week and and we see this happening.
>> All right. So Greg, I want people to understand that there's an NVIDIA.
>> Actually figuring out how to build this compute is extremely difficult and it's going to require financing in in different mechanisms. And so we've really been going to the industry to say, hey, how can we possibly get ahead of this sort of avalanche of demand we see coming our way.
>> Avalanche of demand. Not hoping for avalanche, but avalanche.
>> We are currently being swept along by the avalanche. Just like you between last month and this month, how much more business do you have?
>> Uh, quite a lot. So, uh, I mean, first of all, Sora did not exist a month ago and it's now the number
>> S's pretty cool. I've been playing with it.
>> Oh, glad to hear it. It's so much fun. It's so much fun and I think it just shows you how quickly these AI products get adopted, right? It's like we've never seen growth like this. So, Catch EBT was the fastest growing consumer app in history, but actually Sora is now even faster than
>> Incredible. Well, it was easy to download. My colleague David Faber has a question. Yeah, I guess I'd come to you first, Greg, and you know, my my question is simply uh is this going to reduce the uh the cost per token over time? I mean, I know in a podcast I think you guys have just done to sort of explain the deal as well, you talk about it leading to much better performance, faster models, and cheaper models. Um, is that sort of the goal here?
>> Well, I think of it in two dimensions. So, first of all, we definitely are decreasing the cost of of each token at a fixed level of intelligence, and we've been doing that for years. But having our own accelerator that's really tuned for specific workloads will let us really accelerate that, get more power efficiency, everything that you'd want. But even more importantly, we will be able to serve even smarter models. And so, what you actually really want is you almost want the amount of dollars that people will spend on AI to increase because it's cheaper to get to the same level. And you just want way more of it. you can actually reach new heights in order to solve new kinds of problems that were totally impossible otherwise.
>> Uh and you know
>> so an avalanche of demand pounder right there continuing to go red. The hoodie is very close to going red but still up 2% on the day. Dude, an avalanche of demand. Basically, OpenAI is saying we are building and partnering with all these companies, Oracle, Broadcom, AMD, Nvidia, because we think there is so much demand that is coming up uh that we just want to be ahead of it. And as a result, that's why we're signing these deals. I mean, it seems like they're pretty confident about the amount of demand that they're uh supposedly going to get. By the way, the S&P actually making a nice little green candle right there, 1.2%. I think that's close to the high of day that we have on the day. So that's really good to see the S&P getting that momentum. But if that's the case, then you either believe them or you don't. Palanteer just flipped green. And if you believe them, then I guess Broadcom and Oracle and Nvidia and AMD are going to benefit. They're going to benefit from Nvidia. The rare earth mineral companies massive. MP material still up 12% on the day. US, look at that, up 18 per 22%. LEU, Centric Energy, a lot of these names just continuing to hold on. I think I think we got a little bit of a algo move to the upside just now. Pretty much everything just went green. We're going to see how much of it can hold. Again, it might be very very choppy, but we were getting some red about 5 minutes ago and everything that was red just flipped, which means you're likely getting alos that are going to start buying and we'll see if that can continue. But you're getting some love right here. Oaklo still moving as well on the day. That one 164 hit 165 at some point. China, by the way, they came out and they just said, "Threatening high tariffs is not the right way to deal with China." That was one of the ministry spokespersons like 20 minutes ago, just put out that statement. And they also said, "China will do what is necessary to protect its legitimate right and interests." So basically, China is saying the same thing they said on Friday, which is, hey, like let's find a way to get a deal because you're not going to scare us into acting differently because with high tariffs, which hopefully is, you know, something that Trump and them can negotiate on meaningfully. Iran right there 6373 that is up 7% on the day. Volume might be down due to lack of money, so ALGO is going to play. Yeah, that's a fair point as well. Volume could be down today. Again, it is Columbus Day. You do have a lot of financial institutions that are just not trading today. And that could be another reason why we're not seeing as much volume. Dutch Bros., how's that one doing? This one's been down for a bit. Dutch Bros, that's up today. Wow. 7%. I don't know if they got an analyst upgrade or something. Or maybe that's just a recovery from Friday. But Dutch Bros getting some love. When I asked what uh or what stock people bought the dip on, I saw a lot of BMRs. I saw a lot of Amazon's. I saw a lot of um Grabs. I saw a lot of Google. So kind of your typical clients that end up getting momentum invid right there 187 looks like that was what people ended up buying again in September hundred billion was spent by retail and $und00 billion was spent when when when things were relatively decent in September. So the idea that retail didn't come in on Friday to me is unlikely when you know things got really bad because that's when people start and or at least that's when retail this year has has bought. By the way, Goldman Sachs, they they they they downgraded PayPal from neutral to sell. They set a price target at 70. I mean, just when PayPal starts to get some momentum, you have Goldman Sachs come out and say, "Yeah, we don't like it. We're downgrading it to a sell from neutral." So, you do have a little bit of downward pressure on PayPal as well, even though it is recovering from yesterday. How about Quantum today? What is going on with them? S&P right there, they're up 1.2. SoFi's up 3.6. QBTS D-Wave that is up two and a half% getting a recovery. Regetti also getting some recovery. That's up 9% on the day. And then IQ that's getting some love, up 6%. TSM or TMC, this is the metals company, another very important company when it comes to rare earth minerals, copper, cobalt or cobalt, nickel, all that stuff. That's up 17% on the day. That one I guess you can put in the bucket with um US and MP as a company that will be perceived as getting massive demand based on rare earth metals and it's getting it right here up 16% on the day. And again, uh JP Morgan is tomorrow. A lot of the banks are tomorrow. They've got a I mean that's why that JP Morgan trillion dollar announcement came out today because it's likely that they're going to announce a ton of new initiatives tomorrow on their earnings. So tomorrow's going to be a massive, massive day to see how these companies perform. And United, J&J, Goldman, JP Morgan, if all these guys, Black Rockck can put up some good numbers. The market likely is not going to be too upset. Tesla right here going green. That's up 2.2. S&P 1.25. Very close to breaking the high of day. If it does, that would be very nice to see. We potentially got to wait out for that 10:30 slam as well. Let's take a look at the heat map. We are Wow, look at that. Pretty much green across the board. It's not a full recovery, but healthcare is the only thing that's down today along with consumer defensives, Walmart, Costco, PG, etc. Everything else, tech and semis led by Broadcom, massively green on the day. I think SMCI will get a tailwind from this Broadcom deal. I think all the uh GPU service companies, SMCI, Dell, etc., HP, they should get a tailwind. It might not reflect right now, but SMCI's got to put up some really good earnings. I mean, Dell already increased their financial projections. because if SMCI does that, then that could be the tailwind SMCI needs to get a bit of a boost. Uh stock draft, Matt's at 45. He's still at number one. I'm at 41.7. Steve's at 7. Tanner's at 20. And then Chris is at 12.34. Anyone who wants to see the whole thing, go to 2025stockdraft.com and you can look at all the individual holdings. But Matt right there is up 45% still in first place based on AS Rock Lab. All right, let's finish up with that broadcast interview and let's see if we can get a little bit more details out of this deal.
>> How you actually describe the size of these efforts. Will it be there for you? And can you just put in perspective what we're talking about for our viewers in terms of the time and effort that will take?
>> Well, the way to think about this is I think we are embarking on the largest infrastructure build in history, right? I think that the the kind of infrastructure that everyone is building, it really makes programs like the Apollo program almost small in comparison, which is a really wild statement, but it makes sense because the economic return is there because this is really going to be the underpinning of our future economy and is already showing the the promise and and benefit to people's lives. And I in terms of actually producing this power, I think that the the power industry is one that's in in America is actually very slow to update to demand. that the growth there has been very slow over time. We've been spending a lot of time talking to executives, talking to these companies saying that, hey, we need far more power than has been planned for. And we're starting to see the response in the market. But, you know, our view has been for the past couple years, we see this wave coming and we've spent years really trying to say what is the way to increase every single part of the supply chain. So, this deal is part of that of trying to say let's build chips that are that are, you know, tuned for workloads that are more power efficient. Um, but also how do we have every single part of the supply chain respond to the demand that we see?
>> Now, Charlie, we're talking about the biggest joint industrial project in human history, correct?
>> Something that exceeds far versus what say the the highway system, the interstate highway system.
>> Uh there's a lot of uh incredulous behaviors will help us in our daily job as engineers. We said, let's do a proof of concept. We took about a dozen engineers. The result was good. Last year we said, you know what? Let's take a couple of projects, applied it to a couple of projects. We put tens of engineers now. And you know what? The result is actually impressive. So this year, we're actually going to fully adopt this. And we expect productivity for our engineering team to be 20 to 30%. So imagine if you have 10,000 engineers and now suddenly you use these smarter tools that are optimized you can get 10 to 20% more
>> each single engineer being kind of have his own assistant going from 100 to 120%.
>> Correct. Correct. So you will use actually these custom accelerators and the networking and the AI cluster as well as obviously the software to for example for code assist and once you apply that you get so much better productivity. So instead of a a key architect sitting down and spending time on doing verification or testing, we actually can take his time or her time to actually write smarter code and let these agentic machines do a lot of the stuff for us. And so it's going to change the way we actually work and live. And that's why we're excited about it. And we we're seeing this journey just like you said, the railroads took a century to build, right? The internet took 30 plus years to build. This is going to take many many years, probably a couple of decades, but we will see smarter and better capabilities going back to the trifecta, the custom compute, the network, and the stack that we're co-engineering together.
>> Software engineering really has changed already this year, just over the course of the past 12 months. It's just night and day. And I think that now if you're not using AI as a software engineer, you are just far less productive. We see this internally that the difference between people who use AI and don't that there's like a like 70% gap like these numbers are are real. We see it in in the the productivity stats. Um but we're starting to see that across every endeavor of human business. Um even for designing our own chip we applied our AI to it and we would actually have incurred like a month schedule slip if we didn't do that.
>> David, you have question.
>> I mean again wow S&P 662. Okay there you go. making some moves. It's not even if individual stocks are not kind of following the trajectory, it is really nice to see the S&P get above some of those levels. 662 on the day up almost one and a half%. Again, the Broadcom deal feels super bullish. I think the number one question everyone's left with is just where is the money coming from and um Broadcom right there up 10%. You know, Jensen did clarify last week. Jensen tried to make the argument that this is not circular financing because there is an ROI on all this money. And again, what is Nvidia going to do with their 60 billion? Like, they have to put it somewhere. I rent, right? They're up 7.5%. They can't buy back their stock. They can't give a better dividend. I mean, they could do those things, but it's not really beneficial. They're going to have to put the money to use. And so, if they're investing in the AI ecosystem overall, if there is an ROI on that ecosystem, there should be an ROI on those investments at the end of the day. So, you know, one could argue it's circular financing and it definitely feels circular to an extent. One could also say, hey, the money's got to come from somewhere and inevitably the money is going to come from the biggest players in the world. But as long as that money delivers a return, which is the number one thing everyone's waiting for over the next coming years, then this should end up working out. I right there up 8% on the day. AMD recovering everything it lost in the pre-market, that's up 4%. So, it looks like it was a little bit of a flash crash on AMD after the Broadcom news. That one goes green. And then Broadcom right there 354. That's still up. TS TMC again, massive day for this guy. Up 20%. What is this guy doing year to date? I think we've talked about this a couple times. Wow. 800% year to date. My goodness. Um I do not have a position in them, but for those that did take a position, rare earth metals and rare earth minerals minerals. I mean minerals and metal metals. Th those two have been massive massive components of the supply chain that Trump has been trying to um essentially securitize within the United States. Lithium America's that's also up 11.2%. And as a result being in the energy stocks, being in the rare earth minerals and metal stocks, those have done very well. Very, very, very well. Now, are they buys right now? I don't know. I mean, they've had a massive run. Now granted, if we're going to continue having a run going into 2026 because there's so much demand for that, then you know, one could argue they are buys. But I think there needs to be a little bit more of a deep dive to see are these companies do they actually have the demand that is necessary to to kind of live up to the hype? Oaklo right there 170. I mean, again, is Oak buy at 170? No. But Oaklo wasn't really perceived as a buy at 140. It's just the demand for energy seems to be catching up with the perception of the stock and that's what's leading to Oakllo getting some love. You know, historically in markets when a company outruns uh you know, the most important companies in the world like an Nvidia and a Meta and the company has zero earnings, zero revenue, that company tends to be in a bubble. I wonder if that actually plays out in this sort of AI ecosystem over the next decade because I if we're going to need nuclear energy and Oklahoma's going to get a couple billion dollars worth of deals and it's a $20 billion company it's going to trade at a couple time you know five times 10 times sales which is an aggressive price of sales multiple but it's not egregious especially if their demand is growing maybe Oaklo gets to hold on to this valuation maybe it legitimately gets to grow into the valuation and it's potentially not the same as it was in previous markets where a random stock outruns the most important companies in the world because those stocks tend to crash badly. Maybe that's not the case. Maybe there's just so much demand. That's not how it plays out. S&P right there 662 again. 66214. Grab holding on to six. Not really getting below there yet. Bitcoin back to 115. That's nice to see. And then ETH trying to get back up to 4200, which is also not too bad. hoodie not really recovering as well uh as it did last week when it dropped all the way to the 140s gapped up back to 155. Right here you're at 140. Now it is up from 132 on Friday. So that is a decent recovery from the low 130s. Um I think on Hood also dude like I've been pretty transparent about this. I think Hood just got really expensive and it was outrunning um it its earnings growth. I mean at 150 as excited as I was for it and I think all of us were happy. It was also like, dude, really 120 to 150 in a week off nothing. There was no real catalyst. So, I think Hood normalizing in the 140s is good. It gives it a chance to run on earnings if they have a good earnings and I think they're going to have a pretty decent earnings. And I think this is actually really healthy for it. Now, is Hood buy the dip right here? You got to imagine what the end of the year looks like. If S&P gets to 7,000, if Bitcoin gets to 150, then yeah, I think that's an obvious buy the dip. If it doesn't, might end up consolidating at these levels. So, we're gonna have to see. We're going to have to see if that plays out. But if you did buy the dip on Friday, there were some good opportunities. S&P right there 66230 high of day. TMC as well 11. That's also high of day. IN 65. Oaklo 170. AIT gold is up 54% year to date. The market still likes gold. Why? Well, again, we were covering it in the morning. S&P moving now. Wow. S&P really moving up 1.45. There might be a lot of crypto companies that are buying gold, including Tether, which is creating a stable coin out of gold and backing it one to one. So, there could be a variety of reasons for why gold is getting the run that it's getting. At its core, I mean, the the argument that we've been talking about for months now is that I mean, cash is trash and you have the biggest financial institutions in the world saying like you your dollar the dollar is not as exciting along with central banks that are, you know, transitioning into a lot of gold versus treasuries as their reserves. But regardless, you are seeing a momentum in precious earth's copper, gold price, etc. And we have not seen that in a in a very long time with gold, silver, and copper moving the way it is. And that's why these rare earth mineral stocks are moving as well. 66250 on the S&P again, a new alltime high or not alltime high, a new intraday high on the day. Cipher and IN also getting some love. Cipher, right, they're up 12% and I 6560. I ran hit 70 last week. Look at that 10% move. Dude, again, when you have this type of a Monday morning, you it tells retail to continue buying the dip because the dip gets rewarded and you're going to need a nice little rug pull to get people to be annoyed with anything they bought on Friday, but you're not seeing that yet. Maybe you'll see it this week, but you're not seeing it yet. We're also going to get the um the uh the the the CPI from the BLS on the 24th. If that CPI is good right before the Fed meeting and we get a cut again, I think that's why the theory over the next couple weeks is markets are going to be like, wait a second, earnings growth is good, rate rates are coming down and Trump China is a non-issue, but the market is still down 4% from where it was last week. Maybe that's a buying opportunity and that's where money comes in. Pounder right here 177. I will say though, it obviously does feel like certain stocks are frothy. Like Rocket Lab, as much as I love Rocket Lab, I don't think $70 like makes sense quantitatively. Like I just don't like I I I and I think Matt Money would agree with me. Matt's a big Rocket Lab bull and he would probably say, "Yeah, it's probably pushing a little bit." Same thing with Hood. As bullish as I'm on it, I don't know if 150 really makes sense until they put up the earnings growth. So the question then becomes, do these stocks just continue to hold their multiples and do they put up the earnings growth that allows those multiples to be justified or are they just running for the hell of running? And I hope it's the former versus the latter because that's a more tangible structural reason why these stocks are getting a multiple versus, you know, just money entering into the system, which is inevitable. Money is going to enter the system. But, you know, if you're in a stock for a long time, you also want it to be based on a more fundamental catalyst. S&P 663. Now, she's really moving, busting through 661 and 662. There you go. 663 on the day. Now granted, if Oakl is going to go to 200, I mean, you're going to Rocket Labs and Hood are, you know, much better companies in my opinion than an Oaklo just on an earnings basis, on a revenue basis. They actually have a little bit of money coming through the door. So those names probably do continue getting a premium if a name like Oaklo gets a premium 17% on the day. I mean, like this is I don't know, dude. This is weird. This is weird. You think on a day that flushes out the entire system, the names that are are, you know, a bit frothy don't get a massive move. But though, that's the exact opposite. You're getting a massive move on these names on a Monday morning. I don't know if that's bullish or bearish. I mean, put in the chat, is that bullish or bearish? What do you think? Is Oakl gapping up 17% making alltime highs after a flush out bullish or bearish? I mean, on on the surface, it looks bullish. underlying strength of some of these names kind of feels a little bearish because it's like you you don't want to see some of that stuff happen. It kind of here's the thing. It kind of makes no sense, but it also is potentially bullish. And that can happen, right? Sometimes things can make no sense, but they can also be bullish. And I think that's what we might be seeing right here. Or it's indicative of a bull trap. I mean, we've got to see. We've really got to get a lot more data. But S&P right 500 right there 662 got all the way up to 663 on the day. Now if you own Oaklow it's super bullish because you're probably very happy and look that's great. The question is just you know can those stocks hold those multiples. Big Bear by the way up 17%. I think Big Bear got a partnership this morning. That's why that one's running. This thing fell below $5 um two months ago. So, Big Bear and TC partner to deliver AI enabled edge infrastructure for the battlefield. Okay, that's the partnership. I don't know if there's any numbers on this partnership, if there's any amount of revenue or money, but regardless, the stock is getting a ton of a pump. And then TMC, again, TMC seems to just be following US AR and uh and MP, and that's why those stocks are moving higher. It's weird, dude. Very weird across the board. But again, like I also think you can't fight it, right? I mean, as long as there is not froth in the most important companies in the world, and this is, I think, like the most objective take anyone can have on this. As long as there is not froth in the Amazons, the Metas, the Invidas, the Googles of the world, we're okay. You might think there's froth in Big Bear. You might think there's froth in Quantum. You might think there's froth in in Oaklo. And and trading in and out of it, and you know, retail has made a killing off a lot of those stocks. Even if you think they're frothy, I don't know if you can go far enough to say that that level of frothiness means that um the market is topped. I don't think you can say that. I think there's there's too much earnings growth in the most important companies along with a a a Fed that's easing to to be bearish on the broader market even if you think there's frothiness in certain sectors. And by the way, if there is frothiness in certain sectors, again, if those sectors go to zero, who cares? If Big Bear AI goes to zero, who cares? That's eight billion dollars of market cap gone to zero. Like that's not going to affect the market. Neither is Ollo. So, it's one of those. Now, if Nvidia goes to zero, that's a different question. But like that where you don't, as Tom Lee said this morning, Nvidia trades at a cheaper multiple than freaking Walmart and Costco. And Nvidia right here trying to go back to 190. That's at up 3.6%. It doesn't feel like that one is that expensive relative to a lot of these other names in the market. UNH right here, 356. That's green as well. That broke 370. That right there is at 356. TMQ, this was the company that Trump is taking a stake in uh based on that Alaska deal, 16%. That one also continuing to go green. The meme stock ETF is up. I would imagine it's up today. Yeah. Wow. Meme stock ETF up 11.79% on the day. This one has the Oaklows, the BMRs, the ESTs's, HIMS. A lot of those names I don't think are meme stocks, but they have a ton of those names in there. That's up 12.2% on the day. ABAT, is this the Trump company? No, no, this is American Battery Tech. Wow. ABAT 50%. American battery technology is a technology company which engages in the development of marketing of lithium ion batteries. 50% move, folks. Uh I don't know if there is a a catalyst or if this is just pure rare earth metals that are moving. Uh we are proud to share that after more than two years of dedicated work, we have completed all required baseline studies and submitted the reports to the US Bureau of Land Management. It looks like they completed some phases of development that they needed to start uh mining more lithium. It looks like that's the announcement today. And that along with the general rare earth metals catalyst is keeping the stock higher. 49% on AB. I didn't even know this company. I feel like I heard of it a couple weeks ago, but I didn't know too much about it. ABAT right there. 48% along with US and MP. That's up. US is up 14%. What about CRML? That was also another company. critical rare earth mineral metals uh 21% that's up 41% on the day. My good. This one is not even getting the Trump stake. Trump was supposed to invest in these guys. That was the rumor by Reuters as they came out and said we're not doing it. That one still is up 41%. Goodness gracious, bro. This is incredible. Grab right there 596 and then Google at 241. Gold is still moving as well. Gold not stop. Wow. 4113 on gold. I mean, it's not slowing. It is simply not slowing down. Um, by the way, Palo Alto got an upgrade today to 248 as well. So, Palo Alto getting some green goodness, dude. Gold, rare earth minerals, and energy. Those have been the plays for the p I mean if you wanted to make freaking 30 to 50% on your money if not much more than that those have been the plays for the past month really for the past couple of months and you're continuing to get some green. Yeah, I think I mean obviously we're going to have to look into rare earth minerals a lot more. I mean it the market is telling us that these are the stocks that I don't think those are frothy by the way. I think that obviously quantitatively if you look at the market caps and the revenues they might be frothy but this is a sector where it looks like a lot of money is getting ready to be deployed in and it looks like there's a lot of deals being ready to be made as well. Now granted I haven't gone through the financials of a lot of these US us cap is 4 billion. I mean four billion is not the most you know it's not the biggest company in the world. So, we're going to have to see what their financials look like, but still it looks like these guys are small and they're getting a bid based on what Trump is trying to do. S&P 662, that one continues to go green. Here was uh some analysis from the Olan podcast on kind of why they think gold is continuing to run important net new buyer. It's Tether. Tether has been issuing a stable coin called Tether Gold where they'll actually custody the gold on your behalf and it's the amount and volumes of it are rising. At the same time, central banks are rebalancing. And then yet at the same time, you have a lot of macro funds that have essentially decided that central banks aren't to be trusted and they don't know what to do and so they're not necessarily long bonds and they're not necessarily long currencies and so they're long gold. So I think it's a mixture of things. There's no panacea explanation, but if you had to put it into a couple buckets, it's net new speculation, net new stable coin related issuance, and a loss of confidence in central bank policy around the world.
>> And this is uh in some ways a good backs stop, Brad, for governments.
>> There you go. That could be at least some of the explanation. Also, China buying is a good point for why gold's getting green. If we end out the day S&P up one and a half percent, I think all of us will be happy. I mean, we were down 3%, recovering 50% of that, I think people would be relatively happy. But the real story is every other name that is getting a massive move that really is not, you know, part of the S&P or part of the broader uh market index of like the most important companies. The Roundill meme stock ETF going up 12% that tells you kind of where the sentiment is the Monday after a 3% draw down. Bit mine right there. 5454 that's up three and a half percent on the day as well. APLD that's about to hit alltime highs. They had a great earnings. They had a phenomenal earnings. That's up 14% on the day. And look, if companies like Apply Digital, which aren't the biggest companies in the world, are putting up good earnings. Again, it's like you're I mean, I don't think Meta puts up crappy earnings. I don't think I puts up crappy earnings. And if they don't, I mean, those stocks are probably going a bit higher. Richtech Robotics, that stock right there, up 11%. All right, so I guess I guess here's the question. Let's do this question in the chat. Let's do a poll on this. How are we feeling about some of these names that are running? So, I mean, let's let's do let's do this as a gauge. Uh, by the way, five I think about 80% of you said we're going to be green for the day. After a 3% draw down, how do you feel that meme is up 11%. Bullish, bearish, doesn't matter. Aka, after Froth getting kicked out of the system on Friday, the meme stock ETF being up 12% likely means that there's a little bit more froth coming in. I kind of lean on the side of it doesn't matter. I don't know if you can go bearish on that. I really don't. And I think I think the bears will point to this being the the bull trap because of, you know, entities like meme stock ETFs being up on the day as much as they are. But I don't think that's I I don't think that's that's necessarily bearish. I don't think that's super bullish either. But it's bullish in terms of just like more market momentum. I think it's almost a nothing burger even if it is hard to explain which is the unique situation and the differentiated situ situation this market is in given this AI tailwind in the midst of the Fed cutting. It's hard to be like yep this is completely bearish and a lot of those aren't true meme stocks. That's also true. We have more gamblers that are continuing to gamble. Tes says, "Well, they aren't meme stocks, so it doesn't matter." The ETF is just an attempt to slander retail. You know, that's actually a good point. I mean, a lot of those names are not meish. I think they just stuck them in there because they see people on Twitter talking about them in retail, which could be the reason. S&P still holding on to 662. EOS, that's up 17% on the day. Amazon should be up, not Oaklo. So this I I I can totally resonate with this sentiment. And this is the that sentence right there is I think what people are upset about. Amazon should be, you know, maybe it doesn't have to move 17%, but Amazon should be up way more than a company doing no revenue and no earnings. However, Amazon's also a $2 trillion company. Oaklo is a $25 billion company. Amazon has way more shares outstanding. Oaklo doesn't. Oaklo is more shorted than Amazon. But you get into all these nuanced reasons for why a stock can go higher than a Mac 7, even if Amazon's earnings are a lot better. And I don't think you can cry about it, right? That's the problem for the bears that use that as their bare case. Well, Amazon's barely up and Oak's up 100%. It's like, well, that's not a top. I mean, complaining about one stock being up and another stock being down, that's just just not enough, I think, to say structurally this has been uh indicative of a market that can collapse. It's hard to make that argument. Pounder right there going green as well. 176 on the day. I think we have some more analysis right here on gold. Let's see if we can get some commentary on why it continues to move as high as it's moving. Uh let's pull this up right here. To play out in one way or another given everything that's going on, especially again now with the trade war coming back. The second reason why gold is going up is because Chinese households in the ETF data are buying significant amounts of gold. And you also see on the sanction side, central banks globally are still divesting from US treasuries and buying gold instead. So those three tailwinds have continue to provide very strong growth in in gold prices and we should expect that to continue.
>> So those are going to be price insensitive um you know kind of buyers in there. In other words, they're going to keep 4,100 an ounce. We're going to keep buying.
>> I think some of them will be the central banks because of sanctions. They're definitely price insensitive. And I think also a lot of the demand from China has likely also been price insensitive because Chinese households can really only buy two things namely apartments and housing and stock prices. They don't have the option of buying US equities the same way that we have here in the US and Europe. So because of that they have been diversifying away from their traditional investments more towards buying gold. The ETF demand in Chinese gold has been very very strong in China.
>> It was weird to see the stock market sell off so much Friday and then gold sell off right. It wasn't a safe haven and now for a while. Yeah, absolutely.
>> I know.
>> So, Bitcoin, too. All right, Torson, great to see you. Thank you.
>> That That was not on 1.5x. That guy is a yapper. That guy is a a yapper, bro. He talks faster than me. Oh, wow. Howard Marks is going to be on today. Oh, that's going to be interesting to hear what Howard Marx says. You guys know Howard Marks has been saying this is all a bubble. If anyone has not kept up with his thesis, well, he's not literally been saying it's a bubble. He's he's just been saying there's no need to buy the S&P. I mean, he he thinks that markets are really elevated and he started saying this back in August. Now, obviously, he's not necessarily been correct since then, but it is going to be interesting to see kind of how he thinks about the selloff that we had on Friday and some of the recovery that's playing out. Pound right there at 176 BMR 54 5402. is what we have on BMR. Um Howard Marks only said investors need to be cautious. Yeah, but I mean look, he also, if you watch the Bloomberg piece he did back in August, he tried to not say it was a bubble, but you could pretty much tell through the tone of his voice, he is not excited about valuations at the moment. But I think he's on right now. Let's let's take a look at him and see what he's thinking about this market.
>> I sat down with Markx exclusively to talk about how his views on the market have developed over the years and whether he ever thought when he first started writing these memos that they would become what they have.
>> I actually can say that it was not uh premeditated. Uh I wrote the first one because I had a couple of things happen that I thought the juxosition uh would be interesting for people to read about and it illustrated uh an important uh value of oak trees and that's why I wrote it. I didn't have a plan. I don't think I even had a plan to write another. Certainly not with any regularity. Certainly not 160 odd memos over 35 years.
>> That was October 12th, 1990. You wrote about performance. I went back and looked at looked at this one and essentially there there's always a little bit of a a lesson based on your personal experience and that was don't swing for the fences.
>> Right. Right. I I met with a a client in Minneapolis who explained that he'd been managing a pension fund for 14 years and in those 14 years uh the equities had never been above the 27th percentile or below the 47th percentile. So solidly in the second quartile 14 years in a row and where did that place them for the 14 years overall? Fourth percentile. Well, how just how does that work? If you if you fluctuate between 27 and 47, don't you average 37? No, you get up to the top, the very top of the universe, because everybody else eventually shoots themselves in the foot
>> because they took too much risk,
>> right, at the wrong time. So, so, uh, consistent good performance and an absence of blowups will give you a terrific record over time. You don't have to be a hero.
>> So, when did you start getting a response? um on the first the tech stocks started to decline and then uh as I wrote in some place after 10 years I became an overnight success
>> because it was a great call. You had also some similar warnings 2007,
>> right?
>> Right before the market crash about excessive risk-taking. So that that that is a theme. You can predict these bubbles based on what psychology.
>> It is it has a lot to do with psychology and the resultant behavior. So if you can just uh be sensitive to the psychology that's governing the markets and the behavior that that's directing uh people to engage in. I think you can figure out those rare occasions when you're at an extreme when the market is either crazy high because of excessive optimism or crazy low because of excessive pessimism. And when you can find those occasions which arise once every decade or so, uh maybe you can make hay
>> because you also had one in 2008 around just before the bottom where you said it's starting to look very interesting.
>> Oh yes. Well, again, excess. That's the key. Um I think it was October the 8th of '08. Um which was very very close to the bottom of psychology in that cycle. And I wrote a memo called the the uh the limits to negativism. You know, it's our job to be skeptical. What I said in the memo is that I was detecting sentiment that was too bad to be true. I could not come up with a an assumption negative enough to satisfy the naysayers. And when that level of excessive pessimism is prevalent, you have to conclude that maybe the prices of assets are just too low because the psychology is depressing them. And so, you know, we concluded that we had a great opportunity. And uh fortunately, we had raised a lot of money in in advance of what we thought would be a good opportunity. and and my partner Bruce Gar u swung into action and uh invested at a at a very uh fast clip and and of course uh in the in the uh aftermath of the Lehman meltdown etc. AIG and so forth all you had to do was buy vigorously and uh fortunately he did
>> and that was a that was a winning trade. So a lot of people look at the the moment that we are in right now and they see very high valuations and I don't know how you would deem sentiment but there's certainly a lot of enthusiasm around technology like AI.
>> Are we in that moment?
>> There's enthusiasm. There are high valuations. I I don't know enough about tech stocks or stocks in general or AI specifically to know whether the valuations are excessive. My response to date has been that the valuations are not crazy, high but not crazy. And when when things are either high or low but not crazy, you can't make an observation that has a high likelihood of being correct. And um you know this may prove to have been a time when you should have uh become defensive. Um, and people will look back and say, well, well, why didn't you? But I don't think you can say that dependably right now. Expensive.
>> So, uh, that's a quite interesting statement from Markx. Valuations are high right now, but not crazy. I mean, it's not as bearish as he kind of sounded two months ago when he was a little bit more around sounding the alarm, but right now he's saying, well, I I guess I mean, since then, we've had some more earnings, so maybe he's seen the earnings and it's hard to deny some of the momentum from those earnings. Also, the Fed is cutting and you know, Howard Marks understands the macro really well. If you're gonna get a Federal Reserve rate, you know, anywhere below two and a half percent, valuations might not be that crazy. So actually kind of a bullish statement coming from works
>> and going down tomorrow are not synonymous. And uh I wrote a memo celebrating the 25th anniversary of of that first memo bubble.com that got attention. I wrote it a memo called on bubble watch. And I said that to me the main ingredient in bubbles is uh psychological excess. There's no such thing as a price too high. And I don't detect that level of of uh mania at this time. So I have not uh put the bubble uh label on this on this incident
>> because some people are wondering if there are echoes back to the dot bubble with AI
>> transformational technology
>> by all the the chip stocks that are playing into it.
>> Right. Right. Well, uh I think there's relatively little doubt that AI will change the world and AI has been successful as an investment and people are piling in and there's some fear about being left out. Um but to me it just hasn't this is a judgment call and to me it just hasn't reached that critical mass of mania. Value is another theme. You just wrote about value in your recent August.
>> All right. So, I mean, pretty decent commentary from Markx. Now, remember the headline in his Bloomberg interview two months ago was US stocks quote in the early days for a bubble. That was the headline. Anyone can go watch it. Type in Howard Marks Bloomberg on YouTube about two months ago. That was the headline that he said in that interview. It looks like his tone has kind of changed. I mean, he didn't say anything uh along the idea of we are in the quote unquote early days of a bubble. In fact, he's saying that AI can change the world and he's not seeing the hype and sort of uh what did he call euphoric mania that would constitute the bubble label. So, I guess in the past couple months, maybe his thinking has shifted a little bit more towards potentially even recognizing the the transformational effects of AI, deflating a lot of the hype that he thought existed and that could be a tailwind. Now, Howard Marks is not invested in any of the AI companies. Um, so he doesn't have exposure to it, but doesn't look like it's the most the most bearish. S&P right there, 661 getting a bit of a red candle from 663 and that's down. Hoodie 139.80. That's down half a percent. Grab still holding on to 590. And then Google up 1.9 on the day. Silver is breaking 52. Really? Goodness gracious, bro. Silver spot 52. Wow. This is incredible, bro. You could have bought silver and gold in January and just sat back and chilled. Is anyone buying silver or gold right now? Like, is anyone buying precious metal? I like I feel like if you have a obviously like a 10, 20 year horizon, buy silver and gold. It'll be fine. But is anyone buying it for a trade? kind of feel like the juice has been squeezed, right? Both up 50%. But then again, I mean, if if if freaking Tether and central banks and these crypto stable coins are going to back gold one to one, I mean, maybe it's going way higher. Maybe it's going way higher. I bought last year. I bought a couple months ago. I bought back in 2020. I have gold miners. Yeah, gold miners have done great this year. Even copper miners as well. GDX. Wow. 120% year-to date. Goodness gracious, bro. Talk. I mean, people say the market's led by tech, but there's been a lot of diversification in this rally across a bunch of different names. Gold miners, rare earth, uh, metals, uh, energy stocks, nuclear, I mean, all this stuff has not been in the Broadcoms or Invidas of the world, but they've done well. Energy fuels today up 18.5%. Goodness gracious, bro. This has been pretty wild. My uncle's in the chat. He says, you know, I've been holding silver from our India trip. He told me to buy it. I didn't buy it. He said, "Buy silver." I was just like, "Bro, who cares about silver, bro?" He gave me a whole book. It was like, "Read this book about silver." I was like, I'm buying more Robin Hood. I don't give a [ __ ] about silver. It was technically wasn't that I mean, Robin was 26 at the time, so that worked out, but I should have probably got a little bit of silver. I mean, dude, it's really broken out. Silver, copper, and gold. It really has. And usually these things happen in multi-year cycles. So, if we're in one of those multi-year cycles, maybe that's somewhat of what you're seeing right now. What's the name of the book? Okay, I should be able to find this pretty easily because there's not that many books on this. Um, my uncle can give us the name of the book in the chat. It was a it was a book that came out in like 23 or 24, but it was it was one of like the most important books at least that he said to read in silver. Yeah. Silver, gold, etc. also used in semiconductors. Copper is used in data centers. So, like like the AI uh thesis is kind of synonymous with a lot of the precious metals that are that are going up. Yeah. The Great Silver Bull. That's what it's called. The Great Silver Bull. This is Yeah, this came out in 2022. This is the name of the book for those that want to learn more about silver. Um Okay. So, crypto's going red. Hood just went red. Bitcoin ETH going down. Looks like there's going to need to be a little bit more buying pressure to get people excited about those. BMR as a result will probably go down as well. 5333 down from 56, but you're getting some of the high beta names taking a dip. Also, S&P 663 back to 660. So, not really a trend today. A lot of back and forth price action. If you were assigned puts on Friday, I mean, you're getting liquidity today. you're probably going to be able to sell for at least, you know, if you sold puts on Meta at 700 or Nvidia at 180, I mean, you're getting the ability to sell today. Question is, do you want to sell or do you think there's a lot more room going higher? You sold puts on SoFi at 25. I mean, there's tons of se buyers that are stepping in. So, the question now is how do you manage some of the puts that were assigned on Friday? I mean, BMR, there were people, there was someone on Twitter I was talking to, she got signed 20,000 shares of BMR at 48 because she had uh she she sold puts on it. I mean, dude, BMR is up five bucks today. That's $100,000. If you want to sell the entire position, you know, the the the rebound has been quite quick, at least to some extent, to get some of that liquidity. Did you look at TAC? Chris Camila likes this one. So, this is an this is a Canadian company, if I'm not wrong. TAC, it's up 11% today. Engages in the distribution of electricity through wind, hydro gas, coal power plants. Okay, so this is an energy name, $5 billion company. Yeah, Alberta, Calgary is its headquarters. I have not looked into this. Um, if Dumb Money did an episode on it, then I do think it's worth looking at it. It looks like they're looking for the energy plays as well. Seems like everyone's looking for what's the next energy play uh given the run we've seen in energy. So yeah, it would be worth looking into. I'll see if I can do some some due diligence on this. Translata, how much is this stock up year to date? TAC 10:30 slam. All right, it's 10:30. Let's see if we get slammed. It's only up 23%. That's good. Not a big mover. So maybe there is some opportunity, but we're gonna have to do some fundamental looks on it. Um Brocky said, "I bought 300 shares of BMR." Yeah, I think a decent decent chunk of people bought the dip on that on on Friday. I know Steve bought some more on that as well. We got Amcor back to 30, which is nice to see. This one fell to 2850. I did buy the dip at 28.50. I also bought at $30.80 80 cents right before the dip. So, amazing timing, but this one trying to get back up to 30 bucks. Pound right there. 17622 on the day. All right, let's finish up with Howard Marks and then we'll keep going from there. Made it's it's harder to do that on a value basis, especially for startups or companies that are that are uh early in their life cycle. Um but you know the the connotation of uh hard value investing has been prosaic companies that have existed for a long time that are not really on a growth curve but rather are quite stable but have repeatable uh cash flows and earnings and so forth. uh that's kind of the extreme of value investing with a capital V and that may be too restrictive. Uh so uh I think something in between I think based on the historic numbers something like the S&P 500 is expensive today. There's no question about it. The PE ratio on the S&P 500 is around 24 on next year's on the next year's earnings and the historic average is 16. So you can't say it's not expensive, but what you have to engage in is and I in the my last memo, the calculus of value, I gave the what I thought was part of the bull case, which is the S&P now is better. They're better companies. Uh they have uh market dominance, fabulous products, not moes uh protecting against competition, enormous incremental profitability and and and great growth potential. Um
>> so the optimism is warranted.
>> They're better companies, so they warrant uh higher multiples and the optimism is warranted. And
>> dude, this is pretty bullish by Markx. this is I mean first of all he's saying he doesn't see euphoria. He's saying yes the S&P is expensive but the valuations are warranted because there's better companies and he's also saying that it's not he he's refusing to put the bubble label on it. I mean from a val from a traditional value investor I don't think you can ask for anything better. Seems like he's saying this is a bull market that has the potential to continue. I'm not knowledgeable enough to say that's wrong. But you you but this is an example of something called this time it's different
>> which you must that must worry you a little this
>> well this time it's different is always said about the quote new new thing. Um
>> it's said during bubbles too right?
>> It's well especially in bubbles and it's it is the sentiment that gives rise to bubbles. This is something we've never seen before. There's no historical parallel. Uh this thing's going to the moon. Uh the valuations are high, but this time it's different.
>> So, can we expect 35 more years?
>> Uh that's my goal. Uh will you still come visit me?
>> Of course, I'll come visit you and we'll interview you every time because we always want to hear what you have to say.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you so much, Howard. Really appreciate it,
>> dude. Pretty bullish by Howard Marks. I did not expect him to give those types of quotes. just given kind of where he was leaning towards a couple months ago. But, uh, he's not necessarily that bearish on the market. Again, Howard Marks does own I think like 14 million shares of Grab, so he is heavy in that one. Uh, but he's not in the S&P or Nvidia or anything like that. Um, but it doesn't seem like he's necessarily calling the top here or saying that it's a bubble. So, Britney says he has aura. Yes, he has aura. Dude, Howard Marks, how old do you guys think he is? He is I actually I actually studied Howard Marks a couple months ago because he bought Grab and Grab's a big position. So, I went deep into like his life and I read a lot of his memos. Howard Marks is 79 years old and he seems as sharp as ever. So, it's quite incredible. And he's still managing money at a at a pretty high level as well. And it doesn't seem like he has uh any plans to slow down. By the way, I watched a 46-inute documentary over the weekend on raising Canes. Did you guys know the Raising Canes founder is worth $26 billion. He owns 92% of the company. It was it was a documentary on Forbes's YouTube channel. Like, it was a fascinating story of what this guy had to do to start the first Raising Canes. I've only had it once in my life because there's not a lot of Raising Canes in New York or New Jersey. Uh it's more of a down south, Midwest type of thing. started in Louisiana, but they have a simple menu. Chicken fingers, fries, kleslaw, and bread. And they do five billion in sales. And they have almost a thousand locations worldwide. I mean, 26 billion off raising canes. Yeah. Louisiana Icon. 90, dude. And they were like, "Hey, when are you going public?" He's like, "Bro, we are never going public." He's like, "I don't want to answer to quarterly earnings and shareholders and try to get our numbers every 90 days." He's like, "No, we're fine doing what we do." And I mean, the dude the worth the guy's worth 26 billion. Why would he even want to go public? Like most people go public for liquidity. I mean, he has plenty of liquidity and you know, his net worth continues to increase as the company continues to grow. But it's quite an incredible American establishment that's been able to take off. S&P 500 right there, 1.37%. That's green. And then Nvidia still holding 188. I bought SMCI call spreads 6090 for 2027. I said that last week. SMCI call debit spread for Jan 2027. 6090. Um I'm probably not going to wait for it to get to 90. You know, if it makes a nice move up to 75, which is kind of what I think is more fair value based on all the deals we've seen with Nvidia, AMD, all of these are going to need more liquid cooling technology for GPUs. It's just that simple. So, it's a very simple trade on the idea that SMCI will probably catch up with a lot of the other semiconductor names. the stock's been relatively flat ever since the whole uh the whole accounting fraud thing. And so I don't think that's really a risk anymore, but I think you're going to need a lot more of their server rack technology if you're going to have a lot more GPUs being implemented. So 6090 spreads for SMCI 2027. Broadcom still up 10% on the day. I bought more AMCR on Friday on the dip. What's my average? Let me see. We're above 30. Have 2500 shares of it now. Again, this one's also a trade looking for about 50 in six, eight months. I think it's possible on a rerating. Company trades at 1.5 time sales, 1.15 time sales, relatively cheap if uh they continue to make progress on their FAB with TSM. Yeah, my average is $30.50. So, close to breaking even on this one. EOSE. This one continues to move 21% on the day. Piper Sandler from Meta. Wow. 880 price target. Dude, Meta is going to be an interest. I think it's going to be the most interesting Max Evan earnings because Z is spending a lot. And again, they have that $14 billion investment into freaking scale AI. I mean, they they've been deploying cash, I think, at a faster pace than all the other Max Evans, but their earnings growth shouldn't dissipate. I mean, it was 23% growth last quarter. I mean, that's that's incredible for a company of their size. So, as much as investors might be scared that Zucks is spending too much, it might not matter if uh if the earnings continue. Tesla 3 and a half% 427. That's green. Tesla continues to go green. 428 up 3.5% on the day. Where's Delta? Delta had a good earnings last week. United's going to have earnings tomorrow. Delta right there 58. That is up 1%. Uh, by the way, City Bank today, they came out and said they're launching a service for the custody of crypto assets. So, you're going to see a lot more uh crypto potential mixing with Tradfi in 2026. And they might talk about that on their earnings. It seems like a lot more companies are going for that in the financial space. And Amazon came out today and they said they're creating 250,000 jobs in the US this holiday season. So, it looks like Amazon does not think they're going to lack the demand that's needed to execute on a successful holiday season. They did have their Prime Day. I think we'll get those numbers this week on how the Prime Day went, but that continues to show some excitement. Also, this was some news from Taiwan this morning, which was interesting. Taiwan is considering a law to classify data centers as public infrastructure in order to unlock tax advantages, access to government funds, and incentivize investment. I mean, this is also pretty incredible, dude. Taiwan is considering to classify data centers built by private companies as public infrastructure because they understand that their entire economy has really been backed on TSMC and TSMC is pivotal towards the chip market to build out all these data centers. and Taiwan's like, you know what, let's just bet the entire country on data centers at this point given that is like our main source of revenue and we're going to lean into it. It is really incredible. But when you have entire countries transitioning to to to to change public law, which the big beautiful bill also did with zoning restrictions on data centers, that shows you how much sheer amount of money is coming into the ecosystem. Fear and greed, by the way, is at 33. We were at 29 on Friday, so we're still in fear. We're not even at neutral yet, but we still are, as perfeed in the moment of a of a buying opportunity. And then you got this chart right here from uh Ryan Dietrich. The fourth year of a bull market starts right now. Only once did year four see a bull market end or see a bare market and end to the bull market, which was 1966. The past four years saw stocks up double digits and higher six out of seven times. So, this is just a general argument that the fourth year of a bull market tends to continue to be strong. And uh nine times out of 10, you see higher momentum into that fourth year, you're going to need something really structural to stop it. And it's probably not a Trump a Trump tweet. MP, that one continues to move. Look at that. 25% on the day. My goodness, this stock year to date 500%. investments from Apple, investments from Congress or or the Department of War. I mean, and rare earth metals, the market needs it. Better is down 9%. Okay, Better. This is the uh second Eric Jackson pick. He claims this company will be worth $12,000 a share in the next five years. That one, I don't know why it's down 10%, but that's down 10%. How about Open Door? Open Door is also down half a percent. Okay, so Openoor, the meme stock thing is running, but Open Door is not really running. That's one of that's actually the highest holding in the meme stock ETF. That one has been flat after it lost 1080. It's kind of been stuck in the low sevens, but it could be forming a base there, which is not that bad. SoFi right there, that's up 2 and a half% on the day as well. Yeah, Regetti is up seven 16%. I don't know why the quantum names are moving today, but they are rebounding pretty aggressively. Regretti was at 51 at one point, but those stocks not slowing down either. IO and Q up 12%. Thoughts on Innodata? I don't know enough about that company. I have heard about them. I would have to look into them more. I know a lot of people like this stock for a variety of verticals they're in. Wow. 104% this year. See, there's Wait, no, I think I'm on the wrong one. Id ticker symbol in OD. A lot of people are finding different verticals. This one's Well, it's up 117% this year. Different verticals that have made triple digit moves. You didn't just need to get be in the hood or the Rocket Labs or the Nvidas. There's a ton of diversified views right here. Mike Alfred, is he buying? He said he was he tweeted that he might buy open. Did he officially buy? I mean, he did say no. He I don't see the tweet that he would buy. He bought Open Door yet, but last night he said if Open Door drops another 10 to 25%, I may take a position. I mean, we're not down 10 to 25% yet on it. But maybe he does buy. Um, today's low volume, the real test of tomorrow. Yeah, I agree on that. I mean, we're definitely seeing low volume across the board. You're not seeing Yeah, I mean, just looking at some of these numbers, volume is not as high as you would expect. The Oracle CEOs are going to be on soon as well, and we'll get to hear from them around what's going on with all this potential circular financing with Nvidia or with OpenAI. But the rest of these stocks holding on to green. By the way, for those that have been asking um this question, which I get pretty much every week, which is uh when is Andro going public? Here is what Palmer Lucky had to say on Friday about their plan for an IPO.
>> Look, we we are um we we we are on a path to IPO. Like like I can explicitly say that. I'm not going to be koi about that. We are running the company as if we are going to be audited by uh you know the the the the auditors that are looking at at public company traded companies. We're running the company's financials as if we need to be accountable to public market investors. You need to be a certain shape of company to be in the public markets. You need to have a certain level of credibility in your accounting process across the organization. So like the old school and stuff of hey you know toss it in, you know, toss it in the bin no need to do any paperwork. you know, you actually have to properly account for what's on the shelf, what you've thrown away, what's working. Um, and and we've gotten into that swing of things. It's going to be it's going to be it's going to be in the in low singledigit years. And by the way,
>> do you have to be profitable for that? Like at the moment, it is very expensive what you are trying to build.
>> Agreed. So, my philosophy on this is that if you are going to be in the public markets, you need to be the shape that the markets want you to be. I think that's not a very unprofitable company that has a trend that looks very unprofitable. So my personal opinion and I'm not hiding the date from you. We genuinely don't know. We're not going to do it till the right moment. We don't have to. Private capital is amply available to us.
>> But what we want to do is either be profitable across the business or we want to be on very close to it with a clear trend showing it's certainly going to happen. And I don't mean it's going to happen someday years in the future. I mean like hey we have these contracts and if you just believe that we are going to deliver the things that we've already sold then you know that we're likely going to be profitable.
>> So the question is who's buying the Andre IPO?
>> Who's buying the Andre IPO? Are you buying the Andre IPO? By the way Palmer Lucky is not the CEO. He's the I think executive chairman of Andre. They have a different CEO. He is the founder of Andre, but he is not the CEO. Robin Hood right there going red. Losing losing its green. S&P still holding up. I think that's probably because Bitcoin and Ethereum are going red as well. Uh, but it looks like two years. It looks like 2027. It doesn't look like a 2026 year. It did say years with a plural. So, I guess earliest is uh is 2027. Yeah, seems a decent amount of you seems a decent amount of you want to buy this thing. 68%. 68% of you guys want to buy it. See, the problem is I don't think there's going to be like I don't know how much allocation retail is going to get, but even if you don't even if you know Schwab, Fidelity, Robin don't give you shares because it's just too oversubscribed. I think that the the like the open of day is going to be just tons of money coming into Andre. People are not even gonna care if they weren't get if they didn't get allocated in shares. They're just going to buy them as soon as it opens and goes public. I think it'll probably be one of the most liquid liquidly traded stocks in the market. Like it's probably going to be a top 50 traded stock. There's just so much excitement around the company and defense tech. Now granted, it's a hardware company so I don't think the margins are going to be the best. and they're hiring people like crazy, growing like crazy. So, I don't know if it has that massive trillion dollar potential that people think an Andre can get because it's not a software company at the end of the day. Now, they make software, but are they like commercially selling mass amounts of software, which is what really creates the margins for a company to get to that multiundred billion trillion dollar level? I mean, not that I've seen. They're they're they're selling tanks and drones and equipment, right? This stuff is totally different and it does not have the type of margin that like a pounder would have, but I still think there's going to be a lot of excitement and people will probably want to buy in. UC uranium energy, that one also up 5% 5% on the day. Um, Paler already has a partnership with Andre. I mean, they do a bunch of different things with Android, but they don't have an equity stake in them, which sucks. Like, it would have been so nice for them to have an equity stake, but they don't have an equity stake yet. Elon Musk's Boring Company will open its first Dubai loop by Q2 2026. Huh. Has anyone taken the Boring Tunnel um uh uh loop in um in Las Vegas? Because I'm not going to lie, when I did it, it was pretty underwhelming. I mean, it wasn't really that exciting. It was kind of boring to be honest as the name suggests, but it looks like expanding to Dubai is a good thing. Yeah, you guys agree, right? Like people that have been there, it's like not that I thought I thought it was going to be a different experience, but there wasn't there. By the way, Trump's on his way to Egypt right now. He he visited Israel this morning after the deal was signed last week and it looks like he's going to be speaking in Egypt this morning. Um potentially soon at a Egypt Peace Summit, I think is what it's called. Uh yeah, Egypt Peace Summit. Don't know exactly when, but Trump will be speaking there. Any good news on geopolitical stability could also, you know, be what the markets ultimately want to hear to kind of calm down a little bit. Palunteer that slightly red Tesla 424 AMD still green on the day. Again, that Broadcom deal was the biggest news of the morning. Speaking of the UAE, uh, Emirati's Airlines says they will accept Ethereum as payments in Q1 of 2026. So, I mean, there you go. You got more and more larger institutions saying that they are on board with Ethereum and the ability to collect Ethereum from a payment perspective. So you're getting more you're getting more people excited about about ETH which is why I think Tom Lee keeps buying it. Applovin right there 570 circle app loven below or not below but close to levels it bottomed at last last week at 558 or no it was a 545 it bottom and phase right there 4% on the day bro what are you guys saying in the I said Emirati's wrong oh my goodness did I say it Wrong. Emiratis. It's freaking Emirati. Wait, how do you say this [ __ ] Hold on, hold on, hold on. Hold on. Hold on. How do you say this [ __ ] Have I been saying it wrong my whole life? Hold on. Hold on. Hold on.
>> United Arab Emirates.
>> Oh [ __ ] Oh [ __ ] Oh my good. Oh well. Wow, that's a that's uh I can't even defend myself on that one. I can't Yeah, I can't. No, I can't I can't defend myself there. That's a Emirates, bro. Dead ass Emirates. Why did I think it was Emiratis? That is I I can't even defend myself there, bro.
>> United Arab Emirates. Emirates. All right. Well, it's, you know, you learn something new every day. You learn something new every day. This is life, bro. It's life. We need to see how Trump pronounces it today when he speaks to everybody. Dude, I thought it was Emiratis. I guess uh I guess it's Emirates. It is what it is. It's life. You learn something new every day. Rucker's education. Dude, is anyone in the Northeast? Have you experienced this uh this uh this uh nor easter? Because I've been waiting for this rain and I'm not seeing any rain. Literally over the weekend, all I was hearing were reports that it's going to be the worst rain we've had in like 10 years. I mean, we had a little bit of a drizzle, but I don't see any crazy rain. Maybe it's happening. Every time I check the weather app, it's like next hour 100% chance of rain. And then you get to the next hour and there's no rain. I think down south New Jersey in the tri-state area, you've seen a little bit more pain. Robin right here down 1.2%. Pounder as well going red, but it's not been north. You haven't seen too much. Dude, they were talking about the power is going to get wiped out across the board. All this [ __ ] like I'm like I don't see any there's like there's no rain, bro. They were saying schools were going to shut down. It's like I don't see any of that. in Boston. It's bad. It shifted. It might have shifted, dude. I feel like it went right over the north part of New Jersey. Uh pounder at their 174. Now, Hood, look, I I mean, one of the one thing that people are talking about that could be a bare case on Hood was the lack of buying and selling on Ethereum and Bitcoin over the weekend on Friday. Or it wasn't literally over the weekend, but it was on Friday. I I talked about this last night at the market futures show. This is not a good look for Hood. 10,000% it's not a good look for Hood. And I can understand people taking their assets off the platform because they're annoyed at what Hood did on Friday. However, it wasn't isolated to Hood. When there's a 20 billion liquidation event happening in crypto, there were a lot of exchanges including Coinbase, Binance, Weeble, IBKR, etc. that had issues. Hood is just, you know, the one that gets publicized the most. So, is it a good look? No. Should Hood be better prepared for these types of volatile events? Yes, because that creates trust in people with the platform. Is this a reason Hood's stock needs to get destroyed? I don't think so. And if it does, I'm a buyer. If Hood ends up going, you know, down 105% because of that. So, I don't think that's the reason Hood's down today. I think the reason Hood is down is because a crypto's down and b again it made a big move from 120 up to 150. It is going to take some time to consolidate and I think that's pretty healthy. So, I don't think it's an excuse for Hood on Friday and they really do have to make sure during these volatile events they can be better. But it's not like they were the only brokers that was stopping you from buying or selling. When there's a $20 billion crypto liquid, that's 10 times higher than COVID. I mean, you're going to have a lot of systems mess up. And unfortunately, the entire crypto ecosystem is not fully prepared to handle that type of volume. But that's what happened on Friday. And I think that's why Hood took a little bit of a hit. S&P 500 right there 660.35 losing 663 and that one is down. Shouldn't Hood be doing better than the others? The point is we want them to be the best. Yes, I agree. And and and I'm making no excuse for that. I mean, we want them to be better. It's just when you have that level of volatility, if every brokerage can't sustain the types of velocity of action that's happening, it's a problem with the broader crypto ecosystem. And Hood hopefully is able to be one of the brokerages that is the most trustworthy. But on Friday, they did have some issues. Now granted, the issues lasted for about 30 minutes and a lot of people ended up getting their orders filled after that, but there was that 30-minute time frame where it got stuck. And again, Hood is routing orders to different exchanges as well. So like if the other exchanges weren't taking their orders, like that's when you get into a place where it's like, what more can they do? But obviously, we want them to have more and more capacity to handle this stuff when it becomes volatile. Uh AMD right there, 217, that's losing 220. So, you're seeing a lot of these stocks lose their high of day. Pinterest is up 2%. Circle's up a little bit. App that's flat. TLT, where's the 10-year? Well, it shouldn't be moving today because bond markets are closed, but that still closed under 4.1 on Friday, which was really good to see it potentially come below 4%. But that one's not moving higher, which is good. You don't want to see you don't want to see the bond market selling off bonds if the market's taking a hit. Um, the bear who shorted 700 million of Bitcoin and 350 million of ETH, making 200 million total, is now short 340 million of Bitcoin. Wow. Okay. Okay, so there was an account that signed up on Hyperlquid, which is this platform that allows you to go long and short on perpetual futures, and they made $200 million on shorting Bitcoin and Ethereum, about a billion.3 of both, and they are now short another 340 million of Bitcoin. Okay, so you've got that account basically saying, yeah, wow, look at this. The liquidation price is 130,000. So, Bitcoin moves to 130, he gets liquidated. $345 million Bitcoin short position. This is the same blockchain address that made $192 million off shorting Bitcoin and Ethereum 30 minutes before the Trump tweet came out, which is why a lot of people think this is obviously some type of inside job or someone definitely had information about this, which I mean, come on, bro. hard to like again I don't think you have to be a conspiracy theorist to be like really a billion dollar crypto short 30 minutes before a Trump tweet like I mean who wakes up and says I'm just going to go short a billion dollars worth of crypto at that exact time like it it it feels suspicious but it looks like they are continuing to they entered into the short at 116 340 million Bitcoin right now is at 114 so that short is up it's bearon Trump. Maybe, bro. Maybe it's Maybe it's freaking Baron Trump. Dude, the the there were rumors over the weekend that Baron Trump potentially is going to get a highlevel role in Tik Tok. Um, Bloomberg is reporting that Baron Trump potentially might be playing a role in managing like the the US version of Tik Tok, which is this new subsidiary that the government owns a part of. I mean, maybe maybe that ends up happening. Oh, Trump's speaking. Let's transition over to him. He is at the peace summit in Egypt now. uh this this deal, this once in a-lifetime deal. Nobody's ever seen anything like what's happening today. And countries have all come together. All different countries. Some liked each other, some didn't. Most didn't. And they've all come together. Every country has come together. And by the way, Iran did put out a statement, you know, that they support this deal very wholeheartedly. So that was in itself something. But no, I I think they want to uh that's all I do in my life. if I make deals and they want to make a deal.
>> Now that the living hostages have been returned, can you please tell us what the next steps are to
>> Well, they're going and looking for bodies. It's a pretty gruesome task and they're uh they know where numerous are you know I guess five or six are in yet now. But they're looking for bodies. They know the areas and the search parties out and they're doing it in conjunction with Israel and they'll they're going to be finding quite a few of them.
>> President Trump, can you tell us when phase two of the negotiations will begin?
>> Well, it started I mean it started as far as we're concerned phase two started
>> and you know the phases are all a little bit mixed in with each other. They're going to start cleaning up. Uh you look at Gaza and it's needs a lot of cleanup. That's why when I talked in my speech, I talked about the debris. I used the word debris. That's debris times 10. So, uh, but we're going to they're going to really do a job. They have a lot of power. In another room, you have the wealthiest, some of the wealthiest nations in the world. All leaders, the the big leaders are here, the the amirs and the kings and everybody. And it's it's a very interesting group. I guess we have like 35 countries. And that's only because they were the 35s that we invited. Everybody that we invited came. So it's there's a lot of
>> our customers are so excited about AI. In fact, that's pretty much all you'll hear them talk about here this week. We decided to rename the conference AI world.
>> And so what are you hoping those customers and those in attendance here get out of this? What is the object?
>> Well, I I think there's the main thing is here. I'm
>> feeling left out.
>> Okay. Don't don't. But this is just a little more sort of customer.
>> I'll tamp down my insecurity.
>> Okay. Good. Um I mean we all wonder and uh I think appropriately so what's going to be the return for these trillions of dollars that are being spent. So what I'm hearing you say is the enterprise those of us who say well we're not really seeing it yet in the enterprise that is not the case.
>> That is not the case that we're seeing in fact we're seeing exactly opposite and we're seeing not just quantitative return in hours saved faster time to hire faster time to process process transactions uh better in place but actually qualitative qualitative as well. I'm I'm going to have a customer tomorrow on stage with me that's going to talk about the impact on human lives uh when it when it's uh pertains to using AI to fight antibiotic resistance. Actually uh he's going to share how many lives they've actually saved by using uh Oracle applied AI with this technology
>> and how recent is this technology.
>> This is uh this is in the last two years. This is in the last two years that they've been leveraging the Oracle technology. We're going to see I think ecosystems open up. So we're going to see uh healthcare organizations have a better relationship with their banks as a result as a result of being able to look at all the qualitative metrics uh that are associated their receivables. Uh this is this is a very different view than just just looking at you know uh looking looking at the past and looking at a spreadsheet looking at static reports. I mean this this is live real time qualitative and qualitative insights at your fingertips. Hugely exciting. So the value proposition is there for your customer base and they're seeing it and they believe it and they're just going to keep spending more.
>> They will well they they'll be speaking about it here this week. And you know what's what's important to understand about our AI strategy too with our applications is that we're not charging extra. Our applications essentially are AI. They the foundation of our applications is AI. So they'll be spending more in that uh we think we can sell more applications as a result.
>> All right, we'll get to you now.
>> We're gonna go back. want to chime in on Mike's comment though, but I think something that, you know, not only is Oracle delivering applications, we're also a consumer ourselves, right? So, we've seen an amazing amount of adoption. If you think, you know, we we generate more than uh 20 to 30 million lines of code every week that we use for developing these products all by AI, right? The the the success that we've had with our support products and and deflection rates across our entire portfolio, uh it's we see it across the board from ourselves and all of our customers.
>> So, is that what what are we talking about? an AI application generator andor can you explain what that actually is?
>> Sure. Well, I think it's across many different pieces of technology. One of them is, you know, and you'll hear Larry talk about that more this week with our new uh Apex AI application generator. One of the ways that you can write applications is if you go back a few years ago, it started off with you kind of get a blank sheet of paper, you do some middleware, you write uh code from scratch. That's not how people are writing these applications these days. One of the ways they're doing it is they're using AI agents to actually integrate into their workflows. um and we're doing a lot of that ourselves, but you can actually take that to an even higher level where um if you uh really embed the application context into the database, um you can go in and actually generate the application uh without having to code uh from scratch at all.
>> So Oracle continuing to basically make the argument that look AI is real. We're seeing use cases inside of not only our cloud uh data centers, which is the deal they have with OpenAI, but also the applications of what they're offering to the market. Power integrations, by the way, folks, is up 10% right here. Uh Nvidia just announced they're going to be collaborating with Power Integrations, ticker symbol PWI, to accelerate the transition to 800 VDC power and megawatt scale racks. Power integrations with Nvidia. That's the headline. two billion dollar company. The fact that Nvidia is partnering with these small companies just shows you how much demand is out there that they have to go find really really small companies that do specialized things to be able to collaborate with. Power integrations designs and develops mixed signal integrated circuits and other electronic components. There you go. That one's taking off right here. Up now 12.5% on the day based on this Nvidia headline. more and more and more of uh of excitement on this data center trade not slowing down. By the way, Eaten, this one has a partnership with Palunteer ETN. They also did a partnership with Nvidia. Uh Eaten announces delivery of new reference architecture designed to accelerate adoption of 800 BDC power and AI data centers along with Nvidia. So you have multiple partnerships coming out today along with the Arista like I guess bare news that you got some companies switching off their networking services. Arisa right here recovering a little bit of that 5% drop now only down 2.5%. Pretty incredible day. I mean relatively flat across the board. You got Howard Marks who's not that bearish. You got PayPal that once again cannot hold 70 after getting a downgrade by JP Morgan. SMCI is up. Bitcoin and Ethereum trying to hold on, but they're likely going red or they are red. Potentially could go down more. And then Hood and Palanteer not holding up either, but Nvidia keeping the 2% move. And some of the drone companies, are those moving? And is up 15%. Okay, that one has been ripping dramatically, but it continues to go green. And then again, that meme stock ETF also up 12% on the day. Broadcom right here. That is the main one based on the large caps that's up 10%. So the big thing to look out for this week are earnings and that'll start tomorrow. And that is what we're going to have to really see if we can justify a lot of the momentum we've had over the past couple months. And then eventually hopefully we get back above alltime highs on the S&P. By the way, gold has added 10 trillion in market cap in 12 months. Goodness gracious, bro. 4,100 all-time highs on gold. 10 trillion in market cap. What's the overall gold market cap? It's got to be like 30 trillion, right? 27.8 trillion. All of crypto is barely 4 trillion. Bitcoin, I think, is like 2.2 trillion. So, gold is vastly outpacing getting obviously it's vastly outperforming it this year as they continue to go green. Uh, no news on Grabb outside of a price target upgrade they got today from JP Morgan 630 to 680. Uh, they're expecting a strong Q3. I'm expecting a strong Q3 as well. So, ultimately, a lot of these companies, we're going to have to see what they put up on their earnings and the market will decide from there. Where is VG? Yeah, that's a good question. VG, again, they got that lawsuit by BP. They're basically flat on the day, but this stock got pummeled 25%. I think the reason Hood is down is because of crypto and Bitcoin. Uh but in general, again, dude, I just I just I don't care if Hood if Hood goes back to 130. I don't care. And I say this as someone who has a lot of Hood. I I I don't think it was that healthy for Hood to go from 120 to 150. I enjoyed it. I think all of us enjoyed it. But to say it's the healthiest thing in the world, probably not. So, I don't think there's anything structurally wrong with the business, but I do think the market got really excited and bought up a ton of it. And so if it consolidates and gives back some of the gains, that is okay with me. That gives it a lot healthier of a room to move back up after a good earnings. So I mean, I think Bitcoin, Ethereum being down is the reason why Hood's taking a hit, but I do think that's not the worst thing in the world for this to consolidate. BMR as well, not really being able to make a massive move because Ethereum's also going down. But at least it's above 4,000, which is good. I would buy Hood again if we see 125. 125 is where I would get excited to buy it again. Now, I don't think we easily get that. I think that would be wiping out a lot of the momentum. But, you know, if it gets there, I'll be excited again. I just don't think if we get there, Oscar making a little bit of a move. Oscar got to 25 last week, back up to 1934, which is not too bad. Chris, thanks for the super chat. Thoughts on the guy who shorted Bitcoin for 200 million. He added 80 million the last two hours to his position. Yeah, I mean obviously he's bearish and he's waiting for some type of catalyst to continue wrecking crypto and he's been right so far. Now, I don't know if there's another Trump tweet coming out. I don't think so. But this guy also could just be being greedy, right? Maybe he's just like, "Hey, everyone thinks it's a rally. It's a bull trap and I want to continue to take advantage of the weakness." And maybe that's what's happening as well. Um, James, thanks for the super chat. You only won debates because they couldn't understand you. I guess that was the reason. Jeromi, thanks for the super chat. You are right. For Emirates, if you describe the people, it's Emiratis. The country is pronounced differently. It cost me $5 to teach you. Jeromi, thank you. I appreciate it. Maybe the that's the reason I was a national debate champion. Maybe people just couldn't understand me. And that's why it played out. Qualcomm got an anti- trust probe by China last week. Qualcomm right, they're up 5%. So maybe the lack of the China pressure with Trump and the pivot is leading investors to think, hey, Qualcomm's likely not going to be investigated as aggressively as I mean, China did this whole thing on Nvidia a couple weeks ago as well, and it was a nothing burger. So I think that could be why Qualcomm is uh is recovering. Maybe that's what we're seeing right here. What about Weeble? Yeah, Weeble took a nasty hit on Friday. Wow. Continues to go down. 1137. 1137. 1190 is when I was going to buy it. I would have sold at like 1250. I don't know. Do they really send Weeble below 11 bucks, dude? Do they really send it below? I mean, you would think this one recovers, but then again, if Hood is down, all the brokerages are getting hit. Weo is getting hit below 11 would be kind of wild though. Be kind of wild. All right, I think that's it for us. I'll be back on the market close. We'll see what we got going on. Overall, hood and pounder red, Bitcoin crypto red, S&P recovering at least 1.4, which is nice to see if we close anywhere above 660. I'd be pretty happy with that. But we're going to have to wait until the end of the day to see how this ends up playing out. Sound as well. That one is up. 12% on the day. Um, all right. Word of the day. What do we got? Velrome.
>> Velrome.
>> Okay. Dude, there like there's one E. There's not two E's there. And who who has anyone heard of this word? A sports arena equipped with a track for cycling.
>> Va drrome.
>> I've never heard of this word before, bro. Yeah, I didn't stand a chance with that. It's not as bad as Emirates, though. It's not as bad as Emirates. A sports arena equipped with a track for cycling. Vlo sounds like a cryptocoin, right? It sounds like a freaking cryptocoin. Yeah, that's what it sounds like. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. We will see how this week turns out. We got a lot of earnings coming up over the next couple days. We'll do a little bit of a preview of the bank earnings on the market close and we'll see what we've got going on. Uh Trump is not talking anymore in Egypt, so we'll probably get some updates from that later in the week. Mike Johnson is talking about the shutdown. Hopefully, we get some clarity on that. Broadcom OpenAI deal, massive deal this morning. Uh continuing to fuel the AI ecosystem. Gold and silver continuing to go higher. And I guess over the coming days now, we can see if we end up getting a recovery from this Trump pivot going into the end of the week. All right, there we go. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. We'll be back later on the market close. Thank you everybody. Have a good one.