Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Wednesday, November 12th. Thank you everybody for being here. You know, one of the highlights of my day, legitimately, one of the highlights of my day, and quite frankly, I I blame you guys for this for making this a highlight, and you're not really uh helping incentivize me to be early, is reading the comments a minute before I'm supposed to start about why I'm late. I mean, I cannot explain how hilarious some of these he's on Grinder, he's with the dentist, he's with this, and it's like it's it's like you find a new way to figure out why I'm one minute late. But we're here. We're live. Thank you everybody for being here. We got a lot to talk about, folks. We got a green pre-market. And when I mean green, I mean I mean we are less than half a percent away from alltime highs on this S&P 500 in the pre-market, which is very exciting to see. Nvidia right here at 195, S&P 500 at 685. Folks, we were at 661 last Friday and uh we were at 647 in the depths of October when things were getting rough. So, the fact that we are at 685, couple bucks away from 689, which is alltime highs, very exciting to see. There's some macro reasons why we're getting there. I also think we are getting close to this Santa Claus rally. I don't know exactly what it's going to look like. I don't know if it's even going to happen, but if it were to happen, it probably would take place at the end of a shutdown. The Republicans in the Senate and the Democrats are going to be voting uh today and that vote will likely culminate into the end of the shutdown. We have Nvidia earnings next week. So you have the end of the shutdown, Nvidia earnings and then general sort of endofear chasing that could lead to this type of rally. Now granted, we've had ton of we have had a ton of whipsaws across the entire board. Yesterday we uh had Veterans Day, so the bond markets were closed, so there wasn't that much liquidity. So we're going to see how the market ends up opening up today. But overall, I think the most exciting thing about yesterday is that Nvidia was down. You had a bunch a bunch of data center plays down. Amazon, Apple were kind of green. The S&P 500 was green. So, you had a large part of the market that was red. Data centers, tech, semiconductors, and you had financials that were up. Lily hit all-time highs. Um, pharmaceuticals, defensives, you had a little bit of a broadening, and I don't think that's the worst thing for us to see. Uh, as of, you know, this idea in terms of this idea of actually being able to broaden out the bull market, but the fact that it did happen yesterday is very positive signs. I mean, if that can compound and continue today, even if you don't have a massive move in tech, which you are seeing in the pre-market pound right there, 19160, Robin at 133, then that would not be the worst thing in the world. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot to get into. 13Fs, I think, will start to get disclosed today. Uh, we don't have them yet. Either today or tomorrow after the close, we should get a decent amount of these 13Fs and 13Gs, and we're going to see what a lot of these super investors did over the past 90 days. We do have a new tweet from Mr. from Michael Bur, which was quite surprising last night when I uh saw his tweet. So, we'll talk about that. He disclosed it early, but latest Friday, we should get a lot of details and then we're going to see what are the top three stocks that people bought and sold. Remember, last quarter it was UNH, Amazon, and Google. So, you had a decent chunk of uh those names getting bid up right now. How many did we get so far? So far, we got like seven out of the 82 13Fs that we're looking for. And the top three buys were Fiserve, Baxter International, and UNH, which actually is not the best thing because Fiser got hit really bad. UNH continues to be there. And then Met is number four. Then you have Birchar, TSM, Applied Materials, um, Adobe, and then FIS, Fidelity, National Information Services. So, we have a lot more data to come to see what that looks like. But right now, those are the top three. And we'll see coming soon, probably in literally the next 48 hours, what these 13 apps look like. All right, so let's get into it. Thank you everybody for being here. I think we'll get started with the kind of core headline that I'm seeing this morning and then we'll get into AMD. That was a big piece of news last night, which continued to help the data center players. Here's what Basen said this morning, which again, we've been talking about, hey, is this $2,000 steamy check actually coming through? Bent said, quote, "A $2,000 rebate would be for those making less than $100,000, but it has not yet been decided." So, you got Bent confirming this morning, we are legitimately thinking of a $2,000 rebate. That would be, I imagine, a form of stimulus, right? Whether it's a direct check or whether it's a tax refund, if you're going to get an extra $2,000 cash, if you make less than uh 4,000 or $100,000 in this country, I mean, then there you go. that's an extra 2,000 bucks that you're going to be using in some way. Now, again, if it's not a check, but it's a form of rebate, the question simply becomes how the government sort of thinks of it, how JPAL thinks of it, how the Fed thinks of it. But nonetheless, it does seem like Trump was serious about that $2,000 tariff dividend. He also said, "We are going to unveil substantial tariff reductions over the coming days on coffee, bananas, and several other items." And that is consistent with what President Trump has said last night. Here's a clip of him talking about reducing tariffs, which in my opinion is based on either they're seeing less demand, so they need to reduce tariffs, or they are genuinely seeing higher costs, therefore they need to reduce tariffs. But it is consistent with what the president has been thinking about over the past couple days.
>> Wouldn't want to say because that gives that person an immediate boost. It's like when they say, "Are you going to attack Venezuela? Are you going to attack this one? Are you going to attack?"
>> See, I'm not going to tell you whether or not I am. So I don't want to really give you but I think this we are doing phenomenally well. This is the greatest economy we've ever had. They're talking points. Oh, course. By the way, the only thing is beef. Beef.
>> Coffee
>> is a little high because the ranchers are doing great. Coffee. Coffee. We're going to lower some tariffs. We're going to have some coffee come in. Um we're going to take care of all the stuff very quickly, very easily. It's surgical. It's beautiful to watch. But our costs are way lower. Now, Walmart came out with a statement that they do every year for many, many decades, and they said that a Thanksgiving meal cost 25% less this Thanksgiving coming up, think of that, than it did last Thanksgiving under Sleepy Joe Biden. That's a 25% reduction. I think that's right. And if you remember when I first came in, the first two days I had a news conference, eggs, they were hitting me with eggs. Eggs had quadrupled in price and they're screaming at me. I just got here. I didn't know about eggs. And Brooke Rollins, our agricultural commissioner, did a secretary did a great job. And now eggs are what they were. We got eggs down. We get it all down. But our prices is much are much lower. Their line is price is affordability. That's the new word, affordability. It's much less expensive under Trump. And you'll and I haven't been here long. Nine months is not a long time. But look at what I've done to energy. Look at the price of gasoline. Going from$450 to$ 250 or 270. It's going to be $2 gasoline.
>> People want affordable.
>> Well, the economy is my thing. And we have the greatest economy in history.
>> Are Republicans not selling it enough for
>> the Republicans don't talk about it.
>> Yeah. So, they need to do a better job on Capitol Hill.
>> The Democrats.
>> So, you got a couple key points here that is really interesting from Trump. Number one, he is saying the same thing that Bes said this morning, which is that we are going to be focusing on lowering some tariffs. Obviously, there's some certain prices on uh goods like coffee, bananas, etc. that are starting to potentially get too high and maybe that's why they're thinking of lowering tariffs and you know, they're just realizing it doesn't make any sense for us to have these types of tariffs on these types of goods. And number two, again, this $2,000 dividend, it all goes back down to this question of affordability, whether it's a rebate, a stimulus check, or what it looks like. Uh the other thing Bent said this morning is that expect American people will start feeling better about the economy in Q1 and Q2 of 2026. And then number two, I want to bring in or you I being the the administration want to bring in skilled workers for 3 to seven years to train Americans and then they can go home. So, they're attacking a lot of different issues around the labor market, tariffs, affordability, and then the overall stimulus that Americans will eventually feel, whether it's through a check or whether it's through a rebate when it comes through uh when it comes to the tariffs and, you know, the actual impact it should have on the American people. I think this all comes down to the fear that Trump has around the Supreme Court case, which we talked about yesterday, not looking like it's going to go in his favor. I don't know what's going to be the economic impact of it. The big update yesterday was that the importers of goods told the Supreme Court in an oral hearing that if you were to reverse the tariffs, it would be quote unquote very easy for us to pay back the tariffs that we have collected. Aka they they they took one of the biggest concerns from the Supreme Court off the table, which I thought the Supreme Court would say, "Hey, it's going to be really hard to like refund hundreds of billions of dollars." And the importers that came to the Supreme Court yesterday, they were like, "No, it's not that hard. It's just like one button. We press it and we have the paperwork ready." It's like so it it was quite incredible hearing that yesterday and you know that could again significantly influence the way they're thinking about the overall decision for how it's going to go. Uh the government shutdown will be voted on uh tonight at 7 p.m. at least that's what Bloomberg is reporting and so by around I would say 9 or 10 p.m. US House majority leader said that the House will vote on the bill to the shutdown by Wednesday 7 p.m. Eastern. We should know probably around 9 or 10 p.m. Eastern if this shutdown is done. That is why I think the market is also running right now. And then quite frankly, what are the implications of what the scent is saying on the market? It's bullish. I mean, if you're going to lower tariffs, the market never liked tariffs. That's bullish. And then if you're actually going to give a $2,000 rebate to people, even if it's inflationary, that's a problem for another day. Uh but in the short term, it'd be pretty damn bullish if a bunch of people making under $100,000 got an extra 2,000 bucks that they can spend and it obviously would stimulate the economy. So I think if people are thinking that this is a sell or this is a bull trap or you want to get out of the market obviously taking profits going into the end of the year tax loss harvesting all that stuff is a personal decision but I think there is a shot that we end up getting this rally is that rally to 695 is it to 7,000 7200 is it oscillating between 680 and 685 no one knows but given the macro trade round AI that we're about to talk about and some of this uh tariff dividend details around the shutdown ending I don't think it's the most bearish to kind of be long this market right now.
>> Having said that, let's get into AI. So, Lisa Sue really got people excited yesterday. Four things she said. Demand for AI computing infrastructure remains high. Customers are not reducing their investments. They're projecting annual revenue growth of 35% over the next 5 years and data center growth exceeding 80%. Now, the reason why the stock is up in the pre-market is not because of the revenue targets, which are really substantial and nice to see that they're thinking of growing 35% over the next 5 years. 252 on AMD. Again, it got to 224 last week. Um, the main reason is their gross margins apparently. And this was disclosed yesterday after hours, which is why you saw that 4% bump and it helped a lot of the other data center plays. Um, they're guiding for some pretty strong gross margin growth. Uh, I believe it's around 55 to 58%. The street thought it was going to be 51 to 53%. That extra three and a half% on uh, gross margins is substantial given the amount of hardware that AMD is selling. And as a result, you got people excited. Uh Melius 380 by AMD. The margin guide was the real positive surprise. 35% revenue growth cracks a double digit share in AI semis and networking. AMD seems to clearly be targeting a $1 trillion market cap with these aspirations. That would be more than a 2x from here. Although there's a lot of execution and open AI funding needed to get there. A share of 10% seems realistic. We are raising our estimates and target 380 from 300. And obviously that helped the entire semiconductor se sector that was struggling yesterday along with the data center plays. when you have an AMD saying that we're going to grow 35% over the next 5 years. Here's Lisa Sue this morning speaking about those projections she gave yesterday at the analyst day.
>> It's great to see you too. Last week you had earnings that came out that uh beat all expectations and yet the stock actually declined. I think people were waiting to see what you said at the investor day. They liked what they heard especially when it came to the revenue the annualized growth that you're expecting 35%. I think most people were looking for closer to 30%. Um, predictions are hard though, especially about the future. And I guess the big question is what makes you so confident?
>> Well, you know, first of all, it was a great day yesterday. It's always nice to sometimes take a step back from just, you know, what's happening on a quarterly basis to really talk about long-term strategy. And it has been, you know, as you said, it's been three years since we've hosted an analyst day. But what we thought is like there's been so much that's changed in the market just over the last you know 12 18 24 months that we kind of needed to kind of just take a step back and talk about the company as a whole and frankly I mean we're in just an amazing cycle um for you know technology and spec specifically around AI. So you know back to you know the major points I mean the the market is accelerating at a pace that we you know just did not understand until uh you know over the last few years. Um I think we started a couple of years ago we thought you know the AI accelerator town might be you know $300 billion and that sounded like a really big number. Um and then each year we took it up and now when we take a step back you know we see this massive opportunity um you know really uh over a trillion dollar um you know overall market as we get through 2030. Um and it's a place where everybody needs technology. You know, think about it as you can think about computing as equating to intelligence. And if you can get more intelligence, why wouldn't you want more computing? And that's kind of the market that we're in. And so, um, you know, from that standpoint, um, you know, we're really excited about what we have. It's a product portfolio. It's a set of partnerships. Um, but it's also a vision for, you know, where computing is going in the future.
>> What What makes you so sure of that demand? What do you see that makes you think not only that this demand is going to be big, but that it's real and that it's not going to disappear?
>> Well, uh, you know, Becky, we spend a lot of time, um, in the ecosystem and, you know, being in this industry for as long as I've been in this industry over 30 years, I think you see a lot of cycles and you see, you know, a lot of technologies take off. Um, the key is, uh, what people are saying as they're actually utilizing the technology. So we work with all of the largest hyperscalers in the world, all of the largest enterprises. And if you looked at, you know, sort of the AI trajectory over the last couple of years, I think people started with tremendous excitement. You know, chat GPT came on board. Everyone was like, "Wow, you know, this is pretty good." Um, and then enterprises started using it and and frankly, uh, the early enterprise usage was, uh, a little bit slow. I mean, people were kind of just trying to figure out what to do. Uh but if I tell you what we've seen in the last 12 months uh we've seen uh every one of our largest customers say we can see the inflection point now Lisa like we can see you know demand is accelerating because people are now starting to get real productivity um out of the AI use cases and you know we have all of the largest hyperscalers in the world saying they're investing more in capex because they can see the uh return on the other side of it. So it it is uh something that we always are looking for the signals in the market but the signals in the market right now say that we're still at the very beginning of the technology but you're starting to see significant productivity
>> really think that
>> now who is calling BS on all of this who is saying that everything Lisa Sue just said is nonsense none of it's real and it's not panning out or it's not going to pan out in the way that they're projecting in their revenue and EPS targets it is none none other than Mr. Michael Bur. Now, the reason this post yesterday was so surprising to me is because last night, you know what I did last night after I came back from the gym and I actually have a funny story of um of of going to the sauna after the gym and there were people talking about core even and it was actually ridiculous. I like I go to the gym to not think about the stock market and the the fact that people I'll tell you guys the stories of the fact that people were talking about core and video in the sauna it was ridiculous. But I came back after the gym and I said, "You know what? I want to watch the big short." I kind of felt like watch because Michael Bur's been on the news. I kind of felt like watching the Big Short again. I've watched it already like five times. And so I started watching The Big Short and I was skipping around because like I've seen it so many times. I skip a lot of different scenes. And then I see this tweet pop up and this is a picture of um Christian Bale from The Big Short who played Michael Bur. The caption is me then, me now. Oh well, it worked out. It will work out. when he's saying me then, me now. This is a picture when Bur basically in the middle of his short on the housing bubble kind of just like uh you know decided to lay down because he was so annoyed that the market didn't understand what was about to happen. And again, he had to have that short on for two he was down like 130% of the short before it finally worked out. Um and he was annoyed, right? So he it was it was not like he gave up, but it was almost like he was just like, "Wow, I can't believe the market doesn't get it." And it's this sign of him being so upset, but also recognizing that time will have to eventually take place. And the caption now is, "It worked out. It will work out." And to me, as the kids would say today, he's kind of crashing out. He's kind of crashing out. I mean, the fact that he posted this to imply that it will work out, like, oh, it worked out in the past. I I was seen as the idiot for two years and then eventually I was seen as the genius and now it's probably the same thing but eventually it's going to work out. And the fact that he's publicly stating that on social media again every time he publicly posts on social media I think it's like very interesting to me because this is a guy who doesn't post publicly so he's obviously trying to garner attention. The fact that he posted that picture with that caption to me means that he's getting scared of this trade. Because if you are so confident that shorting Nvidia and shorting pounder and doubting Lisa Sue and Jensen Hang about everything that's going on, I'm not saying there are not things to be skeptical about. I'm just saying to say that everything's a sham. It's all BS. It's not real. If you were so confident in that, then you would just not say anything. You would have your short position and you would go about your day because eventually every bubble pops and it you know like we end up having some cataclysmic fall and after that you can tell the story. for you to want to get attention for being short means that you think there's a chance it goes against you and you are trying to get other people to pile into the trade with you either to get exit liquidity as Alex Karp was saying that's why you know Karp keeps saying that this was obviously a form of market manipulation especially because he disclosed the 13F two weeks earlier than expected for the first time in a decade or uh you are afraid that not enough people understand what's going on and you think you have a role to educate people about how short you are and that's the part where I'm like It's actually pretty bullish, I think, for the Bulls to have someone like Bur who's been wrong for the past 15 years. Again, he did get 2008 right, but he's been wrong every other time since he said, you know, go short. He had shorts in December of 2023. He said sell in January of 2023. It just hasn't worked out for him to be this short again publicly. And those times he wasn't that public, by the way. I mean, he had a couple tweets back then, but it was nothing to the extent of what he's saying right here. I mean, even his bio, he's like, um, official exac account for the big short Michael Bur dubbed Cassandra by Warren Buffett. Unchained October. Cassandra Unchained launches. Oh my goodness. Hold on. This is different from last night. This is different from last night. Last night you didn't have this part of the bio, guys. I think it's a book. I think it's a book. I think I was right. I think I think it's Last night you had something else. He changes his bio every day, too. Again, this guy's like kind of crazy how cryptic he is. Unchained October. Cassandra Unchained launches November 25th. Dude, tell me that's not a book. That has to be a book. What? What else could that be? It's like a Substack article about how short he is on AI. Like, there's no other way. That's not a book. I think that's a book. Cassandra Unchained launches November 25th. So, the broader point is here. I think he's crashing out. He's upset about the way the short is going. And obviously, he's trying to get a lot of people to be upset about it as well. or he's launching a book. And if he's launching a book, then you need a lot of attention. A podcast potentially, even though he's not really a talker. I mean, he's done like one interview in the past 10 years, so I really doubt it's a podcast. But if it is a book, then maybe that's what you got going on. So that tweet went viral last night because, you know, a lot of people were saying, "Okay, this is officially him saying it is the second big short, right? If you're comparing it to what you did in 2008 to what you're doing right now around whatever you think is going on with AI, then boom, that is he's publicly saying this is my next big bet." and he's upset that it's not working. But if it's just marketing, then you know, it might be a different perspective. So that's what I got on Bur. Again, I think it's bullish. You need a wall of worry. Bur making more people bullish or bearish I think is actually really good. And the more bearishness you get likely means the higher we can go if earnings can keep up with that picture. And if earnings keep up with that picture, you know, eventually a lot of those bears turn into bulls and they end up chasing this rally. I really do think it's a book, dude. He he changed his bio from what I saw last night. The fact that he says launching November, he didn't have the word launching in his bio last night. That to me makes it kind of obvious that it's going to be a book. So, I guess we're going to find out in the coming weeks, but that's what we have there. Okay, data center plays. What's going on with them? So, yesterday, Nebas, Cororeweave, Iran, all of them got hit. They're up a little bit in the pre-market. Again, the number one reason for this yesterday, I thought, is because of the debt. Corweave actually up about 3.2% after falling 16%. I think it's very healthy. I mean, look, a lot of these data center players were literally going to the moon and they needed to consolidate. I think the street wants to see profitability. The street wants to see uh a lack of debt on the balance sheet or at least if you're going to get into debt, they want to see that attractive terms. Nebius is going to have an at the money offering that's going to be announced later today and eventually they'll be able to dilute by 25 million shares. So, you got a lot of this stuff priced in that's taking away from the level of earnings growth that a Nebius and Cororeef showed, which both of them had really good earnings. Nebus, I think, was better than Cororee just because Cororeef had that delay on one of their customers. But uh overall I do think on a day when Nvidia was down 2% obviously the day center plays are going to get hit and I think them consolidating at these prices after going up two to 3x on a day is not that big of a deal. So you got Nvidia right there at 195 that's up about 1.24%. S&P 500 at 684 and AMD obviously moving up based on those expectations that they laid out at investor day. What's the sauna story? Okay, so the sauna story I mean it's really simple. I I came back from the gym. I went to the sauna and like I usually try to spend 15 minutes in the sauna and there were a couple guys in there and I had my headphones on. when I was listening to music and I'm in the sauna and within five minutes like I hear them like talking loudly and so I just I turn off my music because I was just curious like as a human I was like what are they talking about and then I'm listening to them and they're like bro did you see the core weave drop today and I'm like this can't be happening it's like like I never hear people talking about stocks in the sauna and then one of these guys um he's a freaking investment banker and he ended up trading some of these stocks without disclosing the trades and his compliance team at whatever bank he worked at sent him an email and they were like, "Hey, if you do this again, you're going to get fired because like you you have to report every single trade. You're not allowed to like do these trades without telling us and he was just openly talking about it and he was talking about these core calls that went up and I'm just listening to it and I'm like this is crazy, bro." But they were talking about Nvidia. I wanted to intervene in the conversation but I had I was just like I'm just going to listen because first of all I'm tired of talking about stocks. I talked about socks for eight hours and I'm trying to just like chill in the sauna. And then number two, I'd be like, I don't even know what I would say. Like I'd be like, "Yeah, the core drop was bad." I'd be like, "Yeah, the core drop sucked." Like there's nothing to say in that conversation. I don't think that's toppy. I think these people probably work in, you know, finance, at least one of these guys does and that's why they were talking about it. But the fact that all three were like, you know, really discussing what went on with Nvidia and Cororeweave. And then one of the guys was talking about his Robin Hood account and [ __ ] I was like, "Dude, this is crazy." Like, "I can't believe they were actually discussing." So, I just sat back. I listened. Uh, I heard what they were. I should have said, "Yeah, I should have said, "Guys, it was the ALOS." And if one of them works at a hedge fun, I'd be like, "Bro, you're the reason. You're you're the algo. You're the guy who controls it. You're you're the one who caused the core drop." But um yeah, I just thought that was hilarious. And I I I I I don't know, dude. I've I've I've been in this apartment for three, four months. I've never heard of freaking someone talking about stocks in the gym or in the sauna. So that was kind of weird, but it was hilarious seeing that end up playing. The algos were in the sauna. Exactly. The algos were in the sauna. Uh we did have on earnings today. This is a uh shoe brand competing with Nike. Wow. 21%. What did they say? I guess they freaking crushed it. Let me put up their numbers real quick. This is a name that's been really getting a lot of attention over the past couple of years. Circle, by the way, also had earnings. They beat by 256% on EPS, 64 cents versus 18 uh cents expected. And then 739 versus 699. Circle is actually down in the pre-market, but they did have a relatively strong beat on the top and the bottom showing the stable coin ecosystem is strong. Again, I like Circle. I just think their valuation, you know, 7xing from IPO didn't make a lot of sense. Uh but now it's not at 300. Now it's at 93 which is a lot better. You should have told them about grabb. I should have that would have been funny. Revenue for on's up 34.5%. Adjusted IBas 22%. Full year revenue growth guide to 34% and adjusted EBA margin guide of 18% up from 17%. That's why onon is having a pretty strong quarter. 54 cents versus 33. Wow. 64% beat EPS up 200% year-over-year. Revenues up 38% year-over-year. 992 versus 949 on revenue. Does anyone wear their sneakers? You guys told me about this brand back in late 2023 and I didn't look too much into them. Um, you know, year to date they're actually down 30%. So, the 23% move in the pre-market is actually recovering some of the losses right here. But they have been one of the names that's been seen as a competitor. Obviously, the tariff stuff is probably a headwind for them as well, just like it is for Nike. By the way, there was a Nike insider buy of a million dollars a couple of days ago as well at 62 bucks. Nike right there 64. That's up 1.76%. Wow. A decent amount of you have them. Okay, this is this is what I wear every day.
>> This is uh this is I wear these every day. Like it's kind of great. When I used to when I used to have my consulting job or like when I had clients in my firm when I consulted, I would like show up to the to the to the places I had to do my consulting at and I would literally wear slippers. And at one point, one of the clients came up to me. was like, "Can you can you not wear slippers when you come here?" And I was like, "Why?" And they were like, "Because well, we we just don't think you should be wearing slippers here." And I was like, "Okay." And that's the only time I like I wear slippers everywhere, bro. It's kind of crazy. Yes, I wear socks, too. It's hard for me to wear socks without slippers. But that's the benefit of not having to deal with clients anymore. You could just wear slippers whenever you want. But it's actually crazy, dude. I wear I drive the car with slippers. Like I just like I wear sneakers at the gym, obviously. And these pair of slippers my mom had to buy me because I was wearing another pair of slippers for the past three years. And my mom got so upset because she looked at the slippers one day. She's like how long have you I was like couple years. She was like what do you mean? She like when I was like maybe 2020. She been four years. Like you need a new pair of slippers. I was like do I actually need a new pair of slippers or like so then she ordered me a new pair of slippers. But there you go. Nike right there. 6428. All right. Let's do our segment on the bifurcated economy because we do this segment every day. There are some things that we got to talk about in regards to this bifrocated economy. So, first of all, take a look at this. Searches for second job have reached an all-time high as of two days ago. Kali is now estimating there will be a 34% chance of a recession in 2026. A recession is inevitable. We don't know what's when it's going to happen. We don't know if it necessarily has to affect the stock market. Again, two quarters of negative GDP growth could create a recession. But you have searches for a second job on Google reaching an all-time high as per Google trends. The second thing that's really important to understand around this bifrocated economy is what Fanny May is thinking about. This is from homes.com. Fanny May is set to drop its 620 credit score minimum. The mortgage giant will use its own analysis of risk factors. Quote, "It's just the latest in a series of policy changes aimed at creating home ownership opportunities in the United States." Now, I'm not going to lie, this was a glaring red flag yesterday. There's no way to, you know, mince my words about it. I mean, as bullish as I am about a variety of things, and we're going to look at some bullish parts of the bifrocated economy. This is not bullish because at the end of the day, you talking about 50-year mortgages, 15-year car loans, and then, and by the way, Trump is not happy about this 50-year mortgage backlash he's been getting. Apparently, PY is the one who suggested it to Trump. Politico was reporting this, take it with a grain of salt, maybe it's wrong, but uh they're reporting that Py had a 15-minute conversation with Trump and he was like, "Trump, let's do these 50-year mortgages." And Trump was like convinced within 15 15 minutes of like that's a good idea. Then they put out the truth social post with the Roosevelt Trump picture, 50-year mortgage, 30-year mortgage. And then the amount of backlash they got from conservatives, not even just from Democrats, like but just from like the MAGA part of the party saying like this is stupid. Trump's apparently really pissed off that PY like was so easily able to like say this is the right approach. And then if you notice, PY, as soon as Trump tweeted that picture, PY started tweeting a bunch of different things kind of backing up the argument for why a 50-year mortgage makes sense. A lot of, you know, economists have come out, UBS did a study last night, and they said, "Yeah, it would reduce the price of a house by $200 per month, but it would increase the amount of interest you pay by 2x, double, and you know, you'd be in debt for another 20 years." So, from that perspective, you're definitely getting some push back. And then you get this Fanny May update of thinking they're going to lower credit scores. You know what caused 2008? Giving faulty mortgage mortgages to people that couldn't afford them. I mean, and then then you get into the whole financial engineering of these syn synthetically designed CDOS's that had bonds inside of bonds inside of bonds, and that ended up leading to just one of the biggest bubbles we've ever seen. But at its core, it was people that could not afford a $2,500 payment that were easily getting approved for these payments. And so I don't know if Fanny May will actually do this given that PY has a lot of control of what's going on in Fanny May and given the fact that he convinced Trump within 15 minutes apparently to put out this 50-year mortgage idea. If they did do this, this is something we all have to be, you know, just watchful of because, you know, if this ends up happening, you could have a lot of loans going out and then obviously one of the biggest causes of a bubble pop or a recession are people not being able to pay back their loans. Having said that, what's the bifurcation? Well, the bifurcation is that US corporate earnings growth is booming. The S&P 500 so far has put up earnings that are the highest since Q3 of 2021. Six of the 11 S&P 500 uh sectors reported positive average EPS growth. And the medium profit growth in the Russell 3000 hit 11% year-over-year, that's the highest from Q3 2021 and up 6% in Q2. Almost 80% of the companies that have reported so far, Nvidia is going to be the big one in a couple of weeks, uh have beat earnings by an average of 8%. So, you're seeing Fanny May think that we need to give loans to people that can't qualify for loans because their credit rating is bad. You're seeing fifth year mortgages. You're seeing job uh you're seeing searches for a second job at an all-time high on Google. But then you're seeing corporate earnings being the best it's ever been. And obviously Lululemon and Chipotle and all these, you know, companies have not done that well. But like the overall aggregate of tech earnings, the reason why the S&P 500 potentially is going to go up for its third year in a row 20%. And why all of us are going to benefit is because companies are still able to put up earnings. And you know, we're seeing it across the board with a variety of companies that reporting even if they're not big tech. So the dichotomy here, the bifurcation here is what's going to happen when these earnings decline potentially based on the labor market or is the labor market even going to get to the point where it has that much of an impact to cause a meaningful decline in earnings, which would cause a meaningful decline in our portfolios given stock prices will go down. Or if we do get a really bad economy, will the rate cuts be enough to save the stock market? Because at the end of the day, lower uh rates means that the cost of capital becomes cheaper and margin becomes cheaper and people get more risk on even if the economy is not necessarily doing the best. Basically, kind of what we saw back in 2020. I don't know what the answer to that question is. I think Bur short on AI does not make as much sense if he was saying, "Hey, there's some cracks in the broader economy." I think that, you know, obviously we are seeing some cracks in the broad economy. I don't know if it's enough to go full-on short, but the one sort of intersection of his analysis could make sense. If we see cracks in the broader economy, could we see cracks in the AI trade, which would not be a good thing to see because obviously if Meta, you know, stock price gets cut in half and people aren't advertising anymore, maybe Meta says, you know, we don't really even have a plan for all this money. Zux already admitted that if we overspend, then we're just going to be using some of the excess GPUs. If he says we're going to stop spending on capex, Nvidia takes a nice little haircut. So that's where all of this gets not bifrocated. That's when everything starts to come together and ultimately time will tell to see you know what happens longterm. Bitcoin right there at 104.9. Ethereum as well 3571 and that is why BMR getting a little bit of a move right there at 4112. Speaking of this bifurcation, here is one of the analysts at Bank of America that takes a uh hard look at a lot of the credit and debit spending through 70 million consumers. And here's what she had to say about what's going on with the lower-end consumer.
>> The strongest in almost two years and 20 months. If we look at it seasonally adjusted, it was up for the fifth month in a row. So you are continuing to see consumer spending power. But I pull out two things on this. First, while retail spending did go up, the number of transactions didn't. So one of the things driving that strengthening the consumer spending number is inflations. It's m maybe tariffs. It's not that consumption is necessarily increasing. And then the other thing that I pull out is it's the higher income households that are really driving the spending. That gap between
>> we've heard that argument a lot, right? Like if the wealth effect, if you feel richer, you're more likely to buy a new car. Uh you can see that through Ford and GM earnings. It seems like Bank of America is kind of confirming that's a lot of what we're seeing in the credit card and debit card transaction data as well. between spending growth between higher and lower income households is certainly continuing.
>> At the lower end, what are you seeing?
>> So, the lower end spending is still growing. So, if you look at at lower income spending, last month it was up 7/10. Higher income spending though was up, you know, almost four times that at 2.7. What's interesting is though what the gaps are in terms of what the difference between the spending growth between the higher and the lower income consumer and where we're seeing the biggest gaps are in bigger ticket items in airlines in lodging in furniture. To a lesser extent, we're also seeing it in clothing. But in each of those categories, it's not that the higher income is really spending a lot more. It's that lower income is pulling back. So
>> I mean a lot of those are discretionary items.
>> A lot of them are discretionary items. And then the other thing that's interesting to look at is where are we not seeing a big gap between the higher and the lower income spending. It's in general merchandise. It's in online retail. And and the one category where we're actually seeing lower income go up and higher income pull back is in groceries.
>> Now, when I first saw that, my first inclination was, okay, this is an impact of SNAP benefits because people are putting more groceries on their card. But this data is only through the end of October, so it wouldn't necessarily have that impact. What we think that the is driving that differential is that lower income consumers are already purchasing the value items whereas higher income consumers have the ability to pull back a bit. So you're seeing on the grocery side them pull back to go to more value.
>> You know if you hear if you listen to some of the the fast casual dining restaurants they've seen a pullback in the consumer there. Is does that mean maybe those those income people are spending more at the grocery store and less? you know, we haven't seen that and actually in our data we're seeing both higher and lower income consumers spend more at restaurants. So, so that doesn't necessarily tie in, but I do think that there is certainly we are seeing evidence particularly at the lower end that those consumers are under a bit more stress and some of it always comes and I say this all the time, a lot of it always comes back to the labor market and what we're seeing in the labor market, labor market is still expanding according to our data, you know, and we look at the number of households receiving income that was up 510 last month. So the labor market is still expanding, but the wages that the lower income consumers are pulling in are growing at a much slower rate than at the higher income consumer. And in fact, that disparity between wage growth is at the the largest level between higher and lower that we've seen since we started the series in 2016.
>> So look, I don't think it's deniable that there is a bifurcation. I know we keep using that word, but there is a split between the economy between the lower end and the higher end. And there's a lot of different nuances between what's going on with the lower end and how the higher end is potentially subsidizing the nature of this economy. The takeaway for investors, I know a lot of people might be saying, look, we've been talking about this bifrocated economy for a long time. What does it mean? Like what does that mean for my investments? I think two things. Number one, the reason we talk about it is just to make sure people understand that not everything is perfect. Like not everything is perfect. Like there are issues going on. And I think to be a well-rounded investor, you just have to keep up with some of that macro data to understand and and you know, if we do get a market decline, it can help also understand, well, not everything was perfect, which is why the equity markets might be freaking out a little bit. But number two, does it mean you sell? In my opinion, no. If I if it if it means, you know, you want to take some chips off the table, I think that's totally fine. And, you know, I don't think you need a bifrocated economy to necessarily do that. That could just be in general. You know, you want to derisk a little bit of exposure. What it more broadly means to me is when we start to see the trend on corporate earnings go the opposite direction, aka earnings are not the best they've been since 2021. When we start to see this chart go down, that's when it should be the first sign that the actual economy is affecting the stock market because right now there's a lot of different nuances for why the stock market is not really feeling that type of pain. On top of that, again, we haven't had government data in a month. So once we get this government data, it's going to be really important. How are initial jobless claims? What is the unemployment rate like? Are they peing up above 275,000? Are we still at 220? Because if all those things are not sort of red flag levels from a numerical perspective, anecdotally, people can feel whatever they want about the economy. But if you are not seeing the obvious red flags in some of the data, then you might not have to be as scared about this whole idea of the bifurcated economy. Quite frankly, the bifurcated economy might be the new normal for a very long time. time. I mean, it's been the new normal basically for the past three years, ever since this bull market started and it might continue to be the new normal. So, I think it's just very important to keep up with what's happening here. I don't think it is a go short sell everything because I personally believe that the way AI is transforming industries is something that we've never seen before. And again, I'll go back to the example I shared a couple days ago. There's a startup call it AI for PowerPoints name is GMA. They just raised at a $2.1 billion market cap. They're doing a hundred million in ARR and they have 50 employees. I mean, we are living in a time where a company can have 50 people employed have $2 million average per employee and go from zero to 100 million in less than a year. Like that is happening because of AI. And if we have more and more of those companies, aka more and more of the new mag sevens that eventually in 30 years will be the behemoths of the day uh that are generating the ROI from all this capex spend. You know, that's really what we want to see. again that company is probably paying a ton of money to GCP, Azure or AWS um to be able to run all their AI workloads which is why the hyperscalers continue to spend on this capex. So that is really what I think is the transformational return and you know FSE robotics we have a lot more of that coming over the future but that level of optimism I think is yet to be doubted. Speaking of optimism uh some clips from Mr. Alex Karp's interview that have been going pretty viral. Here is Karp uh showing off his sword.
>> What should I do? Should I not do anything?
>> That was so epic. That was so epic. That that that uh that got you got a lot of captions on that one. as I think the funniest one was uh when when you tell your bro to not be weird in front of the hose and then your and then your bro pulls out his sword. I thought that was hilarious. Uh here's another one of Karp speaking about why he's in a war with these short sellers. I mean my version externally is we gave venture returns not just venture returns we gave venture returns as if you're like you know I don't know you're you like Peter Thiel Seoia Kosla returns to the average person who is willing to do their own work and stand up against uh uh kind of tried but not true ideas like playbooks. So, we're like the anti-playbook company and then, you know, I mean, you know, I'm currently in a battle with, you know, short sellers primarily because they could go short some carcinogenic company, but they have to short arguably the best company in this country and in the world by any metric. And by the way, judge us by our enemies. Look who hates us. Like, I mean, like, go online. I mean, I guess people here have gone on X. Like, just forget any, you don't need to know anything else. just look at like who hates power chair and look who hates me and then judge us by that standard. What should our market cap be based on that standard? So,
>> you know, one thing I love about Karp and other people will disagree with this. We have the market open in two minutes. By the way, Triple V, thank you for the $200 super chat. Appreciate you being here. I uh I told you guys I have a a new opportunity professionally that I'm uh exploring and I'll talk to you guys about in a couple weeks, but I called Mr. Triple V last night to to get his professional business advice on this opportunity and uh he was very very helpful. So thank you TripleV for being here. I appreciate you and thank you for the phone call yesterday because uh it definitely was needed in terms of some advice that I was looking for. One of the things I love about Karp is that he takes it personally dude. He takes it personally. Look at what he said. He said I am in a personal battle with short sellers right now. I mean any other CEO would be like okay they're shorting our stock whatever like you know that's part of the market down. He's like, "Nope, I'm in a battle with these motherfers." And I love it because he's saying, "Don't judge our market cap from just like the conventional way of how you think about a price to sales or PE ratio. Think about it in the context of how much value we create for our clients and judge our market cap from that perspective versus other perspectives." Now, you'll have a lot of people saying, "Look, that's not the way to think about market caps. That's not the way to think about numbers. He's he's, you know, he's fundamentally having a different paradigm." My perspective is Pounder is a one ofone company and the reason they're getting this multiple is because of the value they're creating and because Karp makes it a mission to take it personally. You short an American company that's yes potentially very expensive but is actually creating value in the world protecting the war fighter. Karp takes that seriously and he's not going to let that slide. So I personally like it. I know some people don't. I love that a CEO that I'm invested in takes it so seriously and actually wants to prove everyone wrong because I think I think it just goes to show how much he's invested in the company and how much he emotionally cares about the process of winning. So there we go. Wednesday, November 12th, 9:30 a.m. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, we are open. Wake your asses up. S&P 500 684. We're green. 68454. We are up 222% on the day. S&P 500 is green. Pounder slightly red. Down about 1.3%. Tesla red candles across the board. Tesla's holding on to its green. Google just went red. Grab just went red. Soi 3122 trying to hold up. AMD, wow, AMD making a hell of a move right here. Again, their gross margin guidance was very, very strong. Uh, at least stronger than expectations. Up 7.25% on the day with AMD. That goes green. Nvidia right there, that's up 1%. Grab just went green. Amazon, that's green. Meta is green. Meta is basically flat, but slightly green. Uh, Salesforce 245. PayPal, that's up half a percent. ELF is up 1.3. Apple's down. Apple was actually one of the only stocks that was up yesterday. So, Apple at 275 right now, 274. app loving that's up a little bit after falling 50 bucks yesterday. Bitcoin 104, Ethereum 3566, 3650 was the high this week. So it would be nice if we could break above that. VIX is slightly down. BABA's down a little bit. Cathy Wood bought 170,000 shares of Baba yesterday. So she is loading up more on China. Lyft is up 1.3. Cisco's up half a percent. SMCI is up about 1%. AMD 6.8% on the day as it continues to go green. Micron hit all-time highs yesterday. Micron 243. Okay, so that's down from 255. Probably consolidating a bit, which is not too crazy, but Micron is green. Dude, Oaklo put up zero revenue again. They lost 57% more on EPS again. And you got Oaklo right there at 108. So, the street's rewarding it. They don't care. Up 4%. I know it's down from 193, but the street does not care. They're giving them that love. Nvidia trying to hold on to green. Not really holding on to that green. Pounder going red, Tesla going red. Given pounder and Tesla in red, it wouldn't surprise me if Nvidia goes red. It does have a red candle right there. It's holding a dollar before potentially breaking down. AMD doesn't care about Nvidia pounder or Tesla. AMD is just going higher. 7.7 market seems to really like those analyst projections that they gave out. And then Big Bear AI, that's up 10%. Now Big Bear was up 20% on the earnings. Then it was up like 4%. Now it's up 10% on the day. So you are getting a big move right here. This might be a delayed reaction after earnings. I'll see if there's any headline, but Big Bear is up about 11% on the day. Archer, that's flat. Verizon, that's up a little bit. Dell, that's up a little bit. Lily, a th Wow, Lily back to a thousand. Lily, $945 billion market cap. Absolutely incredible. Lily being the bene the beneficiary of that deal with Novo for Ozmpic on Medicare and that's why it's getting some love right here. Novo also started moving yesterday. Intel at 3809 and then Novo 1193. Where is Cororee? Are we getting a rebound on Cororee? 9129. Let's look at the data center plays. All of them are green except Irene. Neb is up 1%. Corre up 4%. Galaxy up. I mean, a lot of this is a sympathy rebound because they all got hit, you know, pretty badly yesterday. Uh, so it's not surprising that they're going green. I just went green right there. But, you know, if AMD is projecting what they're projecting, and then you look at some of these derivative data center plays around all the NeoClouds and how much demand there is, you're probably getting a bit of a bid on a lot of those names. Wolf as well up 2.75% on the day. IBM we are green. That's up two and a half%. Not too bad. That is up. By the way, the Dow Jones closed at an all-time high yesterday. IBM is in the Dow Jones. So, those top 30 companies seeming to perform well, even if they're not full-on tech companies. AMD 8.3%. My goodness. AMD not stopping. And then SoFire, we had 32. We had 3156. Let me check resistance for 32. It would be very nice if we can break above 32. This is uh this is the first time we've seen so if I kind of get into those 3150s in a meaningful way. Amcore that's at 3524. That's green as well. I'll be talking to Ronnie today about Zeta on Twitter spaces. So uh at around 12:30 we'll be talking to him about Zeta. I am getting a bit more interested in this one. Zeta right there 20.44. That's up 3.2% 2% on the day as well. Palanteer down 3%. Tesla down half a percent. Nvidia looks like it wants to go down, but it's holding on to some of its green. AMD the real story of the day. I think a lot of money is coming out of other equities and just piling into AMD right there. Up 8% on the day 256. The price of gold is up again 4127. Silver as well 5179. That one is also green. And then the 10-year actually selling off which is good. Four point or actually people are buying in. yields are coming down, which means the bond market is effectively buying these bonds today. 4.073% on that 10 year. AMD right there trying to go for 10% on the day. Jason did some TA yesterday on Robin Hood. Um, and the core thing he said is that more likely than not, we are getting into a consolidation phase for Robin Hood in the 120 to 150 range, which I 1,000% agree with. He said the same thing for Paler. He said he doesn't want to see pounder go back to the like low 170s, but he thinks anything above, you know, 175 is decent consolidation for pounder and it's it's forming a new base. Same thing for Hood. I mean, these two stocks have had super super big moves this year. So, allowing them to stay within a 30 to $40 range and actually just trade within it, but not go to the extreme upside or extreme downside is very bullish. And, you know, it gives them a a lot more time to marinate with their price action. So, I think that is what we could be seeing on Hood. In terms of SoFi, 32 resistance. VG is running as well. 32 resistance is only 25,000. No, sorry, 145,000. Okay, a little bit more. 3198 is 25,000, but 149,000 shares. Call it 150. You got a break for SoFi. VG, that's up 7%. QXO, I know Steve likes this one. That is up 1% 1922 on the day. Figma, they had a pretty good earnings as well. Muted re reaction after earnings. Figma right there is up about 1%. Uh is this alltime high for SoFi? No. Alltime high is 3257. This is not alltime high. We are close close to 32 but it's not an alltime high. Not yet. Lemonade. Are we green on lemonade? Lemonade is green as well. Wow. Lemonade breaking through the 80s. All right. 4%. 4% on lemonade as that goes green. Uh, OpenAI headline, New York Times demands to turn over conversations which are violating privacy. Okay, I think OpenAI has a deal with the New York Times for content sharing. Apparently, the New York Times is demanding to turn over conversations that violate user privacy. Um, I'm going to get deeper into this headline and see exactly what they're saying, but you have a headline right there on Open AI. Big Bear AI again, that one continues to move. That's up. Wow. N. Okay, there's got to be a deal on Big Bear for it to be moving 19%. Let me see if I can find something. So, old time I was 3257. 3257. No, I don't see a headline. It might be technical. Again, there are uh politicians that are buying this thing. Representative Lisa Mlan brought about 100,000 of it back in the summer. So, I mean, that could be a reason. But, I mean, they had a good earnings beat. You know, the street expected losing like 10 cents. They lost three cents. So, I mean, earnings were decent. You might just be getting a reaction a couple days later. 19.4% on Mr. Big Bear. UNH, what do we got? UNH 332. That's up as well. How about Oscar? That's been getting smacked this week. Oscar 1496. That continues to be stuck in a range. And then SoFi trying to break 32. Has not done yet. 3163 is where it's at. Nebas, are we getting back to 105? There we go. 10527 on Mr. By the way, you guys weren't wrong. The call premiums on Nebas are ridiculous, dude. Like, it's like rivaling some of the best stocks I've seen with call premiums, but it's a name that like is a lot more fundamental, right? There's like a real business attached to it with actual revenue and earnings. So, uh now granted, I think the reason it's so volatile is because this thing could go to 130 any second, right? So, it is a very volatile stock, which why the premiums are good, but premiums definitely are a plus for Nabius. Bitcoin right there that's at 104 and then Ethereum 3.2%. Where's BMR? 40.8 3%. Not really getting a crazy move. I ran going red is weird when Nebius and Cororeweave are going green. You are seeing a little bit of a divergence there. So, did we get 32? We got 32. Okay. 3257. Now, that's the one we got to beat. Let me check resistance on 33. So we got through 145,000 shares sitting at 32. That has been accomplished. 33 is 107,000 shares. 107,000 shares to beat 33. I mean I mean I think a decent I mean even I bought the dip last week at 28 the couple weeks before that at 2650. So this thing has definitely given opportunities. The question is can it hold? Because every time it gets to these levels, it falls back to 27 29 and you know it keeps oscillating between that. But if it can actually normalize the 30s and just stay in the 30s. That would be very exciting. That would be very exciting. Target on SoFi. What do you guys think? What do we think SoFi ends the year at? I mean, I I don't know. My The rate cuts have always been to me rather bullish. So, I'm going to be conservative. And maybe this is not conservative. I I think 35 by the end of the year is not insane. I think 40 45 pushing that is I don't even think it's aggressive. I just think you have to be super bullish on SoFi for the end of year for that to happen. And I don't know if there's enough bullish catalyst for it to get to that level. Maybe just the broader bull market does. But I think 35 and the reason I I'm saying 35 is potentially aggressive is because like every time it makes a new dollar level, it goes down three bucks and it takes a couple weeks just for it to make a high above that new dollar level. So it would have to really make a move above 35 and stay there. And so that's something I'm saying 35 by end of year is not that crazy. Yeah, a lot of people saying 35 to 40. 35 to 40. Yeah, I'd agree. I mean, the earnings are good enough to get there. No, is not disappointing on the earnings. And now that crypto's back, Sofa got a lot of publicity yesterday about being the first bank to bring on crypto. Um, that's definitely very bullish as well. Uber right there, that's flat or that's actually up about 1%. Then Roblox, that's flat. Uh, and had earnings today. That stock is flat, down about 2 cents. I'll take a look at their numbers in a second. Rocket Lab reversed the 12% move yesterday. Now it's back up 6%. Nice to see that for Rocket Lab. ASTS uh 2.3% up. That's green after their earnings. And then Lemonade is up 4% as well. Copen up almost 15%. Copen is another drone player, right? Uh or is it a bit more? No, Copen's not drones. Why do I feel like they're a defense name? Um, Andos is helping. Uh, Copen looks like Is it MedTech? It looks like it's MedTech. Yeah, that's not drones. Okay, because I was thinking if And earnings were good, maybe Copen's helping, but looks like there's a different reason for that. Yeah, vision tech and medtech. That's great. Copen, right? They're up 13%. How about Redcat? Redcat is up also 2.3%. So Jason yesterday was talking about something called the January effect. And essentially the January effect in the stock market is a market phenomenon where stocks particularly small cap stocks tend to show higher returns in January compared to other months. This is theorized to happen because investors may sell their losing stocks in December for tax purposes which drives down prices and then buy them back in January driving prices up. Historical data shows that there is some correlation but the impact of the January effect has weakened over time. So, a lot of these small cap names that people are looking at kind of under 10 billion, even though that's not the technical definition of small cap, but around that $10 billion range, those could be something to watch out for going into into January. Northland raised their Nebia targets to 211. They're the ones who had 200, right? They're the only ones on the street that have 200. Okay, so they're raising it to 211, which is nice to see. Hoodie goes red. Palanteer red. Tesla's red. And there you go. Nvidia goes red as well. It was only a matter of time if Palenterer, Tesla, and Hood were red for Nvidia to follow. S&P now is next. Now, if S&P can hold green, even though Nvidia's red, I still think that would be bullish. But Nvidia is going red. SoFi 3224. She's really trying. 20 cents away. She is trying. Hims is below 40. Um, Rocket Lab again completely reversed that 12% move yesterday trying to get it back. That's up 7%. Which is nice to see. Speaking of Rock Lab, by the way, you did have Sir Peter Beck. Here's a minute clip talking on Fox yesterday about what's going on with Neutron.
>> There was some anticipation that the uh that the the launch will be moved from fourth quarter this year to first quarter next year. How how comfortable are you were saying that that's certainly going to happen? Well, look, I could caveat everything whether it's a rocket program, right? And I think, you know, one of the reasons why we shifted that a little bit is, you know, we have a method for developing this stuff. And, you know, that method is has proven to be extremely good and reliable. And if we think about it, like the reality is in the world today, there's been two commercial companies that have bought a launch vehicle to market, made it reliable, and scaled into any kind of cadence, and that's SpaceX and Rocket Lab. And we're just not going to deviate from our from our path that that is really proven to develop, you know, technology reliably. And you know, look, nobody remembers uh, you know, a rocket that took a little bit longer to get to the launch pad and then launch successfully. Everybody remembers a rocket that blows up the launch pad. So, we're just not interested in being in that later camp.
>> I got
>> I think he's right. Even if you have to be late, you'd rather get the job done than be early and end up failing. Rock Lab right there, that's up 7.6%. Core, that's up 2.6%. 6% as well. So Cor getting again I would say a sympathy bounce from yesterday but probably deserves a bounce after going down 16%. Um so that one is green 3.38% on Corey. Verizon that's up a little bit. Dell that's up a little bit. Archer that's up a little bit. S&P holding on by 0.15% to green but it looks like it wants to go red. which would not be crazy. Quantum stocks, uh, D-Wave is down, Regetti is also down, and then IQ is down. The reg or IQ slightly up. The Regetti CEO did a couple interviews over the past few days and you know, quite frankly, he's being really honest with investors. He's not promising the world. He's saying, "Hey, don't expect like meaningful revenues or anything crazy for like the next five, six years." And so, you know, if you're buying Regetti stock based on kind of the earnings trajectory, he's telling you to your face, you're you're not going to get it. But, um, I think that's, you know, if people want to buy the stock, even with his CEO saying that, then, you know, he's not really going to get in trouble because he's letting you know, hey, right now you're we're not really seeing that type of revenue. Uh, AMD, that's up 7%. Then, SoFi still at 3208 trying to get up there. But the other quantum names kind of all going down in tandem. And by the way, they had a crappy earnings. I mean, they missed by like 2,000%, but it's not down as much from those earnings. I think it's more down from the all-time highs, given everything else is getting down a little bit from all time highs. Emit, I see that Stanley Ducken Miller commented on your grab post yesterday. Congratulations. As much as I want to believe that is the real Stanley Ducken Miller, that is a AI Stanley Ducken Miller account. So, that is a that's not it's not the real Stanley Ducken Miller. I did see that comment. It is a an AI drugs. I don't I don't think Drux is really commenting on random people's post, but AI it gives you uh gives you hopes and dreams. Makes you feel like things are real. UNH getting more of a pump right here. UNH is green. 328. The UNH actually really moving, dude. It was at 312 yesterday. Even at 310, I was getting a little interested yesterday. I didn't pull the trigger, but down from 390 is a bit more interesting. 336 on UNH Poly Market says Supreme Court projected to overturn Trump's tariffs, ruling them unconstitutional. Let me see if I can pull up the exact poly market on the Supreme Court. What are the the percentages? Wow. 23% chance the Supreme Court actually sides with Trump. Again, Poly Market is uh they've been pretty accurate on a lot of different things. 77% of people think the Supreme Court's not going to side with uh side with Trump. I think that's why Trump has been preparing by putting out all these quotes and tweets about tariff dividends and stuff because if that ends up happening then obviously that would be ugly for for the administration. Uh Robin right here below 130 12969. All right. So you're seeing some of a momentum draw down trade. Again this is this is what I mean by whips. Pre-markets are green. Yesterday was green and then potentially you're seeing a bit of whipsaw to the downside. We're going to see if that continues throughout the day. If that ends up reversing, but you are seeing pounder robin, Nvidia, and Tesla go red. S&P still holding on to green somehow. You got that red candle right there. Google just went red. It's going to be hard for SoFi to break 3250 with everything going red, but SoFi is trying and then grab right there at 594. Uh, ELF. Are we getting a move on ELF? ELF is 7878. That's up 1%. Not really recovering after that earnings drop. Dualingo continues to get hit. Down 1.2. Is Nebius getting hit? Nebus. Yeah, there you go. Nebus goes. All right. So, everything, not everything, but like a good amount of these growth names going red. Corre losing a chunk. It was at 94, now back down to or 9250, now down to 90. ESTs was pushing 70. Now it's at 69 down a dollar. Then Micro Strategy goes right. AMD, that was the one thing that was really holding on. There you go. 258 to 250. Still up 13 bucks on the day. Can't complain. But obviously, you're seeing some momentum to the downside. This is, you know, every single day this has been the story. And again, my perspective on this is if we can just hold 680 on the S&P, let's just not give up some key levels, definitely not give up the 200 day moving average, which we we were very close to giving it up on Friday, and things looked bleak until that shutdown news came in. If we can just hold those levels, I'd be happy. I would be happy. Lyft, Lyft is green. Yes, Lyft is up 5%. Weeble had some news today. Weeble partners with Meritz Financial to enter the South Korean market. Weeble announced a strategic partnership to provide South Korean investors with access to US equity markets through Weeble's trading platform. Um, and this will take place through the Apex Fintech Solutions on a collaboration that allows Weeble to enter South Korea. Look, I think this is good for Weeble because South Koreans trade like crazy. Like if people don't know about South Korean investing culture, it's actually wild. Like South Koreans love the stock market and they love US equities. Um you know the part of the reason Nvidia and Poundry have such a big international audience is because South Korea. So it makes sense for them to go to South Korea. Is that going to be enough to really impact Weeble's earnings? I don't know. I don't know. I just I just don't think they're putting up amazing amazing numbers to be super excited about this as a growth play. But it is good for them to expand. I mean that would be great for Robin to go to South Korea. I know Robin is thinking of Southeast Asia but South Korea. South Korea and India. India had the highest level of trading options volumes over the past couple years. People don't know that Indians trade the most options in the entire world. So it would be pretty crazy if they were to enter those two markets as those are very very large markets. Yeah. And the South Koreans, they love these meme stocks too. Beyond Meat, Open Door, I mean Beyond Me, they're up 4%. The South Koreans freaking uh there's like armies of them with all these crazy group chats and they love bidding up a lot of these names as well. Open dooror right there down about 1.89%. By the way, the uh the founder the co-founder of open dooror Keith Rab boy who is now on the board he made a public bet with someone yesterday that Openoor will be larger than Shopify. So that market cap wise call it $267 a share for Openoro which currently right now is $8. By December 31st, 2032. So by December 31st, 2032, he bet $100,000 with some random account on Twitter, which I don't know why the co-founder of Open Door is getting into $100,000 bets with a random account on Twitter, but uh within seven years, he is saying that Open Door will eclipse the market cap of Shopify. I don't know if that's going to happen. Um I would take the under on that bet. Shopify market cap is 26 billion. Open Door is at 4 billion. So, you're talking about a pretty I mean, if that's the case, it's going to be one of the best performing equities in the entire market. I don't know if that's the case, but he did bet $100,000 there. So, dude, see some it's some of that it's some of that stuff for that's why it's hard for me to get into open door. When I see the co-founder of the company making bets like that, I'm like, dude, what are you doing? Like, just go execute. Like, if you become bigger than Shopify, you're gonna have a lot to talk about. You don't need to publicly proclaim that seven years before it happens if it ever does happen and then put that pressure on yourself because if it doesn't you just look stupid. Well, I don't know. But that is what he said. Apple right there down 1%. Lily going for it. 13 2013 that is me. Nebius you know. Okay. So what Jason said yesterday Jason said if it violates 94 be prepared for it to violate 75. based on TA. Nothing to do with fundamentals based on TA. Having said that, it's had a very strong level of support at 94. So, I really wonder will it actually get back to that 94 level? I think if the S&P falls 2%, then you're definitely getting there. But, um, people have been able to keep it above that 94 range and kind of stick within the low 100. So, if we get there, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to complain. I know people have Nebas and they'd be upset, but like that's basically giving me the Microsoft deal for free. I mean, if you take me back to 75, I'm getting the stock without the Microsoft deal. I would not be that upset. I mean, that's like reversing three months of gains and allowing me to go back in time almost and buy the stock. So, I don't think we're going to get 75. I think that's a bit aggressive. Again, the TA says it's possible if we violate 94, but if not, then, you know, maybe it stays stuck around this $100 range. Uh, Oakllo is moving. You're seeing some pump there. Oaklo, that's up. Wow. 10%. See, like I'm not sure why they're giving it a 10% move off zero revenue and no earnings, but they're giving it a 10% move. Um, got a headline right here. Trump uh the White House is privately discussing having Trump travel the country to give economy focused speeches as they weigh a number of strategies to improve his standing on the issue of affordability, administration officials tell me. Wow. Wow. We've been talking about this for a while, folks. Past couple weeks, it kind of felt like the Trump administration was getting a little worried about this concept of affordability being a thorn for them. The White House is privately discussing having Trump travel the country to give economy focused speeches as they weigh a number of strategies to improve his standing on the issue of affordability. Oak right there up 9%, pounder down two, Robin down one, Tesla down one, Nvidia down one, S&P still holding on a little bit to the green. If that's the case, obviously they're planning to make sure the midterms are not as bad as what they think could be based on this affordability issue. And that's probably why Bent said you're going to get a $2,000 dividend this morning. Why they're going to be lowering tariffs on key goods. A lot of these comments could be rooted in this idea of just trying to improve their public uh standing on affordability. So that's a headline you have right there. Again, Oaklo moving. I don't see any Oakllo headline. Maybe there's something in the nuclear space that's causing a headline and that's why that stock's moving, but I don't see anything specific. Obviously, the earnings were not the best. Um, yeah, no headline, nothing. Well, I mean, you got Caner Fitzgerald raising their price target to 122 from 84. Caner says, "Ollo is paving the way for the world to safely transition to a nuclearpowered future. With the regulatory environment finally leading in favor of nuclear technology, we believe Oak will be a big winner in the multi- trillion dollar energy transition." Okay, I guess you got Wall Street saying they're going to be a big player for nuclear like it sounds like a sounds like a startup pitch more than an equity report, but that's what you got. And again, look, if they they can get a deal tomorrow for two billion bucks and then the stock doesn't seem as overly priced. So, it's just a question of, you know, them getting these deals and having those deals baked into the multiple. Micros right there 233. ASU up 1.32. Nebius, are we getting hit? We are getting hit. 98 97. Have not bought the dip yet. So, I want to see how it marinates before kind of entering into the 90 range. Um, where's Coreweave? If Nebus is going down, Cororeweave is also below 90. That means IN's getting smacked. Ian is getting smacked down 2%. Is that one is getting hit? BMR probably getting hit as well. BMR holding on to a little bit of green. I mean, you're not seeing super super big draw downs. Robin, it's back above 130, but you are seeing red, and that means that, you know, there might not be a trend that's easily going up into the right at least today. Here's the heat map today. As you can see, healthcare continues to go green, financials continue to go green, tech goes red, but semiconductors aren't red out of Nvidia, outside of Nvidia and Intel. And then Rocket Lab is up 7%. That's correct. Rivian uh had a great great day yesterday. Pushed 18 bucks. Uh Rivian right there down 6%. That's not surprising. They were up like 20% in the past week. Makes sense for them to give back some of the gains. But Rivian has done this all the time. I mean it makes highs and then people buy in and then you know it dumps. So it's one of those names you just have to be careful with. But Riven right there 1697 on the day amid. Are we going to see the Santa Claus rally? I think if we get a shutdown resolution in the next two days along with a confirmation of the Fed rate cut and a good Nvidia earnings, it sets up a macro backdrop to have a good um a good Santa Claus rally. Now, the Wall Street Journal, there was a piece I was reading last night about the idea of the Fed rate cuts. And I can't believe it's true, but like basically the Wall Street Journal is reporting that there are many Fed officials that are not advocating for this December cut, including JPAL, and they think it might not be appropriate to cut rates. Now, you have a lot of other Fed officials that are thinking we should, but they're trying to get to a unanimous decision. As you can see right here, the lowest probabilities on a December cut we've had in the past three weeks at 65.4%. I have no idea how these guys are thinking that the labor market is not getting to a point where we shouldn't at least cut by 25 bips. Maybe you don't do anything for 2026, but to not cut another 25 bips given the types of data we're seeing. And granted, you know, maybe the data is not that bad because the government's been closed and we haven't had the most accurate data. But from what we've seen, it's not like it's cataclysmic, but it's also not sunshine and rainbows. like it's it would warrant somewhat of a a loosening of monetary policy if they're more worried about inflation, which again last meeting they said they didn't care that much about inflation. I mean JPL quite literally said our major concern is the labor market, not the upside risk to inflation. Then I don't know what would change in two months. So I think we're going to get the cut, but we're going to have to see. Alab, that one goes wow. Astera down 7% uh and Arista down a percent as well. Not sure why ALAB's getting hit, but that one is indeed getting hit. No one will have a job, but at least prices will be low. Yeah, exactly. We'll get inflation to like 0.5%, but no one will have a job. It's just weird, dude. I really think it would be weird if we don't get that rate cut. And it I mean, could you imagine if Trump doesn't get a rate? Could you imagine if we end the year and Trump doesn't get his cut and then the first thing we have to deal with in January is this shutdown drama all over again because you know January 30th we're going to have to revote on this and I have zero faith in our American representatives that they would actually try to work out a deal before the deadline. So if we don't get a rate cut and the government shut down that could be a very rocky stock start going into 2026. It's definitely something that a lot of us are going to have to think about as we get towards the end of the year. Circle right here down 7% after they beat on the top and the bottom. Circle is getting hit. I'll see if there's anything they said that's kind of scaring the market. So back to 32. That's green. And Big Bear AI is that holding on to a 20% move. That 20% has become 16% but still up 16% on the day. UNH as well is green. Wow. UNH, what the hell is happening with UNH? All the insurance players are not really going to the moon, but UNH looks like it wants to. 5% green on UNH. Uh, I'll see if there's a headline, but goodness. Oh, we got another headline. Uh, well, this is not UNH, but this is uh for the Fed. One of the Fed presidents is retiring in February 26, which means Trump is going to have someone new to pick to be on the Fed. Let's pull this up right here.
>> Speak. Hey, Steve.
>> Hey, Carl. Good morning. Adding to the busyiness here, Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic announcing he will retire at the end of his term, February 2026. You remember all Fed president's terms end uh at the 5-year period ending in a six or a one. That is so they're all up and Bostic taking this opportunity to retire. He serves as Atlanta Fed president since 2017. Uh Atlanta Fed announcing it will form a search committee to look for a replacement. I would say that I don't think that the uh there's his bio right there. Since 2017, graduate from Harvard 87, PhD from Stanford 95, former HUD secretary, former president.
>> Okay, so you have that news. market's not reacting too crazily to that. UNH still moving higher. Don't see a headline on UNH, but you do have Fed presidents that are retiring, which just means you're going to have different people that are going to be uh voting for these rate cuts as we get towards the end of the year. You know, one of the reasons why UNH might be going higher is because people might be frontr running the disclosures from Birkshshire or David Ter or any of these other big investors about them buying more UNH because I mean did they really buy it at 230 to sell at 320 or are they looking for like a bigger move here and if they are maybe they double down in Q3? So you could have these 13F filings that could be indicating some more excitement for UNH. I'll see if some of them are out. Maybe that's another reason why it's going higher. Anthropic says it will spend 50 billion on data centers in the US. Just got a headline coming through. Anthropics saying they will spend 50 billion on data centers. Uh first Anthropic data center to be located in Texas and New York. Anthropic says it will work with Fluid Stack to develop these projects. Wow. SoFi trying to go for 3250. Got to 3245. All right. That's pretty good news for the data center plays. I mean you want to see the foundation model spend more money. Cororee slightly flat. Nebius 99.96 just under 100 at 5708. But the more money getting spent on these data centers obviously the more beneficial for a lot of these names. Ethereum right there 3,400. S&P goes back to green at 684. Yeah, also bullish for Google. I mean potentially a lot more buys for those TPUs from Enthropic which is also very important. Uh CEG that goes green. So we're getting some love right there on CEG. Is that going green? CEG. Yep, that's going green as well as their energy stocks are getting a move. Let me see if we have any uh 13Fs out so far. Really trying to go for that all-time high. Okay, we got a couple. We got a couple. Do they buy UNH? Christopher Davis. This guy manages 19 billion. Um, so far right they're 3240. Let's see what he added. Again, the guy manages 19 billion. Just updated today. He bought Pinterest. About 7 million shares of Pinterest. Um, he bought Chime. Tanner's gonna be happy about that one. 2.3 million shares of Chime. Um, let me see if UNH is on this. No, UNH. No, he added a little bit of UNH. Added about 1% to his UNH position again. He added Chime. He bought Synopsis. The We'll look through the rest of these more in depth, but I'm trying to see the new buys or the complete sells. And I'm seeing Chime and U Synopsis. He added a little bit to Google. Actually, he sold a little bit of Google. Added 4% to app loaning. Reduced 6% of JP Morgan. added a little bit to UNH and then he bought Pinterest. Okay, let's see if we have some others coming out. SoFi right there, 3229. That's green. Let me get the headline on anthropic as well. Let me pull this up real quick and then we'll get to some of these other uh disclosures on 13F to its AI compute bill announcing a new buildout of data centers across the US starting in Texas and New York. Now they're partnering with Fluid Stack. That's an AI cloud platform behind GPU clusters for Meta, Midjourney, and Mistral. They are known for building custom facilities that can deliver gigawatts of power on short timelines. Those first sites are set to come online in 2026. And it adds to an 11 billion dollar campus that Amazon just built for Anthropic in Indiana and a new expansion with Google Cloud worth tens of billions of dollars. This is really the clearest sign yet that Anthropic wants to control the physical backbone of AI, not just build the models that run on top of it. The project, it is expected to create more than 3,000 jobs, but the big question is how they are paying for it. Anthropic hasn't said whether debt financing is lined up or if they're dipping into that $1 13 billion uh cash pool that they raised in September. And even with their sharper focus on enterprise clients, definitively the more profitable side of AI, they're still not generating enough cash to fund projects of this size. And it comes as tensions are rising between Washington and the AI sector after OpenAI CFO Sarah Frier floated then walked back the idea of a federal backs stop for that company's trillion dollar plus infrastructure spend as well as OpenAI's letter to DC asking to expand Chips Act credits to help offset compute costs. guys. That's the question. How is it going to get paid for? I mean, there's a lot of debt financing going on. McKenzie, is that is that the assumption? I also I remember that that there's also talk that anthropic is closer to profitability and and than for instance open AI. So maybe investors aren't shouldn't be as worried about that one.
>> Yeah, the Wall Street Journal got access to internal documents from both Open AI and anthrop.
>> Okay, we'll get back to that in a second. SoFi all-time highs, folks. She's doing it. She is doing it. 3270 on SoFi. Breaking through 3250. She is doing it right here. 33 resistance is still about 105,000 shares. But there you go. You officially have the alltime high for SoFi. That was a that was a big burst from 3220 as well. 3257. That's up 5.1% on the day as that one goes green. AMD that's up 8% going back to where it was. Tesla by the way trying to get a reversal. Same thing with Hoodie almost barely down. Palanteer getting a bounce off 184. SoFi right there up 5% on the day. Google is at 286 and you got SoFi at 3250. All right, 33. 33 is what we need to see now for if it can hold above that 3250 level. Again, 3257 is the all-time high and well now it's 3273. It did break above that just now. 33 is that next level
>> that showed that entropic was set to turn a profit in 2028. So two years from now while OpenAI was going to burn 74 billion that year. But to your point, all of these data center buildouts so far have been structured through debt. You've got Meta structuring its $ 27 billion build in Louisiana through a joint venture with Blue Owl Capital. Oracle is doing its $ 38 billion debt package and then XAI is actually structuring this through a special purpose vehicle where Nvidia GPUs are being used as collateral and that and that debt package. So people are really getting creative here. But I mean the larger question is whether investors are convinced that it's going to pay off because right now you've got this AI debt boom showing real signs of strain. Oracle's credit default swaps, they have spiked in the last week as investors hedge against all this aggressive borrowing.
>> Something
>> those credit default swaps spiking, by the way, is another reason I think the data center plays are getting some pain. Uh we talked about this a couple days ago, but Oracle Street's not liking it. Look at Oracle down 2% again. Now officially lower than where it was in September when they had that big move to 350. I mean, just looking at the year-to- date chart on this is ugly. bottomed at 120 in April, got all the way up to 350 in one day from 224 to 350 and then over the past three months just slowly coming down as their debt continues to be an issue. Meta, are we red on Meta? Meta 616. That's down 2%. So Meta not out of the doghouse yet. VIX just went up 1.3. So as the VIX goes higher, you could probably see a little bit more pain. Salesforce up a little bit. Grab at 594. Nvidia just went green. Huh. Nvidia just went green. AMD is looking for intraday highs and then SoFi is up five. Yeah, potentially filling the gap 100%. 100% that could be happening as well. Uh AMD right there 25783 on the day. There's 105,000 shares on SoFi. I want to add a 33. So it is very possible it breaks through. That is the level of resistance. Gold still moving 4147. Silver's up three. Heat maps going a bit more green. And then again, this anthropic news of 50 billion definitely feels good to see the foundation models continue to say that they want to spend on these data centers. And quite frankly, I mean, they're going to have to. Uh here's another uh super investor, Poland Capital Management. They managed $30 billion. They bought Broadcom. They bought Boston Scientific. They bought Synopsis, another company or another investor buying Synopsis. They bought into it. They bought Taiwan Semiconductor. These are new additions on these buys. They bought the Equal Weight S&P. They bought Amprius. I know a lot of you guys like that one. They bought First Solar. They bought Howard Hughes. They bought QQW. Uh they bought the Vanguard Midcap ETF. They bought Abselera. Wow. Shout out to Arie. 269,000 shares of Abselera. That's the first time I've seen Abselera ever in these disclosures. They bought Aurora Innovation. They bought Axos Financial. They bought Baba. They bought Beam Boo. Cava Chewy. It's only 5,000 shares, but Chewy EOS. I know a lot of people like that one. They bought EOSE. Uh they sold 10% of their HIMS. They bought Coca-Cola. They bought McDonald's. Um they bought Pepsi. Bought Proctor and Gamble. And then they bought Rubric. They sold a lot of tech as you can see on the top of the screen. Shopify, Amazon, Microsoft, Oracle, not fully sold out of their positions, but they decreased it by 10 to 15%. Google, um, Starbucks, Adobe, Accenture, Netflix, Netflix, they sold about 40%. So, a decent amount of selling, but a bit of a reallocation to some of these other names. AMD hit 260 on the day. Very nice to see AMD 260. That's up 10% on the day. Hood flat, pounder down. Tesla down and then Nvidia trying to go green. The web I'll put the website right here in the chat for those that want to see it. It's called dataroma.com. They update every 90 days or every 45 days. And we should be getting a lot more either tonight or tomorrow. But so far, we're not see we're seeing some interesting buys like an EOS or a Chime or um some of these companies that are more rooted in the uh consumer defensive space, right? And then you're getting some of the semiconductor buys like a TSM. Um he added 80% to his Apple position as well, Poland Capital Management, but we're not seeing those crazy crazy kind of dip buys like a UNH. That was a trend last quarter, at least not yet. Circle down 8%. Apploving down 1%. Amit, do you think my January SoFi $35 sold calls are safe? January SoFi 35. Look, here's the thing. Even if they're not safe, I think you could be underwater on those calls. If SoFi is, you know, around 35 to 40, and then if there's any dip in 2026, you can get out of those calls pretty easily. So, uh, maybe they're not safe, but it's not like it's 25. If it's 25, you're cooked. It's 35 and the stock stays around 35 to 40, then, you know, you can manage that position even if you go underwater. So, potentially cooked, but you might be able to roll out of those. Um, and the reason I say that they're potentially safe is because let's say SoFi gets above 35, but then it the most it gets to in January is like 37. It's like you can easily roll that out a month and then just get out of it. Now, if it explodes way past your strike price, which by the way, it's not even your break even, right? If you got paid like two, three bucks of premium, then it's actually 37 38, it might not be something that you have to struggle with. Now, if it pulls a pound share of Robin Hood, then you know those those shares are gone and you would probably be better rolling it right now. The question is, do you think it can pull a $45 move by January and then stay there? You know, because the thing about SoFi is every time it makes this move higher, it doesn't stay there. That's been the biggest issue with SoFi. And so a $32 close today would be very very important to see if it can actually stay above these levels, which I think is going to matter. Jose said, "I just sold that contract yesterday." Dude, there's so many times people in the chat are probably selling contracts to other people in the chat. That could definitely be happening. EOSC, is that one going down? You're going down right here. Down 6%. Meta 616. I bought the dip at 630. I'm more interested in the low 600s if we get there again, but Meta is down about 1.7%. Do you own ABCL? I do not. I know Arie is a big fan of this name. Again, I think if you do own it, you just have to have a very long-term view on it, but obviously it is very promising as well. Big Bear, are we holding on to Big Bear? That was up 20. That is now up 16. Still holding on. And then Regetti getting hit down 2%. Nebius as well getting hit. All right, let's see. Does it go below 94? That is the main that was the lowest level it got hit on October 17th. Got to see if it violates that core right there. 8968 as well. Amazon goes red. Amazon goes red. ESB has earnings today. ESB uh announced that they they're doing like uh a couple hundred million or no it was like 120 million off staking. So staking has been going well for them and I think they bought over 6,000 Ethereum with all the staking rewards they've received so far. BMR again has not started staking but ESP now up about 1.82% still trading below its nav. I think BMR is like slightly above their NAV, but it's very close to that one MNAV right now. Gold is up. That is correct. AMD as well. That is also green. Doggy, thank you for the $20 super chat. The affordability thing should be an easy fix for any political operative worth their salt. Have Trump explain first that we need to fix the income for the government so that we have a pool of money to use to help affordability without taxes. Yeah, look, I think that's a fair point. Basically, you're saying Trump should be talking about how government inefficiencies and government bloat and overspending needs to be fixed in order uh to be able to more effectively address the concerns of affordability. I think that's a logical point. I don't know if emotionally that's going to resonate with a ton of people. Like if you're paying higher prices at the grocery store, you might not care about the technical nuances of why, right? And I think I Trump's Trump's in a tough spot right here because AI is giving so much promise to the stock market and the economy, but the average person doesn't invest in the stock market, so they don't care. So it's like if they're upset and you know, Mumani comes out and says, "Hey, I'm going to give you free buses, you know, they don't have Nvidia going up every other month to allow them to subsidize their their daily expenses. They they'd rather have something given for free at And so I think that's why it's weird because the promise of AI if it leads to more layoffs obviously is not the best thing to see. AMD by the way broke 261 up 10%. But Trump also has to deal with trying to communicate to the American public that AI is very important for the health of the GDP of this economy even if it's not necessarily the best for the current affordability of this economy. And that that's a that's a it's a weird situation to be in as a president because obviously the president wants to say that, you know, jobs are going up and that prices are going down. I don't know. I don't know how he's going to navigate it. I really don't. It's you can you can tell it's becoming a tougher situation. It's not like it was five months ago. And the stock market going up doesn't really help the broader argument around affordability. Which is why we keep talking about this bifrocated economy stuff. We might be okay if the market goes up and people here have assets that appreciate, but if the average person doesn't, that is not an effective campaign for the midterms going into next year. It's kind of wild how few people trade stock. Yeah, that's why when I was in the sauna yesterday and people were talking about Cororee and Nvidia, I was like, "Dude, I do not expect to hear about Cororean Nvidia in the sauna." Like, it's the last thing I expect to hear about. It was a really surreal moment for me, dude. Like whenever someone talks about the stock market outside of like us on the stream on Twitter and YouTube, it always feels so weird to me cuz I'm like that's not the real world. Like stock market is this imaginary world we all stay in a couple hours during the day and then we have a different life. So whenever I hear about it in the real world, I'm just like, dude, stock market? What's that? What is that? Um, Meta's getting dumped on capex and Nvidia's up. Yeah, look, Nvidia going higher and Meta dumping on capex never made sense to me because why don't you dump Nvidia if you're afraid that Meta is spending the capex for no reason. But then again, obviously the street's more concerned about the ROI from Meta. It's just I don't think you can be concerned about Meta in a vacuum because if they stop spending on capex, you know, Nvidia is going to lose a big client. So, you need to confirm an ROI. But obviously, the street is picking and choosing here. when it comes to meta and these other data plays people talking in the sa stocks at the top but how many times have we said that there's been like a billion things like literally a billion things this year that we've said is a top Kanye West launching a memecoin all this you know there was that video of the South Korean traders like almost like it was a esports game trading futures like there's so many things I've shown on this show that like that would indicate work the meme stock ETF coming back after being out of service for two years by the Okay, that's now it's $741. It debuted at 10 bucks. There's been so many things that have been toppy, which I think is actually good because it creates all this wall of worry about people being afraid of the top and then, you know, earnings continue to show we have momentum. Yeah, the Chamath spack, which what happened to that by the way? What was the even ticker of that? It was American accept. You know why he I mean like there's definitely been a little bit of a shift in terms of the appetite to to buy new assets. So maybe he's waiting until there is a better time to launch it. AEXA up from 10 bucks but has not picked a sponsor yet. So I don't know. I think all these things that have been toppy have been important for us to continue making new highs if we could see continued walls of worry. Nebula's right there 9837 down 3.7% AMD still holding 262. Wow. AMD 10% move on the day, dude. Absolutely incredible. Siege, thank you for the super chat. It's a lot better to have to listen to people talk about stocks in the sauna than politics. That is fair. I've heard people talk about politics in the sauna before back in my old gym that I used to go to and uh they get really passionate. This was actually this I remember this was uh this was uh end of 23. This was when Trump was first starting the campaign and you know you had a lot of passionate debating back and forth. So I would rather hear about stocks as well. I had to hop on a meeting. Was there any reason for the selloff? No, nothing specific for why we're selling off other than I hate to say the a word, but probably got some alos going back and forth. Uh, but no other crazy headline. In fact, all the headlines we heard this morning are actually relatively decent in terms of uh potential new stimulus and lower tariffs. So, I don't think it's a headline driven reason. Uh, David Zeros, let's listen to him about what he thinks is going to go h in December. Again, he is a candidate to be the Fed chair. most likely he doesn't get picked, but he is on the short list of folks that could be uh candidates to become the new Fed chair.
>> Gary Sternlick, a friend of mine and you know, sort of point blank kind of saying, you know, I've got this program or $30 a month that makes 15 or 20 people redundant at my firm. That's what we're hearing and we're seeing it. We're hearing it. We're feeling it. I think workers are starting to get a little bit of a confidence issue and um I'm I'm seeing the data, the revisions we've had, the big revisions, the million and a half jobs we revised away over 24 and 25 and the weakness that we have today, Challenger and ADP. I I don't like it.
>> So, you think Michigan is an accurate reflection right now?
>> I'm not sure. Michigan's got weird stuff in it. Yeah, I I throw that away. I I like Challenger. I think ADP does a decent job. I think the revisions are probably the story of the year in the labor market. We've dismissed the 900,000 in 2024 and then the 400 and change thousand for the early part of this year. That's a lot of jobs. We had much more productivity growth than we thought. We had much less jobfueled growth than we thought. And and I think that's that's a a sort of that's pointing me to a couple of culprits. The good side, technological advance. That's always great. The bad side, policy is just not stimulative for demand at a time when the job market's weaken.
>> But if if the big problem is really that Barry Stern is is can do with AI, what he can do with 15 20 people, then easier monetary policy will not cause a wave of hiring.
>> But but it it will stimulate sectors that are interest rate sensitive, berries in particular, the real estate sector. and he would love to see reasons why that picks up and he can hire more people potentially.
>> Well, that's the question.
>> He can hire more people potentially uh in the mortgage finance world, maybe in the construction world in places where the AI isn't going to happen. I don't think we're going to have AI robots banging nails into roofs on houses in Austin, Texas and and Miami, Florida. So, let's get the interest rate sensitive sectors moving. Let's get that job creation machine moving and that could be an offset to some of this other stuff. I I think we're fighting an old battle, Sarah. We're fighting this inflation battle from the past that really is really a price level battle. One, it's not an inflation battle as you said in your your opening segment and we're kind of missing the forest for the trees on the labor market. I'm really optimistic on the returns for capital, earnings, S&Ps,
>> and probably stocks
>> and stocks and and I love that. I'm kind of worried about the the swath or the path of creative destruction that all of this productivity is going to leave in the labor market and what that means for more Tuesdays like we had last week in New York and how voters go well wait a minute I don't feel part of this and as the secretary of the treasury has said I think the number is something like 88% of all stock value is owned by 10 or 12% of the population kind of consistent with your your BFA chart earlier. That's got to change that. People have to feel part of this productivity story otherwise we're going to have a bunch of lites burning the machine.
>> So I think he's a thousand% right on that. I think he's right. He's S&P by the way just going red. He's making a core argument which is all of this creative destruction that's happening because of AI could obviously have very damaging effects for the labor market and we are really uh not taking that into account at least with the idea that we don't need rate cuts or that we don't need some level of easing. Not to mention the most ironic part of all this is that if AI is as destructive as it is from a creative perspective, aka you have new innovation and things of that nature, there should be a decent amount of deflation, not only through the layoffs that would naturally cause deflation, but just the cost of goods getting cheaper. I mean, all of us are noticing that. For example, instead of hiring uh someone in the Philippines to do a a graphic design for you that you would pay 100 bucks for or 50 bucks for, even 20 bucks for with Chat GBT for free, you don't even have to upgrade to the pay tier. You can get your own graphic design. I mean, that just means you save $20 and and so and it makes you more efficient, makes you more effective. As a result of that, you're not spending as much money in the economy. That leads to some natural deflation. So that times a thousand over the next 5 years when you know we really scale what this AI overall productivity mechanism looks like. I think it's inevitable there's going to be some deflation and I know it doesn't look like that right now because grocery prices are high but inevitably when that happens the number one concern is going to be the labor market and I wonder if the Federal Reserve of 2030 is going to be thinking why the hell were we so restrictive at the beginning of this process. So that's definitely something that we're going to have to be thinking about. Netflix right there. They Oh, by the way, I am buying Netflix and the reason I'm buying Netflix, I'm telling you all right now, so you understand kind of how I u am ultimately conceptualizing, you know, how to be a more successful individual. Apparently, if you buy one stock now on the 17th, you get 10. And so the problem with people and the reason why people are broke is they don't understand that when there's an opportunity, you have to take advantage of it. So I am absolutely buying one stock of Netflix and I'm going to get 10. Quite frankly, I might buy 10 and get a hundred um on the 17th. And I just think if more people understood like that there are ways to make money. You just have to stop being so freaking pessimistic, you know, then we would have a a healthier economy. So, I am buying Netflix and the goal is to 10x the number of shares that I have. And they're telling us you're going to they're they're literally telling us you get 10 shares if you buy one. So, in fact, I'm going to buy Netflix right now. I'm buying one share right now. I'm going to show you guys. I put my money where my mouth is and I'm taking advantage of this. All right. Boom. 1140. I'm in and I'm qualifying for a 10x increase in my stake. This is capitalism. This is how you increase your stake
>> in in the overall equity markets. All right, back to Zeros and then we'll keep going from there.
>> The Journal did a piece about uh the political left beginning to push back on the AI buildouts. Yeah.
>> Do you think that picks up steam? I mean, this is an argument. They come to town.
>> This is going to take your water. It's going to jack up your utility bill and it might put you out of work.
>> Spanberger in Virginia, she was campaigning on it in Virginia, which has been a big data center play. I think it's real. Okay, for those that don't get it, Netflix is doing a stock split. So, this $1,100 will turn into 10 shares worth $110. I'm just kidding. I am buying a share of Netflix because I do want to be part of a stock split process because I've never owned a name that split positively. I've owned a name that is reverse split and that's not a fun situation, but I've never been part of a name that did a positive split. I didn't own Nvidia before they did the split. So yeah, I want to see what it feels like to get 10 shares for one, but I'm not actually getting more money if anyone was confused by that.
>> And I think the administration got a notice on Tuesday that it's real and we're going to see some hopefully some pivoting. Hopefully the Fed remade, as you've discussed here with a new governor and a new chair, uh will get that notice. And I do think folks like um Kevin Hasset, a real supplyer in the way he thinks, um will be sympathetic to the idea that this is supply side driven growth which really is disinflationary and it's very important to think about these labor market consequences which could be negative.
>> It's so obvious to you and yet there there is real debate inside the Fed right now and dissenters and even Feder Powell I know he was trying to reflect sort of the discussion at the Fed. said that December's not not even a certainty. I
>> you know, it doesn't surprise me. The Fed underbelly, the the the staff is made up of Keynesians and demands. They're not really supply side thinkers. The good news, we have some changes coming. I think those are more supply side driven, but it's going to be hard to move that that Fed. By the way, Greenspan, I think, was really at the forefront of this in the '9s when we had, you know, the productivity miracle, the new paradigm, a lot of supply side thinking there. It wasn't as just job destructive, though at that time, even though people talked about it, it didn't end up being that job destructive. This one, this productivity story feels
>> a little at all worried that that the that the bulk of the inflation still is in the services part of the economy. And if they do go easier, there is this fear that they can reignite I mean if they stimulate demand then they reignite the services inflation which is really what the trouble they got into in the last few years.
>> I I think a lot of that core number is in housing services. A lot of that has not been coming as quickly as we thought but is in the pipeline and is really going to hit in 2026. We're seeing it in a lot of the micro data. I think he's right about that. Which means then comes the question of the Fed being on board with that type of data even if they don't see it right now and potentially getting us that rate cut. We're going to see. We're going to see how that happens. The cuto off date by Netflix was November 10th to get the split. Bro, I wanted to be part of the split. What do you mean the cut off? They have a cut off day. Why do they have to have a cut off day? Why can't they just Oh my gosh, dude. I've never been part of a split. I just wanted to know what it feels like to 10x my money like that. Was it really November 10th? Why do they have some stupid cuto off day? Wait, so no, there's no way, dude. So my one share is going to stay as one share on November 17th. There's no way. That doesn't make sense. How does that make So like this one share eventually is going to turn into 10 shares? It's like an X dividend day. Okay. Well, we'll find out. Yeah, but how like what are that doesn't make any So, everyone buying a share of Netflix, right? You're telling me after the split they're going to have one share of Netflix? That makes no sense. How could there possibly be a cut off day? By the way, Grab getting above six. My Nvidia split was beautiful. Yeah, dude. A bunch of you guys own thousands of shares that turned into many tens of thousands of shares after the split. I hope Palunteer does that one. That's Pit's not coming for Paler anytime soon. I know a lot of people think that's happening. I don't think that's happening anytime soon, but eventually I hope they do a split and you just get to see that happens. Maybe Robin will do it one day as well. It'll be fun. You guys are trolling. Are you guys reversing the troll on me? Yeah. There's no way, bro. There's no freaking way there's a cut off date because the stock eventually is going to split. That's not even possible. How does that make sense? 100% you guys are trolling on this. There's no freaking That doesn't make sense. Okay, you guys got me. That was a That was a good troll back against my troll. Just want to know what it feels like, dude. I I sold Dude, I had Tesla in 2019. I had like at the time, I don't know, 15 shares or something. I was a senior in college. Then I sold it like right before the COVID run, which is I just it's always annoyed me. I sold it because my friend was like, "Oh, dude, you're up like a double. you should sell. I was like, that makes sense. You know, I bought at 300, it's at 600. I should sell. And then it tanks and then it just goes to the moon. It does literally a 20x like in 20 2020 to 2021. And you know, I could have been part of that, but I did not experience that split either. Perplexity says cut off date is 1110. Okay. Well, Perplexity is stupid. I'm saying the AI is stupid. I mean, for first of all, Perplexity giving Snapchat $400 million. Where's Snapchat, by the way? $ 8.99 that's up 2%. I don't know how Perplexity can afford to give Snapchat that type of money. And I also think it's kind of desperate that they're going to Snapchat to do that partnership, but I'll say the AI is wrong there. Navius, are we tanking? All right, 94. That's the level, folks. 94 is the level. Let's see. Can it hold up to to uh 94? And then can we buy some more? We want to see a bounce off 94. If you don't get a bounce off 94, then maybe we're going lower. I looked uh I spent an hour last night actually going through the earnings and like really looking at Nebius. Dude, earnings were phenomenal. Like the only red flag that you could point to is dilution, which if you're going to invest in these types of companies, you have to be able to put up a dilution and just make sure the um effective rate of growth, which you know, Debbie says like 600% year-over-year is more than a dilution. Dilution is 10%. I don't think that's the biggest bear concern. And then the second red flag you say is they're not profitable, but they're guiding for adjusted even margins of 19% and they are, I would imagine, in the next year and a half going to get closer to profitability. So I don't think profitability and dilution are why these names are like scary. Now granted, some of these names I I I don't know how their unit economics look like and what their ROIC is, but for Nebas looks pretty damn good. And then you take into all the other equity stakes they have of other businesses that have nothing to do with their core business. That stuff a could be sold off to finance their data center ambitions. B um it's just more equity that can increase the overall tangible book value. So I mean I'm liking the numbers. The question simply becomes what price do they really give it us give it to us? Meta's falling at the same time. All right. So Meta 610. Meta is not a data center play but obviously they spend a lot on capex. Ironically, they gave Nebius three billion bucks. So, Street probably is not happy that they're spending all this capex, but still that one's down. And then Nebius goes down. Coreweave also goes red. Oracle also goes red by almost 3% 229. The data center plays once again are getting hit. Wolf is up a little bit and then Galaxy's up a little bit. Um, we're add Oracle to this list. Oracle right there down 2.7. APLD, that's down 4% as well. I'm going to put Meta on the list as well, just because Meta has a capex narrative hurting it. Meta right there down 2.7. Okay. But is the broader market getting hit? S&P. Uh, no. Mark, this is the low of the day. S&P. Yep. Okay. Well, that that explains why these are getting hit even worse now. They were already red. S&P goes red. They're going to stay red. AMD though somehow holding on to 10%. I guess those earnings were just that good enough as it goes green in the face of this red. Grab somehow holding on to the green as well. We got those potential updates around them acquiring Goto and then Google down to someone just bought 11 million of puts on the spy out of the money. What's the strike on this? Let me see. strike is 651 December 19th. 651. Dude, if we're 650 on the spy in December, Christmas is going to suck, bro. The holidays are not going to be fun. If we are back to six, that would be worse than last Friday. Something about 11 million to put. I mean, obviously they could be hedging, but goodness, 11 million. They paid above the ask, too. So, they were trying to get filled immediately. That's a weird strike, right? Yeah, it's a weird strike. Bit farms, that one down 5%. Circle. Circle beat on the top and the bottom. I don't know that much about this company, but you know, valuation could have been the concern. Obviously, they share a lot of the revenue with Coinbase. That could also be an issue, but Circle right there down 9% on the day. How did you get this alert? I have a subscription to Cactus Jack and uh that is how I get my news. But no, there's a bunch of Twitter accounts. There's a Twitter account called Cheddarflow. Cheddar Flow. You can follow that on Twitter and they post a lot of this stuff as well. By the way, the Big Bear headline, uh Baron put out an article, Big Bear stock keeps jumping after defense deal. It could be a mini Palanteer. I think that's why Big Bear is pumping. They Baron called them a mini palunteer. I mean, if you're going to call an AI company a smaller pounder trading at seven bucks, you're probably going to get people buying into that. So, that Baron's headline could be helping. Amazon. Why is Amazon dumping Amazon 245? That's down 1.4. The only things that are green are SoFi, Grab, AMD. AMD up 10.3. AMD almost acting like there's no red to even be worried about. Ethereum's green, Nphase is slightly green, Uber's green, and Rocket Lab was up 8%. That one went away barely up 1%. Dale is up 2% and then Lily is up. Pretty much everything else is getting hit as Nvidia goes down half a percent. as well. For those that are just joining, there is no news I can give you. Just like honestly the past week there's been no news outside of the shutdown stuff, but that's not really news. I mean, we do have an update on the shutdown. Let me go to this, but it should be bullish versus bearish given the vote is happening tonight.
>> Now, of course, exact timing depends on everyone getting back to DC. This is the first time that the House is going to vote in 45, sorry, 54 days rather. Now, margins are slim. Republicans can only lose two votes if all Democrats vote against. But at this point, it seems like we're good to they're they're good for passage. The bill is expected to pass, and it's likely that like last time, there could actually be a few Democrats that join Republicans in passing that. We did get a preview of the House debate last night when the two top appropriators in the House, uh, Tom Cole and Rosa Deluro, met with the committee to tee up the vote. Minority leaders Hakee Jeff and Chuck Schumer led their caucus to shut down the government. And for 42 days, the American people have borne the brunt of that decision and have been mere pawns at partisan hands of the Democrats,
>> premium subsidies, the tax credits. This bill is an empty promise, as is the promise for a vote in the Senate. And as the speaker said, no guarantee of a vote on premium subsidies in the House.
>> Once the bill is passed and signed, federal workers are expected to get their paychecks as soon as possible, although of course it could take a few days to process those depending on which areas of the government that they work in. Okay, so I mean that's your shutdown update. Nothing crazy there. Again, it's not I don't even want to say this is a sell-off, dude. The S&P is down 23 cents. This is not a freaking sell-off. Obviously, other names are getting hit a little harder, but can't necessarily say it's that aggressive. Now, Palanter is getting hit. Robin is getting hit. Tesla's getting hit, but I think this supports the broadening argument we've been talking about. I mean, what's green today? Lily, JP Morgan, um, GE, Veronova, Merc, Abby, Fizer. You got a lot of money coming into pharmaceuticals and financials today, I guess, as they want to potentially take some off the top from tech. You know, one stat that I heard yesterday was technology lost um 800 billion in market cap last week. It gained 680 billion in market cap on Monday. So, you know, as much as we want to say there's a broadening happening, the fact that all those stocks that lost almost a trillion dollars, gained 80% of what they lost in a day, just shows that people are really ready to buy the dip on these stocks. And this year, buying the dip on some of the most important tech names have worked. So, if we do see a broadening, I wonder if that rotation would be money leaving the tech names and if that rotation even lasts, because there's a lot of people that want to get into an Nvidia at 175, if we ever see that again. um like in the short term and you know they might have missed 178 on Friday and they might not be as greedy to wait for 175 if they see 185 this time because they might want to get in. So it's definitely interesting to see how this rotation could be playing out. Um stocks tend to fall after this. You know that that's actually a good point. Obviously I'm being fishious here even though I can never say that word. um around Netflix and buying before the split, but but most of the time, and this is just anecdotal, but I think you guys relate. Usually after the split, the stock tends to drop. So, you know, I'm buying one share for fun to kind of get the 10 shares, but usually if you want to buy a stock, you kind of wait till after the split. This has happened with Chipotle, happened with Nvidia. Usually, the best time is after the the street can deal with a lot of these shares getting split. But I I don't even love Netflix as a stock. I just I just want to have one share turn into 10. I don't know if paying a 45 PE on Netflix is the best idea. I'd rather buy more Nvidia, but Netflix will be doing that split. Grab right there at 596 Google at 286. Dude, that word ficishious, it is so hard to say the the S and the T part. It become or the C and the T part. Those SNH's are so freaking hard for me to pronounce. BFA, institutional investors are buying the dip. Uh, yes, I did see that headline. Let me see if I can pull that up as well. I mean, I would imagine institutional investors are more excited if they see better opportunities. Bank of America says institutional clients were net buyers of US equities last week, led by 4.3 billion in ETF inflows, the biggest since December 2022. Wow. Holy crap. Even as they sold 2.6 billion in individual stocks. So rotating from individual stocks to broader sector specific stocks or sector specific um exposure. But they did buy. Institutions were the only net buyers while hedge funds and retail investors sold. Sector flows showed a defensive tilt with outflows from tech and communication. That's what we've been talking about. And inflows into staples and healthcare. Makes sense why Nvidia is down and Lily is up. Bank of America noted institutions have replaced retail investors as the main dip buyers this year as corporate buybacks remain below typical seasonal levels. Wow, that is quite incredible to hear. Bank of America saying institutions are buying the dip more than retail. Again, that that goes to support Tom Lee's argument about this endofear rally chase. Again, you know, Tom Lee's been doing this for 40 years and he's seen these cycles over and over again. His argument is if you are underperforming the benchmark and there's 70% of investors that are underperforming AMD still up 10% that could lead to more institutional dip buying and a chase till end of year. Retail can't buy the dip because we ain't got no money. That's true, dude. We've been buying the dip all year. So, at some point you kind of just run out. Um, Yetsy, thanks for the super chat. Sell puts on Nebius instead of shares. It's juicy. These premiums should be pretty good today on Nebius, I would imagine. Uh, let's see. Nebius 9584. Very close to that 94 level. Sell a put a month out. That's pretty good premiums. Even if you go down to freaking 85, you're getting paid $390, which is in a month. Um, it's a 4 and a.5% return. And if you go down to like 80, which is a pretty steep decline from here, you're making about 2.7%. It's not days like this are when some of those names become a lot more attractive for selling puts. And right there, 192 36. Big bear was called a mini pound trip before the last pump on it. Yeah. I mean, whenever you call something a mini palanteer and that headline goes viral, you get a lot of people that get excited to get in. Open door, how's that one doing today? Open door. Also, we could be experiencing a 10:30 slam, you know, now that it's 10:47. Open door actually green on the day. That's up. Paul Atkinsville's plan for token taxonomy to redefine crypto regulation. Oh my goodness. He is he is going to let crypto go to the moon or at least let pretty much all the companies working on crypto go to the moon. Dude, Paul Atkins does not care. He's literally just there. He's like the babysitter of the market. He just he's literally just there to make sure like no one's killing each other. Outside of that, anything goes. But look, this is really bullish for Coinbase and Robin Hood that are getting into this tokenization economy. And so having strict regulations or at least uh frameworks even if not super strict regulations on how tokenization should operate that is bullish. Open door green micro strategy still red. Okay, Nebas here 94. Now here's the question. Did we touch it? No, we didn't touch it. 9505 very close. The question is does it bounce off 94? If it doesn't, you as per Jason, you probably want to wait. The chart is not that friendly. There you go. 9494. If it bounces off 94, the bulls have a little bit more in their toolbox to not let this one get hit. But that becomes the question. In terms of why it's down, I think it's with all the other data center plays. really think this argument about corporate debt inside of financing data centers, you know, the market can shift its mood any second and if the market start I mean Oracle's price action already shows you how much they're not necessarily in love with debt to finance this stuff. The data center players obviously are taking on decent chunk of debt even if they're growing fast. You could put all of that in a bucket and then be like, you know what, maybe that's the reason to be a bit afraid. So, we got to see if we get a move down from 94. Any idea why Meta is going down? So, we've talked about Meta for the past couple weeks. Again, I think the number one reason for Meta going down and, you know, now it's up 3% year to date is simply the idea that the street is not sure what they're going to do with their capex. I don't think that's enough of reason to bet on Zucks. I do think if you're going to buy a 100 shares, maybe you buy 20 right now and give yourself some time to average into the position. I wouldn't be greedy enough to wait until 550, but I also don't think it's crazy that we see 550, especially if the next quarter the capex guide is still not clear to the street. However, as Bryce says, Meta Sport P is 21. That is stupid on a company like Meta growing as fast as they are in my opinion. So I don't I do think nibbling here is not crazy. Amazon right here 245. Reta, did I say Reetta? Reddit at 203. Meta did 0 to 50 billion in revenue on Instagram reels in the past three and a half years. I mean, if advertising is the play to bet on, there's no better advertiser than Meta. It's just the street wants more than advertising, which I understand because like, you know, why is Zuck spending hundreds of billions just for better ads? But the ads business itself is enough to more than justify the current valuation, if not say it's undervalued. It's just going to be a question of where they think the ROI capex is going to go. 9526. All right. Neb's got a little bounce off 9483. I struggled to say that to bounce because it's only 50 cents higher, but got to see if it gets below 94. S&P taking a nose dive can definitely get it below 94, but S&P is holding strong. You're not really seeing that much pain there. Uh, I mean, I've done the math on the AMD $20 EPS by 2030 that they just guided. I have not looked at those specific numbers. I know that their gross margins are much higher. Did they actually guide for 20 bucks of EPS or is that an analyst saying that? I mean 2030. What's AM What is What is AMD's PE right now? What is AMD's current PE? AMD 260? I'm getting a PE of 103. Is that what you guys are getting? PE of 103 on AMD. I mean, let's say by 2030 that multiple gets more reasonable to around 30. You're doing $20 of EPS. That's a $600 stock, which is more than a double from here. And that's consistent with OpenAI's trajectory of when they get their warrants as well. So, I guess it would just be a question of if they can actually get that 20 bucks of EPS 40 forward. Yeah. Well, by 2030, if you gave it 30 to 40, I mean, you're talking about 600 to 750 bucks, which obviously is very attractive. That would be 600 I think is a trillion dollar market cap as well. Apploven down 2.3. That one's down. Airbnb is down 1% again as well. 12119 on Airbnb. Okay. 9455. Here you go. It looks like she obviously wants to dump below the 94s. I mean, there's a lot more people that have been in Nebius longer than me. So you tell me why it's down because the only explanation I can give you is this debt financing data center fear that the market has. But I'd be curious to hear if there's other perspectives there. Iran must be getting hit as well if Nebus is getting hit. Where's Iran? Iran was at 57. Iran's at 54. Yep. All of them in a bucket. They're getting smacked. Cipher Wolf, all these guys. You know, it's funny. LA like two weeks ago it was the rare earths and the nuclear names that were getting hit and now it's the data center names that are getting hit which again I think is kind of reasonable they're all up a lot you know I'm not in the camp that says Nebius has to be 130 quite frankly I wasn't buying there because it didn't make sense at those levels so if we do get a meaningful draw down and they take away the Microsoft deal then becomes a lot more attractive to get it the 25 million share offering. Yeah, I mean that that's also a good point that that's probably another reason why Neb is getting hit. Now, I don't know if they're deploying it here, but they could be, right? And then you have a couple billion bucks of selling pressure on that as well. Um, Meta is red on the year. That is correct. It was up 2% yesterday. Meta now year to date, uh, still up 1.7. still holding on to a little bit. That means it was up 4% yesterday. I don't know. I I I'm not I don't think Meta is the scariest. I just think you got to be careful with how much you buy if you DCA, but it's not one of those where I think you have to lose a lot of sleep at night. It kind of feels like Amazon. I think Amazon's a much better quality business just given how diversified it is, but it might be a slow mover like Amazon was this year. And that's not horrible. thoughts on $39 BMR casher put expiring in a couple months. I you know it's hard to do these longdated puts even if you like the price action because again I'll paint you a bare picture end of year no rate cut labor market worsens as we get government data and then shutdown fears rise again as we January 30th we have to go through this rodeo. So if you get no rate cut, more labor market pain, and then more fears of uh renegotiation on the shutdown, and then to top it off, you get the Supreme Court reversing the tariffs, that's your easy bare case for Q4. And I think that's like definitely something that is very possible. Uh so then so then at that point, BMR 39, you know, even though the premiums are good a couple months from now, is BMR at 39? I don't know. Now, I can pay you a bull case as well, but I think whenever you're selling those long data puts, you just have to be careful of the volatility over the next coming months. The bull case is we get a rate cut. Government data comes back, shows that the labor market is not as much in shambles as people are thinking. Um, earnings continue to do well, aka Nvidia. AMD with their investor day, I mean absolutely showed people that AI is very real, which by the way is bullish for Nebby, is Corey, I rent. I mean, all those companies that need to build out these data centers. AMD proved that if Nvidia continues to prove that and then you have the sort of historical trends on your side going to end of year, that's where Santa Claus rally. And then the shutdown comes to an end, which even though you have to worry about it in January, it might not be the biggest concern. On top of that, if we do reverse the tariffs, maybe the market likes it because the market's like, "Hey, all right, cool. No more tariffs, no more fear of inflation, and no more worrying about cost of goods for all these different products." I don't know which way it's going to go, but I think you can definitely paint a bull and bear picture. End of year, Palunteer 182. Palanteer down 4%. SoFi 3150 at least. Sofi is holding on to 31, but we are still red. Nebius, did we lose 94? Dude, low of the day, literally $94. I'm telling you, 94. There's something about that one. That's exactly where it bounced on October 17th. So, for it to really violate that, you're going to need a decent chunk of seller, which is very possible. I mean, like literally less than a cent away from breaking it, but did not break it yet. 9525 right there on Nebas. All right, let's see what other headlines we get. What else do we have? It's 11:00 a.m. 10:30 slam. We're obviously seeing some of that right now. We have the Atlanta Fed retire with Boston anthropic 50 billion. We talked about that. Bent talked in the morning, so we're not going to get any Bent quotes today. I want to see Nebas bounce off this 94 level in a meaningful way for me to buy because if this is like a little bit of a deadcat bounce and then it just violates 94 then I think a dip by here wouldn't be the best. So even if I have to buy back at 9798 I'd rather get some confirmation. So we got to see this one can hold on. Uh Delta CEO, let's listen to him and see what he's saying about the shutdown. We heard from American Airlines CEO a couple days ago. Let's see what he has to say about the state of the shutdown. was actually running 10%.
>> Did the industry have a problem with the mandated reductions or was do you think there was a legitimate enough safety risk to that you had to do it?
>> Well, there was no question there was a safety risk and while we didn't like it uh we supported the FAA and we supported Secretary Duffy that we had to take proactive action. The thing we don't like is being a political football is that because our people aren't getting paid. That's the thing we really didn't like when you ask the controllers, when you ask the security agents at TSA who form essential roles in the safety and the safeguarding of our air travel system, national airspace, that they're not going to get paid for a month and a half. That's unacceptable and that's what we really didn't like. So, if this was the cause to bring people back together to get the shutdown over with, so be it. But hopefully we don't have to go.
>> How do we prevent that in the future? the best way to prevent it and I don't I don't think it's in the bill was to ensure those workers next time this happens because it will happen get paid and how you know who could disagree with that
>> disagree just just change their qualifications as as essential and they have to get paid like the military gets paid
>> they they are essential
>> yeah they are they are
>> they are essential
>> yeah I mean
>> we've that's the thing we've seen through this last week is how essential air service is period it's what brings the nation back into work is it's it's our product, but also those controllers and the security a people of the FA as well.
>> How do you think about the economic cost of loss of travel and and trips and maybe people's plans and and does it snap right back or is it gone?
>> No, that that those those monies will be gone. I mean, yes, you have people deferring trips that will take trips, but fundamentally that's gone. We had 2500 cancellations, you know, for the last week, which is crazy amount. It's going to cost Delta a significant amount across the other airlines. We'll still have a strong quarter. Delta, it won't be it won't wipe out our profits by any means. And we're it's too early. It's premature to estimate.
>> You can tell he's pissed off. You can tell a lot of these politicians are starting to get pissed off just about or not these politicians, these CEOs because obviously they're annoyed that it's affecting the business. Maybe it's not affecting the quarter, but you know, guidance going into Q4 might not be the best right there. Nebi, it's a little bit of a bounce. We got to see I think above 98 would be a bit more confirmation. Very small bounce off 94, but you do have 96 right there on Nabius. AR Alli, thanks for the super chat. Can you explain selling covered puts? I will link a video right here. I did a video a couple months ago uh that explains all of it. It's a three-hour video putting that in the chat. You can listen to that and that should help you a lot more with understanding selling puts. At its core, you're essentially looking to try to buy a stock at a lower price and generate yield off selling insurance to the market and only buying that stock if that stock gets to your price. So, I know that sounds a little complicated, but if you watch that video, it'll it'll really break it down in depth. SMCI, that's down. Apple, that's down. Meta 2 and a half% taking her down to 609 right here. 608 was the low for today. ELF is somehow green. Then PayPal's up a little bit. That same video has covered calls. That's why it's a three-hour video has puts and calls. So, uh, it should be able to hopefully be the easiest explanation to understand everything. Why are we dumping so hard? Well, first of all, we're not dumping so hard. S&P's down 60s. Now, individual stocks may be dumping harder, but that doesn't mean the whole market is dumping, which is important to call that out because that means we're seeing a bit of rotation, which is bullish even for your stocks that are going down. If people are selling some hood to buy Fizer, that is okay because you can't have a topheavy market. Like, it's not healthy to have everyone buying Hood or Palanteer or Tesla or Nvidia. You need to have that rotate eventually. And so, it's not crazy to see that. Yes, I don't know why the high growth names are getting hit outside of potentially, you know, that rotation. Where's Quantum? D-Wave down one, down six. Okay, so those are getting hit. And then Regetti down five, NQ down four. Yeah, I mean, look, I know it sucks to hear, but I I do think, and I say this as someone who has positions and all the names that are quote unquote dumping right now. Um, I care about the health of the market and if my stocks have to go down four or five% so that the market in general can stay elevated and over the long term those quality companies will likely get back that four or five percent and more. That's okay. It's not the worst thing in the world. So S&P down less than10% to me is not not horrible. Yeah, Tom Lee did say first two weeks will be choppy in November. That is a fair point. Neb's right there 9569 Reddit 2.5 VIX. There you go. You got a 3% move on the VIX. Again, this is another reason I like covered calls. I mean, when you have covered calls on your position, it kind of helps the blowback a little bit on some of these days. So, you know, if you have Amazon and you have some covered calls at 255, then rolling those down or just generating that yield off the stock kind of being relatively flat. And, you know, the thing about covered calls right now versus in the beginning of the year is that everything's at all-time highs. So, you're really forcing the market to take Amazon to 260, which it's not easy for the market to just say, "Yep, Amazon, new alltime high. Let's give it to it." like no it's going to take a lot of work potentially some catalyst if those don't exist and you can generate you know 2% in a month by just selling that 260 call I don't I don't think it's the worst idea but it is a question of you know how much you want to take that risk with the potential of a safe close rally as well fear and greed are we back to extreme fear let's see no not yet we are at fear which makes sense is barely down today so we wouldn't see extreme extreme fear yet, but we are at fear. Open door is not dumping. That is correct. Open doors. Holding on. Um, Whimo will become the first robot taxi provider in the US to offer paid rides on a highway without a safety driver. Okay, that's bullish. Google got the Whimo headline right there. Not bad. Bitcoin. Is she going to lose 100 again? 101 Bettycoin. Yeah, I don't know if it's going to be easy to get up to 200,000 by end of year. It would be fun, but I don't know if that's happening. Um, why is Palanteer down 5%? Again, I think a lot of those high beta names are getting hit today. Palinger is part of it and that is not as crazy to see when those names get hit. A, what's the percentage of people you would say are scared of a bubble compared to the bulls? That's a great question. What's the percentage of people you think are scared of the bubble? I dude I would like I mean I'm I'm pulling this number from my anecdotal uh just tendencies of looking at what people are talking about. I would say it's more than 50%. I think more than 50% of people are afraid of a bubble versus being super bullish. Maybe I'm wrong on that because the markets are at alltime highs, but it really does feel especially with Bur coming out and proclaiming that you know everything is all fake and capex is not real. I mean, like that also to me is incentivizing a lot more people to just be afraid or at least be more cautiously optimistic. And I mean, yeah, we could do a poll in this chat. I think most of us are on the bullish side on this chat. But I guess I guess how do we define fear, right? So, like when I put this poll in the chat, the the fear if you are more in the belief that this is a versus not, I think that would that that would qualify with you selling some stocks like legitimately being like, you know, I got to sell my Nvidia because I'm afraid of what's going on. So, are you which one are you afraid of a bubble? Bullish. And I don't think you you I don't think it's safe to say you can't be bullish and afraid of a bubble. But I guess if you had to pick between the two, which I guess would culminate into, hey, are you selling your stocks, right? Because that is a very definitive line in the sand on which side of the aisle you're on. That would be how you define this question. Nabia is still holding 9527 above 94. I'm obviously more on the side of the bulls just because again I think that a lot of people want to be the guy or girl who called the top and like gets to be the person who's proclamating everything. And I'm just I'm saying this also anecdotally from a lot of the Twitter accounts I'm seeing. I'm seeing a lot more Twitter accounts come up and they are just every day it's like it's a bubble fake this this and and one of the reasons again that we cannot underestimate this to get people's attention talking about something negative is way easier because you're feeding into their psychological biases of fear over talking about something positive. And so a quick way to make a name about yourself is easily say everything's fake. It's all going to explode. And you know, we should be afraid of what's going on. It gets views. It gets attention. The question is, is it going to be accurate? And I do think a lot more people are trying to proclaim that versus looking at what's happening. And I'm not saying that there aren't things that are bubbly. There aren't things that are frothy. Obviously, Oaklow worth as much as it is is very weird. But I don't know if that means the entire market is fake. A lot of them are paid by Wall Street. 1,000%. Dude, I used to not believe in that. And then I actually talked to some hedge fund managers like dude and not just hedge fun managers analysts like when you when you actually talk to some of these analysts I've gotten to know a few of them like they have they I told you guys the story before they straight up told me that hedge funds will call them asking them to make a short report and why would they be incentivized if they're not getting paid for that but the hedge fund buys a lot of research from the analyst firm and so if you want to keep them buying your research it's not like a hey we're going to literally give you money to make the short port although I'm sure that is definitely happened. But if you want to keep good relations, you know, and they're feeding your bills, I mean, you might end up just saying, well, we think SoFi is a short. And so, could that be happening for the broader economy for people wanting to, you know, create a lot more fear and panic? Of course, that's possible. I don't think that's the only defining reason of why people are worried, but that's definitely something that is there. We are not in extreme fear though yet. We are not like where we were Friday. So it's not at not at those levels. Quantum is getting hit today. Oaklo, are we holding on on Oaklo? Oaklo's holding on 4%. It was up 10. Now it's up four. What did you guys say in the poll? Let me see. 69% say bullish. 31% say afraid of a bubble. Yeah, I think that's fair. I just think we're seeing a lot more people afraid of this stuff. And again, like the easiest way to check back against this bubble argument is just look at the earnings. We've covered all the earnings. The only red flag in earnings in Q3 so far, in my opinion, has been this consumer weakening in Chipotle and Starbucks and and Lululemon and like that stuff. 100% red flag and that's an issue that we have to watch out for. But these tech companies, I mean like someone tell me where these like like and then look at their multiples. I know some of them are expensive like a Tesla and pounder. the most important companies that hold up the S&P 500, they are growing very well and their multiples. I mean, you could say maybe Apple's expensive, but then again, it's Apple, right? So, Apple's going to get a premium. And then I know Palenteer is expensive, but Paler is growing faster than any other software AI company. So, it's like AMD with what they said yesterday. These are not earnings to necessarily be afraid of. Did we break 94, Nebius? We broke 94. All right, here we go. Now it's time to see when she bounces, if she bounces, or if she's ready to go lower. Shout out to Jason, man. I mean, this is this is why we do technical Tuesday. He almost very accurately predicted kind of how this would play out. Now, I don't know if he's going to be right about it going to 75, which again, I just that would be discounting the past three months, but he did say 94 is that key level to pay attention to. Um, M, thanks for the super chat. Take a look at Bumble, trading at historic lows. I heard you're a fan of Whitney. When did I say I'm a fan of Whitney? Oh, I think I probably Oh, no, I did say that. a while ago. I did. If you actually listen to her story, uh she actually she co-founded Tinder. People don't know the Bumble co-founder co-founded Tinder and then she had to deal with so much like uh in her words abuse and harassment at Tinder that she left Tinder and then she started Bumble and that's why it's the whole like girls message first type of thing. But um I have seen some of Bumble's numbers outside of their cash flow and their cash on hand. The growth is not there for Bumble. It's not exciting. There's a couple people on Twitter that have been trying to say Bumble's a name to pay attention to and not saying their numbers are horrible, but they're not growing. I don't even think they're growing 10% on revenue if I'm if I'm not wrong. So, yes, the balance sheet looks good, but I think the reason the stock's been in the gutter and also Whitney left, by the way, which is not nice to see a founder leave the company. Bumble down 50% this year. I don't know who they replaced her with, but I don't know, dude. in this market. I I don't know if this is the screaming opportunity to be excited about, dude. In general, dating apps, I think I think there needs to be a new sort of version of how they think of dating apps or how like society thinks of dating apps. And I feel like there's other opportunities potentially with AI to like really change the way because like Hinge, Tinder, all these things like that they're so old and antiquated. And I told you guys I was talking to an engineer who used to work at Hinge and he was like the algo is like constantly reoriented and it leads to all these ethical concern. Like feel like there's a better dating app to be created in today's society and that means maybe Bumble is not the most attractive. Nabius losing 93. All right. She's getting smacked today. Down 10%. How about I down 7%. Coreweave goes red. It was green on the day. Rocket Lab goes red. Nvidia 191. AMD somehow holding on. Pounder 181. And then Hoodie 12870. Dude, AMD is the only company that doesn't care about this [ __ ] today. BMR 3946. On still up 20%. Um, thoughts on Hood. I thought the earnings were incredible, but that doesn't mean the stock's going to go up. Again, I hate having to say this over and over again, and I I said this as many times as I could before the earnings, but this is a year-to- date chart of Hood. Like, I I trust me, I hate being the person to say zoom out as much as the next guy, but it's up 226%. like yeah it's it's probably not going to go straight to the moon. Now at 3040 it was going straight to the moon and the mistake I made on pounder of not buying into strength I did not make on hood and you guys saw that like every other day I was buying higher and I was publicly posting about it I got [ __ ] on publicly for buying at 70 buying at 80 buying at 60 did not care I had the conviction I stopped buying after 124 I've not bought since 124 and so I think consolidating here is not Crazy. Ethereum got smacked as well. Where's ETH? Yeah, ETH lost 3,400. ETH lost 3,400. Come on, you'll notice by now we're greedy. Look, I'm greedy, too, but I try to be a bit more practical because if we don't have the most bullish market next year, which could still be a good year, but maybe it's not 20%, like, you know, everyone's expectations have to be tampered down. Granted, if we just keep on rolling on and the markets keep doing what they're doing, then I guess we can keep having these expectations. But two years of back-to-back 20% gains have spoiled everybody, including myself, because a lot of us have not only been up 20%, we've been up triple digits for the past couple years or at least high double digits. And so, obviously, it's a, you know, we get a bit more greedy, but it's not normal. It is not normal for the S&P to do two years back toback 20%. Then again, AI as a technology, that's not normal either. So I'm in the camp of we have had a incredible new form of technology that is changing humanity enter into the equity markets and that is what has led to this type of return. But we also just have to be cautious of the fact that it's not just going to go up straight up in line. What do you think about keeping half your portfolio in the S&P and investing the rest in individual stocks? I have thought of this so many times. By the way, I'll be coming out with a video probably towards the end of November, early December about like portfolio strategy for 2026. I think we'll do a couple live streams with Steve as well because I want his thoughts on some of the stuff. But I've been really thinking hard of like what is the 2026 plan. And you know, I'm not fully sold on what I'm thinking of doing, but at its core, I am going to right now I have like 12 positions in the portfolio. I think I'm gonna step that up to 15. And we'll talk about how I define what a position looks like. Like what dollar amount does something needs to even qualify to be a position? What dollar amount does it need to qualify to be like a core cornerstone position? So, we'll talk all about that as we get into the end of the year. But I'm thinking 15 core positions because there's 15 names that I actually want to be long on next year. Um, and then I'm thinking five that are like flyers, that are like bets. So, like Nebius is not going to be a massive core position, but it's going to be a bet, right? It's going to be one of the five that there's a bet. Um, I don't know. Another one might be Zeta. I'm not fully sold on Zeta yet, but maybe Zeta is a bet. I want to have 15 cores and then five that are just like, you know, if you lose money on this, you lose money on this. But those are the five that you think strategically in a sector there, it makes some sense to be allocated towards it. BMR, I kind of don't qualify as that five. I I don't qualify it as a core either. I qualified as just like the crypto exposure because I don't own a lot of crypto. So like BNO is like my direct crypto at least on Ethereum. Um but that's what I'm thinking about. And so your question is would you sell everything go half S&P 500? I've thought about it many times. The risk appetite I have as someone who's 28 doesn't allow me to do that. Like I' I've thought about it so I'm just like dude I can't do that. But if you're a bit older and you're worried about more protective money I don't think that's a crazy idea because worst case S&P is down 20% next year. Okay you're down 20%. If you're in individual stocks, you're down probably a lot more than 20%. And so, I don't think it's crazy to diversify and put half there. One core company equals how many stocks? Yeah. So, we're going to talk about I've been working on this video idea. It's going to probably come out early December. I'm going to lay out a lot of different like variables and parameters on how I define what a core position is in the portfolio from a dollar perspective, all that stuff. 15 is a lot. So, I agree 15. I was counting it last night. 15 is a lot, but I also am getting to the point where I do want to diversify. I mean, last year I had two, Pounder and Hood, right? This year has been like, I don't know, seven or eight, but Pounder, Invidia, Hood have realistically been the top three. So, it's getting to a point now where I don't want to be as consolidated as I've been for the past couple years. Like, I really don't, and I think a lot of people here can relate, like you want to start broadening it out and not being as overweight in certain positions. So we'll talk about all that but um Nebius is like 75% of my portfolio. See, but for some people like if if Nebius is your hood, like my hood was in like hood at 20 in 2023 or 2024 could be your Nebius at whatever average you're at 40, then that's totally fine, right? It's it I I heavily believe in consolidating into a couple names to get a little bit of a step up on the journey of investing, right? Because you know, you consolidate a couple names and those names do well, you can really change your life. However, you've got to be freaking right about those names. Like that that's that's the punch line. You can go long two stocks or one stock, but if you're wrong, you know, the compounding process takes even longer because now you have to diversify and or now you have to pick another stock and if that stock's wrong. So, you got to be right. Like that's what makes everything work. But if you are right and you consolidate and you potentially use options and leverage like I did last year to really magnify the gains, then I do think the responsible thing is to diversify. And I know at 28 maybe we shouldn't be thinking responsibly, but that that's that's why I'm like like look, I don't want to go full on S&P. I feel like that's a little bit weight. I think that's way too riskoff at my age, but I think having more than three positions is not crazy. Yes, Tesla will be a core position. I'm I'm I'm going to talk about everything once I make that video. I've been planning it. It'll be a substack article as well, but hopefully it'll give some I I want the video to be a framework for people to think of what their positioning for 2026 looks like. Also, there's going to be a hedge. I'm thinking about what my hedges. I'm thinking about how much of a hedge do I want to buy. Like, I'm thinking about a lot of different things going into next year. And it's crazy because two years ago, I wasn't thinking about a hedge. I was like, dude, screw a hedge. We're going higher. But now after a couple years of a bull market of a really good bull market this will be the third year 2025 it's like no you start thinking about okay let's get a little bit I mean we've seen how violent this year has been especially with Trump and you never know 2026 he tweets something and the markets like having some type of hedge is not the craziest idea so we will talk about all of that AMD still green markets are relaxing a little bit I mean we were dumping harder Nebby is 9347. That one's still down, but it bounced off 92. And then the S&P at 681 is up. Buying puts. Yeah, it'll be a it'll be a it'll be a a mixture of buying puts and buying calls on inverse ETFs. And I'm going to break into a lot of different ideas. Like even if I'm not taking the exact idea, the the whole goal of that video is to share. So it'll be a very long video. it be like almost like an hour long video of different ideas that people could potentially think of going into next year because I think look look a a lot of us have grown up together at least from a portfolio perspective and a lot of us have made a lot of money in the past three years. I think one of the most important things now is to just protect that money. And that doesn't mean you have to go super risk off and go into money market funds. But that also means you don't have to go again yolo everything you want into a couple stocks to make it even bigger. Which by the way is a is a quicker shortcut to get rich. I mean if you went from 100,000 to a million and then you take that on two stocks then you take that million you put into another two stocks and you get to five million. That's way quicker than taking that million and putting it into 15 stocks and like maybe getting to like you know 1.3 by the end of next year which would be a great return still but it's also way riskier and that's the tough part I think to sort of navigate it. Uh AMD we got some analysis right here from one of these analysts on that investor day. Let's hear a little bit about that and then we'll get into some other macro stuff going on.
>> Prior forecast that seemed cartoonish at the time and actually ended up being pretty right. Yeah, that's exactly right. The company got rerated uh during the big OpenAI deal and you know post Financial Analyst Day, we're looking at a an average increase of about $11 on that around $295. So I think the reality check is catching up with the big announcements here and whether it was the 35% revenue cagger the 55 to 58% gross margins or the 35% operating margins uh the street is definitely impressed.
>> Are you do you think she deserves to be fielded with questions about accounts receivable and whether or not some of these customers are good for it? So, uh, I think it's a a bit, uh, unfair, but I think financial analysts need to ask those questions. And I think her and Jensen are getting very similar, uh, questions around how is everybody going to pay for that? And that gets the conversation that I think you and I had when I was in in studio a few weeks back, which is all around is this a bubble or or is this uh is this not is this just a beginning of a very large growth cycle?
>> Although we're obviously increasingly dependent on on debt issuance as we've graduated from the cash flow story that I mean, how important is that? How worrisome is that? Uh listen, I I this is what I've been saying for the last 18 months is that uh the the questions are going to get a lot deeper and a lot sterner and more direct once we go from uh free cash flow uh to debt and you know we have Oracle, we have Meta and even even Google uh floating out there. XAI of course would do that and they're even using GPUs as as collateral. So, so yeah, there will be and there should be more scrutiny on the downstream impacts. I do
>> and that's why the data center players are down. There's a lot more scrutiny on how these companies are thinking of the overall market right there at 9323 core going red but the overall TAM of what's going going on with data centers obviously is positive and that's why you know Nvidia continues to persist and AMD is getting this 10% move. Folks, we got some other headlines today that are not looking the best. Um, first of all, we get CPI tomorrow. I forgot we get CPI. Apparently, we do. I didn't think we would because the government may be reopening tomorrow, but based on the headlines I'm seeing, we get CPI. And then you've got some uh well, you've got some Epstein headlines coming back up. And it's not looking the best in terms of some of these headlines. The White House just commented, "Epstein emails to selectively be released by Democrats are smearing Trump." The Epstein story, I think, you know, most of us understand, has kind of died out over the past month. I mean, it was a big deal in September and then, I mean, we just kind of stopped talking about it. The media stopped caring about it. The Democrats have gained some power over the past couple of weeks with these elections and that's why it does look like these are starting to come out more in an aggressive way. Uh, I'm still looking at this, but it looks like leaked emails from Michael Wolf to Jeffrey Epstein in 2015 when Trump was running. Uh, Michael Wolf said, "I hear CNN is planning to ask Trump tonight about his relationship with you either on air or afterwards." Jeffrey said, "If you were able to craft an answer for them, what do you think it should be?" I don't even know if this is real, by the way. This is just the leaked email. It's going to be fake, but this is what I'm looking at. Michael said, "I think you should let him hang himself. If he says he hasn't been on the plane or to the house, then that gives you a valuable PR and political currency. You can hang him in a way that potentially generates a positive benefit for you. Or if it really looks like he could win, you could save him generating a debt." Of course, it is possible that when asked, he'll say Jeffree is a great guy and has gone a raw deal and is a victim of political correctness, which is to be outlawed in a Trump regime. Well, Trump's dealing with this affordability PR stuff. I mean, if the Epstein story comes back, that's also a new issue for the administration to deal with. Again, the White House just responded to that leaked email, and the fact that they responded and didn't say it's fake probably validates that the email is real. Then again, maybe it's not, but I'm not seeing the White House say it's fake. White House says Epstein emails are selectively being released by Democrats to smear Trump. That's what they said. All right, we got more headlines coming through. More and more headlines the Trump administration is dealing with. SoFi right there still up 1.3. AMD up nine and the S&P again about to go green. S&P really not feeling the pain even though some of these other high growth stocks are feeling the pain. Uh Don Vin, thanks for the $20 chat. Love it when you're dropping some of this wisdom. I think some of the younger investors or first-time investors can benefit from knowing markets can go both ways and it's important to have a strategy of some kind. Yeah. I mean, look, I was a younger investor a couple years ago. In my opinion, uh, after escaping the depths of 2022, markets only went up, which for the past couple years has has worked out. But obviously, as you get older and you remember the pain of 2022 and you just you realize like you don't want to lose money as much as you want to make money. I feel like when you're much younger, you want to make money and when you get older, you just don't want to lose it. Uh you start thinking of ways to protect it. And so, but again, it's it's it's it's everyone has different uh point of views at different stages of their life, but I definitely think 2026 it would be important. Like I was not talking about hedging at all going into 2024 or 2025. And then April hit us and you know, April ended up being a stupid dump, which is why all of us bought the dip and it worked out. But imagine if April didn't reverse. I mean, portfolios would have been wiped out, especially the portfolios that were on margin. So, just trying to make sure if that happens next year, it's not as bad is definitely important. I'm basically an unk now, bro. I'm basically ank. Dude, you guys know I have like freaking gray hairs in my beard. I don't know if you guys can see it, but I have gray hairs in my beard. I don't know. Am I that stressed out at 28 for getting gray hairs in my Is that normal to have gray hairs in your beard at 28? But I'm definitely getting gray hairs. Been working the past four years, bro. Been working. It's been nonstop work. You know, one of my goals for 2026, to be honest, one of my goals is to have some more fun. Like, just life-wise. I don't want to be as obsessed with the grind.
>> Yes. reminder that I've been with him for the past couple years. It really would be nice to just chill out a little bit. But then again, you got to balance that with like momentum and, you know, career trajectory. I don't know what that balance looks like, but that's another thing I'm thinking about. Audio issue. Okay, let me fix it in a second. But here's the update on the shutdown. I'll fix the audio in a second. ations for this vote.
>> We've been trying to end the shutdown for over a month now. And look, I think some Democrats still want to play games and inflict pain on families across America, but we've got enough. Luckily, eight in the Senate. You know, we may get a few more than that in the House who want to end this madness and just let let people get back to their lives.
>> Before the vote, Speaker Mike Johnson will be swearing in at Alito Grahalova. She's a Democrat who won an Arizona special election in September, but has yet to be sworn in because the House has not been in session since midepptember. Today's really their first day back. Once the government is reopened, as we expect it to be, when folks wake up tomorrow, we are expecting to take a few days before things like back paychecks hit the accounts of federal workers who again haven't gotten a paycheck during the shutdown. We also are expecting to get a backlog of federal data, but because those employees who were collecting the information on jobs and prices were furled for at least part of the shutdown. We know that some reports could be delayed or rely on data collected.
>> It looks like we will get CPI tomorrow, but some of those reports going to be delayed.
>> White House as well where the president as Sarah said will expected to host some high profile Wall Street leaders for dinner tonight. For that, we'll turn to Aan Javvers. Morning Aan. Yeah, good morning to you, Carl. We are expecting those heavy hitters here at the White House, but the White House is not really offering any detail on this dinner tonight other than uh that they are hosting it with financial leaders uh from across the economy. Uh no no explanation from the White House sort of why they're doing this now, what particularly is on the agenda, but take a look at this list of some of the heavy hitters that we do expect reportedly uh to be there, including the CEOs of JP Morgan, the NASDAQ, uh Blackstone, Morgan Stanley, BlackRock, and Goldman Sachs. All of those leaders uh are expected to be here tonight. And this dinner comes at a time when the president is increasingly thinking about the issue of affordability, telling Fox News in an interview yesterday that he is prepared to lower some tariffs in order to make some products more affordable for Americans. Here's what he said.
>> We're going to lower some tariffs. We're going to have some coffee come in. Um we're going to take care of all this stuff very quickly, very easily. It's surgical. It's beautiful to watch. But our costs are way lower.
>> Now, we do expect some
>> We're going a little green, folks. We're not fully out of the woods, but we're going a little green.
>> Cameras to be allowed into this dinner tonight with the Wall Street executives, guys. So, at least some portion of this uh will be visible to the public. We'll see who's there and we'll see what the president has to say to them. Back over to you.
>> I'm just wondering what, you know, topics of conversation. It's interesting. the banks are really rallying today and I wonder if it has something to do with this the time the facetime just getting from the from the president overall and banks have been I would think like pretty happy with the administration's policy especially when when deregulation much of it does center on on the Treasury secretary and on on banking
>> yeah I mean look things have been good for Wall Street recently and I know that the Wall Street CEOs value the facetime with the president a lot of them will tell you you know behind the scenes means the key is to get into the Oval Office with the president to talk to him uh one- on-one about any issues that are coming up. So, this is a perfect opportunity for folks on the street uh to come here to the White House uh and you know, sort of have that one-on-one time with the president to raise any issues that they see in the economy going.
>> Okay. So, the question now becomes who's meeting with Trump today in the White House? I'll see if I can get some headlines on that. Cactus, if you can find some of the details on the people that are meeting Trump, uh, you can show it to me. I'm curious, who is he getting to meet him today? Are they going to be tech CEOs? Is it Boeing? Is it consumer CEOs? Because that's going to be highlighting a lot of how Trump thinks of potentially the narrative he's forming until the end of Q4 to see who's there. Bank CEOs. I mean, the bank again, the bank stocks are the ones that have been doing the best. Now, granted, the bank stocks understand what's going on with the consumer the most. You know, I was going through JP Morgan's earnings last night. This is what I mean by saying I need to have more fun in 2026. I was going through freaking JP Morgan's earnings last night. Like, this is like when you're so into this game, you just like you're just so into it. And I was looking at their credit for provision losses. It was up 14% year-over-year. They were allocating 3.4 billion for provision for credit losses. And and the street only thought they would do 3 three three billion. So they did another 400 million. Now if there's not a lot of delinquencies and defaults, obviously that'll be an earnings tailwind for them because all that money that they used as an expense for provision for credit losses in in Q3 will turn into a earnings bump probably like Q3 of next year. So it could be setting them up to do very well. But if we do I mean that's basically JP Morgan admitting we think there's going to be a lot more loans that go default. JP Morgan up 1.62% 62%. Heading into the end of the year. And uh again, going back to this conversation of hedging and just like not wanting to worry so much next year, you know, when you got the big bank saying we're a little nervous about delinquency rates and then you're seeing the subprime auto stuff, that that goes back to the question of okay, maybe not everything is going to go up straight in a vertical line as easily as people think. Nphase right there 30.85 85 and then Pinterest that's down on the day. Okay. CEO is going to be NASDAQ. Speaking of JP Morgan, Jamie Diamond's going to be there. Wall Street Journal reports the White House is considering new rules on proxy advisers and index fund managers. A topic recently raised by CEOs like Elon Musk and Jamie Diamond. Basically not letting Schwab or Vanguard be able to vote for everyone's Tesla stock. So, that is a headline that we had yesterday. They'll likely be discussing that. AMD again still holding on to its green and it looks like the CEO of the NASDAQ and JP Morgan will be at this dinner. So it doesn't look like Sundar and Nadella are going to be here. It's going to be more of the the financial institutions that are probably going to try to advise Trump on this new word affordability which continues to come up. A buy tweet would be nice. Yes, that is by tweet would be nice. No, imagine Jamie Diamond's like, "Well, we should do a 150year mortgages." That was the funniest tweet yesterday. Let's do a thousand-y year mortgages. You never have to pay it off. You just die. The mortgage never gets paid. Like, when you take it to its logical extreme, it becomes hilarious when you think of it from that perspective. Yeah, probably stable coins. That'll be a discussion as well. Oh my goodness. Imagine Tom Lee in the White House. That would be incredible. I don't think he'll be there, but that would be nice to see. But the fact that Trump even wants to talk to the banking CEOs means that again, this affordability thing is getting to him. And that's why they're talking about this tariff dividend and all this other stuff. Okay, here's a question for everybody. Let's do a poll. Let's do a poll on this. Do we think that's called renting? Yeah. Literally, it's like basically renting from the banks. Do we think affordability, whatever that means to you? I know there's been a new term that has like started to become mainstream. Do we think affordability is enough for the Republicans to lose the midterms? That is my question. Is affordability enough for the Republicans to lose the midterm? You know, based on everything I've been seeing, I think the answer is yes. I mean, but see, it's hard because like Trump won aggressively against Harris, every single swing state, by big margins. So, like a significant part of the country rejected the Democrats, at least in the national election, and and endorsed Trump. So, in two years, is that enough if grocery prices go up for that many people to kind of flip and say, "Nope, I'm going back to the Democrats because gas prices are up." Like, I don't know. I don't know. There's going to be a lot of other things like immigration and all this, you know, social stuff. Obviously, the investments that have been coming into the country, which again, most people might not care about because they don't care if the Saudis are buying a trillion dollars of Nvidia chips. We care, but, you know, the average person might not. So, I feel like it boils down to affordability, but it is going to be a massive debate, I think, going over to next year. I mean, again, that headline we saw this morning of Trump is thinking of doing political speeches around the country, like campaign speeches around the concept of affordability. It goes to show that the White House is thinking of it. Uh, OpenAI headline, OpenAI asked the federal judge to block an order requiring it to hand over 20 million chatb. The company said most of the data has nothing to do with the case. The Times argued the logs are needed to determine whether CHBT reproduced its copyrighted material. OpenAI has until Friday to comply with the order. So that is your OpenAI headline. He promised lower prices from day one. I agree that was definitely a promise and I think the focus on tariffs and AI investments made that less of a focus which again was really good. Dude, I don't know if Nvidia would be sitting at 5 trillion. Do you guys remember the day we were live in video by the way going green and Jensen is with the Saudis? This was in May. There were some rumors on Friday that Jensen was going to the Middle East, but no one really knew. I mean, Karp was there. Like there was so many like I had I had no idea that Karp was like there you had so many different AI um leaders that were in the Middle East and then we're streaming on on freaking Monday morning and then boom live stream Jensen speaking at some conference and the stocks up 10%. It's breaking from 120 to 135 and it's just like whoa this is a big move. Like, does that happen if Trump doesn't make those strategic partnerships with the Saudis and the Qataris to buy chips? Probably not. But you might have a Democrat saying, "Look, while Trump was focused on getting Nvidia more chips, grocery prices were going up." And that could be a compelling pitch to a lot of Americans who don't own Nvidia stock, so they don't really care that the Saudis are buying more chips. Affordability is subjective. 1,000% it's subjective. The question is if the subjective viewpoint on the broader theme of affordability is on the side of Democrats or Republicans and that's going to be a very important question. Nabius, are we still at 94 93? So the low was 9236. It's nice to see we haven't violated that yet, but I want to see us get a better bounce into the 97s 98s. Uh, eggs are down. That is correct. Which is why, you know, again, there's a lot of different data points. Eggs are actually down over the past year. They're down to their lowest levels since October 2023. We covered that a couple weeks ago. But then you had Trump acknowledge on Fox News yesterday, well, coffee prices are up. And so, like, there's a lot of back and forth, I guess, on how they're ultimately thinking of it. Um, Whimo update. Let's look at this real quick and then we'll keep going from there. back. Is this a good thing, dear? Good.
>> How are you?
>> It is a good thing if you like to ride in Whimos. So now you can get in a Whimo from downtown San Francisco where I am all the way to San Jose. That's about 50 miles or an hour and a half on a good day. And this is all without having to say a word to a driver. So that is certainly convenience, but this is also a major shift for autonomous driving at large. a critical step to making them mainstream because freeways they are the next proving ground and they really change the entire economics of autonomy. When you think about sitting driving, it's shorter trips, stop and go traffic, far less efficiency. Freeways, they're the opposite. Longer stretches, they mean less handoffs, there's predictable lanes, higher speeds, more miles where the car is actually earning. So these longer freeway rides like airport runs, cross city commutes, these are highv value rides where competitors really fall off. And this is the wider Whimo footprint operating in California and Arizona, testing on the east coast, expanding through key city partnerships, freeway driving, if it works, that could lay the groundwork for a national driverless network, something that has seemed out of reach. And once these routes, they all link up. the number of cities. It almost stops mattering because what Whimo is building is a network, not just a map of test zones. Tesla, meanwhile, still running pilots with safety drivers or safety monitors. It's clocked just over a million miles versus Whimo's 100 million plus miles as of July with highways. Really key to note here, that number will continue to grow very, very, very quickly. And guys, it makes this comparison all the more compelling for investors. Tesla's forward PE at 240 for the promise of autonomy versus Whimo parent Alphabet at 28 as it's actually delivering at ever greater scales. By the way, Alphabet shares are down today underscoring this point that I've made before that Whimo is perhaps the most underappreciated bet on autonomy and an example of AI that is already operating in the real world. By the way guys, I am at Newcomer Cerebral Valley Conference. We're going to be hearing from a bunch of players, important key startups and companies in this AI space how they feel about this, how they feel.
>> Whimo is executing. It is hard to say Whimo is not executing and they're executing underneath a parent company that has a lot of capital to be able to subsidize what they're doing. Google right here 284. Google stock again, this name almost got to 300 a couple weeks ago. Year to date, it's up 49%. From the lows, it's up almost 90% or 85%. So Google continues to execute and obviously very bullish to see Whimo continue doing well. Here was that video about the Regetti CEO that I was talking about in the morning. Again, he's being very honest basically saying that they don't care about sales right now. They just care about their broader technology.
>> I mean, you don't have revenues yet and uh you know, you may not have them for a couple more years to any real substantial degree, but yet your stock's up over 150% year D. I mean, do you get concerned as a CEO of a company like this? Well, intrinsically you try not to look at stock price when you're making any important decisions. We try to stay focused on the technology and our road map and how we get to quantum advantage and beyond. Um, yeah, obviously it's tempting as any human being to look at a stock ticker and move it up or down. And um, but you try not to overreact to either movements movements in either direction and try to keep a level headed.
>> I'm sorry the audio is quiet. This is a Twitter video, but basically he's saying that we don't look at the stock and we're not that focused on sales
>> approach to what exactly the company needs to do. In our case and in quantum computing in general, clearly the goal is to improve the technology, get to that quantum advantage and then get to the eventual milestone which we call fault tolerant quantum computing. We're talking three to five years to quantum advantage. We are probably talking seven to nine years for fall tolerant quantum computing. So we try to stay focused on the long term. um
>> three to five years, five to nine years. Here was the same guy on CNBC yesterday kind of making the same point about, you know, how they're thinking of the overall market.
>> Do you think 26 will be a year uh uh where you move from the R&D stage to more of a monetization stage?
>> Anytime you're doing R&D with complex technologies like quantum computing, it's impossible to predict with exact accuracy when you will get into commercial use cases. we have shown ourselves.
>> He's being pretty honest. He's basically saying, "No, we don't see commercialization right now. It's hard to predict, but if people want to buy the stock, they can keep buying the stock." But he's admitting we're not really seeing that many commercial use cases right now.
>> You're right. IBM has shown some use cases. Some other companies have shown some use cases as well. We are all collectively showing that we are getting closer and closer to the point we call quantum advantage which is when we can clearly demonstrate quantum computing superior than classical computing in terms of performance or cost. We have said that we are still about 3 to four years away from demonstrating quantum advantage. So 2026 although we will get closer we don't think we will be able to necessarily show that quantum computers are superior than classical computers. But certainly
>> now again maybe that's regetti specific but you do have a quantum CEO basically and again they missed EPS by like 900%. He is saying hey it is not as quick as people are think it's going to be. Regetti right there down 6.2%. By the way speaking of Google also working very heavily on quantum and self-driving. Nebus are we losing 92? We have lost 92. Okay. Again, based on Jason's TA, I think it's a wait. Maybe buying the dip here has a quick rebound, but um down 10% in a day is not it could be more of a falling knife versus a buy the dip. And you know, if it rebounds back to 97 98, even if you miss 91, maybe you have a lot more clarity with buying the dip versus getting a falling knife. So, I think based on some of Jason's TA yesterday, I am definitely going to wait and then we'll see. Let's see if it gets a rebound. Let's see if we get a really juicy price or if this one dips higher. I mean, if it closes above 94 by the end of the day, that would be very bullish or above 94. But it's got a bounce and right now we got to see if the buyers coming in. Again, they are diluting as well. So, that's one thing to remember. That level of sell pressure on the stock could be hurting it. But look, it was a good ER. I think that's the most important thing. If you're long on Nebius, the ER was most important. earnings. The question becomes the market sentiment towards data center place. I mean, look, if they're taking if they're going to take Oracle down to the low 200s at 227, Nebas, Cororeweave, I rent, they're all going down with it because they're all in that same bucket of using debt to finance data centers. And right now, the market's just not a fan of it. And maybe the market's not going to be a fan of it for the next couple months, dude. I know Nebius has been super volatile from 140 to 104 to 98 to 120 to 103 to 135. like like the price action has been ridiculous over the past couple months. But if the market starts to settle into, hey, we really need time to marinate on this idea of debt to finance AI capex, which I don't know if that's going to be the case, but if that is the case, maybe a lot of these names that are still up, you know, Neb's still up 2x on the year, I's up 5x on the year, maybe they chill out and maybe that's not the worst thing for them going into next year either. Or it could be a great buying opportunity. I mean, time will tell. see how that one ultimately plays out going into the end of the year. Nvidia right there that goes down again. S&P now not the lowest of the day, but you are down 27% grab somehow green and then SoFi a close above 31 would be good to see 3115 on SoFi. All right, folks. I think that's it for me. I can't even believe it's almost 12:00 p.m. This one went fast today. 11:49 a.m. I'll be back on the close. It's going to be a little bit of a shorter close today because I have to go to New York at around 5. Um, got something going on in New York. But we have Cisco earnings today, DLO earnings today. So, we'll cover those two earnings. And I think that's pretty much it on the close. Nothing else too crazy. We'll see if this market can continue to hold on or if we kind of have a bottom falling out and we end up just going red for the day. Let's do a quick poll before I leave. Green or red for the end of the day. By the way, 70% of you said affordability is enough for the Republicans to leave or to lose. So, decent chunk of people think that is going to be an issue. Green or red? End of day, what do we think? I don't know, dude. some of some of these names down 10%. It feels like it'll be red, but then again, SME is down .028. I don't think it's going to be a really ugly red like it was last week. It might just be a normal red after a really good two days. It will not be cookies and milk in New York. Although eventually, Steve and I, we definitely have to get some cookies and milk. There's got to be, dude, there's got to be like a like a better version of insomnia cookies in New York. Insomnia cookies are good, but they're not that good. Like, they're decent, but they're not like the best cookies in the world. Like, I would never say if I have to eat one cookie for the rest of my I would pick an Insomnia cookie. We got to find a better cookie spot in New York. All right, word of the day. What do we got? Word of the day. As we head into lunchtime, uh, we messed up yesterday with apotheiois. That was so bad. But that ruined our uh our trend of getting two in a row. Yes, we will have Equity Edge at 12:30. We're talking about Zeta. So on Twitter spaces, Equity Edge, we're talking Zeta um with a guest. I'll link my Twitter in the chat. It'll be audio only. It'll be recorded if you miss it live 12:30 to 1 Eastern. So in about 40 minutes and we'll get a deep dive on Zeta. Okay. Nodic relating to the intellect, deep thought, or the mind's intuitive knowledge often used to describe insight that feels both rational and transcendent. Nodic. Do not tell me that doesn't look like nodic. How to pronounce nodic? It looks like freaking nodic. Like, so you tell me you see that, you're not going to say that's not nodic. No edict.
>> See, like this is stupid. This is what I'm saying. This is not like you're telling me you look at that and you say noic. No, I disagree. No one sees that [ __ ] and they say noic. No one sounds out the phonetics of the e and the t. No, you say nic. The e becomes a uh instead of e like in a billion other words.
>> Noetic.
>> I'm with a mid. Thank you. Thank you. real signate. The one person in the chat who agrees with me. Okay. Okay. You guys have a point with poetic. Okay. That you have a point with po but poetic. Everyone's you no one's heard of knowetic before. Who has ever like no one's heard of this [ __ ] relating to intellectual or deep thought. Everyone's heard of the word poet. So poetic makes sense. She had a knowetic understanding of human nature, perceiving motives others couldn't even articulate. It looked like nodic to me, but whatever. Noetic. All right, that's what you got. Relating to the intellect, deep thought, and mind's intuitive knowledge. That is noetic. I always picture your debate judges wondering what word you were trying to pronounce. Dude, well, in debate, you talk really fast. I got to show you guys a video one day. you talk really fast in debate, like it's like three to 500 words a minute. Um, and so sometimes they might not even be like understanding some of the words I'm saying, but if they get the gist of the argument, then they might be able to vote for me. Elaine, thank you for the $10 super chat. Appreciate you. Thank you for being here. Appreciate your hard work. Elaine, deeply deeply appreciate you being here every day. Uh, Leong, thank you for becoming a channel member as well. Thank you for being here. And Swipe421, thanks for becoming a channel member. And then Sentoma, thank you for becoming a channel member. I'll be back on the close. Um, we'll have the daily recap later today. And I think that's pretty much it. We got a couple earnings after the bell. Nothing too crazy, but we'll see if this market can end out green or red, but that's it that we have for today. Chad says, "Not using real words help." That's true. Not using real real words do help. Dude, some of the words I probably said when I was speaking 500. I got to show you guys. I have all these videos on a hard drive. They're not on YouTube, but I have them on a hard drive. I got to show it to you guys one day. Maybe we do that for like Christmas or New Year's Eve when we do some streams. I'll show you guys some of the I I used to talk fast, bro. But it was convincing enough to to get them to vote for me. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I will see you guys on the market close 12:30. We're doing equity edge on Twitter spaces. Zeta is the topic at hand. And uh then we'll be back to the market close. Bro is making up words so fast, but he sounded confident. They didn't even question it. You know, I haven't seen these videos in like three or four years. I'm going to pull up the hard drive and see what I sounded like because maybe I legit was making up [ __ ] but it just sounded convincing. Maybe that's the case. All right. Thank everybody. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everyone.