Hello my friends. Today is August 15th and this is Marcus weekly. All right, so this past week was a pretty quiet week in markets. We are in the dead of summer. Although the S&P 500 did eke out a new all-time high. Seems like there are still people bidding up calls hoping that we could have a blow-off top, which we may, but it does seem like we're going to be stuck for a few days as we get through options expiry. Now today let's just talk about one topic and it's one topic I've been thinking about and that is the long bond, which continues to behave very poorly even though I personally like it above 5%. Now if you look at a chart of the long bond yield, you can see that over the past few months it's basically been marching up higher relentlessly and now it's about 5.25%. Now it's becoming more concerning to me because it's been behaving poorly despite the data. So for example, last week we had a lot of inflation data. We had CPI and we had PPI. CPI was as the market expected and honestly it's the second month where we've had pretty benign CPI data. Last month remember on a month-over-month basis it was 0%. This month it's a little bit higher, but overall of course CPI on a month-over-month basis is pretty tame. PPI again producer price index I came in lower than expectations and when you have these two indexes, we can have a pretty good estimate as to what PCE will be, which is the Fed's target. Now looking at the Cleveland Fed, PCE is expected to be about 3.5% year-over-year. That is definitely above the Fed's target, but it's not really worsening. It's about where it's been for the past I don't know, a few months I guess. And of course the Fed has been inflation has been above target for a few years. So if inflation overall was a little bit better than the market expected, you would have expected yields to behave better. And you did see that, right? Right after the data came out, you had the yields go lower as the market priced in a lower uh probability of Fed hikes, but then that immediately retraced higher. Now, in addition last week, we also had retail sales, which came in much lower than expectations, and some people will talk about how you had idiosyncrasies as in Amazon moving uh Prime Day last month instead of this month, and maybe FIFA stuff like that, but at the end of the day, retail sales came in much lower than expected, suggesting economic weakness. And so, yields immediately came in a bit lower after that, but again, immediately retraced that as well. Now, think back also to nonfarm payrolls last month, you had a shocking loss of jobs, and that of course would have suggested to some people at least that, "Hey, maybe the labor market is not as good as we thought." And you did get a knee-jerk lower on yields, but then of course that immediately retraced as well. So, overall, even though inflation is lower than the market expects, even though the economy is probably a bit weaker than the market expects, you see knee-jerk reactions lower to yields that immediately retrace. So, that that tells you something, right? That that is That tells you that yields uh basically want to go higher, and that's kind of concerning. Now, one thing to note though, that on Friday, when you had a pretty notable jump in yields in the US, you can also see that it was led by what happened abroad. So, global yields are a global market. Uh basically, if you are a large hedge fund manager, large asset manager, you can move pretty seamlessly throughout the global bond market and just hedge your currency risk. Now, what struck me is that on Friday, um the yield the increases in long end yields was much higher abroad than in the US, and you could say that uh what happened abroad basically pulled up the US whereas you had increases of several basis points in the long end in say Euro land for example. So there is a global factor here that seems to be driving up yields and my guess is that this is probably due to the war in Iran whereas when we see what happens in um crude oil pretty well behaved but again we don't consume crude oil. What goes into the indexes is things like uh like diesel like gasoline like jet fuel and we have reduced uh refinery capacity and that's actually driving up these uh distillate prices. Looking at for example gasoline futures you can see that you don't see the same pattern that you see in crude oil whereas gasoline futures continue to march steadily higher. So it seems what happens what's happening is that part of the story is that uh you have this energy shock that is persisting. It's having a bigger impact on say Europe and Asia than it does in the US. In Europe and Asia of course it's also a different jurisdiction whereas you have strictly inflation targeting central banks and so I think that is concern causing some concern for their bond investors which is spilling over to what's happening in the US. Now I think that's one thing that that could be happening and remember ultimately in financial markets prices are psychological. Everyone buys and sells for different reasons. This is not physics. This is not something you can build a statistical model for uh because again you have all these regime changes. If you are building a statistical model you misunderstand fundamentally how this works. So let's talk about a few other lenses we can uh to look at the rise in the long bond. Again a popular lens to look through is is to decompose it between uh real and nominal based on things like for example, inflation swaps or 30-year TIPS. So, from this lens, people would say that the market is actually not afraid of inflation because 30-year inflation remains pretty stable. What it is is an increase in real yields, and that is long bond investors demanding higher real compensation to invest in bonds. Okay, well, maybe. So, that's one way to look at it, and 30-year TIPS at a I think the real yield is about 3%. It is, of course, very, very juicy. That is an inflation-protected yield. And maybe that's what it investors require to um uh to clear the market. Another way to look at this, of course, is through the lens of term premium, which is uncertainty in the expected path of policy. So, from this lens, um investors are becoming more uncertain as to how the Fed would react over the next coming 30 years. And so, to protect them- -selves, they want to have a higher return. That is term premium. And that actually makes a lot of sense as well. Kevin, of course, is very open in telling you that he doesn't want to tell you um how the Fed would react. And so, investors are in the dark, and so, it looks like they're going to want to have more compensation for for that added degree of uncertainty. And in addition, of course, Kevin also said very concerning things such as changing the inflation target, which the Fed has not met for many years, right? So, that that, of course, understandably, is going to increase term premia, and it's going to push up long bond yields. Now, the last story that people talk about is that you just have a tremendous supply of bonds, and so, the market is having trouble digesting that. Now, that story, I think, is is not uh can be refuted in the market pricing. The way that you would look at that is through swap spreads. So, what happens is that if you have an excess of supply, then the dealer holds it in its inventory and hedges its risk and it gets compensated the swap spread. Now, if you look at swap spreads again, they've been pretty stable over the past few months. You would expect it to become increasingly negative it if if it is a indigestion issue, but it it's not. So, I don't think that is correct. Also note, of course, that the Treasury has actually come out saying that and so usually they say that they're going to increase um coupon sizes in the coming quarters. Now, they change that to just change coupon sizes. So, that is kind of opening the door a bit for some potential in cutting uh the coupon the issuance sizes of the long bond to make it behave better. And that's something the Japanese authorities did, I believe, a couple years ago as well when their 40-year traded very poorly. So, again, it doesn't seem to be a supply and demand issue, although that always matters. And if you were to cut the supply, uh you you would, of course, put down pressure on yields, although that that doesn't seem to be the biggest concern to the market at the moment. So, the problem with this is that as it continues to trend higher, you know, you have the possibility of more and more people just changing perception, momentum, people coming in, and everyone just kind of wanting to sell it. And as it goes higher, that will ultimately, of course, impact uh the stock market. Uh yeah. Whereas higher yields, of course, we all know is bad for the stock market and that could not just be bad for real uh real economy, for for example, housing, where mortgage rates again are climbing up, uh but it will ultimately spill out into the stock market, as well. And the good news is that ultimately, when the stock market, again, gets impacted either some for some reason the AI bubble bursts or something like that, uh you will, in my personal view, ultimately have a flight to safety as the market prices in, say more Fed cuts, maybe a um weaker economic growth from the negative wealth effect and that would ultimately give a bid to bonds. Another way you can think about this is that why would you want to why would 5% for 30 years be attractive when you can double or triple your money in AI stocks in a few months, right? So, as long as that stock market thing is competing uh and offering very very attractive um returns, it the bonds are not going to be very attractive. So, I think in order for us to get respite in the bond market, we probably have to wait for some cracks in the equity market, uh which again, nothing goes up forever and uh you do have some major catalysts coming in the coming months. Again, ongoing conflict in the Middle East, uh midterms, and of course, just leverage and momentum, just like what happened with the Cosby. All right, so that's what I prepared for today and I think it's uh I continue to think that uh of course, we could have a blow-off top in the equity markets, but I do continue to be very cautious here. All right, talk to you guys next week.