At Stripe, we're landing about 1,300 PRs that have no human assistance besides review per week. A lot of where our work begins is it could be in a Google doc as we're planning a new feature or maybe a geo ticket comes in or we're talking about something in Slack. I can click an emoji and then the menu will sort of attempt to oneshot resolving that prompt using all the tools that are available at Strike.
>> When you're in larger organizations, there's so much friction that can come between a good idea and getting it into the world. Not only can I have one of these, but I could have many, many of these running in parallel in isolated environments making isolated changes all at the same time.
>> How are you getting all this code review done?
>> Whether the text has been written by Steve or the text has been written by Steve's robot, you still want that CI environment that's providing confidence that the code that's being changed is safe and that as it rolls out, we're having blue green deployment so you can roll back too. All of that is super critical independent of the nature of the authoring of it. No matter how juiced these laptops are, you get three or four work trees in and like it starts to sound like an airplane taking off, it's no good. And so I do think on this multi-threading agentic engineering work, cloud environments and virtual environments are so important to unlock velocity. [music] Welcome back to how I AI. I'm Claravel, product leader and AI obsessive here on a mission to help you build better with these new tools. Today we have Steve Khaliski, a software engineer at Stripe, and he's going to show us how the Stripe team deploys a bunch of minions to do their engineering work. We'll also watch an agent spend a little bit over $5 to plan [music] a birthday party all in cloud code. Let's get to it. This episode is brought to you by Optimizely. Most marketing teams aren't short on ideas, but what they are short on is time. And that's exactly what Optimizely Opel gives you back with AI agents that handle real [music] marketing workflows. You know, like creating content and checking compliance, generating experiment variations, personalizing user [music] experiences, analyzing pages for GEO, even tasks like approvals and [music] reporting. It's your AI agent orchestration platform for marketing and digital teams. Plugging seamlessly into the tools you already use, handling the boring busy work, and keeping everything on brand that leaves marketers with more time to do [music] your actual job. See what Opel can automate for your team by signing up for a free enterprise agentic AI workshop with Optimizely. Find out more at optimizely.com/howi AI. attend live and you'll get a free pair of Rayban meta AI glasses. Steve, I'm so excited to have you on How I AI because I saw the stripe minions on the timeline and one exceptional branding. Don't sue us. And two, I just love the idea that you and your colleagues in the team at Stripe have created not just one agent, but minions all across the company that can help with development work. And I'm so excited for you to show us how that helps you in your day-to-day here. So, welcome to how Ia.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, tell me what has been the effect that minions have had on you personally at Stripe and at the Stripe team as a whole? Sure. So, you know, for me personally, um, I think sort of anecdotally, I don't remember the last time I I started work in the text editor, right? So, I do end up there often. Um, but, you know, what I found is that, you know, a lot of where our work begins is, you know, it could be in a in a Google doc as we're planning a new feature or maybe a J ticket comes in or we're talking about something in Slack and those are sort of like the more natural entry points to starting work, right? And then you end up in a text editor when it's time to, you know, actually do the work or make the final tweak. Um and it's just felt very natural. Um and I think in particular the sort of like activation energy of starting work feels a lot lower, right? So if you know you're in a Slack thread and maybe there's a a piece of user feedback and it's something simple like a you know we have to update the docs or or maybe it's something more consequential and we just want to build a prototype. I can click an emoji and like the work begins and often the work finishes too. you we at at Stripe we're landing about 1,300 PRs that are uh have no human assistance besides review per week. Um but at the minimum the activation energy of like starting to write code, seeing tests pass, maybe a test fails occurs without me even, you know, participating and then I can jump in and I can tweak and I can kind of like have that that momentum sort of uh sort of like generative momentum, you know, that I can I can hop in halfway through. What I think is magical about this, and I I won't call Stripe a big company, but you do have a decent amount of employees and a very very large business, is I love that concept of activation energy going lower because when you're in larger organizations, there's so much friction that can come between a good idea and getting it into the world. And it's not malent, right? It's nobody is like, "Oh man, I really want to slow this process down."
>> Yeah.
>> It's either, you know, functional. I don't have access to a technical area of expertise to actually get from here to there. It's operational. I don't know how to organize people and communicate effectively to get the next step done.
>> Or it's just kind of like people get siloed in their day-to-day and don't think of new ways to get work done. And one of the things that has been so revoly about AI for me personally is like all that just kind of goes to zero because coordination cost can go down, execution cost can go down, communication cost can go down, you just get closer to the work, which I think is the fun part we all really care about. So show me how you actually activate a minion and you know we skipped this a little bit. What a minion is
>> the quick spiel of a minion. um when I as an engineer sort of in preAI time uh you know want to make a modification to Stripe um well Stripe is a huge codebase with tons of services um it it can't run on my computer alone so Stripe already has a long history of of you investing in great developer tooling having hosted development environments that I can spin up that you know have all the code already there and services running and I can sh in and make modifications um and we have a ton of great CI tooling around that so that's the context um you we have all that. The idea with a minion is that I can provision one of those environments seated with a prompt and then the minion will sort of you know attempt to oneshot resolving that prompt using all the tools that are available at Stripe, right? So uh all of our internal documentation, our internal CI, our um you know test data, so on and so forth and it will loop through that in attempt to you know solve that prompt. So, um, let's go ahead and and jump in, see what sort of a prototypical experience might look like. So, I'm in a Slack channel. Uh, it's called Steve Klitsky Robots, uh,-clair. I actually have a Steve Klie robots channel that has 76 humans in it. Um, but I do have every, uh, it started off as just me and my robots, and now there's some sort of, you know, like audience observing. Um, but let's imagine that, you know, maybe I'm I am thinking of a new feature idea or I want to improve documentation that we have. of we have a a launch coming up soon. Um, and I I want to sort of embellish the documentation. So, I'll say um I have this cool idea for docs.stripe.com/payment/machine. This is our new machine toachine payment work which we'll look at later in our call. Um, and I want to, you know, make sure the landing page really sticks and gives a good code example of how to get started quickly. Right? So maybe someone posted a message like that or it came in through a ticket or or whatever the origin may be. All I have to do now is, you know, add a reaction which is create minion pay server. So this is a particular uh repository within stripe. We get the one sec cooking from the devbox agent. And then we get a reply in here saying your minion for pay server. It's the repository for a new branch that's created landing page code example has been created and it's going to kick off our doc service so I can eventually preview it. Now I'm going to click follow along. So right now what it's doing is it's provisioning that development environment I was talking about earlier. Right? So this is this part isn't new. It is excellent but it's not new. And basically it's going to spin up a uh instance in the cloud. It's going to apply all the configuration um that's required for both me and the agent to do coding within Stripe. So this will just take a few seconds. It's going to check out that repository with a new branch. Configure the local database. Apply my git config. It's going to set up a VS Code server so I could connect to it just through the web or or locally. as well as some extensions. So what's really like great about Minions is, you know, obviously there's the the agent loop that's, you know, uh, making the code modifications, but it's built on top of like a ton of incredible work that are developer productivity done around just making it easy to get like a a perfectly operating Stripe development environment for coding, which means that, you know, not only can I have one of these, but I could have, you know, many, many of these running in parallel in isolated, you know, environments making isolated changes all at the same time. So, you know, that little one-click emoji, I could have done that with a few messages at the same time. Um, which is really great. So,
>> yeah, one thing I want to call out here is we had my friend Zach from Launch Darkly on and
>> one thing he said was look, what's good for the developer is good for the agent. So, there's this virtuous loop of if you have or do invest in developer experience for your human engineers, your agents will benefit off of that. And in turn, if you invest in developer experience or agent experience for your agent engineers, your development team benefits from that. And so I always tell people, you know, engineering team, people always ask like, can we just give a little bit more time on the road map to DX? Like pretty please, can we invest here? And I think if you attach it to an AI initiative, that's like the secret way to get some of that
>> that good stuff.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean imagine you're, you know, some code bases are small, but you know, Stripes is huge. You know, imagine you show up day one and there's there's no documentation and there's no tools and there and they say, "Good luck." Like anyone would have trouble and even if you threw the agent at it, it's very likely that the the context window would be blown by the whole codebase. Just scanning through it to understand all the intricacies would be like impossible or extremely expensive. So you know if there's a very blessed path for 90% of the common activities in being a you know engineer at Stripe that makes it that makes the propensity that the agent succeeds really high too right so you imagine we wanted to make an API change which we do you know hundreds or thousands of times a year we have really good documentation on you know how to add a new field or a new method or a new resource that the minion would read and would execute against and then you know the the propensity it would oneshot is very high So good docs for developers are uh equally important for the agent to your point. So we've now transitioned from you know booting up the development environment to now we're in the the first agent run. So we have that prompt that I posted in Slack here. And now what it's going to do is boot up an instance of goose that's basically the harness that's you know going to run through all this.
>> We did have an episode with the block team about goose this this open source ar um agent harness that got set up. And I want to call out one thing for folks that are not watching and are listening, which is I love your system prompt. So sophisticated. It says implement this task completely. Colon and then just whatever you put put in in mistakes.
>> No mistakes. You forgot no mistakes. But you know, I think people really think they have to overarchitect their initial prompt. And I think if you have a great hardness, it can go a long way to extracting out um a successful outcome from a pretty loose prompt. Totally. And we a lot of this is an experiment in some way, right? You know, as new models come out and you know, we build new tools like there is this sort of dynamic nature to it. And we we've built a lot of interesting, you know, bots that help write the prompt, right? So, you know, maybe first it will do the task of searching through the codebase or looking at other poll requests or Google docs or whatever it may be. I I think now it's mo most things that could have an MCP server have an MCP server. So we're able to interact with a lot of the internal data we have and then it can make a prompt that I could then paste in here or I get assigned um to to to the agent. So that sort of I you know part of why I wanted that public channel we were looking at is like you know where can I see if that we don't pair program anymore but we you know pair prompt right and that that activity could be with other engineers or other data sources or or other agents too right to figure out if we can you know properly explain uh to the agent you know how to do it correctly. In any case you know what it's doing now is it's you taking the link I gave it which is to public documentation. It's going to search through the codebase and and use uh some of our you know uh code searching tools to to locate where that change in particular should go. It's going to execute a whole sequence of tools. And over time as it figures out where in the codebase it should work, what the modification should be. It'll ultimately commit those and make those available um in a pull request that that me and uh my fellow colleagues can review. Yeah, I have a couple qu couple questions on this because we've seen
>> a few examples of folks building their own cloud agents and and kind of and I'm curious, you know, why why goose uh you know versus doing something on your own or
>> doing sort of a a more commercial solution. I'm curious if there was an internal discussion or how this or did this happen organically because it worked for one engineer. Curious how you kind of seated the idea of of minions on top of your development tools. Yeah, sure. So, you know, we also make cloud code and and purser and tools like that widely available to engineers at Stripe. So, you know, I think our general sentiment is like we want to accelerate development uh so we can build new features for our users and uh there are going to be new models coming out, new tools and we want to be able to proliferate those as much as we can. in the particular case of Minion um the it's very I don't want to say very specific but it's very specific to like the stripe developer experience in the stripe developer environment and we had been uh experimenting with goose early on and I think in this partic particular case we forked it to make some modifications as well and really what we were looking like sort of a base harness and loop um to apply all of our own tools and software to um so we we spent a lot we spent a lot of time on like making good tools tools available and making sure that the sort of routes that the minions go through, you know, work closely with like the most common Stripe developer workflows. So, it's, you know, the sort of like commercial versus, you know, custom things like there are things that are very specific about Stripe's codebase and being a developer of Stripe and the way we build things um that it was just sort of easier for us to to build and deploy that. Um but the commercial solutions are great and we use those extensively and even later on this demo I can sort of show like I can you know for example I can pop into VS Code web where I could manually edit some of the code that's going on here as well but I can also boot up cloud and I can have sort of the typical cloud experience with um all the stripe um MCP tool internal stripe MCP tools available as well. So, you know, there's there's no singular tool to rule them all, but I think the like overall endto-end development story, it's right uh is built on minions. So, you can see I'm in that dev box and cloud now.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. I have one other question and then and then an observation I want to make sure that that the listeners don't miss. So, my first question is,
>> you know, Stripe is a very well- resourced, I would say, engineering organization. So I'm presuming you have a team dedicated to working on not just your dev tools but as well as as minions and managing that as an internal product itself. Has that team been sort of built um as a standalone team that's focused specifically on internal developer experience? Is that how it works?
>> Yeah, we we've had a developer productivity team for as long as I can remember. I think I'm six and a half years now. And you know that team is focused on all the tools that I engage with um and and making them more useful, right? So that's all the way from you know how how we interact with with uh git and version management to our text editors and our configurations there to our uh development environment and and how that whole story pieces together. And you know we we you know just as you know as a product engineer on Stripe I I I care deeply about our external users and and them being successful with Stripe. that team cares equivalently about engineers at Strike being successful and and being able to build things quickly and I think that's been uh even more accelerated by by AI in the last couple years.
>> And then one other observation I want to make because I think you glossed over it a little bit at the beginning but it's so important for folks that really want to go ham on coding with AI.
>> Sure.
>> Which is look all of us engineers have a MacBook Pro that weighs 8 million pounds
>> that can can do some damage. mine for anybody who wants to know its nickname is Big Boy. So whenever I need my kids
>> to get my part my coding laptop, I say, "Can you bring me big boy?" Um cuz it's I call it San Francisco rucking when I carry two of them in my backpack.
>> Oh my god.
>> But you know, no matter how juiced these these laptops are, you get like three or four work trees in all running and like it starts to sound like an airplane taking off. It's no good. And so I do think on this sort of like multi-threading agentic engineering work, cloud environments and virtual environments are so important to unlock velocity and that's one place where I haven't seen enough large engineering teams invest in those environments to really unleash the power of um either AI assisted coding for their software engineers or agents in general. So if there are any CTO's, VPs of engineering listening, if you were to invest in something to really unlock growth in the next year, getting that situation locked up would be really good because again, I hear so many people be like, "Oh, I can claude code everything. I can spin, you know, I can codeex anything. I can spin up all these work trees. I'm fine." And I'm like, "Are you running all these local like what are you what are you doing?" And so that's one thing I just want people to not miss is the limitations of your actual machine on how multi-threaded you could be, especially in a complex codebase like Stripes.
>> Totally. And you know, I have Slack on my phone, right? So I can even kick off one of these minions on the way to work, right, as I'm sort of going through Slack on the subway. And then, you know, by the time I'm there, I I I can jump in halfway through. And the thing that maybe like the hyperbolic thing here is like imagine if all engineers at a company could only like work on didn't have git. We all had to like coordinate working on the one codebase together. Like that that would be crazy. Um and you know the equivalence he here is like imagine if I'm bounded by you know my agents are bounded by just what's available and can work on my computer. um you the the the the 10x thing to do is um you know be able to have 10 of them run in parallel but also not be contingent on my like it's like everyone's buying a Mac a Mac Mini, right? So it doesn't fall asleep, right? It's like there's a there's a whole business around just the computer not falling asleep.
>> I legitimately first of all I have like four Mac minis upstairs and one of them is just basically a laptop that doesn't close. Like I use it as a laptop that does not shut. Um, and it's really unlocked my my velocity. So, okay, we thank you for going on this side quest about virtual environments and local host and all those things. I'm a founder, so I know most people don't start companies [music] because they love running payroll or managing compliance, but somewhere between hiring your first employee and raising your next round, [music] you end up in the weeds with HR, IT, and all that other stuff. [music] That's what Rippling was built to solve. Ripling is a unified platform that lets startups run [music] HR, payroll, IT, and finance in one system from day one. [music] The Ripling startup stack replaces disconnected tools that don't sync with a [music] fully connected platform. Over 15,000 startups, including Cursor, Clay, and Sierra, trust [music] Ripling to scale fast without adding additional ops and HR headcount, so founders like you can keep building. Right now, ventureback startups can get 6 months [music] of Rippling startup stack for free. Head to rippling.com/howi ai and sign up today. That's r [music] i pi n.com/howi ai to sign up [music] for 6 months free today. Focus on what you're building and leave the rest to rippling. Okay. So, you are now running this. You're going to I it's it's you said one shot at the beginning. Really, you're trying to take one one prompt
>> and not a single reply gets you gets you what you want, but it goes into the harness. It goes through its own loop,
>> hits the tools it needs, and ultimately you as the end user get one response back, which is here's the successful implementation.
>> Exactly. Right. So, we can already see that it's identified the relevant files. It's keeping track of its own to-dos like that. That's something that we've codified in it to to focus on. It's making changes. it's, you know, preparing the the commit and so on and so forth and and ultimately sort of like taking out the oven. We'll see a response at the end of just like it finished, you know, like you can go ahead and look at the pull request and the the the sort of normal human review part continues. So,
>> let's talk about that really quickly. You said, 1300 code or agent initiated PRs per week, something like that, and then humans are involved in code review. How are you getting all this code review done? Well, you can make the argument that, you know, if I'm spending less time actively writing code, I can, you know, you know, reenter my time on reviewing the code that's being written or working with users and so on so forth. So, I think that's a big part of it. I I think the the other side of it, like it comes back to that CI environment, right? So, having really good test coverage, having synthetics that run to, you know, simulate end-to-end interactions with your product, um, those all help inspire confidence in the code you're reviewing, right? So absent those like it'd be really difficult to look at code especially in a huge codebase and have high confidence that it works. So you know again whether the the text has been written by Steve or the text has been written by Steve's robot you still want that CI environment that's um you know providing confidence that the the code that's being changed is safe and that as it rolls out you know you're having sort of blue green deployment so you can roll back too like all that is super critical um independent of of of the you know the nature of the authoring of it. I I do I do believe like if coding becomes easier and coding historically has been the bottleneck in product development, it's just going to shift to other areas, right? So um if like coding in effect becomes free, the review is going to be really challenging, right? Or getting enough ideas in the first place could be a big problem or distributing them, right? So I think uh the attention is just going to you uh move around to to other areas.
>> Great. And then um one other question before we go on to your next workflow which I'm so excited about spoiler alert
>> is are more than engineers using minions. Are you seeing product managers, designers come in? How is this going across the company and across functions?
>> Yeah, I I think you know part of why I like the Slack example is the entire company's in Slack, right? Um, and you know, to a point of activation energy, you know, even even if like you had the text editor on your computer, um, and I and I gave you the docs and and and whatever it may be, you know, to to someone who's not an engineer, it could be really challenging or intimidating or whatever it may be. And you know, for whether you just want like a proof of concept or you're going to make a doc change or or whatever it may be, like you can you can probably write out in plain text the the thing you want to occur, right? you might be writing the product brief or you might be uh giving design feedback like you're you're in effect just writing a prompt at some point. Um so being able to just click an emoji or or or you know tag the the robot to spin from minion. We're starting to see um more non-engineer usage there. Yeah.
>> Amazing. Okay. So let's go to our next workflow which I am
>> Yes.
>> psyched as somebody with a stack of Mac minis downstairs. I am excited about. So, you know, at Stripe, we're, you know, we're thinking about AI in a few ways, right? So, the demo we just showed is how we're thinking about using AI internally to accelerate our product development and engineering. The second way is, you know, thinking about how we're supporting all these businesses that are um, you know, leveraging AI in their own products and how we can support their business models. And, you know, that's with things like usage based billing and you we just announced our our beta of our um, LM uh, token billing product. Um but there's a third side which is like this sort of idea of agents as economic actors or a agents that can spend money as you know as part of their attempt to solve a prompt. And before we jump to the demo like just the thing I'll illustrate is like you know often you give a prompt to claude or some other agent and it will use its own model to generate text and response right or maybe it will do a web search or call an MCP tool or whatever it may be to gather information or to to affect change as part of that response. And you know, of course, there's the shopping cases, but we imagine a future where like third party services are going to want to sell into these kinds of experiences and that those interactions will cost money. Um, so we have to equip uh our agents with the capacity to spend so they can not only consume tokens, but so they can also pay services as part of achieving uh the prompt. So I'm going to give a uh an example. Uh, Jen, who's a product manager I work with, is awesome. I think her birthday is coming up soon. If not, the demos, it's her birthday party, and we're gonna ask Claude uh to help plan it. And along the way, it's going to uh interact with a bunch of different uh real thirdparty services that are really going to accept money over a payment protocol we're calling the machine payment protocol, which we've co-designed with Tempo. And um we'll see some real transactions along the way. So, I have a you sort of pre-baked uh prompt. We'll paste in just to skip that part. And I will go ahead and give it. So, I told it to research Jen Lee, who's my product manager,
>> figure out what would be a a good idea for her birthday, find a place to have the birthday, send invites to the birthday, and then, you know, we've burned all these tokens along the way, so we should probably donate to Stripe Climate at the end to make up for all that energy consumption. So, right now, we're still getting the environment set up, just setting up our uh ability to pay uh tempo. The first thing we're going to do, we can see right here, is that we've actually paid browser base to create a new browser session. So, I didn't sign up for browser base beforehand. I'm just paying for this one session. Um, it's going to do that. I gave it her website somewhere up here. Um, so it's going to go ahead and spin up that environment. You can see right now it's writing some playwright code locally, which will connect to that browserbased session. It got to our website, right? So, Jen likes uh she I think she bakes and she cooks. So, it actually found out by running that browser session that she's a matcha obsessed baker working on a cookbook. We're going to go ahead and turn off that browser session. And we can see the net cost is just a fraction of a cent. And again, like we like really paid that business just now. The next thing it's going to do is using its knowledge of Jen and her interest in matcha, it's going to uh search online using uh parallel AI to find relevant venues in New York that we could host this party. You know, something that matches matches her matcha interest. I'm gonna just do again a side quest, a call back to um our episode with Andrew and Nibil who who used AI to set up a um tabletop gaming business they were building in the East Bay. And my friend texted me and she said, "This is the most San Francisco thing I've ever seen, which is two dudes that need AI to help plan their game night." And I was looking up at your original original prompt and I was like, this is such an engineers prompt for how to plan a birthday party. It's like source m and then insert Jen's name.
>> You know you're doing something wrong if I have to load environmental variables to celebrate someone's birthday.
>> Exact. It's just like so funny.
>> Yeah. So, I found this uh matcha cafe in New York on Bowery that's uh it thinks it's a perfect fit for a matcha interest, which is great. Now we should uh you know send an invite in the mail. Um you know we're taking it offline. Um so now we're interacting with this service called postal form. Uh postal form will take a a PDF and uh actually send it in the mail. So again right now what we're doing is we're the LM is writing code locally to generate a PDF image of the invite. So there's this sort of interesting balance of like what can the LM do itself right with its own tools in my local machine versus what it needs a third party uh service for. Like obviously the robot can't send mail and I think if the robot could send mail that would be uh kind of concerning. So you know now it's trying to fix a couple things with the PDF. I'm sure the invite looks it would be very interesting to see what the look like.
>> It looks machine generated.
>> It'll look Yeah, it's just a bunch of binary. No one's going to come to the party. How do you I I mean I I know this is a little bit of a demo you're giving us here, but
>> I think so many of these even consumer, you know, facing products like I've never heard of postal form. It sounds amazing where it solves like a very, you know, individual user problem of like how do I get mail out the door?
>> So many of them are going to be interacting with agents and like the API as as the interface. And you and I were talking about that a little bit before the show and you were saying you were getting user feedback recently that sort of spoke to that.
>> Yeah, we've been talking to, you know, I think maybe including post form. We've been talking to a lot of users as we've been integrating this machine payment stuff and you know it's ve very normal stripe to ask for feedback and you know typically they go oh I'll get back to you and write up some notes and I would get these like in in 30 seconds I'd get two pages back and the engineer over there had used you know cloud or codeex to you know read the stripe docs and implement the feature and then figured since like they hadn't really written it themselves that they'd ask cloud codeex to send feedback back to me and like it it happened once I Okay, that like that's that's funny. And it happened like four or five times that week and it was just extremely jarring and and it it it added this sort of physicality to who the new user is here, right? That like the we'd have to hear from the agent directly. Um, all right, we're just going to check in quickly. We we sent it in the mail and then, you know, we we burned we burned some tokens along the way. So, we actually made a $1.65 uh donation or contribution to Stripe Climate to erase 4.4 4 kilograms of carbon based off of our 70k token usage. Um, and you can kind of see here an agent receipt of uh the services it interacted with and and the cost of each. So, at some point I'm going to get an invite to a party in the mail.
>> I want to just recap those for folks that are not watching. So, we started
>> with a prompt and claude code that said, "Plan my friend Jen a birthday party. This is what we know about her."
>> Yeah. It it preceded there was some like movie magic here where it preceded here are some tools I know can take agent payments
>> um that might be useful in the pursuit of this and instead of a human having to go into those tools log in drop a credit card buy a plan there was a machineto-achine transaction that happened that gave micro access to the to the tool for the capacity the agent needed to do the job at hand and we see it use browser base and parallel and postal form and it it issued those church those those um payments programmatically accessed just what it needed did a little offset stripe climate purchase and then got your party planned and what I like about this is what's really interesting about this particular example is it makes it very clear the economics of doing something agentically. I like this little you you know we got a little stripe climate shout out here but it also just calls out like this actually does cost you in tokens whether or not your agent is doing outside transactions. So we're already operating in an economic framework, right?
>> Yeah. I think I'm on a stripe plan here, but you you know in general like you know people have a subscription relationship to you these providers and and that costs money and we get a certain number of tokens and any prompt I give even though I'm not like seeing the penny count move by has a a ultimate dollar cost to it, right? And you know maybe in the typical coding example and you know consuming tens of thousands hundreds of millions of tokens we've sort of justified the value of that right because the the code has business value and the size monetary value but like the the sort of like token and the currency that backs it like they feel closer than ever and you know whether I'm spending a penny or a dollar on a third party service or I'm spending uh you know tens or hundreds of thousands of tokens with the LM we're sort of doing a similar activity right which is that we need intelligence or we need data or we need operations or we need a service to execute on that prompt and you know achieve some outcome and I think it's like it even just this view feels very provocative and it it feels early but I I think it's going to feel very natural over time to see the the token and and the dollar side by side and you know for me it's like you know I planned a birthday party for I mean it's I don't know if the it's any good but I planned a birthday party for $547. That doesn't seem too bad.
>> Again, we're we're doing this episode in the year of our claude 2026. Like we're going to show the terminal the terminal example and most people watching this and again how AI is for everybody super technical and not they're going to look at this and like okay I'm but yeah like I'm not going to plan my birthday party in the terminal but let's just pull that thread 6 months in the future or 12 months in the future. There's going to be a bunch of builders out there that are going to wrap this in a much more consumerfriendly user user experience and then you're going to be able to build such interesting products that can interact and transact in just a much more human way which again can just solve problems in a different in a different mindset.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think it'll be really interesting to build a business where your primary consumer sort of wants an ephemeral interaction with you and it doesn't necessarily require you having a dashboard or an admin panel or a landing page or you know all the all the other typical things that are really useful um you know when a human or a business is interacting with you and instead you could focus on like just a hyper useful single API um and and monetize that directly and and and make your, you know, audience primarily agents. I I think a lot of just like really interesting businesses can emerge out of out of that opportunity.
>> I I completely agree. And then we're going to have agents identify what those businesses are, build them, transact with other agent customers. Agents all the way down. Well, Steve,
>> all the way down.
>> Awesome. Just to recap for folks, we saw minions and how to kick off um development work from Slack and the benefits of investing in developer experience. Again, VPs of engineering just like carve off a a DevX team and give it some love and product managers get out of the way. You'll get more product at the end of the day if you just uh give give some time and effort towards developer experience. And then we got to s see these machine to machine payments which I think by the time the episode is live. We should be able to maybe talk about or or see. So fingers crossed um this will be live by the time our episode goes live.
>> And we showed you how to plan a I guess got to zoom in a matcha cheesecake
>> birthday party in
>> Jenley's matcha party April 19th apparently.
>> All things I I guess I didn't pick the date. So the the robot has decided that will be a good birthday. So,
>> Saturday, April 19th, 3 to 6 p.m. Sounds perfect. We plan a birthday party for $6 carbon neutral.
>> Uh, Steve, this is awesome. Before I send you off, couple lightning round questions. One, you know, we showed kind of a a contrived personal use case, but what are your personal workflows for AI?
>> The thing I've been really interested in is the sort of like disposability of software. And I have I have a four-month-old now and a almost two and a half year old now. and the two and a half-year-old keeps grabbing my phone to like try to change music. So, I've I've toyed around with like music apps that are extremely controlled to just six songs. I have no idea how to build iOS apps, but the robot does. So, I I've been toying around like little little engagements like that. And then I I use, you know, the all the AI apps sort of in the normal way. I I guess in addition,
>> yeah. Well, if folks want to create an app like that, we just did an episode with Jesse Jana who built a like minimalist YouTube for kids where it can like her kids can only watch the videos that she preapprove
>> and you can only swipe back and forth. You can't do any like no other buttons. It's very very streamlined.
>> Um, so very similar to to your music example. Okay. And then my last question, which got a sneak preview of a a little up on this claude example, but when AI is not listening, you know, when your minion does not oneshot, what is your prompting strategy? And you're a parent, so like do you gentle parent your AI? Are you like, I know you can do it, or do, you know, do you you do you bribe it? Do you offer it 15 cent carbon neutral? like what are you
>> this sounds crazy but like I have made a concerted effort to always be polite and
>> same
>> and I don't I mean like I you like sci-fi and I I like alien stuff all that like there's this sort of like who knows if that's going to happen or not but like I definitely don't want to be caught being rude even though like I I think I've read some stuff of like you know being more intense or being rude can result in better it's like I don't want to I'd rather have to do a little bit extra work than have it on the record that I was mean because you never know. Um but the but the more serious answer is um one a asking it to explain or justify itself um has helped quite a bit and then I think in other cases I've I've tried like in other cases where I know the right direction to go. I will I will start going in the right direction and then I will ask it to look at sort of like the get status to look at the diff or like look at other sort of like breadcrumbs that I've left as like the directional thing to help guide it
>> and then of course like if I'm doing a thing that's not recurring but like that I'm going to do again and try to keep that in in some skill or or prompt or otherwise that I can inject back in later.
>> Got it. So, you're doing like the dad teaching his kid to ride a bike move where like your hands on the back of it and then you let him let it go. You're like,
>> it didn't really hit me until you said that, but there's something really there's something really weird about raising kids at the exact same time that the the uh the the robot emerges. That hadn't really clicked with me yet. So, I I don't know what's informing what, but uh they are happening at the same time.
>> Yeah. I said something like, "It's really interesting to be raising kids and literally writing like soul.md files into my agents." Like, I guess that's a virtuous cycle of of skills. Well, Steve, this has been awesome. Where can we find you and how can we be helpful?
>> We can learn more about the the work we're doing at Stripe um at stripe.dev, which is our blog. So, you can learn all about, you know, some of the interesting things we're building. Um the demo I just showed you, you can learn more about at uh docs.stripe.com/payments stripe.com/payments/machine and I guess I'll plug my Twitter which is just steve koliski. Uming so those three.
>> Well, yeah.
>> Thanks for joining Howai. This was awesome.
>> Awesome. Thank you so much for having me.
>> Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this show, please like and subscribe here on YouTube or even better, leave us a comment with your thoughts. You can also find this podcast on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Please consider leaving us a rating and review which will help others find the show. You can see all our episodes and learn more about the show at howiaipod.com. See you next time.