It was maybe the only moment in Open AI's history where I felt like I didn't want to do it anymore. Take me back to the moment you found out that Sam had been fired. Where were you? I was at home. And what happened? I got a text saying can we hop on a video call? So I hopped on the video call. I noticed that it was the board minus Sam who were on there. I was told that the board has decided that Sam would be removed, also that I had been removed from the board but would be staying with the company. What went through your mind? It just wasn't right. Right after I hung up the call talked to my wife and I said, "Got to quit." And she said, "I agree." And you quit that day. Yes. That day when I quit started to get all these messages, people saying, "I don't know what you and Sam are doing next, but I'm with you. I want to go start something with you." Like just that was that was a real honest surprise. There were a few of my close collaborators who quit that day as well. That's Yakub Shimon, Alexander and the five of us, so those people plus Sam, we all got together and we started to chart out what a new company could look like. I remember feeling that first day like okay, there's a 10% chance that we actually get the company back, 10%. The next day we set up a meeting at Sam's house. A bunch of people from the company came by and we showed the vision that we'd been sketching out. So it was this really one day in, you know, with this this fresh picture of how we'd run the project and we spent a bunch of time over that weekend also negotiating with the board and the company and trying to figure out is there a path back together that makes sense. That Sunday night the board replaced Mira as interim CEO with a new person and the company just rebelled. Like we'd actually been at the office, we thought we were close to a deal and
>> To come back.
>> To come back. Yeah, we thought we had a path and then the board made that change and then suddenly it was everyone streaming out of the building and it was just like real chaos. I was on video calls with many of the people who had been interested in coming to this new this new company saying it's going to be okay, we have a plan and we expanded, you know, we've been building this little life raft, right, for the small set of people we expected to want to come and suddenly it was like no one wanted to be associated with this entity, right? People wanted to you know, stand up for what they viewed as right. Then this petition starts to circulate. So many people were trying to sign the petition at once, it actually crashed Google Docs. And so they you had to have certain people who were designated as the person you go to to actually put your name on the document so you don't you don't have too many editors at once. You know, I probably got home around like 5:00 a.m. or something, went to sleep and I woke up like 45 minutes later and I checked Twitter and I saw that Ilya had posted and had signed the petition and it said that he wanted the company to come back together and that was this real moment of relief. I felt so much gratitude that it just felt like okay, like we can put this back together, we can get back to a good track. You and Ilya had built this together. What was it like trying to find your way back to that relationship after? Look, it was tough. It was definitely that was definitely a very close relationship. You'd been the officiant at my civil ceremony. Right, we'd been through extremely tough times together and like any relationship, you always have your ups and downs and we spent a lot of time afterwards really talking things through and really trying to understand and just articulate some of the things that we had let build up or had left unsaid between us and I think that we got to through that process, I think we had gotten to a really good place and I felt like we got to closure on on everything that had happened. And so eventually everybody comes back. I'll tell you it was not guaranteed because throughout that weekend all the competitors were circling. Just imagine this like feeding frenzy. People were shaping up to do, people were getting offers and we actually did not lose a single person through that weekend. No one accepted a competing offer. I think that's incredible. Yeah, it was a very that was a diamond moment. After all of this happened, you took some time off. What was going on internally with you? That was an intense experience to go through, an intense experience to come back to and honestly just one of the hardest moments for me at Open AI was when Ilya left. It was maybe the only moment in Open AI's history where I felt like I didn't want to do it anymore. I think I needed some time to kind of find my way back to remembering like why I was doing this and why it was so important and why it was worth the pain. If I were to say like open a Google document, write out sort of what you learned about yourself on one page from this whole starting to Sam getting ousted to quitting to inspiring all this loyalty to the time off and then coming back, what would you write? I think I've just learned to just keep going for something that's worth it. Right, if you have a mission that matters, then the fact of you keep going through the ups and the downs. There going to be moments where it's it's all over moments where it's where so back and you just can't let those moments pull you off course. And I think that the degree of personal resilience that you have to grow during these times because if you're leading, people look to you for that steadiness, for that support, for the direction that the whole thing will go. And I think that a lot of what I've tried to grow with is to really be able to both understand the details, right, of what we're doing, what the implication will be of a choice but also be decisive. I think that that there have been moments where I think I've been very much approaching Open AI through a lens of uncertainty of feeling like I don't know what the right answer is. I don't know what the right way to build this technology is or how do you answer these very thorny questions. But there's lots of people here who are very smart, who have very strong opinions and so really try to understand all those opinions and figure out how to put them together. And sometimes that's the right thing and sometimes that you realize that the opinions are mutually contradictory, they can't all be true at once. And sometimes you do just have to pick and you know that means that there's going to be someone who's going to be upset, someone who's going to quit, someone who's going to feel slighted and I think that a lot of what I've tried to do is have a stronger sense of self and a stronger sense of when there is conviction that we need to act on it. Not always the easiest, right, that you really do have to be willing to take on great personal pain. Like in the words of Ilya, Ilya always says that you have to suffer. Right, if you're not suffering, like you're not building value. And I think there's deep truth to it. Double click on that. This picture of suffering was something that that we thought about throughout the course of Open AI where it's like we had so much uncertainty from the beginning. Is this thing going to work? And there's many reasons why it might not work, why it should not work, why you could even say it cannot work, right, whether it's how do you get the people, how do you pursue the technology like how do you get enough capital, how do you keep people motivated, like how do you make the right decisions, like each of these things is extremely hard, extremely uncertain and it's easy to just sweep the problems under the rug and just blindly say go. And I think that is the negative side of like Silicon Valley culture, right, certainly Silicon Valley perception. But I don't think that works in AI and I don't think that works for Open AI. I don't think that's how we've operated ever. I think the way that we have always operated is to say encounter the hard truth understand science the reality as it is and that is I think something that has contributed to the successes we have had of thinking about the problems differently, of not being happy with even in the early days, we're thinking about okay, if we just write some papers and publish them it'll be great, we'll get citations, we'll get you know, we'll be the coolest people at these conferences, but will we achieve the mission? Like how is it that you do that activity and then AGI goes better for the world? They're not connected, right, it's not enough. Maybe it's a foundation, maybe it's a step, but it is not sufficient. And so then you start really thinking about these bigger picture questions of well, what it would what would it take to build an AGI? And not pleasant, right, because you realize there's no path. You realize you need dollars. You don't have any mechanism that's going to allow you to raise dollars and you can try hard. We did try hard, we tried extremely hard, but you know, maybe you're raising 100 million dollars, you could do 500 million dollars, great. But a billion? Pretty hard. And you look at what Open AI has been able to accomplish with the resources we have been able to raise to further that mission, there truly would be no other way to do it besides having leaned into the suffering and trying to understand the truth of what it is we're trying to accomplish.
>> [music]