Hello, Rebecca Jones here. Or should I say Kia Order because you're about to hear a special bonus episode recorded live in Oakland, New Zealand earlier this month. And yes, I know this is the Australia podcast, but few economies are as closely watched right now in this region as New Zealand's. Our Pacific neighbor is navigating inflationary pressures, productivity challenges, and a shifting global environment, which is why the conversation you're about to hear is such a timely one. New Zealand's Minister for Finance and Deputy Leader of the National Party, Nicola Willis, was interviewed live on stage before a packed room by our Wellington bureau chief, Matthew Brockett. Here's what she had to say. I want to just reflect quickly on where we are right now in the economic landscape. Um, the economy is smaller than it was when you took office. That's a tough metric to confront for a government that claims to be a better economic manager than its predecessor. What do you think's gone wrong? Well, I think that it it will have gone right by next year, Matthew, and that's when the voters decide. Uh, and look, when I yesterday, um, I shared with Parliament that the IMF has done an assessment of the output gap in various countries around the world in 2023. And what that analysis shows is that New Zealand was top of the pops, which is to say in 2023 when the last government left office, we had the most overheated economy in the world. And that was off the back of three years of inflation out of band, an extremely rapid rise in interest rates. And you know, a Reserve Bank governor who was pretty upfront about saying he was trying to engineer a recession. So I don't think there should be any surprise about the fact that we have had a downturn and a difficult recovery. that was anticipated. Um, our job as a government is to reset the foundation so that growth can return in a sustainable way. Part of that is getting the books back in healthy condition. Part of that is putting in place the reforms that will drive future growth. Uh, and when it comes to the fundamentals, inflation uh, back in band, interest rates coming down, uh, we're there. As I say, we've had some growth returning. We want to see that sustained. All of my forecasters tell me I should be confident. We you spoke about the the the knock to confidence from the US tariffs, but I just wonder why New Zealand's confidence was knocked that much. I mean, a lot more than other comparable countries. Is is the government not have a role in in shoring up confidence in times of that sort of global uncertainty? Well, look, I mean, it this is it sentiment is notoriously hard to judge and assess. My view is that we had only just come into our recovery. As I say, our cyclical recovery postco has been marked by more challenges because our inflation lasted longer and went higher than in many other countries. Our interest rates also spiked higher. There are a number of factors that meant New Zealand's recovery has been more challenging. And off the back of that and the confidence that that had sapped uh with confidence only just returning, uh my my basic sense it didn't take much of a blow uh for people to go back into their box. And I think that that was the sort of behavior that you saw. We're also, you know, one of uh the world's great trading nations. One in four jobs in this country depends on trade. Uh we're not like uh some countries who who actually do most of their economic activity with themselves. We're highly dependent on access to global markets. And the idea of a US China trade war, I think everyone in New Zealand knows that that's not great for our country. Okay. I think you alluded in your speech to the idea that potentially that 0.9% contraction could be revised presumably to something a bit smaller. What advice have you had from Treasury around that? Yeah, just simply that they've pointed out to me that over the past couple of years or so it has um become very regular for stats to revise its quarterly GDP data. And you can look back on that and see that some of those revisions have been reasonably significant to and to defend stats. Um that has actually occurred around the world to some extent that getting back to um seasonal patterns postco and measuring that stats data is challenging and you've seen a number of jurisdictions find that um survey techniques are having to evolve. Uh so I don't think stats and zed is unusual in that sense but we certainly uh have seen significant revisions to the quarterly data. There are some technical factors which I'm not even sure this audience would be up for understanding but to do with the top down adjustment and the the seasonality of the Q2 quarter versus the Q4 data and Treasury have briefed me on those things and said look taken together all you need to know is don't be surprised uh if there is a revision to this and the Reserve Bank clearly pointed to that in their statement yesterday as well. Do you want to take a stab at what it might be revised to? No, I don't want to do that. You're saying now that the worst is behind us. I I just want to quickly touch on the NZIR's um business survey business survey that came out this week because that was quite downbeat. Um notably investment intentions were sharply lower. A net 13% of firms expecting to reduce spending on plant and machinery over the coming year and that must be a bit of a concern particularly after your investment boost in the in this year's budget. Yeah, look, we've always said that investment boost is a policy for the medium and long term. It's not a it's not a stimulus response. We don't think the fiscal stimulus is required from the government at this juncture. The Reserve Bank uh is doing the is doing the lifting on stimulus. Uh but it's actually about uh the productivity settings and so uh firms know it's there uh and are going to be able to take it up and on the margin we do expect it will bring some investment decisions over the line that wouldn't have otherwise happened. you know the the NZIER survey you refer to is interesting and that it's not as exposed to agriculture as some of the other surveys and I think that is significant because we are very much seeing uh that the agricultural part of the economy uh is doing very well uh that is where you are seeing not only uh good returns but certainly for the dairy sector they're looking ahead uh potentially to an additional dividend next year uh and you're seeing a sense that those returns will be sustained across large parts of the agricultural sector with the highest terms of trade we've had since the 50s. So that means that you are seeing uh different things happening in different parts of the economy. That survey isn't picking up on the egg and I think if it was it would paint a more positive picture. Equally the own activity measures in that survey show that people's reported actual activity uh is getting better. Okay. You you mentioned stimulus there briefly. Of course we do have an election next year. You're going to want the economy to be growing by then. Um, are you planning any specific stimulus measures going into the next year? No, we're going to stick to our fiscal plan because we were elected very clearly on a platform uh that after some years of what we would characterize as very reckless economic and fiscal management which allowed debt uh to soar in a way uh that was quite unprecedented and allowed a structural deficit to be put in place with spending reaching very high levels. in a wasteful way that part of what we were elected to do was re uh was reset those foundations to have fiscal responsibility back to get the books back in balance and so that's part of our handshake with the New Zealand people and to do that um we've got to stick to the fiscal strategy and we're confident that we can do that while continuing to invest in the public services which uh we've also committed to do a better job on whether that's in health or education our police uh and we've demonstrated that we can do that over the past two budgets. By delivering $43 billion of savings from uh less efficient parts of the crown, we have been able to then release investment to to education, to health, uh to other critical areas and it will be the same in next year's budget. Well, you are constrained by the fiscal situation. The budget deficit is forecast to widen to 12 billion in the current year. That's 2.6% of GDP. Um, do you still expect to be able to return the budget to surplus in 2028? Yes. Yes, we do. Uh, we we we continue to have that intention. That continues to be our fiscal goal. Uh, how that will actually play out will fluctuate over a series of forecasts. But what we've set out in our budget plan is a gradual consolidation path. And uh all of the advice that I've received is well yeah uh in a technical sense you could suddenly just rip a whole heck of spending out and get yourself back into balance immediately. Actually the way that you would have to do that would probably uh be through transfers that is um social welfare support or superanuation support because that's where the bulk of adjustable spending lies. And when you do that in one fell swoop, that can actually have extremely negative impacts on both economic growth and economic sentiment. Not to mention the fact we don't have a mandate for that from the people who elected us. So I don't think that would be the right thing to do and we have set out confidently that we can achieve fiscal consolidation over the medium term consistent with what the experts tell us is needed. Um, and look, you know, the best way of reviewing whether I'm telling the truth there is the ratings agencies and they retain confidence uh in our plan. They think that this remains a good credit risk of a country. They've rated us highly uh and say as long as we stick to that plan, we're all good. Of course, the ratings agencies also like US subprime debt. But um let's move on to net debt. Um there's a cherry chair. I just want to briefly touch on debt. Um, it's currently about 42% of GDP. You want to reduce it to less than 40%. Um, it's forecast to increase to 46% in the next couple of years. Those are historically high numbers and the Treasury is warning that it'll keep rising, in fact, going to 200% of GDP by 2065, unless something's done to address the pressures of the aging and aging population. And I wonder what you see as being necessary to stop that from happening. First I just want to address a few things in your question slech. Um the the first of all debt is forecast to grow uh and before it comes back down at the end of the forecast period before we bend it down. But it is of note I think that when we saw the full accounts for the year which we published yesterday we were forecasting an increase to debt but actually debt held level. My point here is yes we're forecasting that but we're always aiming to do better. The second thing is you're absolutely right that uh Treasury have said very clearly that anything above 50% debt in New Zealand due to our small exposed nature and the price we already pay for debt would expose us uh if we were to have any kind of a shock uh and would not be a prudent place to be and we accept their advice on that and think that it is important to get back into a more prudent debt position. As we look ahead, Treasury have done their 40 years from now. If nothing changes, if no government decides to do anything differently, what might happen? And frankly, I just think that's a theoretical exercise that has no bearing on reality because governments have proven uh that they do react to the um circumstances in front of them. uh you know a couple of key issues for New Zealand uh superanuation and uh health and those are the two areas that are going to drive future public expenditure uh I think all parties uh have a uh requirement to go into the next election with a policy setting out uh where they're at on superanuation because as we all know these are very longheld uh things and we need to signal very clearly very much ahead of people uh who are who aren't even thinking about retiring ing now what those settings will look like. Uh we um we as a party uh have proposed changes in this area in the past. We haven't committed to whether we would make changes in the future. Uh but I think we have shown our hand at this recent budget by increasing those contributions to Kiwi Saver. Uh which shows a commitment I think from all three parties in the coalition that that is an important vehicle uh for New Zealand's future savings. U yeah leave it there. What about new revenue streams? That's something which uh Treasury has also highlighted. Do you see a need for any new revenue streams? It was interesting. We recently had a tax expert visit New Zealand and I had him come into my office and I said, "Well, how do we look relative to the rest of the world?" And he said, "Like, you're really good. You've got a really great system in that you've you're a poster child for having resisted the political urge to fiddle with your GST. It's very clean. You haven't introduced exemptions and um problems like that. it works is a really efficient uh revenue system. Your PAE system looks pretty good. Uh you've got the uh corporate system looking pretty good. It it works pretty well. It's a clean system. And so uh our our view is when you look at um when you look at the tax system, you want it to be efficient. You don't want it to send distorting uh signals. You want it to raise sufficient revenue. Um, but we will always be looking at it to say, well, given our goal is to be more competitive internationally, given our goal is for New Zealanders to be get to get ahead uh and to pursue aspiration and achievement, we should be continuously asking ourselves, could these settings better support that. We'll be right back for part two of New Zealand Finance Minister Nicola Willis in conversation with Bloomberg's Matthew Brockett. This is the Bloomberg Australia podcast. [Music] and welcome back to the Bloomberg Australia podcast. You're listening to an extract of Wellington Bureau Chief Matthew Brockett in conversation with New Zealand Finance Minister Nicola Willis recorded before a live audience in Oakland earlier this month. What about a capital gains tax? That's never been on our agenda. I mean, why not? New Zealand is an outlier in the OECD and not having one. Well, the first reason why not is the parties that want to raise a capital gains tax will also want to waste the money on something else. And uh typically we've seen that Labor governments that have spent more have not put that spending into productive investment. We've seen it uh in fact been uh used in a in a wasteful way. But the second reason uh is that capital gains taxes uh very clearly send a message that those who invest in capital and gain from capital will be punished for it. And we're sending a really strong message we actually want more investment in New Zealand. We actually want more capital growth to occur. Uh and it's it's very hard for me to reconcile how you say on the one hand we're going to tax returns on capital but on the other hand we really want you investing capital and making greater returns on capital. So, it's just not consistent with our worldview, which is let's make this a better place to invest, not make it harder. Well, I I'll just push back on that just a little bit. I mean, there's no strong evidence that taxing capital gains actually drives capital away. And I mean, if everyone else has got a capital gains tax, then where is it going to go? And secondly, it gives them another reason to go. And you know, I'm very reflective about this, which is we've got this big brother over there called Australia, and we have very free flows of people in capital between New Zealand and Australia. And our advantages are not absolute. We have many, it's a much better place to live here. But one of the things that does matter is things like Australia has a capital tax, a capital gains regime, and we don't. And on the margin, yes, that's of advantage to us. Do we want to keep giving away every single area of advantage that we have? My answer is no. Okay. Um, as we're on the housing market broadly, um, you know, I just want to ask for your views on this because it plays an important part in terms of economic growth and and you know, the wealth effect which we currently not having at the moment. Um, your colleague Chris Bishop is on record of saying he wants house prices to fall and they have been falling, but that makes your job harder. What would you like to see in the housing market? Well, I want to see a much more moderate uh house price growth than we have seen in the past. So, there's two issues. The first issue uh is that we saw a massive spike in house prices in New Zealand postco essentially a 30% house price growth in one year and then we've basically seen uh an asset bubble crash which is that that's come off the other side uh and of course that's at a huge knock uh to household confidence uh and um has really been a kick in the guts for for many New Zealanders. So I think that has absolutely uh affected the recovery that we're having. What we want to see and indeed what Treasury is forecasting is that in the future there will be moderate house price growth but in a system that allows supply to respond to demand because historically what we've seen in New Zealand is periods of extremely high house price growth simply because demand was higher for housing but the market was completely unable to respond on the supply side. Why? Because our resource consent settings didn't allow developers to get the consent for the developments they might have wanted wanted to do. So they could see the signal in the market, house prices are going up high. Let's get in there and build some houses to respond to that. But there was a huge timing delay between the market showing that and then being able to uh respond with supply. So we're changing the settings. And what Chris Bishop is intent on is he wants the market to work so that if we are seeing spikes in demand, people can get out and supply the housing. But both he and I agree we're going to see moderate house price growth in the future. Okay, let's move on to the Reserve Bank which has been dominating headlines this year for all kinds of reasons. Um firstly, do you think it made a policy mistake? I mean it paused in its rate cuts earlier this year and now it's cutting by 50 basis points. Did they did they fail to recognize that the economy was in a hole? Well, I have the good grace not to comment on whether or not they have succeeded or failed and in return they have the good grace to do the same for me. Okay. Um, you've appointed a new Reserve Bank governor. Anna Braymond, currently deputy governor of Sweden's Rick's Bank, will be the first woman to help in the RBN Zed. Now, I know you said that gender wasn't a consideration in that appointment, but I wonder how important it was for you to break that glass ceiling. Well, I think it's significant uh for New Zealand. Uh having um been appointed to a role where uh there's only been another woman previously, I know that it's very undermining if people suggest that the reason you're in that role is because of your gender. And I did not want that for Dr. Braymond at the point of her appointment. That was very important to me. She is absolutely there on her merits. uh she has a CV from central banking central casting and she's an extraordinarily impressive person but there is just no question uh when our when our daughters but actually when women across the country see that there is no office in this country that cannot be occupied by a woman uh that has a galvanizing and positive effect. Okay. In her initial remarks Braymond spoke about enhancing transparency at the RBNZ. The Rick's Bank is uh more progressive on that front than than our central bank in terms of things like attributing votes to members of the rates sitting committee, holding a press conference after each rate decision and so on. I wonder if you see her appointment as an opportunity to introduce transfer transparency reforms. Great question and the answer is yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. What what kind of reforms I mean would you for example favor that votes being attributed on the monetary policy committee? Well, look, I'm going to leave it uh until Dr. Braymond has actually formally commenced her role and is able to have those discussions with her own board and then I will have those discussions with them about where we take that because obviously those are decisions that we will consider together. Uh but both me and Dr. Braymond independently have said that we think central banks should be committed to uh public transparency and accountability uh because it builds trust and that is actually essential to the way in which central banks operate and where we have a choice in the settings that we think ultimately will build trust and build accountability uh then I think we are duty bound to consider those changes. So there are always uh trade-offs and um balances to be made and so all of these things need to be considered carefully. But as you point out there are monetary policy regimes around the world which are radically more transparent than ours. Ours is still at the transparent end of the spectrum. But of course there's other improvements we could make. But just to be clear, would you support the attribution of votes on the MPC? Well, as I say, I'm not going to make a judgment on that until Dr. Breamman together with her board haven't had an opportunity to consider it. But I do think it's been very positive actually to have the record of split votes over recent OCR decisions because it just informs the market better about what's happening. But I also think it's healthy that you get the odds split decision on the MPC because what it demonstrates is they are having robust debates around that table and are seeing the balanced things. It's not group think. It's not one person deciding and telling the others what to think that there is a range of views being shared and being brought to the table. I think that is actually a healthy thing and not to be feared since its formation in 2019. Um the MPC we've seen external members uh join that and they've been almost completely invisible. I mean I can count on one hand the number of times they've engaged publicly or with the media. Is that acceptable? Do you think there should be a bit more accountability there? I mean these are people deciding on interest rates that affect the whole country. Ah well look there's nothing to stop them from doing that. There's nothing preventing them from doing that. Uh and I I think the the reality is that the um that the MPC speaks via its statements and there's always uh some uh desire not to confuse the market with people out saying different things in between updates. So that probably bears on some of uh their approach to it. There's absolutely nothing to stop them right now. But they're not doing it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. What about just just finally, what about a press conference after each rate decision as as the Rick's bank does? I mean, would that be something that you would be in favor of? Look, as I say, these are all the there's a there's actually a a laundry list of ideas uh that Dr. Braymond and the board may wish to consider. I don't think our system is broken. I think it actually works fairly well. those who are market participants tell me uh that they feel they get good and clear information out of the official cash rate decisions. Um and so I don't I don't I don't think that it's not not working. But if there are incremental improvements we can make and there are many we could consider. Uh then we should and each of those will come with some some pros and some cons and we'll need to weigh that up. Um, I'll have a view, the Treasury will have a view, the RBNZ will have a view, and together we'll weigh that up, and I'll and I'll respect that process by waiting until the right time. Okay. Just this week, we we we saw news that the former governor was paid a restraint of trade payment of over $400,000. I mean, it's looked a bit untidy this whole saga, and I just wonder whether you've, you know, felt that it's um undermined um the reputation of the Reserve Bank in any way. Well, well, look, ultimately the chairperson of the Reserve Bank did resign, and I think that ultimately uh reflected uh his decision, but also our uh discussion that we wanted to protect the reputation of the Reserve Bank. And I've made absolutely no bones about the fact that I don't think uh they had managed that episode well and that they should have been much more open and transparent in the way that they handled questions uh seeking information about that matter. I always thought very properly I think uh to not have uh the role as the commentator and chief on the employment agreement between the governor and the board. I thought it was very dangerous for the minister to step into uh that dispute in any way uh and dis absolutely distanced myself from it uh and then thought having not been a party to it I must rely on the board to communicate about it because otherwise I am inferring and making inference and commentary on something which I'm not actually a party uh to with that has all of the information uh with bearing and so what that requires for it to work is for the Reserve Bank to then communicate openly ly and transparently and unfortunately they haven't always met that mark. Okay, we are getting close to the time for the Q&A but I just I wanted to finish our discussion with just a little bit of a a conversation about what it's like to have your job. Um you know a lot of people look at parliament and politics and think that would be the last job they'd want to do. Um you work extremely long hours, you face a lot of criticism and you know just this week we've seen people throwing rocks through politicians windows. What? Why do you want to be in politics? Because I genuinely want to serve and make a difference. I am one of those New Zealanders who has been fortunate enough to get a great education, to have a great mom and dad, to have the opportunities this country provides. And I want to make sure that more people get that. Uh, I want to make the country better and I've also got four kids and they're aged nine through 15 and I worry that if New Zealand sits back and none of us stand up to make the changes that are needed, none of us stand up to say let's actually make sure the government works, none of us stand up and say we actually need to change some things and make some reforms and do better. Then all my kids will say, "Well, New Zealand's going backwards. I'm going to go and live in London or Beijing or Singapore and I'd quite like to have Christmas here into the future. So, I feel well, I've had everything I could possibly wish for out of this country. The least I can do is put my shoulder to the wheel and help make it better. Okay. I'm not going to ask you if you want Christopher Luxen's job, but if in the future the opportunity arose for for you to lead your party and become prime minister, would you consider it? I am 100% focused on being a good finance minister, a good economic growth minister and delivering the social investment framework that I came to parliament with an absolute passion for which is a whole another speech and a whole another forum by the way. Could you host that one because that is a fascinating area of reform that I don't talk enough about. Um and so my my plate is full. Uh and I always say to people who um are coming to me saying should I run for parliament I normally say yes but I also say but be really clear in your head why are you coming because if you are coming with a sense of personal ego i.e. I want this role then chances are you're going to be disappointed because there's a lot of factors outside of your control but actually you should be thinking what is the service I want to offer what is the impact I want to have uh and then seek opportunities to make it. The reality is in this role I have extraordinary opportunities every day to have impact and make a difference. I could want for no more. I mean it's extraordinary. So um I'll uh I'll do this job to the absolute best of my abilities. If you found today's conversation insightful, be sure to follow the Bloomberg Australia podcast wherever you listen and check for more reading on the biggest issues facing New Zealand, including the latest reporting from Matthew Brockett and his team and the complete recording of this live event at bloomberg.com. This episode was produced by Paul Allen and our special thanks go out to Jordan Mole, Josephine Dylan, and Awson Ostop. I'm Rebecca Jones and I'll see you next week.