Hey everybody, welcome back to the channel. We are back on another episode of the daily recap. This is the last daily recap for the week as we have come towards the end of the week on Thursday. Thank you again to everyone who's been showing support on these episodes. I really do love making them every day and I'm happy that people are enjoying them. Uh today was a red day in the stock market and we've got some things to talk about about why it was red. We're going to spend a little bit more time on the first subject today which is the regional banking crisis. I say crisis in a hyperbolic way. It's not a crisis yet, but the market is acting like it could become a crisis. And whenever the market thinks something can become a crisis, you tend to get a sell off. We got some other updates with Bitmine, Pounder. We'll talk about that stuff, but let's get into why stocks are red and what's going on with regional banks. Okay, so yesterday we ended green, but we had a couple of China hiccups, especially based on some comments that Bent had made that kind of allowed the market to feel a little bit more scared about what's going on with the US and China. Now, we'll talk about US and China relations because we do have a little bit of an update on that and uh that that update is actually good. It's not that counterproductive in terms of what's going on with US and China. But today, we're going back to March 2023. And if anyone remembers what happened in March of 2023, Silicon Valley Bank had collapsed. The Fed had raised rates the highest in 40 years in 2022 up until sort of the end of 2023. there was probably going to be some collateral damage because a lot of these regional banks, regional banks are not the JP Morgans, the cities, the Well Fargo, but rather the truest which are located more in the south of America. They are regional to a demographic and that's why they're called regional banks. Silicon Valley Bank catered towards a lot of the tech elite in Silicon Valley, California. And unfortunately, they took on some risk when rates were low that they probably shouldn't have taken on in case rates went up. They didn't think rates would go up. Guess what? rates went up and they ended up getting liquidated. So that created a bit of a crisis back in 2023. Now it didn't really turn into some massive issue that would cause something like 2008 again, but it was isolated to the regional banks and the markets had a bit of a hiccup and ultimately we got through that. Today there are fears in the stock market which is why stocks ended red on the day about regional banks. Now what is the fear and what exactly was the catalyst to create this fear? Well, we have to go to the culprit of what's going on, which is obviously a bank earnings because if some of the regional banks gave their earnings, which they did today. So, number one is Zion's Bank. They came out today. They had a record 60 million credit provision and a charge off of 50 million. And then Western Alliance Bank said that they had filed a lawsuit in August alleging fraud by a borrower in failing to provide collateral loans in the first position. Essentially, two regional banks came out today and said, "Hey, we think we have some bad loans. We are having some credit issues. These might be oneoff issues, but nonetheless, like you know, when you're a public company, you can't hide this stuff. Um, we have some bad issues in regards to the loans that we are dispersing. And as a result, Jeffre went down 7.9%. Truis was down 10%. The KRE regional banking index was down almost 7%. A firm block, PayPal, CLA, all the other fintexs were down on the day. One of the analysts about a note in Zions that he wrote today. Is it a good thing or a bad thing in credit terms if these loans went bad due to fraud or as opposed to the normal course of business? Either way, there have been enough one-offs in commercial credits of banks as of lately that investors are selling first and asking questions later. And I think that is kind of the moral of the story. It seems like more investors are selling first versus asking questions later. We had a 3% draw down on Friday. Everything feels a bit frothy. By the way, rare earth stocks crushed today. Uh quantum stocks crushed today. Nuclear stocks crushed today. Bitcoin miners turned data center stocks crushed today. And I think are they structurally dead because of momentum that has completely faded out of those names. I don't know. It's going to take I think at least a couple weeks to see if the momentum's gone and if those stocks are just going to turn a lot of people into bag holders or if those stocks are taking a breather because you know even if they fell 20 to 30% some of them would be a four to 5x still on the year which is just incredible. So it might just be them taking a breather. It might be something structural we're going to have to see over the coming weeks, but credit concerns across the entire market are always a reason for why investors would sell first and ask questions later. And the reason for that is because when there is a credit problem in an economy, you have cascading effects across the entire market. Consumers need to borrow money to do things. To buy a car, you need to take a loan, to buy a house, you need to get a mortgage, uh to buy everyday products and services. Most people need to take on credit card debt. When there are credit issues, aka massive delinquencies or problems in the underlying structure of credit in the United States or in any country, banks aren't that easy to lend money for. Uh companies start pulling back their spend on marketing, hiring new people because they say, "Hey, if there's some credit issues, then we need to reserve our right to be able to utilize this capital in more efficient ways." And overall risk on sentiment starts to come down. So, these were two regional banks today that said they had some issues. It's not like these uh are you know the the most important banks in the country. JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Black Rockck, Cityroup, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, they did not say any credit issues were a massive concern. In fact, JP Morgan and City Bank yesterday literally said on their earnings call delinquencies came in lower than expected, which to me is a great sign in terms of the health of the consumer. So then the question becomes in the context of the broader market are regional banks and our issues in credit within those regional banks specific enough and quite frankly harmful enough for the entire economy to now be afraid of what's going to happen based on those regional banks. I don't think the answer is yes. My gut feeling I mean you know I actually bought truest TFC which is a regional bank back in 2023. Put some options on it. Shout out to our friend Chris Patel who really taught me how to do call debit spreads. And he really said you need to look at truest. And that's when I kind of learned how to do some more due diligence on banks. Truis got to $27. Right now today it's at like 41. It got to a peak of like 48 a couple months ago. And truest um truest is is one of the leading regional banks in the south part of the United States of America. And they had no fundamental underlying issues. It's just when Silicon Valley Bank collapsed, well, you know, every regional bank was in question. And so you were able to buy it at an 11-year low and ride it back up. and the options created some more leverage on that trade as well. I don't know if the regional banks are in that type of an opportunity where you know truis gets back down to $27 gets to an 11-year low. But if that does happen, it says one of two things. Number one, either there is a structural credit problem in America and the regional banks are where the contagion is in which will spread pretty quickly. It's not going to be pretty if the regional banks have this underlying issue. So I think the most important earnings outside of tech earnings now because of today have become regionals. Everyone needs to focus on what the regional banks are saying or number two. This is a one-off and it's not that big of a deal. And I'm leaning towards number two because the big banks are saying we're okay now. The big banks are not the entire story. But if the big banks are the majority of the story, then this ends up being a buy the dip opportunity. I did buy the dip today. I bought more Grab, bought more Amazon. I think all stocks are going down algorithmically. There's no reason for a lot of these stocks to be down five, seven, seven% on the day outside of if there is a structural credit problem in this country, which I think is too soon to say. So, the regional banks are the reason we went red today. The regional banks might be the reason we continue to be red. It doesn't have to do with China. Doesn't have to do with Trump's announcement at 3 p.m. in the Oval Office, which is about in vitro fertilization. We thought it was going to be about the markets. That's not what it's about. Uh, it has to do with regional banks. And so, now the question becomes, how bad of an issue would this will this be? And we will find out. I mean, again, you got some of the analysts on these reports saying maybe Zion's and Western Alliance was just a one-time charge off, but investors would rather sell first and find out later versus hold on to the ride if there is a contagion in the regional banks. So, for the coming future, we will definitely be paying attention to what's going on with the regionals. Okay, let's talk about Bitine and Mr. Tom Lee. Um, Bitmine today got one of its first institutional upgrades, which was quite incredible to see. Uh, because there's not a lot of analysts actually covering the stock. Again, Bitmine is an Ethereum treasury. Um, Tom Lee is the chairman of the company. B. Riley initiates coverage, $90 price target, indicating a 70% upside from current prices. Here's what they say. We are initiating coverage of BMR with a buy rating and a $90 price target. Bit mine is the largest Ethereum digital asset treasury with an experienced management team and what we believe are achievable plans to acquire a 5% stake in the Ethereum network which is this kind of alchemy of 5% that Tomloo talks about. We expect the shares to continue trading at a premium 1.3 to 1.5x I think right now it's around 1.3x driven by ETH staking revenue institutional custody partnerships with leading service providers and a strong capital raising capability thanks to the current premium valuation. Tom Lee is one of those ambassadors that knows how to raise money and effectively allocate that capital. We project that BMR will hold approximately 7.6 million ETH by fiscal year 2026 end, which would be more than 5% of the entire Ethereum network subject to market conditions and capital availability. So, I thought this was pretty interesting today because essentially you have some institutional investors coming out. Devon Ryan, by the way, he was one of the only institutional analysts that was bullish on Robin Hood at $8 in 2022. He initiated coverage on SBET, which is a competitor to Bitmine, uh $50 price target. So, he's not putting out coverage on Bitmine, but he's putting out coverage on their competitor. And it was quite fascinating to me that a lot of these financial guys on Wall Street that cover banks and fintech and all this stuff are now covering Ethereum and digital asset treasuries rooted in the underlying asset that is Ethereum. And the only justification I have for it is that I think these Wall Street guys are speaking to other Wall Street guys. And when you're speaking to the Wall Street guys, this is what Tom Lee's been saying. Wall Street is becoming obsessed with tokenizing everything onchain, bringing assets on chain. Larry Frink was talking about the multi-t trillion dollar opportunity a couple days ago of bringing all these assets on chain. Vlad Tennant, CEO Robin said the financial network will be eaten up by tokenization. So I think that a lot of these uh Wall Street analysts are realizing that Ethereum is going to be inextricably linked with the financial sector, particularly with Wall Street. And as a result, it's hard to ignore it. And if it becomes really hard to ignore it, that means that you need to have exposure to it. That means you probably need to tell your clients to get some exposure to it. And that exposure seems like it's coming through the form of an ETH treasury, potentially BMR. Now another update on Ethereum and this leads back to the argument around Bitmine as well is Jove which is a Ethereum layer 2 blockchain for real world assets and users by Ant Digital Technologies Ant Group one of the largest financial institutions in China is now building on Ethereum. And one of the reasons this is really important is because Alipe and its 1.4 4 billion monthly active users in China which processes 8.7 trillion dollars of volume have launched on Jovi which is an Ethereum L2. So Jovi is an Ethereum L2 launched by the Ank group and Alip pay is a payment infrastructure in China that 1.4 billion monthly users use that now will get access to being able to trade transact etc on a layer 2 a layer 2 underneath Ethereum called Joy. That means 1.4 four billion people in China out of all places. China has not been the most friendliest to crypto just got access to being able to work on chain and the the chain of choice that they picked is not Salana, it's not Bitcoin Bitcoin, it's not their own layer 1, it's a layer two on Ethereum. Robin's entire tokenization is a layer two on Ethereum. So again, it goes back to BMR. I mean, regardless of what's happening to the stock, regardless of what's happening to Ethereum's price, which is under 4,000 today, if you believe in that overall ecosystem developing, growing, bringing more people into uh what could be one of the most important revolutions in the context of Wall Street and crypto and the intersection of that taking place on Ethereum, the asset that Bit continues to buy is Ethereum. And they have continued to be able to do this at a premium. As long as they can keep doing it at a premium, that premium will expand as long as Ethereum also continues to go up. if the thesis for Ethereum plays out, which means long term, you know, the reason I continue to own Bitmine is because I think that thesis does play out. So, nice to see a $90 upgrade on Bitmine for the first time uh since the company went public and actually getting some institutional coverage. And I think we will see a lot more of that in the future. All right, last update for the day. Palanteer and Snowflake, folks, they are working together. And I know this is kind of crazy for some people because a lot of people never thought that Palanteer and Snowflake would ever work together. Uh but they are. Pounder and Snowflake are teaming up to start a partnership for enterprise ready AI and analytics. One of their flagship customers, Eaton, which I've actually interviewed some of the executives at Eaten at AIPCON for Palare, is leveraging the integration to deliver enhanced business outcomes and streamline enterprisewide governance. So, let's back up a little bit. What is going on right here? Why is Palanteer working with Snowflake? Chad, one of the Palunteer AIP architects, came on my channel a couple months ago and basically said that Palunteer has started to shift their approach from being super competitive with a customer if they are on Snowflakes and data bricks to just saying, hey, what if you could keep your data system the way it is and integrate with us so that you don't have to leave snowflake and data bricks but you can work with us. So instead of trying to convince them, hey, leave Snowflake, leave data bricks, which is not an easy thing to do for some of these large CL customers, what if you could just keep your data stored on whatever different data provider you have, but use us to integrate an ontology and actually get the value that Pounder provides. And Chad talked about this as essentially launching an interoperable way for Paler to have a better go to market approach into the enterprise which for us as shareholders of Paler, we really want to see them be able to break into the enterprise in a more meaningful way and continue the commercial growth that they've had success with without having to be super competitive with all these companies that are already using the Snowflake or data bricks which have thousands of sales people. So obviously they're going to have an advantage over Palter in terms of just being able to get more customers. Snowflake has like 10,000 customers. Pal has 900. But if Pounder can just work with those customers, things start to become a lot more easy. So the chief revenue officer of Snowflake said bringing the power of Pounder and Snowflake platforms together is a natural fit aimed at reducing friction for customers to more easily deploy intelligent apps and accelerate time to value. Ted may global head of commercial at Paler said first class interoperability means our customers win. We are excited to partner with Snowflake to power our customers futures together with the Eaton setting the standard of what the AI powered institution of the future will look like. Now what did Eaton have to say about this? The co chief data officer says discoverability, accessibility, and usability are key to unlocking the value of our data assets for the business. With a native integration between Snowflake and Palantry are two of our strategic technology partners, we eliminate tedious data movements, allowing us to focus on delivering outcomes ranging from agentic configuration, pricing and quoting to digital twins on our shop floor and improve servicing of our products in the field. Essentially saying, hey, when we can integrate both together, we don't need to pick one or the other. We can pay both. We might not be paying uh one of them all the money. We might be splitting it, but we're getting twice the value. And if we're getting all the value from the software providers, that's what really matters. And as long as Palanteer is getting the clients and some of the upside and the revenue, that's what matters for Palante's business. So, I think this is super bullish for Palanteer. I think they will continue to be able to uh have a precedent of being able to scale into the enterprise. And if they continue to do that, commercial growth should continue to be very strong. All right, that's it for me. Thank everybody for listening and watching. This is the last daily recap for the week. Hopefully these daily recaps have really been helpful in keeping people updated in terms of what's going on in the markets. I know today was a little bit of a weird day with the regional banks. We will keep a very strong eye on what's happening with regional banks and ultimately uh if this is going to have a larger implication long term, but I appreciate everyone keeping up with the channel. Markets go up, markets go down. I'll be here every single day to cover it. And thank you all for supporting as much as you did. Either way, I uploaded my first deep dive or not my first deep dive that'll come out tomorrow, but my first uh post on Substack and it's a very simple probably five minute read on my methodology for how I analyze companies. So, I'll leave that in the description if anyone wants to check it out. Feel free to check it out. And uh first deep dives will be launching tomorrow. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys next week on the deep dives.