Today I have the pleasure of 
interviewing George Church. 
I don't know how to introduce you.
This is not even an exaggeration,  
it would honestly be easier to list out 
the major breakthroughs in biology over  
the last few decades that you haven't been 
involved in— from the Human Genome Project  
to CRISPR, age reversal to de-extinction.
So you weren't exactly an easy prep. Okay,  
so let's start here. By what year would it be 
the case that, if you make it to that year,  
technology in bio will keep progressing to such 
an extent that your lifespan will increase by  
a year, every year, or more?
Escape velocity is sometimes  
what it's called for aging.
Different people have estimates  
and all those estimates, including mine, are 
going to be taken with a big grain of salt. 
Mainly looking at the exponentials in 
biotechnology and the progress that's been  
made in understanding—not just understanding 
causes of aging, but seeing real examples  
where you can reverse subsets of the aging 
phenotype—you're getting close to all of aging. 
In other words, instead of just saying, 
"Oh, I'm going to fix the damage in this  
collagen in this tendon, in this limb", you're 
saying, "Oh, I'm going to change a lot of things  
that are common to age-related diseases and 
I'm going to get more than one at a time." 
Looking at those two phenomena—the exponentials 
in biotechnologies and the breakthrough in general  
aging, not just analysis but synthesis and 
therapies, and a lot of these therapies now  
making it in the clinical trials—I wouldn't 
be surprised if 2050 would be a point. 
If we can make it to that point, 25 
years… Most people listening to this  
have a good chance of making it 25 years.
The thing is, it's not going to be some  
sudden point where you're going to be so sick 
25 years from now that it's like hit or miss. 
It's more likely that you're going 
to be healthier 25 years from now  
than you thought you were going to be.
There may be some, probably not some law  
of physics, but some economic 
or complexity issue that we  
don't know about that becomes a brick wall.
I doubt it seriously, but we'll have to see. 
Given the number of things you would have to 
solve to give us a lifespan of humpback whales… 
Bowhead whales, 200 years.
Sorry, yeah. Is there any hope  
for doing that from somatic gene therapy alone, 
or would that have to be germ line gene therapy? 
Probably there's a lot of forces 
pushing it towards somatic. 
For one, there's 8 billion people that 
have missed the germline opportunity. 
That’s to say, it doesn't apply to us, the 
two of us and everybody listening to this. 
You have to be very cautious when 
you say something's impossible. 
It's safe to say it's impossible to do it this 
second, but you don't know what's going to happen  
tomorrow in the next decade or something.
I think there's a lot that could be done. 
In particular, since aging is a fairly cellular 
phenomenon—with proteins going through the  
blood and other factors going through the blood, 
signaling and so forth—you could imagine that if  
you replaced every nucleus in the body, it would 
suddenly be young again without going all the way  
back to the embryo and forward again.
There's various other things that  
are just short of that.
If you replace the cells,  
will they fit into that niche?
They might displace the old cells. 
That's certainly within the realm of modern 
synthetic biology, for cells to take over niches. 
I think the hardest part is the brain.
Even there, even though the brain doesn't really  
use stem cells that much, you could artificially 
bring in stem cells and they could artificially  
fit into a circuit and learn the circuit 
and then displace the old ones in some way. 
A Ship of Theseus kind of thing in the brain.
Yeah exactly, Ship of Theseus, trying to maintain  
the connections and the memories.
There's some fairly straightforward  
experiments that need to be done before we can 
really even estimate how hard that problem is. 
Very often there's low-hanging fruit 
that people just think is improbable. 
But it's there because biology 
has all these gifts where it  
just hands over to us levers that we can flip.
Like vaccines are this amazing gift that didn't  
have to exist, but they do.
Is there an existing gene  
delivery mechanism which could deliver gene 
therapy to every single cell in the body? 
There is nothing close to that today.
But there's nothing, no law of physics,  
that would prevent it.
Again, there's going to be practical  
considerations, like how many injections 
do you need to do to achieve that goal? 
But we're getting better at targeting tissues.
One of my companies, Dyno Therapeutics,  
showed they could get a hundredfold 
improvement in targeting  
neurons in the brain, which is a big deal.
That was just one little campaign that they did. 
That one experiment involved a lot of AI and a 
lot of testing of millions of different capsids. 
Capsids are fairly limited in the diversity 
and the structure that it can change to. 
But cells have even more possibilities.
I think you could probably get delivery  
to everything… The question is how 
close to 100% do you need to get? 
It's going to vary from tissue to tissue.
For example, for some therapies you just  
need to get 1% because that 1% 
can produce some missing enzyme. 
And that 1% doesn't have to 
necessarily be in its normal place. 
You can turn a muscle into part of the 
immune system temporarily for a vaccine. 
An enzyme that's normally made in, let's 
say the brain, you could make in the liver,  
if the point is just to get it into the blood.
So I think that's moving along quite well. 
You're one of the co-founders of 
Colossal which recently announced  
that they de-extincted a dire wolf.
Now you're working on the woolly mammoth. 
Do you really think we're going 
to bring back a woolly mammoth? 
The difference between an elephant and a woolly 
mammoth might be like a million base pairs. 
How do we think about the kind of 
thing we're actually bringing back? 
People get worked up about whether we are 
trying to bring back, or have already,  
or will ever bring back a new species.
If you think of it, rather than as a  
natural thing that we're trying to do, but as 
synthetic biology with goals that has potential  
societal… People also get worked up as to whether 
this could possibly benefit society in any way. 
Can we really fix an environment to suit 
humans or fix the global carbon to suit humans? 
The answer is we don't know.
But it's worth a try, isn't it? 
Because it could be very cost-effective.
The other aspect of it is there's a whole  
discipline within synthetic biology 
of asking, "What's the minimum?" 
People often phrase it into, "What's the maximum? 
What can we do?" I'm interested in both. Yes,  
there's millions of differences 
between mammoths and elephants. 
There are millions of differences between 
elephant one and elephant two, within Asian  
elephants and between Asians and African.
But not all of those are definitive in terms  
of what we would normally call them and how we 
would normally classify them, and what their  
functionality would be in an ecosystem.
There's this exercise that people do. 
We've done it, for example, 
with developmental biology. 
What's the minimum number of 
transcription factors it takes to  
make a neuron from a pluripotent stem cell?
What's the minimum number of base pairs it  
takes to make something that will replicate to 
something that was done in mycoplasma originally? 
In a way, these are more interesting than, 
"Can we make a perfect copy of something?" 
What's the minimum things we have to do to make 
it completely functionally, or even functionally  
in a particular category?
How do we make it bigger? 
We learn the rules for how to make things 
bigger, how to make things replicate faster,  
how to use new materials, etc.
With the dire wolf, we clearly  
didn't make an exact copy of a dire wolf.
But it helped illustrate and educate  
people around the world on, "What is the 
difference between a gray wolf and a dire  
wolf?" Because direwolves, they're big. 
Maybe they have a particular coloration. 
The head components tend to be 
bigger than the leg components. 
How many genes do you need to do that?
Maybe this was Direwolf 2.0, and we're  
going to go for 3.0 and successive approximations.
We might want to develop the technology for making  
exact copies of something, especially being 
able to make 100 variations on an exact copy. 
Because then there won't be any argument 
about whether you could make a dire wolf. 
It'll be a matter of what you should make 
and what would be most beneficial for  
the species that you're making, for the 
environment it lives in and for humans. 
Does this teach us something interesting 
about phenotypes which you think are  
downstream from many genes, and are in 
fact modifiable by very few changes? 
Basically, could we do this to other 
species or to other things you might  
care about, like intelligence?
Where you might think, there must  
be thousands of genes that are relevant, 
but there's like 20 edits you need to make,  
really, to be in a totally different ballgame.
You're hitting on a very interesting question. 
It's related to, "What's the minimum?"
For example, you almost said it. 
Take a very multigenic trait in humans.
Height is probably the most well-studied one,  
simply because no matter what gene, no matter 
what medical condition you're studying,  
you collect information on height 
and weight and things like that. 
Anyway, they tracked it down to something 
on the order of 10,000 genes, of which we  
have 20,000 protein coding genes.
Some of them are RNA coding genes. 
They each have a tiny influence on height.
But if you take growth hormone, somatotropin,  
you have extreme examples where you'll get 
extremely low small stature and extremely  
high stature due to that one alone.
In fact, it's used clinically as well  
for seven different medical treatments.
That's a perfect example of how much we can  
minimize something, sometimes called reductionism. 
Reductionism isn't all bad. Sometimes it  
helps us bring a product into medicine.
Sometimes it helps us understand or build  
a tool chest or a module that we could use in 
other cases and translate it to other species. 
You hit on it just right.
Not everything will translate,  
but we start accumulating these widgets.
It's kind of like all the electronic  
widgets that we accumulate over time.
If you just want to slap it into the next  
circuit, you might be able to.
What implications does this  
have for gene therapy in general?
What is preventing us from finding the latent knob  
for every single phenotype we might care about, in 
terms of helping with disabilities or enhancement? 
Is it the case that for any phenotype we care 
about, there will be one thing that is like  
HGH for height? How do we find it?
With biology we've got a real gift which is  
that it's both much more complicated than almost 
anything we've designed from scratch, but it also  
is a lot more forgiving in a certain sense.
You can have an animal or even a human that  
has two heads which, evolutionarily, there was 
no selection specifically to have two heads. 
But just a little deviation from the 
normal developmental pattern during  
fetal development and they both function fine.
They control subsets of the body and  
they have their own personality, their own life.
There's all kinds of things you can do in biology  
where you're working at a 
very high programming level. 
That’s a way of thinking about it.
But pushing us to a new level of  
intelligence is going to be very 
challenging and maybe not even urgent. 
To some extent, actualizing the people that 
we currently have would be quite impactful,  
just getting them all up to whatever 
speed they want to be up to within the  
range that's been demonstrated.
Some people are going to want  
to be like Einstein, some people won't.
Some people will want to be healthy all the time. 
Unlikely, but some people might not.
Some people might want to live to be 150,  
some people might want to die at 80.
But if you give them that range,  
that capability… What if we had 8 billion, super 
healthy, don't need to worry about food and drugs,  
super healthy Einstein-level intelligence, 
education level the best we can come up with…  
That would be a completely different world.
Just getting everybody to the healthy level,  
how much gene therapy would that take?
It sounds like it wouldn't take that much,  
if you think that there are a couple of knobs 
which control very high level functions? 
So do you find them through the GWAS, 
genome wide association studies? 
Is it through simulations of these…
I would say mostly GWAS for humans,  
maybe for animals in general.
For animals with synthetic biology,  
the smaller and the cheaper and faster 
replicating, the more experiments you can do. 
I don't want to overemphasize how single 
genes can do these amazing things. 
But there's also the possibility that multiple 
genes can be hypothesized and tested quickly. 
For example I mentioned earlier, what's the 
minimum number of transcription factors it  
takes to turn a stem cell into a neuron?
There's a bunch of recipes where you can  
do it with one.
Maybe you want  
a specific neuron, you might need a few more.
But then you can kind of quickly go to the answer  
by looking at each target cell type that exists.
You can see what transcription factors does it  
express at the time that it's the target?
Then you say, "Let's just try those on  
the stem cell and see if they work."
That recipe has worked quite well. 
It's the basis of GC Therapeutics 
and a bunch of the work that we do. 
You can get a recipe for almost 
every cell type in the body. 
Now, that's not new cell types, but at 
least you've learned, to your point,  
about reducing the number of genes we need to 
manipulate in order to get to a particular goal. 
Here's a whole series of goals, and we 
can get them with 1, 2, 3, maybe 7 changed  
transcription factors. That's an example. There's 
room for lots of other examples of where you can  
do reduction and do not just reductionistic 
biology, but then constructionistic. 
You take it back up and make a whole 
complex system and see what happens. 
Then you can do lots of those combinations 
and you debug them and so forth. 
Some of these things you can do… In vitro things 
you can do probably on the order of 10^14, 10^17. 
Things that involve cells are 
typically in the billions. 
But this is how we're going to get inroads 
into the very complicated biological systems.
Can I ask you some questions about biodefense?
Because some of the stuff you guys work on,  
or quite responsibly choose not to work on, 
can keep one up at night. Mirror life. Given  
the fact that it's physically possible, 
why doesn't it just happen at some point? 
Some day it'll get cheap enough.
Somebody will care about it enough, that somebody  
just does it. What's the equilibrium here?
I was a co-author on a paper that  
warned about the dangers of mirror life.
Just like I wrote a paper long ago about  
the dangers of having the synthetic capabilities 
we have for making synthetic viruses, and to some  
extent of having new genetic codes.
They have a few things in common. 
The advance that we were recognizing, 
in our Science paper that was warning  
about mirror life, is not only that 
we had to calculate the possibility of  
error-prone escape or something like that was.
We don't want anything to escape that we  
made in the lab unless there's a general 
societal consensus that it's a good thing. 
So far there aren't any examples of that.
Mirror life, if it can be weaponized, that  
would take it to a whole other level of concern.
The concern was that if we got it to a certain  
point, then it would be easy to weaponize it.
Again, there's practical considerations that  
maybe that most people who consider 
weaponizing mirror life would probably  
be satisfied with weaponizing viruses that 
already exist, that are already pathogens. 
And they wouldn't want to destroy 
themselves and their family and  
their legacy and everything like that.
But all it takes is one, one group  
probably, or one person.
But your question is,  
is it inevitable? I don't know. It might 
be. It's quite possible it's already here. 
In other words, we already have mirror life in 
our solar system or maybe even on our planet.  
It just hasn't been weaponized. What we were 
saying in the Science paper is that this seems  
like the sort of thing that could wipe out all 
competing life if were properly weaponized. 
But there are probably a few things like that.
What we really need to do is reduce the motivation  
to do that, maybe increase our preparedness 
for a variety of existential threats. 
Some of which will be natural, some of 
which will be one disgruntled person who has  
essentially too much power.
Over the history of humanity,  
the amount of things that a single person 
can do has grown very significantly. 
It used to be, when you had your bare hands, there 
was kind of a limit to what one person could do. 
A large number of people could team up 
and get a mammoth or something like that. 
Today, one person with the right connections or 
right access to technology could blow up a city. 
That's a huge increase in capability.
I think we want to start dialing  
that back a little bit somehow.
What does that look like in terms of not just  
mirror life, but synthetic biology in general?
Maybe we're at an elevated period of  
the ratio to offense and defense.
How do we get to an end state  
where—even if there's lots of people running 
around with bad motivations—somehow there are  
defenses built up that we would still survive, 
where we're robust against that kind of thing?  
Is such an equilibrium possible? Or will 
offense always be privileged in this game? 
Offense awfully does have an advantage, but so 
far we haven't… We made it through the Cold War  
without blowing up any hydrogen bombs, as far as 
I know, accidentally or intentionally on enemies. 
We did do two atomic bombs.
But a lot of that is based on the  
difficulty of building hydrogen or atomic bombs.
The thing that's alarming to people like me  
is that biotechnology enables smaller 
and smaller efforts that are harder and  
harder to detect, more and more subtle to 
the stochastic variation between people. 
There's some people that are just so happy they 
would never want to do anything close to that. 
Or they're so responsible or ethical or whatever.
Then there are other people who, whenever they  
have a bad day, they want to 
take a lot of people with them. 
Maybe some progress in 
psychiatric medicine would help. 
Again, you don't want to force that on people.
You want to make sure that if they don't want  
to get cured, you can't force them, but you 
can make it available to them that might help. 
Hopefully there's a more technological 
solution or more robust solution than that. 
Well, there will be technological 
solutions to the psychiatric problem. 
It could be that even people who aren't 
sure whether they want to be helped or not  
can test, try it out, and it's reversible.
They say, "Yes, I like that better." Okay,  
let's try that then. Then there's other things 
that cause you to have bad days. It's not just  
your psyche. It's also the environment. So if 
you're surrounded by your people being starved,  
infectious disease, or you’re being 
shot at or something like that,  
those are things that are subject to 
sociological and technological solutions. 
If we could really solve a lot of that stuff, 
we could reduce the probability that one person… 
This is maybe pessimistic because you're basically 
saying we have to solve all of society's problems  
before we don't have to worry about synthetic 
biology, which I'm not that optimistic  
about. We'll solve some of them.
Right? You shouldn’t be. I'm  
not trying to reassure you.
We're having a conversation  
about what it takes and that might be 
one scenario for what it might take. 
You had an interesting scheme for 
remapping the codons in a genome so that  
it's impervious to naturally evolved viruses.
Is there a way in which this scheme would also  
work against synthetically manufactured viruses?
It’s much harder. Again,  
the offense has the advantage.
We can make a lot of different codes. 
Which will limit the transmissibility?
Yeah. So one interesting thing is that  
there's only two chiralities.
There's the current  
chirality and the mirror chirality.
But there's maybe 10^80 different codes. 
Some of them you might be 
able to take out all at once. 
Anyway, coding space is a kind 
of more interesting space. 
Of course it could get even more complicated 
than that because the 10^83 is based on triplet  
codons and that sort of thing.
But if they're quadruplet  
codons or novel alphabets and so on…
We're sort of getting into a cycle of competition. 
It'd be better to nip it in the bud.
Why did we spend so much societal  
resources building up to tens of 
thousands of nuclear warheads? 
Now we've dialed it back to 
mere thousand nuclear warheads. 
It's nice that we dialed it back, but 
why did we waste all that time and money? 
Biology seems very dual-use, right? 
The mere fact that you, literally you,  
are making sequencing cheaper will just have this 
dual-use effect in a way that's not necessarily  
true for nuclear weapons. And we want that, 
right? We want biotechnology to advance. 
It's hard to pound nuclear weapons 
into ploughshares, as they say. 
I guess I am curious if there is some long-run 
vision, where… To give another example,  
in cybersecurity, as time has gone on, I 
think our systems are more secure today  
than they were in the past because we 
found vulnerabilities and we've come  
up with new encryption schemes and so forth.
Is there such a plausible vision in biology or  
are we just stuck in a world where offense will 
be privileged so we'll just have to limit access  
to these tools and have better monitoring 
but there's not a more robust solution? 
One of the things I advocated in 2004 is that 
we stop deluding ourselves into thinking that  
moratorium and voluntary signups to be 
good citizens is going to be sufficient. 
We need to also have surveillance 
and consequences, and mechanisms for  
whistleblowers to make it easy for people to 
report things that they think are out of line. 
We had essentially moratoria and 
disapproval for germline editing. 
Nevertheless, somebody did it and 
a lot of people knew about it. 
That was clearly a failure of the whole moratorium 
and voluntary and whistleblower components. 
It worked for five years with only 
one defector. That's quite impressive. 
Okay, half empty, half full, I'll give you that. 
But all it takes is one for 
some of these scenarios. 
It would have been nice if the whistleblowers 
could have saved him the three years in prison  
by getting an intervention. It's not like anybody 
died. Right. There are probably three healthy  
genetically-engineered children in the world now. 
They’ll be teenagers soon. But it was a good test  
run that shows a failure of the system.
We need to have better surveillance of  
all the things we don't want and 
consequences that are well-known. 
Over the last couple of decades we've 
had a million-fold decrease in the cost  
of sequencing DNA, a thousandfold in synthesis.
We have gene editing tools like CRISPR, massive  
parallel experiments through multiplex 
techniques that have come about. 
Of course much of this work 
has been led by your lab. 
Despite all of this, why is it the case that we 
don't have a huge Industrial Revolution, a huge  
burst of new drugs, or cures for Alzheimer's 
and cancer that have already come about? 
When you look at other trends in other fields, 
we have Moore's law and here's my iPhone. 
Why don't we have something 
like that in biology yet? 
We have something that's about the same speed, 
a little bit faster than Moore's Law in biology. 
It's more recent, that’s one aspect of it.
We could stand on the shoulders of the  
electronics giants to go a little bit 
faster to catch up. I would say we do.  
We have the biotech industry, which has 
used that exponential curve to get better. 
It's also possible we're close to 
the big payoff is the other aspect,  
or the beginning of the big payoff.
Right now we have miraculous things like  
cures for rare diseases. We have 
vaccines. We have a trillion dollars,  
probably, of various biotech related 
things if you go far enough apart. 
We're on the verge of really combining electronics 
and biology more thoroughly, and AI and biotech. 
It seems like we're on the same 
track as Moore's law, if not better. 
What exactly are we on the verge 
of? What does 2040 look like? 
Well with 2040 we're talking about only 15 years.
Which is maybe two cycles of FDA approval. 
2040 is post-AGI. It's a long time.
Well, I hope it's not post-AGI. 
I think we're rushing a little bit to get to AGI.
There's lots of cool things we can do with just  
super AI, but we need to 
be very cautious with AGI. 
Anyway we can get into that.
I have questions for you there. 
We are shortening the time of getting medical 
products approved still in a safe way. 
But that's not going to 
completely change the exponential. 
It might reduce it from 10 years down to… One 
year is our record so far for say COVID vaccines. 
Maybe that'll be 10 times shorter.
Maybe that will multiply out a little bit. 
The big thing is that all our designs will 
become better so there'll be fewer failures. 
The cost per drug will drop.
There'll be things that we  
didn't classically consider drugs or instruments,  
some sort of hybrid thing.
But again that won't be completely shocking. 
It's just going to be so much of it.
There's going to be lots  
of diversity of solutions.
How much more are we talking about? 
Are we going to have 10x 
the amount of drugs? 100x? 
I'm not even sure it's going to make sense, 
but 100x would not be completely surprising. 
Combinations of drugs will be important, using 
them intelligently. There'll be a lot more.  
Some drugs will affect everything, for example an 
age-related drug that could impact every disease. 
I'm not sure the number is going to matter so much 
as the quality and the impact and intersection,  
and software that helps physicians 
and regular citizens make decisions. 
What specifically is changing 
that's enabling this? 
Is it just existing cost curves 
continuing or is it some new  
technique or tool that will come about?
The cost curves are affected by new tools. 
It's not just some automatic thing.
There was a big discontinuity between  
Sanger sequencing and nanopores and 
fluorescent next-gen sequencing. 
Sometimes it's a merger of two things.
Clearly AI merging with protein  
design caused a step function.
These step functions get smoothed out into a  
smooth exponential, but there are lots of them.
The next set will probably be a merger of AI  
with other aspects of biology, 
like developmental biology. 
After that, the merger of developmental 
biology with manufacturing,  
conquering developmental biology.
In other words, it’d be actually  
knowing how to make any arbitrary shape 
given DNA as the programming material. 
That would be a big thing.
Just having more materials in general. 
All the materials that we use in mechanical and 
electrical engineering should be made better by  
biotechnologies.
Why is that? 
Well in electronics, I wouldn't say Moore’s law 
is stopping, but think about what we would call  
the 1 nanometer process, which is supposed 
to come out in 2027 according to the roadmap. 
It's not really 1 nanometer, it's more like 
40 nanometers, center-to-center spacing,  
typically in two dimensions, maybe 
a little bit of three dimensions. 
Biology is already at 0.4 nanometer 
resolution and it is in three dimensions. 
Depending on how you count that third 
dimension, it could be a billion times  
higher density that biology is already at.
We just need a little more practice with  
dealing with the whole periodic table.
Even electrical and mechanical engineering  
don't typically use the whole periodic table 
typically, especially not at the atomic level. 
Biology is just really good 
at doing atomic precision. 
So then what's the reason that over the last 
many decades we do have, not atomic but, close  
to atomic-level manufacturing with semiconductors.
40 nanometers. 
Right. It's quite small.
It's a thousand times bigger  
than biology, linearly.
But the progress we have  
made hasn't been related to biology so far.
It seems like we've made Moore's law happen. 
People in the 90s were saying ultimately we'd have 
these biomachines that are doing the computing. 
But it seems like we've just been using 
conventional manufacturing processes. 
What exactly is it that changes that 
allows us to use bio to make these things? 
A few things. One is the 
arrival of synthetic biology. 
We were already kind of doing synthetic 
biology before, we were doing recombinant DNA,  
a kind of genetic engineering.
It was kind of in that direction. 
But synthetic biology really liberated 
us to think a little bit bigger. 
Even though it started kind of focused on E. 
coli and yeast, it enabled us to maybe think  
about new amino acids, for example.
If you start using the full periodic table  
with the amino acids, or what amino acids can 
catalyze, that breaks one of the major barriers. 
One of the major barriers between electrical 
and mechanical engineering and biology was  
the use of special materials, things 
that conduct electricity at the speed  
of light or conduct signals more generally.
But there are definitely polymers that biology  
can make that will conduct at the speed of light.
We could make a mixed neuronal system that has  
conventional neurons and processes that 
conduct at the speed of light. That would  
be interesting. So I think that our ability 
to design proteins was particularly difficult.  
Designing nucleic acids was great. You 
want two things to bind to each other? 
You just dial it up using Watson-Crick rules.
If you want to make a three-dimensional structure,  
it's actually the one kind of thing where 
morphology is dictated by fairly simple rules. 
It's not how developmental biology works.
We still need to figure out how that works. 
But DNA origami, DNA nanostructures really work.
But doing it for proteins was really, really hard  
until maybe eight years ago, something like that.
I think we're just now getting used to it. 
The use of chips for making DNA.
You said that DNA synthesis has come down  
a thousandfold, it depends on who you talk to.
When we came out with the first chip-based  
genes in a 2004 Nature paper, basically 
people dismissed it for about a decade. 
The only people that used it 
were collaborators and alumni. 
It wasn't even listed on the Moore's law curve for 
DNA synthesis, even though it was thousand times  
cheaper. It was just ignored. Now we have claims 
of 10^17 genes that you can make libraries of,  
that aren't randomized in the usual sense, 
where you just do error-prone PCR or spiked  
nucleotides. 10^17, that's a lot bigger than a 
thousandfold if it turns out to be practical.
Speaking of protein design, another thing you 
could have thought of in the 90s—People were  
writing about nanotechnology, 
Eric Drexler and so forth. 
Now we can go from a function that we want 
this tiny molecular machine to do, back to  
the sequence that can give it that function.
Why isn't this resulting in some nanotech  
revolution, or will it eventually? 
Why didn't AlphaFold cause that? 
Part of it is that nanotechnology as 
originally… The source of the inspiration,  
Eric Drexler, he wanted to reinvent biology 
in a certain sense but it already existed. 
So you don't need to design a diamond replicator 
because you already have a DNA replicator. 
The question was, what was missing?
What was motivating this reinvention of  
biology? It was materials. Biology is not 
that great with materials that are, say,  
superconductors, conductors, semiconductors, and 
light speed. But it's getting there. Rather than  
going the route of everything having to be based 
on first principle nanostructures, you can meet  
in the middle where biology can build things.
Of course, when you go down to liquid nitrogen  
and colder temperatures, biology as we 
currently know it stops functioning. 
It's not to say that you can't have 
things moving in liquid nitrogen, you can. 
But that hasn't been explored and doesn't really 
need to be, because if biology can build things  
that can operate at low temperatures… Or maybe 
biology now, because you can make these big  
libraries of biology, maybe 10^17 in vitro, 
you can flip through them quickly and you can  
barcode them and you can…
This is something that's  
never been done in electronics.
I'm not saying you can't do it in electronics. 
But you haven't made a billion different kinds 
of electronic materials just in an afternoon,  
barcode them all and see who wins.
But we do it all the time in biology  
now, at least since 2004 we have.
So I think that's an opportunity. 
We use those libraries to make much superior 
materials and we might even finally get a  
room-temperature superconductor that way.
From bio? 
It's possible, from libraries. We call it chemical 
/ biochemical / exotic material libraries. 
The point is that they're libraries.
They're essentially based in some sense  
on polymers, even though pieces of them 
don't necessarily have to be polymers. 
Do you have a prediction by when we'll 
see this materials science revolution? 
What is standing between now and that?
Because we've got AlphaFold right now. 
So what is the thing that we 
need? Do we need more data? 
AlphaFold is very nice, but it's only part of it.
There are large language models  
that are different from AlphaFold.
To give an example, with AlphaFold—last  
time I checked anyway—if you substitute an 
alanine for a serine in a serine protease,  
it will have exactly the right fold.
It will be precise to a fraction of Angstrom  
overall average. But it won't function. It just 
won't function. That's where you need either  
extraordinary precision or just knowledge of what 
happens evolutionarily, or happens in experiments,  
to say that, "No, alanine won't work. Okay?" So 
I think there's all kinds of combinations of AI  
tools that can give you deeper insight into that.
If AlphaFold predicting the structure doesn't tell  
you whether the thing will actually function, 
then what is needed before I can say, "I want  
a nanomachine that does X thing, or I 
want a material that does that Y thing,  
and I can just get that"?
The way that it's working  
now—which will get us a long way, won't get us 
the whole way—is we have something that kind of  
works and we make libraries inspired by that.
We make variations on it and then whichever  
of those variations work, we make variations 
on that. We can just keep going. It's kind of  
like the way evolution worked, except now 
we can do it at incredibly high speeds. 
In principle, evolution might incorporate 
a few base pair changes in a million years. 
Now we can make billions 
of changes in an afternoon. 
It's all guided in such a way that you get rid 
of the wastefulness of having a bunch of neutral  
mutations and a bunch of lethal mutations.
You can have things that are quasi-neutral  
but likely to be game-changing and have 
more of a focus on those. Another thing  
that's been missing. None of the AI protein 
design tools that I know of are particularly  
good at it yet but as we speak, we're trying 
to improve it, is nonstandard amino acids. 
Because a lot of these tools depend on adding 
libraries of 3D structures, which use 20 amino  
acids, and large language models where you 
line up all the sequences of 20 amino acids. 
We have very little experience with extra ones.
But there's a revolution going on in generating  
nonstandard amino acids, where the amino acids 
can either have as part covalent part of them,  
or as easily liganded, all the stable 
elements in the entire periodic table. 
Each of those we’ll have to 
blend in and train our models on. 
But as soon as that comes in then we're going to 
have a whole series of new materials very quickly. 
Ultimately, the determination of the functionality 
of your library is a kind of computer. 
You use AI to design the library optimally.
You avoid things that are really  
neutral and really seriously damaged.
But the stuff in the middle, you actually play  
it out, not in a simulation, but in real life.
But it's so inexpensive and  
it's so fast and it's so exact.
It's a hundred percent precision, because you're  
not simulating. You're not making assumptions. 
You're not going from quantum electrodynamics,  
which is an assumption, to quantum mechanics, 
which is an assumption to molecular mechanics,  
which are full of assumptions.
You're really doing the real thing. 
So you're doing a kind of natural computing.
Then you can take that data and harvest it  
in various ways very efficiently, pump 
it back into the more conventional AI,  
and do another round of it.
If I listen to these words,  
it seems like I should be expecting the 
world to physically look a lot different. 
But then why are we only getting 
a couple more drugs by 2040? 
Well, I didn't mean to stop there.
I knew the conversation would continue. 
I'm not pinning down a particular year either, 
but this is poised to go pretty quickly. 
There are very few practitioners, which is 
the thing that will stop it for a while. 
Materials actually should go 
faster though, because they  
don't require quite as much regulatory approval.
It's one of these things where when you get the  
right idea, it's not hard to recruit people.
For example, when Feng Zhang and my labs  
brought out CRISPR, we each got 10,000 
requests in the next two months for people  
that wanted to duplicate the system.
That's what I hope will happen with the  
nonstandard amino acids and using AI for 
protein design and making new materials. 
Hopefully that will recruit tens 
of thousands of people overnight. 
Are you more excited about AI which 
thinks in protein space, or capsid space,  
just predicting some biological or DNA sequences?
Or are you more optimistic about LLMs just  
trained on language, which can write 
in English and tell you, "Here's the  
experiment you should run" in English.
Which of those two approaches, or is  
it some combination, when you think 
about AI and bio is more promising? 
I'm much more excited about scientific 
AI than I am about language AI. 
With languages, we're in 
pretty good shape already. 
What worries me is that to get to the 
next level of language requires AGI or  
ASI. That's very dangerous. I don't think we 
have quite figured out how to handle that. 
There's a lot of safety organizations 
and a lot of safety rules and so forth. 
What typically happens when there's 
an intense competition is those safety  
rules get undermined and pushed aside.
Even if they weren't, I don't think we  
understand our own ethics well enough to educate 
a completely foreign type of intelligence. 
We barely know how to pass it onto 
the next generation of humans. 
So we need time to sort that out. There's no 
rush. This is a completely artificial emergency. 
This is not like COVID-19, where millions of 
people were dying if we delayed the science. 
This is something where, if there ever 
is a crisis, it's because we created it,  
it's not because we're trying to solve it.
So I think we need to go very slowly  
on AGI and ASI, and double down on 
slightly narrower scientific goals. 
With even that, we need to be very cautious.
We need to have kind of an international  
consensus on what constitutes safe AI.
Suppose we did build safe superintelligence. 
How much would that speed up bio progress?
There's a million George Churches in data centers  
just thinking all the time, is it a 10x speed-up?
I think it would slow it down. 
I think it would eliminate it, because the first 
thing it would conclude is biology is not relevant  
to me because I'm not made out of biology.
Suppose you could get them to care about it. 
There's a million copies of you in a data center.
How much faster is bio progress? They can't  
run experiments directly. They're just in data 
centers. They can just say stuff and think stuff. 
I don't think we have anything close to the 
assurance that we need that that would be safe. 
But let's put safety aside for a moment.
It's not only hard to calculate the bads,  
it's hard to calculate the goods.
It could be a complete game changer. 
But on the other hand, it's like if we 
said we could get instantaneous transport  
all over the Earth.
Well, we could say,  
"Yes, that could be a game changer."
But do we really need it? Is that really  
important? Maybe it'd be more interesting to just 
have Zoom calls that are better, or we can just  
learn how to get everything we want in our 
kitchen and we don't need to travel anymore. 
So be careful what you ask for.
You could tip our priorities towards something  
that we really don't care about, that we shouldn’t 
care about, or we might wish we didn’t care about. 
But I'm curious, you've still got to run the 
experiments, you still need these other things. 
So does that bottleneck the 
impact of the millionth copy  
of you or do you still get some speed up?
Basically, how much faster can biology go  
if there are just more smart people thinking, 
which is a sort of proxy for what AI might do? 
These are great questions and I don't want 
to misrepresent that I know the answers. 
But it's like the question of, "If you 
have nine women, can you do pregnancy  
in one month?" No, not at present.
But you're working on that, right? 
No, but the same thing is that 
there may be certain things that  
don't take a lot of people. We just don't know. 
We don't have that much experience with having  
thousands of Einstein-type levels of creativity 
and intelligence simultaneously in a generation. 
In fact, it's probable that we're all 
capable of being a bit more efficient  
if we don't have distractions of mental 
illness, or taking care of other people. 
Now, taking care of other 
people may be a very good thing. 
Maybe if we have no one to take care of, there'll 
be something bad that happens to us socially. 
So these things are very 
complicated and hard to predict. 
I think right now, the baby step, or 
actually the pretty big baby step,  
is to eliminate diseases or at least make 
it possible for people to eliminate their  
own diseases as they see fit.
You've worked on brain organoids  
and brain connectome and so forth.
How has that work shifted your view  
on fundamentally how complex intelligence is?
Are you more bullish on AI because you realized  
the organoids are not that complicated, 
or rather very little information is  
required to describe how to grow them.
Or are you like, "No, this is actually  
much more gnarly than I realized."
I always felt it was very gnarly. 
I also felt that it was 
something that we could engineer. 
Certainly we have made a lot of progress 
at the broken end of the spectrum where the  
brain is severely challenged relative to average.
There are a huge fraction of genetic diseases that  
have as one of their consequences the child 
being developmentally delayed to such an extent  
that it's lethal or causes a lifetime deficit.
We know the genes involved and we know how to  
do genetic counseling in some cases, gene 
therapy and other therapies to deal with it. 
At the other end, we have reduction 
of cognitive decline by cognitive  
enhancement, which is showing some promise.
But again, that's kind of like this early stage  
severe impediment to cognition 
having a late stage component. 
But what about, how much information 
does it take to encode a brain? 
I'm not sure that much less genome is required 
than if you just wanted to just make a brain,  
because the brain is totally 
entangled with the body. 
You have 10^11 neurons, 10^14 synapses.
If you wanted to reproduce a particular brain,  
it's speculative as to whether it would be easier 
to do that by making a copy of it in silico,  
in some kind of inorganic 
matrix, or making a copy of it. 
Both of those are going to be hard.
I would say that if you wanted to  
make a copy of a complicated book, it 
would be easier to take photographs  
of each of the pages than to completely 
translate it into another language—trying  
to get all the nuances of the poetry and so 
forth—if your goal is just to replicate it. 
The same thing might be true of the brain.
But replicating a brain probably involves  
a lot more information than synthesizing it.
Just to define this, 10^14 synapses is going  
to take a lot more bytes than the genome, 
which is billions rather than 10^14. 
But there might be reasons that you want to 
replicate a particular brain configuration  
rather than just make another animal 
that starts from scratch as an infant.
Going back to the engineering stuff, often people 
will argue, "Look, you have this existence proof  
that E. coli can duplicate every 30 minutes.
Insects can duplicate really fast as well. 
But then with our ability to manufacture stuff 
with human engineering, we can do things that  
nothing in biology can do, like radio 
communication or fission power or jet engines." 
How plausible to you is the idea that we could 
have biobots which can duplicate at the speed  
of insects—there could be trillions of them 
running around—but they also can have access  
to jet engines and radio communication and 
so forth? Are those two things compatible? 
Certain things seem incompatible. Like 
the temperature of a fission reactor  
isn’t obviously compatible.
But it is a possibility that  
a biological system can make other things.
For example, it can make a nest. 
A bird can make a nest.
You consider the whole nest as  
part of the replication cycle of the bird.
So you can say the biological thing that  
replicates at a 30 minute doubling 
time could make a nuclear reactor. 
That would be its nest but you need 
to expand its range of materials. 
In a certain sense, we do this already.
Humans are a biological thing that replicates  
not in 30 minutes, but in 20 years or less. 
Is that fundamentally limiting us? Yeah,  
probably it is. But it's amazing to think about.
What if you could take a cornfield or a nuclear  
reactor, and suddenly 30 minutes later you've got 
two of them, then four of them, and eight of them.  
That's quite an interesting concept. I teach 
a course called How to Grow (Almost) Anything. 
I work with Neil Gershenfeld at MIT who has 
a course called How to Make Almost Anything. 
We're trying to meet in the middle where 
his mechanical electrical engineering  
will meet with our biological.
In fact, neither of us can make  
or grow almost anything because there's 
all kinds of little gaps and things  
that are very hard to make in a small lab.
There are things all over the world that depend  
on multi-billion dollar fabs to make things.
But we're eating away at it. 
Maybe a smaller baby step than making a nuclear 
reactor is making a phone. You said radio  
communication. It should be a small challenge goal 
for the synthetic biology community, maybe iGEM or  
something: make bacteria make a radio.
Actually Joe Davis is an artist—he’s  
been affiliated with my lab and 
before that, Alex Rich's lab—and  
he did make a bacterial radio but it was kind 
of more on the art end than on the science end. 
But I think that would be a good goal.
What would it take to do whole genome  
engineering to such a level that for even a 
phenotype which doesn't exist in the existing  
pool of human variation, you could manifest 
it because your understanding is so high. 
For example, if I wanted wings. Is the bottleneck 
our understanding? Is the bottleneck our ability  
to make that many changes to my genome?
Part of this has to do with just learning  
the rules of developmental biology, like I said.
We can determine morphology at the molecular level  
now: proteins, nucleic acids.
Determining at the cellular  
multicellular level, there's a lot more 
things you can do and a lot faster. 
But we don't know the language yet.
I think we're on the cusp of getting the  
tools to do that, like the transcription factor I 
was talking about earlier, harnessing migration,  
gradients of diffusion factors, 
chemotaxis and so forth. 
That's one thing we need, but there's 
a bunch of things we need, really. 
What discovery in biology—so not in astronomy or 
some other field—would make you convinced that  
life on Earth is the only life in the galaxy?
Conversely, what might convince you that no,  
it must have arisen independently 
thousands of times in this galaxy? 
Oh, I see what you're getting at.
Astronomy might be that we would  
detect radio signals or light signals.
With biology, the kind of evidence would be  
that you show in a laboratory using prebiotic 
conditions a really simple way to get life. 
It's harder to prove the negative because we 
don't know all the possible prebiotic conditions.  
Probably the number was vast. You have 10^20 
liters of water at various different salinities  
and drying up on the ocean and the sun 
and the lightning and all this stuff. 
I think if you showed, reconstructed in the lab, 
a very simple pathway from inorganics, cyanide  
derivatives and reduced compounds, all the way up 
to some cellular replicating structure, that might  
lead us to believe that at least life exists.
Now that there are other parts of the  
Drake equation that might kick in.
Maybe it's hard to get intelligent  
life because intelligence isn't 
necessarily in your best interest. 
And if you get intelligence life, it's hard to 
maintain that without societal collapse or without  
robotics taking over and then killing themselves.
That's hard to do experiments on. 
But to your question, an experiment that 
showed maybe multiple different ways of  
getting to a living system from non-living systems 
spontaneously would be interesting. Again, I'm not  
sure. It'd be very hard to prove the negative.
Between intelligent life and some sort of  
primordial RNA thing, what is the step at 
which, if there is any, you say there's a  
less than 50% chance something like at this 
level exists elsewhere in the Milky Way? 
These are very challenging problems. I'm 
not even sure we would be able to say  
within five orders of magnitude, much less 50%.
I think it's more likely to come from exploration  
than it is going to be from simulation.
The sad truth is that almost none of the  
missions that we've sent outside of 
Earth have actually looked for life. 
They've had components that 
could have looked for life. 
A sad number of those had not enough 
components that could look for life. 
The ones that could look for life 
were not really looking for it. 
When we get positive results, we 
dismiss them as happened with Pioneer. 
I think if we just start looking at the 
geysers that are coming out of various moons  
of Jupiter and Saturn, there's so much water.
There's 50 times more water, liquid water,  
not frozen but liquid water, in 
our solar system than on Earth. 
Doesn't that seem likely that some of that 
would have been a good breeding ground? 
It could be that we need sunny shores where 
you have a lot of dry land right next to water. 
Maybe these are just giant oceans that are 
surrounded by ice and maybe that's not an ideal. 
In any case, we need to look at those fountains 
to see what's popping up. That's a high priority.  
The same thing goes for water on Mars. 
That's maybe even more accessible. But  
until we've exhausted those, those are probably 
the easiest. They're hard. We’re still talking  
about multibillion dollar experiments, but 
I think they're a little more convincing. 
Again, it'll be hard to prove the negative.
If we find this negative on everything  
in the solar system, there's so much more 
diversity out there that could have done it. 
If in a thousand years we're still using DNA 
and RNA and proteins for top-end manufacturing,  
the frontiers of engineering, 
how surprised would you be? 
Would you think, "Oh, that makes sense.
Evolution designed these systems  
for billions of years."
Or would you think, "Oh, it's  
surprising that these ended up being the systems.
Whatever evolution found just happened to be the  
best way to manufacture or to store information"?
I don't think I'd be surprised either way. 
I can imagine it going either way.
I can imagine making truly amazing materials  
using proteins as the catalysts, or maybe in 
some cases as a scaffold as well as catalysts. 
One thing that's probably already happening, 
we don't have to go a thousand years out,  
is that the number of amino acids is going up.
It's going up radically from 20. 
I think pretty soon we'll have a system where we 
can have 34 new non standard amino acids being  
used simultaneously with the standard ones in a 
E. coli cell. 34 plus 20 is a lot bigger than 20. 
I don't think we necessarily need more 
than four nucleic acid components. 
Certainly there are plenty of modified ones.
There's a bunch of alternative base pairs,  
some of which don't even involve hydrogen bonds. 
So we could have more. But I think the main  
thing is this information storage—whether it's 
bits, digital binary—it’s just zeros and ones. 
That works pretty well for 99% 
of what we do electronically. 
Having four is better than two maybe, but do 
we really need six? I don't know. I wouldn't  
be surprised. Another possibility is 
if we changed the backbone of DNA. 
Maybe we keep the ACGT, but make it out 
of peptides now, a little bit smaller,  
a little bit more compatible. I don't know. It 
could be part of the new amino acid collection.  
There'll be more. These are just things that my 
primitive 21st-century brain is coming up with. 
A thousand years from now, 
it'll be a whole new millennium. 
It makes sense why evolution wouldn't 
have discovered radio technology. 
But things like more than 20 amino acids 
or these different bases so that you can  
store more than 2 bits per base pair or 
for example, the codon remapping scheme,  
this redundancy, which it seems like based 
on your work there was this extra information  
you could have used for other things.
Is there some explanation for why 4  
billion years of evolution didn't already 
give living organisms these capabilities? 
I think that evolution has a 
tendency to go with what works. 
The investment in making a whole 
new base pair would have been high. 
We haven't even articulated what 
the return on investment would be. 
What do you get from that?
We have made systems,  
like Floyd Romesberg and others, where 
you have replication and transcription  
and translation with a new base pair.
But it hasn't been clearly articulated what  
that gets you, even in technological society.
In technology you can jump to things where all  
the intermediates aren't incrementally useful.
But evolution, as far as we know, is generally  
limited to… You have to justify 
every change, like some bureaucracy,  
"If you're going to put this sidewalk in, you 
have to justify that before you build a city." 
We've talked about many different technologies you 
worked on or are working on right now, from gene  
editing to de-extinction to age reversal.
What is an underhyped technology in your  
research portfolio which you think more people 
should be talking about but gets glossed over? 
It's hard to say because as soon 
as you say it, it becomes hyped. 
If I've ever been asked this 
question before, it's too late. 
One thing I think is very ripe and is very 
well-understood in a certain sense but is  
nevertheless ignored… The previous example I 
would have chosen was making genes out of arrays. 
Arrays were typically used for analytic, 
quantitating RNA, or something like that,  
the original Affymetrix-type arrays.
But we turned them into gene arrays  
and people just weren't using it. It was 
in Nature. It was hidden in plain sight. 
But anyway it was somehow underhyped.
What I would say is genetic  
counseling is underhyped.
It is clearly competitive  
with gene therapy in a certain sense, clearly 
not for people that are already born but for  
people in the future, not even distant 
future but in the next couple of years. 
We've got a chance of diagnosing them or 
diagnosing the potential parents and dodging… This  
has been in practice since 1985 in Dor Yeshorim, 
a perfectly reasonable community response to it. 
It eliminated or greatly reduced all 
sorts of very serious inherited diseases. 
Sometimes, depending on how it's 
presented, it’s dismissed as eugenics. 
Rarely have I heard Dor Yeshorim 
described that way and rightly so. 
What they're doing is standard medicine 
whether you cure these kids as soon as  
they are newborns or whether you counsel 
the parents so the same disease is missing. 
The problem with eugenics was that it was forced.
The government forced it on people. 
It wasn't that it enabled people to make a choice.
It's that it removed the choice from the people.  
That was what was wrong. And that's 
the confusion. But I don't think that's  
the explanation for why this is underhyped.
I think it's because when people are they're  
dating, they're not thinking 
about reproduction necessarily. 
And when they're thinking about reproduction, 
they're not necessarily thinking about serious  
genetic diseases because they're rare.
I think it's our difficulty  
with dealing with rare things.
There was great resistance to seat belts  
because less than 1% of people died in 
automobile accidents or even got hurt. 
There was great resistance to stopping smoking.
It's hard even for us to imagine how great the  
resistance was for seat belts and smoking.
But eventually we got over it. 
I think this is a similar thing.
Only 3% of children are severely  
affected by genetic diseases and they feel like, 
"I'm not that unlucky. I'm in the 97%." If those  
were your odds of winning at the horse races or at 
the casino, you'd take them. 97% of winning, good. 
But when a child's future is at risk, 
I think that's not the right solution. 
The other thing is that I think it 
has to do with the trolley problem. 
If you don't influence it, it's not your fault.
But actually everything is your fault. 
Not doing something is a decision.
So I think it's like, "If I just  
don't do anything and they come out 
damaged, it's not my fault", but it is. 
David Reich was talking about how in 
India—especially because of the long running  
history of caste and endogamous coupling—there 
have been these small subpopulations that have  
high amounts of recessive diseases.
So there, it's an especially  
valuable intervention.
I know what you're saying, and what David  
is saying, but I think it's a dangerous dichotomy.
There are lots of, not just in India but  
all over the world… In fact we 
all went through a bottleneck. 
But that changes the rate from say 3% to 6%.
But the point is 3% is still unacceptable. 
It's just a tragic loss, not only of the human 
life directly affected, but the whole family. 
Very often one or both parents have 
to quit their job and spend full  
time caregiving and fundraising, because 
these are very expensive diseases as well. 
We need to be careful not to stigmatize as well.
So if a bunch of families get fixed, we shouldn't  
point a finger at the ones that are unwilling 
to get fixed because that's their choice. 
But I think as word spreads and you see 
the positive outcomes, I think it will be  
seen as one of the simplest bits of medicine 
ever. It's very inexpensive. In fact,  
it's less than zero because you spend a hundred 
dollars per genome. It'll probably be less  
soon. You get the whole thing analyzed.
Compare that to millions of dollars that  
will be lost in opportunity costs and 
them not being part of the workforce,  
taking care of them and so forth.
So the return on investment is tremendous. 
It's at least a tenfold return on investment.
It's a no brainer from a public health standpoint. 
We should be able to pay for this through 
the National Health Service in England,  
through insurance companies in the United States.
It turns the insurance companies from being the  
bad guys snooping in on your personal 
life and then raising your rates to  
them giving you this free information 
and you can do with it as you wish. 
If you take the advice then you 
save them millions of dollars. 
Do you think genetic counseling is a more 
important intervention, or even in the  
future will continue to have a bigger impact, than 
even gene therapy for these monogenic disorders? 
Absolutely, I've actually counseled my 
gene therapy companies that they should  
be investing in very common diseases because rare 
diseases have this genetic counseling solution,  
with the exception of spontaneous mutations and 
dominance, which probably are IVF clinic type  
solutions rather than… But the rare recessives 
can be handled at matchmaking and at every level. 
Anyway, I counseled my genetic therapy companies 
that they should invest in common diseases like  
age-related diseases and infectious diseases.
In fact the COVID vaccine was formulated as  
a gene therapy and the cost was in the $20 per 
dose range. 6 billion people benefited from it,  
or 6 billion people took it and it 
was proven over the whole population. 
So I think that's the more 
appropriate usage of gene therapy. 
For practical reasons, getting FDA approval 
and so forth, you might go for the rare  
diseases and that's perfectly fine.
But I think the cost effectiveness…  
The sweet spot for gene therapy is for 
age-related diseases and the sweet spot for  
rare diseases is genetic counseling.
Alright, some final questions to close us off.  
20 years from now, if there's some scenario in 
which we all look back and say, "You know what? 
I think on net it was a good thing that 
the NSF and the NIH and all these budgets  
were blown up and got DOGE’d and so forth…"
I'm not saying you think this is likely, but  
suppose there ends up being a positive story told 
in retrospect. What might it be? Would it have to  
maybe come up with a different funding structure?
Basically, what is the best case scenario if this  
post-war system of basic research is upended?
I have to preface this. When scientists answer  
a question and explore possibilities, 
it doesn't mean they're advocating it. 
In the past people have asked me off-the-wall 
questions about Neanderthals for example,  
and then it was described as 
if I was enthusiastic about it. 
I’m not enthusiastic about 
NIH and NSF budgets being cut. 
You could say that it forces us to think 
more seriously about philanthropy and  
industrial sponsored research.
That could be a positive thing. 
It could be that that makes us listen 
more carefully to what society actually  
needs rather than doing basic research.
I'm a big proponent of basic research, but  
also maybe I'm more than average at connecting the 
basic research to societal needs from the get go. 
I don't think it actually interferes with basic 
research to think and act on societal needs at  
the same time. That could be a positive. It 
could be that it creates another nation-state  
that now is the dominant force.
Like China could now become the  
next empire after the US.
Is this a positive story? 
It could be for China. You didn't 
specify who it's a positive story for. 
The US displaced Britain, which displaced Spain 
and Portugal. It keeps moving. Fresh blood is  
sometimes a good thing.
Again, I preface this  
by saying I'm not advocating this.
Let's see, what else could go well? 
There are just certain things that society is 
fairly good at doing collectively that we're  
not good at doing individually.
Building roads, schools,  
and science are examples of that.
It doesn't mean we couldn't learn how to do that. 
To some extent when you build a gated community, 
a lot of that is done with private funding. 
It's possible we could figure out how to build 
roads and schools and just about everything. 
It means we're going to run into 
some kind of hypercapitalism. 
That might mean that there's all kinds 
of pathologies that come along with that. 
What is it about the nature of your 
work, maybe biology more generally,  
that makes it possible for one lab 
to be behind so many advancements? 
I don't think there's an analogous thing in 
computer science—which is a field I'm more  
familiar with—where you could go to one academic 
lab and then 100 different companies have been  
formed out of it, including the ones that are most 
exciting and doing a bunch of groundbreaking work. 
Is it something about the 
nature of your academic lab? 
Is it something about the nature of biology 
research? What explains this pattern? 
First of all, thank you for being 
so generous in your evaluation. 
Maybe take it with a grain of salt.
But I think that what it is is being  
in the right place at the right time. 
Boston is a unique culture. It attracts  
some of the best and brightest students and 
postdocs automatically. It is dense enough.  
Sometimes people want to spread the wealth out 
evenly all over the universe or the planet. 
There are advantages to having it clustered.
Spouses can find other jobs in the same field. 
Having a concentration of biotech and pharma 
and MIT and Harvard and BU and so forth,  
all in one pretty walkable distance, not 
spread out all along the East or West coast,  
but actually in a walkable city is one thing. 
That's the starting point. And then a lab that  
chooses from an early stage to keep this dynamic 
between basic science and societal needs going  
at all costs, causing great trauma when the 
lab starts, but then getting a couple of wins. 
It starts building up a positive 
feedback loop, just like the  
building of Boston was a positive feedback loop.
The more Harvards and MITs and high tech startups,  
then pharma… So you get a couple of wins 
in the literature and people start coming  
that are a whole other level up.
Maybe they're already aiming for  
entrepreneurship while before they weren't.
Anyway, it evolves in a way that you can't  
just jump start from scratch.
You couldn't just suddenly create  
Harvard and MIT in the middle of the desert 
and suddenly create a lab that is taking these  
kinds of risks early in a career.
Also the timing is good because  
the exponential is starting to show up.
The exponential is pretty much the same  
in the beginning of the hockey stick 
and at the end of the hockey stick,  
but you don't notice it until it gets going.
That’s what's happening in computing,  
AI, and biotech.
They're all peaking at this point. 
So whichever lab happened to already have 
that positive feedback loop going with the  
academic to industry technology transfer would 
asymmetrically benefit from that exponential. 
To some extent with the exponential, you can 
really look like you're very productive when  
really you're just kind of sliding downhill.
It's like, "Yeah, look at how productive I am. 
I just jumped out of a plane 
and am accelerating steadily." 
Yesterday I had dinner with 
a bunch of biotech founders. 
I mentioned that I was going 
to interview you tomorrow. 
Somebody asked, "Wait, how many 
of the people here have worked  
in George's lab at some point or 
worked with him at some point?" 
I think 70% or 80% of the 
people raised their hand. 
One of the people suggested, "Oh, you 
should ask him, how does he spot talent?" 
Because it is the case that many of the 
people who are building these leading  
companies or doing groundbreaking research have 
been recruited by you, have worked in your lab. 
So how do you spot talent?
Well, I'm glad you framed it as spotting talent. 
I've heard at least one meme that all 
you have to do is show up and you'll  
get into my lab, which is definitely not true.
First of all, there's a lot of self-selection.  
Frankly, we're an acquired taste. Technology 
development is not at all the same skill set  
as regular biology where you pick a gene, 
you pick a disease, you pick a phenomenon,  
and you hammer away at it for your whole life.
This is more like you make a library where you  
have a million members of the library 
that are going to fail and maybe one or  
two will succeed. It’s a very different 
attitude. It's much more engineering,  
but it's even different from most engineering.
Engineering doesn't usually use libraries that  
way, millions and billions of components that 
are non-random but many of them will fail. 
So the question was selection criteria. 
There's self-selection. The next thing is,  
in the interview, I typically tell them 
that I'm looking for people that are nice. 
I'm not necessarily looking for geniuses.
We end up with a lot of geniuses. That's  
wonderful. But nice, I think, is highly predictive 
of how well you will do in the lab and afterwards. 
As a consequence, I think we have a kind 
of international set of alumni that are  
quite nice to each other even though 
they're supposedly in cutthroat fields. 
And I think they're nice to other 
people as well. So nice is one criteria.  
Multidisciplinarity. It's hard to build a 
multidisciplinary team from disciplinarians. 
If you have two people that each know two 
languages or two skills, even if they don't have  
anything in common, they have shown that they can 
learn a new skill and then they'll each add the  
skill that connects them. That's the third thing. 
Those are the three main things I would say. 
Final question. Given the fast pace of AI 
progress—your point taken, that we should  
be cautious of this technology, but by default 
I expect it to go quite fast and there not being  
some sort of global moratorium on AI progress… 
Given that's the case, what is the vision? 
We're going to very plausibly have a world 
with genuine AGI within the next 20 years. 
What is the vision for biology given that fact?
If AI were 100 years away we could say we've got  
this research we're doing with the brain or with 
gene therapies and so forth which might help us  
cope or might help us stay on the same page.
Given how fast AI is happening, what is the  
vision for this bio-AI co-evolution 
or whatever it might look like? 
If we handle the safety issues, 
and that has to be a top priority,  
then we're probably going to have almost perfect 
health. Why wouldn't we? It's going to go so fast. 
It's going to go pretty fast 
with just regular AI without AGI. 
But if you add to it AGI… It'll also be a 
positive feedback loop, because the more  
people that get fixed or get access to good 
healthcare, the more people will be helping  
prompt the AI, if that's necessary.
I think it probably will be. 
The more hybrid systems we'll have of 
people and machines working together in  
harmony in this very positive scenario.
Well, that's a good vision to end on. 
George, thank you so much for coming on.
Thank you.