[Music] What a day, folks. What a day. Thank you everybody for being here. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. What a day. That's that's really all you can say, right? What a freaking day. What a freaking week. Uh there are a lot of things we have to talk about, a lot of updates we have to get into, but as everyone can likely see. Uh we are going green, trying to not fully green, but we are at least not as bad as where we were in the morning. Uh this is I think basically what we were doing the entire week. It's a little bit of a roller coaster ride, but we are back. All right. So, what's going on? There's a couple of things that are happening right now. And the things that are happening are making it very apparent for why we are going green. Not fully going green, but Bitcoin. My goodness. Again, there's a lot of things to dissect and talk about. 103.8 on Bitcoin. It was at 99 in the morning when I left the market open. S&P was low. S&P right here 669. About 50 cents away from going green. we were at around 661 on the S&P. Um, and now you have 669. Bitcoin was kind of at like 101, 102, so Bitcoin was definitely not signaling that things were necessarily going bad in the risk on space. But, uh, now it continues to break out. You're seeing stocks that are still pretty red for the day, but they're not as red as they were. Archer was down 17, now it's down nine. Hims was down five, now it's down two. Soapfi going green. MP Materials actually up 13%. BitMine out of all companies, BMNR actually ends up being one of the best performers of the day, up 8.3%. That's because Ethereum is not slowing down. Ethereum right there trying to crush 3500. Meta was at 601 in the morning, now at 618 trying to go green. What is going on? I think I finally have an answer potentially for all the volatility we've been seeing this week. Definitely the volatility we've been seeing today. You know, there were arguments about a labor market, arguments about the AI trade kind of getting into question. I think the answer is pretty simple, and I'm going to share with you guys what I think the answer is. And I think literally the reason we started going green about two hours ago, uh, is because of this. It's the shutdown. Some ideas that the Democrats are trying to get Congress to reopen is what's getting the market to be a bit more excited. Scott, we just saw a brand new offer on the floor from Chuck Schumer and Senate Democrats, basically telling Republicans that they will vote with them to reopen the government as long as Republicans can agree with them to provide a one-year extension of those Affordable Care Act tax credits that have been keeping premiums low. Uh, Democrats are also asking that there's a bipartisan group that'll work together, figure out some of the reforms that Republicans have said they wanted to see on those tax credits. Important to note here, Senate Republicans have actually shown a lot of openness to finding some way to extend these tax credits. They do want some caveats, some limits on them, but they do overall seem to be supportive. When this came out an hour ago, that's when you really saw the the Vape on the S&P 500. I mean, we definitely got above the bottom a couple hours ago, but when this headline came out, that's where you saw this V starting to get formed. However, the reason we're not fully green is because it looks like the rep Republicans are going to be uh rejecting the Democratic propos uh proposal.
>> And I am hearing uh from a couple of Republican aids that this offer now made by the Democrats that they will vote to reopen the government if Republicans provide a one-year extension of those Affordable Care Act tax credits is not going to be accepted by Republicans. I was told that this offer was actually made several weeks ago, that it was rejected by Republicans. We're also now seeing a statement come out from the White House on this. A White House official saying that Democrats are making clear they're holding the American people hostage for other spending. This is a huge climb down from their initial position shows they're under massive pressure. Um they go on to say that Democrats should reopen the government today and the administration then will meet with them on the tax credit and work on it. So going back really Republicans sticking with their initial position that they are open to talking about these healthc care tax credits but only after Democrats provide the votes to reopen the government. So if this kind of continues this breakthrough might not be much of one at all and we might be kind of back to where we were where both sides are really dug in firm. And remember for Democrats in particular I I am I do know that there are some more moderate Democrats out there. They want to find a way forward. They want to reopen the government, but they are getting pressure from maybe more centrist or more progressive Democrats who are saying, "Look, we just got big wins on Tuesday. The American people are telling us that they want us to hold out and really fight for healthcare and we need to do that." So, I think undetermined yet exactly if there's going to be a vote today, what that vote is going to be on, and how much longer the shutdown's going to go. Scott,
>> I'm just happy we finally have some clarity. I think throughout the entire week, definitely this morning, there was a lot of confusion on why is the market tumbling the way that it is. And obviously, yes, it's healthy, consolidation, all that stuff. But at the end of the day, people want some reason for why Nvidia goes from 205 to 170, right? Like there and it's Nvidia, it's 8% of the S&P 500. So, there has to be some reason that is getting the market to be upset. And I think today, based on the price action that we've seen over the past couple of hours, the reason it looks like is this government shutdown. As soon as that news came out that Democrats are offering a one-year extension on ACA subsidies, which has been kind of the lynch pin of why we have not been able to reopen the government, by the way, super bullish for Oscar if that actually happens. Oscar, right, they're up 7%. A lot of the other healthcare companies like Humanana, um then then the markets went green. Now, like 20 minutes ago, the Republicans pretty pretty much made it clear they're going to be rejecting that offer. Uh markets aren't going super green like they seemed like they were on the trajectory to go, but they're still recovered a decent chunk. The S&P was down more than 1%. Now it's barely down 02%. On the day I think the signaling of the negotiations is that maybe this is not the exact negotiation that will open up uh the government pound you right there going green as well 17792. But it's enough to say that we're getting closer to the government opening up. And well, that's that's I guess the story. I mean, that really feels like the story of the day. Now, a lot of people might be saying, really, the government shutdown was the reason for all this volatility. Again, I can't be sure that's the only thing, but based on the price action and based on the movement on the price action, yeah, it seems like that is the number one reason for why we've had some pain. So, the it kind of comes down to do we think in the next few weeks, and Poly Market right here has a 50% odds that we will open after November 16. Do we believe in the next coming weeks we will get some level of capitulation from the Democrats and Republicans on this healthcare issue which again has been the core issue so far right there 28 for why we haven't opened or will this continue to be extended. The fact that the Republicans rejected this proposal means that they're not willing to extend healthcare subsidies for another year which you know if that's their prerogative that's the prerogative but at some point they're going to have to negotiate it and the question just becomes uh what will it be like? Having said that, I think it goes to show and and the reason I I I am at least happy to see some of this price action is that there was a lot of chatter today on is this fundamental, right? Is the AI trade messed up? Is there like an issue with valuations, corporate debt, all this stuff? And I think what we were talking about in the morning is that the earnings are really good across the board. The earning now like Open Door didn't have the best earnings, but you know, Open Door is not Google. Google had a phenomenal earnings. Meta is down because of a variety of things around capex spend and can they get an ROI but Meta still grew revenues at 26%. So at its core to say these stocks need to be cut by 20 30% because their valuations don't make sense. It's like well wait a second we did a lot of work on valuations and some stocks do trade at aggressive multiples but the most important companies on the planet. They are trading at very reasonable multiples you know you're talking about 23 to 30 times earnings and they're growing earnings. So that's why it didn't feel like it was a fundamental issue. And again, a fundamental issue turns into a bare market, right? If the fundamentals are messed up, you end up getting a prolonged selling cycle. If it's just this jitter of a headline or a macro or a news event like the shutdown, then maybe we don't have to deal with that type of pain. I think it's too early to tell exactly what it is, but based on the price action we're seeing today, it might be because of the shutdown because again, we are almost recovering everything that we lost as we get into the close. Fear and greed was at 14 at its lowest. Now we're at 20 just based on these headlines around the shutdown. And so yeah, Meta at a 24 PE is not a bubble. Like it didn't feel like a bubble. You could understand why Meta is getting chopped and the narrative overhang, but that doesn't feel much like a bubble. though. Uh I'm at least happy that it like given the fact that the S&P quite literally reversed most of the day's gains as soon as that Democrat healthcare shutdown headline came out. It it'd go to show me, oh, this is literally a game of alos that are toying with this shutdown headline news as the basis for how they're going to go up or down. It's not a lack of full belief in the broader market. And I think that's the positive thing for investors to kind of hang their hats on. Now, is this a bit of a bull trap and Monday we get I mean, I don't know. we're going to see. But at least it's not the bottom falling out, which is pretty much what happened for the first three hours today during the market open. Ethereum right there 3,400, Bitcoin 103.6. A lot of people screaming that it is alt cycle now. You're seeing a lot of these old coins. I mean, Fartcoin being one of the leaders today, up 10%. If it is altcoin cycle, um fortcoin now is up on the day, yeah, almost 12 to 15%. If it is altcoin cycle, then BMR is going to be a beneficiary. Ethereum is going to get some love right there. BMR 40.3 again. BMR was at 3579. The fact that this one is making such a nice recovery is also nice to see. S&P 500 again, we are so Oh, there you go. Green 670.3 there. That's the market telling you we think the shutdown is going to end soon. Even if the Republicans ended up rejecting that offer, I think that's the market basically saying, you know what, uh, this shutdown will come to an end and it probably will come to an end soon and that's why we're getting that recovery. I mean, if you didn't look at your portfolio the whole day, uh, notice the level of carnage, but if you were tracking it in the morning, there was some carnage. And a lot of that carnage seems to now be uh a result of this government shutdown that potentially might be reopening going into next week. June says we just needed any good news. Yeah, I think so. And I guess the the core good news that the market cared about was this shutdown. And you know, the thing that I think a lot of us were saying in the morning was that hey, the labor market might be the biggest issue. Uh because you know, that is the more fundamental picture that we're seeing right now. Grab still down 1%, Celsius down 7%. Uh pounder got to 168 at one point. counter right now 178. But the labor market might continue to be an issue at least on a day like today as these shutdown headlines come through. Maybe that's not the core thing that the market cares about. And that's what we got. I mean, it's not a horrible close going into the end of the week. We got about four minutes until the market closes. Mr. Matt Money picked up some Rocket Lab this morning at 46. We were at 51. That's up 4%. I mean, pretty much every stock had a Vshape. That doesn't mean every stock went green, but like you have a lot of stocks that aren't really down at the very very lows that they were down for. Even Micro Strategy was at 219, now it's at 240. You know, Nvidia, Nvidia got to 177 at the lows. Nvidia 188 basically going green or 178.92 on the lows. 188 right here, 10 cents away from going green. So, you're seeing across the board a lot of these assets go green. And again, you know, it goes to show how the alos will take something up and take something down. Cororee still down 2.8% of the day. At one point it was at 100. Now it's at 103. Nebius was at 101. Now it's at 111. Not too bad. What happened to Bur shorts? I mean, I don't know. But it is a dangerous game being short, the two biggest AI stocks in the market, Pounder and Nvidia, and having them go down not because of something AI. Again, I want to make this very clear. I don't think Nvidia and Pounder took a hit today because of something AI related, which is what I think Bur's waiting for. this like AI bubble to pop and then Nvidia and Palanteer end up getting wrecked and he makes billions of dollars. It was because of a shutdown. Like that's what it feels like as we get into the it was like everything, not just Nvidia and Palanteer. Those guys were taking it a bit harder on the chin. But it was because of this shutdown stuff and now they're both recovering a decent amount which means maybe if he closed the shorts in the morning, he made some profit. But again, I don't think he's shorting it for it to go from 200 to 170. I think he's shorting it to go from 200 to 100. At least that's how Bur has typically done things. Maybe this time he's thinking of it in a different way. But I mean to get Palenter to really collapse or Nvidia to really collapse, I think you need a market collapse. I don't think those two individual names, given how highly liquid they are, how many options are traded around them, and ultimately their fundamental growth stories, I don't think they easily just go down if the market doesn't go down. So Bur's kind of making a bet on the entire market, dude. It's not really Palanteer and Nvidia. You know, if they were this these were two two random AI stocks that were super hyped like in the nuclear space, I could understand shorting them specifically. But pounder and video are core core parts of the market. I mean, even in the options trading market today, the top 20 stocks that were traded, what are the top three? Nvidia with four million contracts traded, Tesla with 3.5 million contracts traded, and then Palunteer with 1.2 million contracts traded today. These are household names in the stock market. Then you have AMD, Meta, Apple, IBIT, Open Door, Micro Strategy, Amazon Hood, SoFi, Sound, I Ren, Google, Coinbase, Intel, Archer, Microsoft, and Meta or uh or I should say Marathon. Like for those names to go red, I think he really does think the entire market has to either collapse or take a really big hit. And at least what we're seeing as we get into the close today for Friday is this government shutdown news might be enough to potentially avoid that. But that's what we got for today. All right. Thank everybody for being here. We got a bunch of different headlines. I think we'll have Steve on in about 20 minutes and we'll get his thoughts on what's going on. Wild, wild week. This is why we invest dealing with the emotional nature of going up or down, but it is ultimately why we get to enjoy some of the gains, but also have to deal with some of the pains. Friday, November 7th, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. We are done for the day. We are done for the day. And what a day it's been. What a day it's been. We'll do year to dates in just a second. Let me go through some of these ending price actions and then we'll get into year-to dates. Nvidia 18815 ended green on the day. Rocket Lab ended green on the day. Grab still down 1% on the day. S&P 500 671 somehow got a little bit of green on the day. Bit mine just incredible 7.5%. We know Bitmine's volatile. It could go back to 37. It can go up to 45 in an instant. Really depends on Ethereum. But that one leading the way to be green which is you know one of the most risk volatile assets uh definitely is encouraging for the broader market. Meta right here 621. that screen. Ethereum 3500, Bitcoin 103.5, Celsius still down 7% on the day. Joby actually up 4% after Archer went down 17. Archer ended the day down 7%. Palenteer got green 17793. AMD was at 224 at one point. 233, which is not too bad. Robin Hoodie 130. We got the 130 close on Robin. Did get to 120 at one point. So 130 on Hood. Nice to see it at least get up to 130. Again, they had one of the best earnings I've ever seen. stocks still down 7% or 11% from the highs but 130 on hood. Apple actually ended up red 268. You got micro strategy uh that one is also green from 220 to 224 or for 224 to 240. Tesla right there 429. Tesla ended red on the day wasn't able to fully recover. I mean did have a bounce from 421 to 429 but still red. Amazon right here 244. Amazon got below 240 at one point. Google 278 was still red. And then DraftKings up 8% on the day after a good earnings and deal with ESPN. And looks like that one went green for the day. Rocklab as well 5164. Nvidia 18815. VG, did that make a move today? VG 3%. Chime, shout out to Tanner. I know he's been on this one. Chime is up 12.4%. So Chime got some love as well. ESTs, uh, 69, look at that. Up 6% on the day. 6950. Not too bad. That one fell all the way down to 61. And then you have Nebus right here, 111. And then Nvidia, 188 on the day. Wild day. Absolutely wild day. Okay, before we get into year to dates, EOSE as well. That one got back up to 18, which is very Wow. 20% on the day. A lot of these names V-shaped reversed very hard to the upside and you got EOSE energy back up 20%. Okay, here's my question. Where were people when you saw the Vshape? Were you on Twitter? Were you just like finishing your work? Like what were you doing when you saw the Vshape? because I I was actually I actually did a podcast with um Evan, which by the way, Evan, thank you for the five gifted. Appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here. I was doing the live stream with them. And that's when we were starting to recover, but we didn't really fully recover. And then after that I I had another meeting and then as soon as that meeting ended 10 minutes later I look at my portfol I'm like hold on a sec this is not the same as what it was in the morning and uh it was kind of crazy to see it. It really was. Um I was sleeping getting a haircut. For those asking why the market went up again Democrats offered for a negotiation on the shutdown. Republicans rejected it, but the offer was enough to get people excited. And that is the core reason that I believe we uh ended up Vshaping for the day. Jasmine said, "I was finishing work and just happened to check. Um I was doing some TA. I was streaming up the milkman. I was texting with Steve. He's so excited to come on the show today because he's work has just been killing him all day. He's like been being pulled in all these different meetings and stuff. So, he's looking forward to hopping on the show." So, we'll hear from him in a bit. on my couch. I was hiding in my closet. I saw your post on X. Yeah. When did I post that? It was like at 3 PM or something and I was just like, "What is going on?" It was at 248. At 2:48, that's when I noticed, okay, things were changing. Yeah. Most people said they were just working and they just happened to see it and then boom, there you go. All right. Not too bad. Uh, we got some green. Let's do to the year to dates. We do it every single Friday, so put it in the chat. Obviously, year to dates as we get a bit more of a green close are going to be a bit better than uh than what they were in the morning. And I could imagine for a lot of people, it just completely flipped the portfolio. But this is what you have as we end out as we end out the week. This is the first week of November, right? Yeah. First week of November. This is our first week of November in this month and we have basically seven weeks left of the entire year for the stock market. All right. Year to date 11373 11373 113.73. This was I think last week when we did this this was like at 165. So obviously down a lot more. The portfolio at the worst of it today was down 85. We ended up 27. Was down 85 at the worst of it today. We ended up 27. And I can imagine a lot of people kind of have the same situation. June about 65% year to date. Astricus 128, Vicram 194, Nathan 132, Jake 254, Jasmine 48. Um, Matt 45, Roberto 17, uh, Marco 51, Shou 200. I mean, I'm still seeing a decent chunk of these numbers above 30, 40, 50%. Which is not too bad. Acid at 30, Joseph at 67, Dion at 43, uh, Furat at 67, Greg Volvo at 55. Yeah, I mean, look, they're not the numbers that we were at last week, but they're still pretty damn good. Still pretty. And again, this is this is where you got to exercise some gratitude, right? Because if we didn't have this whole um this whole shutdown thing that ended up making the market go green, I mean, these dates would be a lot worse. So, it's not horrible to see this. Uh BMR, yes, JP Morgan did buy BMR. That is confirmed. They bought $100 million worth of it. I don't know if it matters that much. Again, I think it's kind of similar to like Black Rockck and Vanguard and State Street when they take a position in name. They're not taking a position to express a bullish or bearish sentiment. They're just taking a position because they have to have those shares under custody. So, I'm not fully sure if this is like the JP Morgan long equities team that's buying it or if it's just the overall institution. So, again, I wouldn't read too much into them buying BMR. You got to be very careful when you see big fund buy stock. It's like unless they're a fund like a Cathy that's like managed by a person that has to have an opinion, it doesn't really matter, right? They they have to buy every stock in the market and they have to uh navigate that with the options trading that they do as well. But that headline did go around. JP Morgan does have about $und00 million worth of B&R. Uh Paul, he's at 122. Johnny's at 40. You got Thomas at 30. I mean, most people here in that 30 to 50 range or above, which is nice to see. Viss at 45, Jonathan 44, Raj at 26, Brian at 36, Spicy B at 89. It's not bad. Not bad. To end out the week, we only have about a month and a half left of this year, so these numbers are really going to start to consolidate as we get into these final weeks. And it's nice to see that's how we're kind of ending it out for now. We do have a headline right here on OpenAI. Open AAI asks the US to expand chips act tax credit to data centers. Wow. Holy crap. Bloomberg. Uh, OpenAI asks the United States to expand Chips Act tax credit. The Chips Act is from when Biden was president to data centers. Didn't this guy just say we don't want the government to backs stop any of the I thought he I mean this is not really a loan to an well it's a tax credit right it's not a loan but it definitely is a subsidy that's for sure yeah there you go Bloomberg just now literally three minutes ago openai asks the US to expand chips tax credit to data centers that's probably why the CFO slipped up and said this whole government backs stop thing which she apologized for I mean the reason she said it is because They probably knew they were getting ready to make a request and they had to officially get it out there. There you go. That's the news on OpenAI as we get into it. Austin says, "We don't want you to backs stop it." And on second thought, Yeah. I mean, they obviously want the Dude, they obviously want the government involved in this entire game. There's no way they don't as it helps them continue to justify all the spend. Uh even with the recovery that we have today, the NASDAQ still had its worst week since April. The NASDAQ still had its worst week since April. Uh about 1.4 trillion down in the stock market for the week. Bitcoin actually holding up relatively nicely, but the NASDAQ still had its worst week. The Q's, I think, ended green on the day. There you go. Well, no, the Q's were still red. S&P ended green, but the Q's are more heavily tech focused. They ended red. Let's go to the stock draft. see how that ended out for this week. Um, okay. I'm still in first place. Somehow holding on even with Duelingo. Matt's at 26. I think ABCL got him this week and Dutch Bros got him this week. Outside of that, I know Rocklab's down a bit, but still 26%. Tanner's at 18. Steve's at four. Chris is at three. What her uh Take two. Take two. Enovo this week. That got Oh, I forgot Chris at elf. Forgot. Chris at elf. Oh, that got Chris. UNH is still doing okay. Google's doing great. Marll's doing okay. Oh, he had Ax on, too. Okay. I didn't know he had Axon and Elf. He got So, Axon and Elf are Chris's biggest losers. Uh, Duolingo is my biggest loser. Visa is red, but it's down 4%. Steve's biggest loser is HIMS and Micro Strategy. I forgot he had MSTR. Tanner's biggest loser is TTD. I wouldn't say Melly or Service Now are losers. I think those can recover, but TTD structurally it has some issues. And then Matt's biggest loser is Dutch Bros, which you know that's not the biggest concern given a lot of the other portfolio is green and Chris has ax on. So we are still in first place 34% with that Duolingo negative 57%. And that's what you got on the stock draft. It's kind of crazy, dude. Kind of crazy week across the board. Oracle, by the way, I don't know if Oracle is still trading at this price, but I think at about 2 PM. Yeah, Oracle 239. Oracle was at 233 right before they announced the $300 billion deal with OpenAI in uh September. I remember I was at the um the Vegas event for Hood when they officially put out their their remaining performance obligations growth of 500%. Oracle's right back down to 239. went from 233 to 350 back down to 239. Matt says, "A mit is a power top." Okay, Matt, thank you. I I I don't even know if I should say thank you to that, but thanks for thanks for the compliment if that is a compliment. Uh then speaking of Oracle, and this is similar for a lot of these companies, look at Cororeweave's um look at let me put this up right here for Cororeweave. This is their credit default swaps for Cororeweave. which is tied to the bond uh market for them. Look at that. Pushing 500. And basically, as these swaps, as the bid spreads on the swaps continue to go higher, that means the market wants more of a return for the debt that they're taking on. This is this is similar to Oracle as well. Those started going higher this morning as well. And part of the reason for that is because the market is a bit, you know, concerned about the uh the type of debt that these companies are taking on. And you know, Cororeweave has a 318% debt to equity ratio, which is a bit aggressive. So, you're seeing the bond market start to price these things a bit higher. And I think that's why Oracle stock was down today, 2% down to basically the worst levels it's been since September. It actually got to 232, which is exactly where it was in September, right before it ran to 350. So, anyone who bought after that is kind of down on these shares right here as the market tries to figure out exactly what to do with that corporate debt. S&P 500 is still up a little bit after hours. Robin making a little bit move after hours and then Palanteer right here 178 after hours as well. Oracle is definitely more attractive at these prices. I have not done a enough of a fundamental deep dive on the business. Um but I mean from 350 back down to 230 it's still up a ton year to date. I do think it's worth at least looking at and trying to understand their broader model. Oracle right here 44% year to date. Zeta as well went from 20 to 17 today. Where did it end? It ended at 1950. Not too bad. Not too bad. Why do market makers think that generational revolutionary technology is going to provide ROIC in 24 months? That's a great question by Douggee. I think the big concern today or potentially the concern today was that they don't think it's revolutionary technology. I mean, that's how the market was acting this morning that the whole AI trade was almost finished. And I think that was causing the real panic and fear. And as we get into the end of the the the day, it seems like it wasn't really about that, even though the market was acting like that. It was about this damn shutdown, which I guess was enough to to get the market to be a bit concerned. Uh let's hear a bit from the professor and kind of get his thoughts on what he's thinking has been happening throughout the past couple days, and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Thinking it could be an offer. That's why it's so dangerous to be short in this market because, you know, you're going to get a pop if it reopens. You know, very honestly, I I think the Republicans would be very smart to take this offer. Um I don't think
>> we know that the Republicans ended up not taking the offer.
>> Republicans would be wise to take it. I think I think they will.
>> Professor, I appreciate you reacting so quickly to the news of this moment as we see it obviously impacting how this market is trading. With less than an hour to go in the week, I want to steer you though to what I think has really been the story of this week and that is anxiety over this AI trade. I'm wondering what you make of it. The fact the NASDAQ has certainly come off its worst levels, but it's still down more than 3% on the week and many of these big AI related stocks have obviously been extraordinarily volatile this week. What do you make of it? Well, you know, uh, two weeks ago, for those two weeks, they shot up and and I relative to the market, I I often, uh, chart, uh, the the the tech stocks relative to the market, it was sort of, uh, shooting up and shooting back down. And now it's right back at the trend line. And the trend line is still that these stocks over the last six months, over the last year, after two years, are still moving up relative to the next uh to the rest of the market. Uh, you know, that trend certainly can't continue forever. Um, what what I think though, Scott, whenever anyone says it's the beginning of the end, and when everyone starts saying it's the beginning of the end, I begin to say, "Hey, no, that's not the way it works." Well, it's usually when when everyone is totally optimistic that you see the market begin to crumble. So, I I still think the AI trade is on. I mean, I hear the arguments against it. uh you know Meta is having particular problems because of all its uh you know capital expenditures and uh you know it it is true because I've done the research for firms that do a too much capital uh spending actually have underperformed over decades in the market and we will put a meta in that category but the rest of them uh are generating those profits with that expenditures um I I'm I'm interested to see how the market does If if the Republicans take this and it reopens, I think
>> we know that the Republicans ended up not taking it. Again, this was about 20 minutes before the Republican offer came in or the Republican rejection of the offer came in. But the market, I think, was happy enough at least that the conversation got started. Now, there is another perspective to this. The other perspective to show the other side is that the Vshape that we had towards the end of the day has nothing to do uh with the government shutdown and it's a deadcat bounce. And that's the poll I just put in the chat. Uh what do you guys think? Is this a deadcat bounce? Is this market makers just playing around? I mean, we've obviously seen the ability for them to take stocks up and down, make you think that we're good, and then they end up getting dumped more, make you think that we're, you know, the bottoms falling out, and then immediately they they V-shape up. I mean, if you shorted the market, you know, going into 230 today, you got your face ripped off. So, it's like, now granted, if you go super long the market going into the weekend, you get your face ripped off next week. It's not the easiest to tell, but if this is a market reacting to the shutdown news and it's not just ALOS going back and forth um playing with people, then the government reopening might end up being the catalyst that takes us uh takes us further, which is kind of what we need to see. But that's what we're looking at right now. Fear and greed again at 20, up from 14. Trump just now says the United States Senate should not leave town until they have a deal to to end the Democrat shutdown. Okay, so at least Trump is on the side of getting a deal. He just tweeted, "The United States Senate should not leave town until they have a deal to end the Democrat shutdown. If they can't reach a deal, the Republicans should terminate the filibuster immediately and take care of our great American workers." S&P is up right now after hours probably on that tweet by Trump because that tweet is signaling that um he really wants a deal and if he really wants a deal then the Republicans might really try to find a way to get a deal. Now granted I I mean is Trump okay with a year's extension of the ACA subsidies? I don't know because Mike Johnson's been complaining for the past 40 days along with Trump that we cannot let the Democrats open up the government for these healthcare subsidies to be extended to illegal immigrants. But if that is the only way they get the job done that I don't know. This was Trump this morning when he was speaking uh in the Oval Office about the shutdown as well.
>> We have a shutdown as you probably know because the Democrats have gone they're they're crazy. They're crazy but they don't care if they hurt the country. But we've uh approved it 14 times. We've approved a opening up 14 times and they keep rejecting it. And uh I guess maybe they will again. Let's see what happens. Uh they want to have a lot of bad things happened. Bad things for our country. We're not going to give $1.5 trillion to people that came into our country illegally. We're not going to do it. Uh to people came from prisons. They came from mental institutions. They're drug dealers. They want to give them medical care. we have a shutdown is
>> I mean that's obviously why the Republicans didn't accept the latest offer but nonetheless that is the offer and you know maybe that's what we need to keep the market going but yeah had a lot of stuff rebound I mean Oaklo was at 97114 D-Wave which had a pretty good earnings actually 2642 got up to 30 after hours zeta again fell to 171 1955 so this was everything this was the entirety of where was ELF Elf. Okay, Elf was maybe an exception. It bounced from six. Dude, why does the market hate ELF? Like literally Christmas time is coming up. Why are we discriminating against elves? But 73.95, it bounced off 69, so at least it got a little bit of a jolt, but yeah, Elves still got hit. I mean, even Dolingo, dude. Duolingo today, 182 to 200. That That's a nice move. 20 bucks is not horrible. above 200. Still down a lot from the earnings, but um ELF is one of the only names that didn't really get too big of a bounce. ELF short float, let me check. I don't know. I think it's like 15%. I think it's decently high. No, 9%. Okay, so that's not even that I don't think that's enough for a squeeze, guys. 9%. It's not that crazy for ELF. What about Celsius? Celsius, it still ended red for the day. Yeah, it didn't really get a bounce. 40 to 41, but that one still down 7%. Door Dash, let me check Dash. Um, Door Dash right here. Yeah, a little bit. 191 to 204. Actually up 4% on the day. Irre fell to 58. I ran 62. Not a crazy bounce, but like at least it's not below 60. Still down about 6% on the day. So again, some of these names had a bit of a more aggressive bounce, but the fact is almost every name did bounce, which is encouraging to see. In terms of the poll, 64% of you said Vshape, 36% of you said dead cat bounce, 64% said Vshape, 36% said dead cat bounce. On top of that, these were again the top 20 stocks that were traded in the uh in the options market today. Yeah, Lemonade had a great earnings and they had a great result as well. Lemonade right there 75. Uh that bounced from like 71. Uh and it's still up basically 30 cent for the week, 30% for the week after their earnings. We did a deep dive on Lemonade a while ago. Again, I just never got super interested in insurance in and of itself, but for those that were long and really understood the thesis, I mean, you got to reward it. They put up some amazing numbers and that did well. So, there you go. That's what you got. That is what we had today. What's going on with Sheba Enu? Well, I guess we are somehow getting into a altcoin cycle. Uh, I don't really fully understand old coins, but Shibbeinu is up 14% today. Um, yeah, I don't fully understand why we're having an old coin cycle like this, but we are. Yeah. Well, here's my question. when we have an old coin cycle, is that good for Bitcoin or bad for Bitcoin? Like is bit does Bitcoin dominance go up or I imagine it goes down during that time, right? And I don't even fully know if this is an old coin cycle, but I would imagine it's not necessarily the best. How is it a V-shaped? Nothing has changed. Well, Vshape relative to I mean, again, the S&P was at 661 this morning. We're at 670. That's your V. I know it's not like a V back up to 690, but we're trying to take it day by day here. And so that little V right there, 661 to 670. I mean, that's enough to at least have a decent weekend because it really was a bit more ugly this morning. Yeah, your intraday V. You guys bad for Bitcoin? All right. Well, we're going to see. By the way, uh Open Door priced their direct offering. It's about 180 million shares at 650. So, they're going to be raising about 1.1 billion. Um, so that news was baked into the stock today. Even Open Door, look at that, ended green or ended flat for the day. But it fell to 477. Now it's 650. So many, many, many names ended up getting that recovery, which is at least more encouraging than not to see. Um, okay. Let's get some more perspectives on some of the stuff that's happening right here and then we'll keep going from there. Also, an update on these flights as we see that the government being shut down is still canceling a lot of flights. Maybe it reopens over the weekend, but that is definitely affecting travel over the weekend.
>> On consumer sentiment today, um, and also a small impact on consumer spending as well. But, you know, markets are most focused on what's really driving earnings and overall market momentum right now, which goes back to the AI bubble debate that we were talking about earlier. And on that point, I think one of Jeremy's comments was was really key where um if you were afraid of a bubble, I mean, you would want to see the kind of action that we're seeing right now where we're all debating the quality of capex, how much we're tapping debt markets. And I think we need to continue to watch this activity, but also relative to the last time we actually had a bubble, most of that spending was all leverage financed and they were all scrappy startup companies. And so I think the reality is there are still really powerful strong incumbents powering this AI wave. The AI wave is broadening out to companies with inferior fundamentals and we need to be cautious but investors need to also have a long-term perspective um and maybe write out some of this intra week.
>> You if nothing else feel as though this week sort of turned up the scrutiny of the the dollars that are actually being spent from these companies and maybe even you know in the in the case of a palunteer for example knocked the ball out of the park earnings but a valuation that makes people a little uneasy. Valuations are absolutely key here. And I think the challenge is we're investing for AI for business models that are still so nent. We don't know the pricing mechanisms behind them all. We don't know what the end user demand is going to be. Chat GBT for instance only converts about 5% of its users into paid subscribers. So the uncertainty is warranted given that you have spending on this exponential curve. Compute costs and compute needs are on an exponential curve. Needs not costs. Um, and I think that all warrants caution, but what we're seeing is really strategic long-term planning. And a lot of the spending commitments that are being made right now, they're not all being spent this year. And they're not even ironclad commitments. They are arrangements that over the next 5 10 years, we need a lot of data center capacity. And in order to do so, we need to align incentives across the value chain.
>> What do you think of this? And so, see, this is this is the reason why the AI trade coming into question this morning was a bit weird, right? Because all of the big tech companies guided for cumulatively, if you put it together, it's around 450 to 500 billion of capex spending. And that's just the max 7. When you have all the other companies that you put into the mix, you get closer to 600 billion for 2026. That's a lot of capex. I mean, they said that last week, the market digested it, understood it, was able to kind of price it in, and that's where you saw the S&P 500 kind of get to 690. And then today you have everyone or at least what it felt like is everyone questioning the state of all that spend as if Google didn't say they were going to spend $93 billion in 2026. And so it's kind of this like back and forth of the market trying to ask themselves, do we actually believe this spend is justified and do we believe the spend is worth it? And for Meta, they obviously do not think the spend is worth it. That's why Meta's got wrecked. But the other names have been relatively okay. So I feel like this is where you have to make a subjective decision as an investor. Do you believe that the AI capex AI spend story is not slowing down? Regardless of the uh bond markets that are getting involved, regardless of the lack of awareness of like what Meta is going to build with all this capex, you still trust and believe in it because if you don't, you know, that is kind of the market jitter that I think has been around all week. If you do, then you buy the dip because you don't care because you know that inevitably there is going to be return there. But I think that was the main concern that some people had this week. Um, Matt, thank you for the $50 super chat. I would have gone back to sleep this morning if it wasn't for your show. The trades I made this morning paid off big time today. Thank you, Mitt. This awesome community drinks on me tonight. You can buy a $50 drink in New York City. Matt, thank you for the super chat. I I mean, to be honest, drinks in New York. I think 50 will get me a maybe maybe one shot to be honest, but I think 50 will get me a Shirley Temple. So, I appreciate that. I think hopefully hopefully the bartender doesn't make fun of me, but we'll we'll get a Shirley Temple with that. Thank you. I appreciate that. And yeah, I mean, look, intraday, if you were able to take some trades on the right side of it, obviously uh the day went well as we got this intraday recovery. The question is just going to be what that turns out to be going into next week. Are our drinks in New York free? That's funny. That's actually really funny. That's actually very funny. I mean, maybe maybe we get a a city-owned bar. Can we Is that is that possible? Can we can we do that? So that to Julian, open up the government. We need to open up this government. I agree. That is what is creating most of the pain. It feels like that's what's creating most of the pain. And if we can get that open up, we might be okay. It really might be, dude. I didn't I mean, I laid out a variety of narratives over the past couple days for why I thought the market was struggling. And in the morning, we kind of went through those narratives. I didn't think the shutdown was the sort of de facto reason why markets were going up versus down or down versus up. And then as soon as we get that headline at 240 and we V-shaped, I'm like, "Oh, so it's the shutdown. Really? That's what they care about? The freaking shutdown? So it's not Tanner's fault?" Yes, it was not Tanner's fault. Apparently it was the Democrats and Republicans. And the reason it was hard to believe is because for the past month, no one cared about the shutdown. Like we made all-time highs in October. Nvidia got to freaking 5.2 trillion. No one gave a [ __ ] about the shutdown. And then today, like the market's like, "Nope, we're taking out another 300 billion for the entire market because the shutdown is is an issue." Which begs the question, is it actually the issue? Or next week, are we going to get something different even if the government reopens? We'll find out on the greatest show on Earth when it opens up next week. But it feels like the shutdown might be the broader concern. So, that's what we got. Let's take a look at uh Steve's Doppelganger from Morgan Stanley. He doesn't think this looks like him, but oh my goodness, this guy looks like him. Here's what he has to say about the markets. Up probably 30 to 40% since Liberation Day. If you look at some of the main drivers for this, the the higher B beta higher V stocks have all done exceptionally well and we had a really big October particularly in that. So, I think you're starting to see some people taking some profits. I think there's a little bit.
>> Tell me this is not milkman, bro. Tell me this is not milkman. This is milkman. This is Steve. This is 1,000% Steve.
>> Concern with regards to pal 100% uh expectation with regards to Fed cut in December. It's still 2/3. But I think if you have that kind of run, everyone just expects this is going to continue and you get a little bump in the road. People are going to start to pull back a little bit on risk.
>> I mean, I hear you. Um, you know, but the labor market data, at least we're not getting government data, but the challenger numbers we got this week were concerning. Um, despite what Pal says about it's, you know, far from certain or far from it or or whatever. Um, their their hand may be forced to cut rates. I think it that's put a little bit of a floor under stocks, too.
>> Absolutely. No, and I think that's something to think about with regards to once we get through this kind of settling, what are going to be the things to drive it next? I think uh Fed policy is definitely going to be a part of it. We also haven't talked about fiscal policy. The big beautiful bill starting to flow into the economy. The other thing is M&A activity up over 40% year-over-year IPOs coming into market. So you're going to get those animal spirits plus you're going to start to see people chasing for that year end doing a little bit of window dressing on the active side. Managers wanting to show that they own the stocks that have done well. So you'll start chasing that is
>> very similar argument to what Tom Lee said, right? This chase that's likely going to happen. Uh I think Tom Lee yesterday was kind of making this point as well for yield towards the end of the year. We're not at the end of the year yet. We're getting close, but we're not there yet. That is something that's still a catalyst. And then this whole argument that we're not going to get a rate cut in December, it's like that's just not true. like there. I I can't imagine with the data we've been getting from the labor market again, that challenger data that showed the worst uh October layoff since 2003. How could that be a reason why we don't cut? I mean, here's another piece of data for people to look at. I saw this an hour ago as well. Take a look at this. Job postings on Indeed, which is one of the biggest job websites for people to find jobs on. Um, and it's been around for a long time. Down six and a half percent in the last week of October, the lowest level since February 2021. Postings have now declined 37% since the April 2022 peak. The number of available vacancies is now only above 1.7% from preandemic levels seen in February 2020. New job postings are just 4% above those levels. I mean, Indeed's a pretty big indicator. I believe their monthly traffic is around um let me pull up the exact numbers right here but it's well over 500 million. So it is one of the Indeed and LinkedIn are like some of the core platforms people go to for job listings. Indeed is at 380 million. Okay so not quite 500 but still it is a deacto website for people to find jobs. the fact that it's down 7% over the past week. Now, maybe that's specific to October, but then when you zoom out and you look at where it's down from April 2022, and obviously it would be down because 2022 is when we were recovering from the pandemic, so job postings would have been up more. But it's definitely something that we got to keep an eye on along with that challenger data we got yesterday around the labor market. Now, the broader question I think for everybody is, is the labor market enough to create an issue? Like, is it really enough to create an issue for our stocks to not be able to hold on? And I think the objective answer to that is yes. But there might also be an argument that says no. The earnings picture is good enough even with a increase of 100 basis points in the in the unemployment rate. And I think that's going to be one of the main themes of uh of 2026. Amanda, how low do you think rates can go when Trump appoints a new Fed chair? I think they're definitely getting to 3%. I would imagine whoever the Fed chair is going to be, especially if it's Hasset, is going to be aggressive enough to get this thing down to 2.75. I don't know if we get down to two and a half as you know, uh, David Zervos has been talking about, but I do think we get to three. And if JPAL is going to be the Fed the entire year, which he's not, you know, we probably would be at like 3.2, but I think we get to three. And if we get to three, you know, we talked about this in the morning, money market funds added 116 billion last week. That's probably why we were at extreme fear this morning as well. you had a decent chunk of money going onto the sidelines. Eventually, a 3% yield on that or two and a half percent yield on that, it's just not enough. Especially if these companies keep executing because then if you know SoFi is growing 35% is really hard to justify being stuck in a money market fund at that point. But 2026, we're going to have a broader understanding of this. Speaking of the labor market, here's another video I saw this morning which was quite awkward and cringe, but um you had employees confront the head of HR at Nestle um about layoffs and the dude was trying to get them to leave and it was just like this is like a real life example of how the layoffs are affecting people and what employees are dealing with. What counts as congregating?
>> I'm sorry.
>> What's your definition of congregating?
>> So, everyone um you know, we'd appreciate if you would would go back to the workplace where your
>> is there a place that you would be able to speak to us?
>> Not today. We have other things going on.
>> Do you think we're not worth speaking to Sam?
>> Those are your words, not mine.
>> But they might be your beliefs.
>> Sorry, not Nestle. Conde Nast. Conde Nast. That's a different company. I don't know why I said Nestle. It's not Nestle. Condeast. media company, not a chocolate company, but nonetheless still pretty awkward.
>> They're not my
>> Oh, okay. So, you do think we're
>> Everyone should go back to your workplace.
>> I work I work here.
>> You dismiss us and don't talk to us.
>> You told us that we had to come work in person here 4 days a week. This is our
>> Are you running away from us?
>> No, I'm directing you back to your place. If you could just go this way, you guys.
>> Will you come this way with us?
>> No.
>> No. I'm in a meeting. I'm working.
>> Okay. Well, we have some quick questions. You answered them. We'd be happy to go back to our desks.
>> All right. We Thank you.
>> You
>> Thank you.
>> You don't want to answer any questions?
>> I've directed you back to your workplace.
>> Is that Is that a good answer, guys?
>> Absolutely not. Come on, S.
>> Not a really good answer, S.
>> It's kind of crazy, bro. these layoffs, we hear it in the numbers, but then you see it in the real world how some of these employees are taking it into their own hands just by confronting the head of HR. And you know, if that were to continue or spread, especially with the argument that AI is the reason why a lot of these people are getting fired, you know, it's just another thing around the labor market that might continue to play out. Yeah. Basically, the head of HR was like, "F this, I'm out." That's that's it's almost exactly his. He's like, I don't get paid enough for this [ __ ] Not for this [ __ ] But that's what you got. So I I you know, the reason I showed that is because it's the same thing I I showed those Amazon layoff videos. It's point it's it's humanizing some of what's going on in corporate America with these layoffs. I don't know why that company had layoffs, but the point is we're seeing an acceleration of that. And it's definitely something we have to track as investors as we continue to figure out how the labor market is affecting the broader earnings picture for the market. That's what we got going on there. Cactus going to the head of HR at AK Media. Shout out to Cactus, bro. Cactus has been awesome. Uh, literally for the entire Well, Cactus, we've been We've been doing this for two weeks. So, he's been I think I think you guys probably have noticed when there's a breaking news story or there's a video, there's a clip or something, immediately we're able to pull it up because Cactus is just on top of everything and um putting the content out immediately. So, very very very happy with that hire and I think it's making this a lot more effective. Uh Sam is going to join us in just a second. There he is right there in the chat. I'm sending the link to Sam. just texted me. So, we'll get some of his thoughts on I rent earning. Steve said he'll be on in about 10 minutes. He's finishing up one meeting and then we'll get Steve on and we'll get some of his thoughts as well. Is he a real cactus? You know, Cactus, I never asked you why your name is Did you ever tell me why your name is Cactus Jack? If you told me I don't remember. I don't think you told me though. You can put in the chat though. Is it random or is there a reason picked hacked as Jack? His name is not Jack, by the way. I know his actual name. His name is not Jack. So, I have a cat. I have a cat and I own a cactus. Okay, there you go. Cactus Jack. Dude, Cactus Jack sounds like a way better name than the Bloomberg terminal. Like honestly, if you started a competitor called Cactus Jack, like just that name in of it, it's just like I feel like that's an iconic name and that's the new terminal. It's way cooler than freaking Bloomberg terminal. Cactus Jack. Oh yeah, that is part of the tra Are you a Travis Scott fan, Cactus? Because that's also I forgot that is the Travis Scott brand, right? Yeah, that is. That's also true. Yeah, that's literally his uh his shoe brand or his Nike brand said he has. There you go. I don't like Travis Scott, but I love Cactus Jack. Why is Nebas running up? Well, Nebas just recovered with everything today. 111 right here. It's up a little bit after hours. 113. We had a lot of stuff up after hours, though. I think that's just general market momentum at the after hours on a Friday. I don't see any headlines. I mean, again, I think that Trump tweet is bullish because it signals that he wants a deal. So maybe the Republicans are more likely to capitulate on getting some type of a deal, which would be bullish. So maybe you got that going on. AIT is a boomer born as a Gen Z. Well, then I would know some of these movies. Like I would know Napoleon Dynamite if that was the case. Amid, how do you stay stoic even when reading red numbers for Hood and Palinger? I mean, there's nothing like what can you do, right? At the end of the day, these are these are stocks that I have a very long-term vision on. Also, it helps that bit early on the names. So when they fall from 200 to 170 or 150 to 120 it it you know it sucks but it's not like you know it's not like you you have your entire position at those higher levels. Then number two is just like this is the this is the nature of holding on to high volatility names. I imagine the Nebis people are dealing with it. You know Nebius went from 140 to 94 back to 135 then went to 101 today. Now it's 111. I mean like if you're going to be in these names this is part of being in these names. Same thing with Rocket Lab, right? I mean, I'm pretty sure all of us here to an extent have one or two of these names that are like super high beta, super high highly volatile, but again, you don't get the triple digit percent year-to dates being in names that don't have the gut-wrenching volatility that we all voluntarily sign up for. Like, it's very difficult to get 30, 40, 50, 60% year-to-day returns unless you have a high-flying growth rate. like you need something to compound aggressively in order for it to have a meaningful effect on your portfolio. I mean Meta is now up 3% year-to- date, dude. So like even if you took a shot on Meta like and and that was the majority of especially if you got in the beginning of the year it's not really helping that much. So even with the draw downs on Rock Lab, Hood, Pal, those are still up triple digits year to date, which is why portfolios are able to manage the volatility even with the draw down. Albertos, thank you for the super chat. Cactus Jack is a WWF wrestler. Did you even have a childhood of it? Okay, I did not know that. However, I did watch WWE. I was a WWE stand like Rey Mysterio, Stone Cold, Steve Austin. I had my W. It was about three years. It was like 2005 to 2009 or 2008, maybe call it four years. I was a WWE guy. I I I I wasn't into WWF because also I was WWF was I think in the 90s. I was watching in the 2000s, but I definitely was a WWE fan, but I didn't know that much about Cactus Shack Undertaker. No, dude. I was a legit Yeah. Great Khali John Cena. Dude, I was a legit WWE guy. I'm not even lying here. like legitimately I was a WWE. I I used to have the the wrestlers. I used to have the the face the Rey Mysterio face mask. Um I never ended up going to a live event, but I was smack WWE, Smackdown, Monday Night Raw. I know now they're on Netflix, but I used to watch them on the USA channel. Like I would have friends come over and we would watch like the the the shows. Like I was I was into it. It's just I kind of grew out of it when I realized it was all fake. And then I was like, "Well, why should why should I care that much anymore?" So, but I did like that. Yeah. Triple H, the Hardy brothers. Dude, remember when Jeff Hardy jumped from the freak? You guys remember that? That Jeff Hardy jumped from like the top of the WWE sign, but then the cameras went the the the like in a different direction, so you didn't actually see him fall, which is kind of how they staged it, but he like I remember all of those events. WCW or it was ECW as well. CM Punk. Yep. A lot of that. A lot of that. It's not fake. Okay. It's definitely fake, dude. It's definitely fake. Let's Let's be adults here. It's not real. It is fake. I remember it broke my heart when I found out, too. But it is absolutely fake. It's all It's called Worldwide Entertainment, okay? It's not real, but it was fun when I when I thought it was real. Cactus says it's real to me. Yep. Kane, Randy Orton, RKO. Dude, that like I can I know I can't talk about movies, but I can freaking talk about WWE. DX Generation X. Yep. Vince McMahon. Dude, I kept up with that entire story. But then I just, you know, kind of grew out of it from there. Uh, again, that Trump tweet you have after hours is helping markets. Beyond Meat delays their 10Q filing. Beyond Meat says, "Expect to report material weakness in company's internal control over financial reporting ex uh existed as of September 27th. Is that stock down after hours?" That stock's actually up. It was up 16% today. Up 2% after hours, even with the delaying of the 10Q. Yes, I remember Trump was on WWE. I remember Trump was shaving Vince McMahon's head with the shaving cream. Dude, I remember all of that. I was a legit WWE stand. That was my first time learning about Trump when when he was in the WWE, but you know, then he kind of got out of it. Big show. Yep. Beyond caring about their financials, correct? Beyond Dead Me. Yeah. Floyd Mayweather. The Dude, you guys are bringing up memories. I haven't thought about WWE in a while, but I remember a lot of this stuff. Meta up a little bit after hours 31, hoodie up 08, and then Nebius up 2%. Let me uh get that update on the airlines. Actually, no, we'll do the data center thing, then we'll do the airlines. This is the OpenAI data center headline that we just saw.
>> Obtained by Bloomberg, the startup wants the White House to expand a key chips act tax credit to cover AI data centers and related components like transformers. Now, this comes just one day after OpenAI faced blowback over a comment made by its CFO implying that it would look for a government backs stop for its $ 1.4 trillion dollars in compute deals. They have since been walking that back. Now, I will say we already knew OI was advising the administration on domestic chip production in an effort to diversify away from Taiwan produced silicon. Part of why the White House took that stake in Intel. About to open AI on the letter, but no word back yet. Back to you guys.
>> All right, Mackenzie Sagalos, thank you. Well, still ahead, consumer sentiment nearing its lowest.
>> All right, Sam Alman is trying to uh to get some way to navigate spending this much money. Folks, we got two guests backstage. I'm going to bring one up first and then we got the other one who's joining in just a minute as uh they both joined pretty much at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, on a Friday market close,
>> what's up?
>> The milkman. What's up, Steve?
>> Uh, the stock market's up, right?
>> Stock market ended up going green. It ended up going up.
>> Pretty wild.
>> Did Did you Were So, I know you were in a ton of meetings today, but did you like glance at it when it was getting wrecked in the morning or not too much?
>> I had it open on one of my screens. Um, yeah, today was a very long day, but I managed to text you and Tanner to make sure that two of you were okay.
>> Yeah, morning was obviously rough. I had two things to do as soon as the market open ended. So then I kind of didn't look at the portfolio for like two, three hours and then I check it at 240 and I'm like and then I tweeted at 248. Oh, I guess I guess we're all right. But
>> yeah, pretty big reversal. I mean, the fact that the S&P finished up and the Dow finished up 74 points and one point the Dow was down over 400. So,
>> do you do you still know why we got this reversal or or No,
>> I couldn't tell you. I have my own suspicions that I mean, I know that they teased negotiation that was slapped down, but
>> I also think there was a big buying opportunity. Yeah, that that seems to be the number one reason. As soon as the Democrats came out with their proposal to end the shutdown by extending the ACA subsidies, that was literally at 240. Boom. And then I know the Republicans rejected it, but the fact that they even offered that is getting the market happy. I don't know if that's enough, but it feels like that they
>> is enough for today. And you know why the market needs, not that they want, they need a resolution sooner than later. Correct?
>> Why? Because they need the data to come out to force the Fed's hand to cut. They cannot have the Fed not cut in December. And if we don't get job, if we don't get unemployment reports, if we don't get other key indicators, that could put them in a situation we got to wait for the data to be data dependent. It's a great point.
>> And then and then they'll be chasing their tail in 2026 once the data starts flowing. So this needs to get done over the weekend or early next week.
>> That is a great point. Basically, you're saying the Fed needs to confirm with the BLS labor market's weak even though they already know it's weak. But that confirmation just
>> you can't give Powell or the rest of the voting members the ability to say that we need to see the data. You can't give him that excuse.
>> It's fair. It's a fair point. I agree.
>> And I will tell you, I saw two big things today. Two very big things today.
>> Okay.
>> BMR getting bought up by two big institutions.
>> Now, I don't know if it's true or not, but it seems like they're both very true.
>> No. So, it's true. I just I don't think it matters.
>> Oh, it matters.
>> No, it doesn't matter.
>> Yes, it does.
>> Okay. So, you tell me why JP Morgan buying BMR matters.
>> One, because I think it's going to act as somewhat of a backs stop for them getting in and Vanguard getting in in the mid30s. That's the first reason. Second reason is, and you can take this one a grain of salt, I do think that it provides a level of not authenticity, but a level of not clarity. What's the word that I'm looking for? Assurance maybe that this is not fake type thing. Because JP Morgan is known to be very conservative. The fact that they're buying into this kind of solidifies the Ethereum idea of everything going on stable coins and tokenization. So JP Morgan and Vanguard aren't opinionated fund managers. A lot of this is passive flows. A lot of this is for market making activity from my understanding. Like Vanguard the other day took a 5% stake in Open Door. That's not Vanguard being bullish. Jane Street took a 6.2 percent stake in Open Door. They don't
>> Where is Open Door? He and that guy that called Open Door 82 cents was just on the compound fronts.
>> Yeah, whatever's name is
>> to me, Steve. When these big funds come out and take a position, they're not like Kathy Wood that is subjectively saying, "I like BMR. I'm going to take client capital and put it into BMR to get a return." They're buying it because they kind of have to buy it. So, I think these headlines are just misleading a lot of people. And I don't think that's why it was up 8% on the day. I think it was up 8% on the day because Ethereum started running. Oldin started running and BMR is the best proxy.
>> Yeah. But you don't think that that's a reason Ethereum started running today?
>> No. No. Because that news came out in 9:30. That news was you sent me that tweet in our text message at like 10 a.m.
>> You didn't know that before that?
>> No. I I mean I saw the headline when I woke up in the morning, but then I saw I saw you texted it to me as well. But my point is JP Morgan like Jamie Diamond has become very bullish on stable coins 100%. And he's saying a lot of good stuff. But that doesn't mean JP Morgan as an institution is like we love Ethereum. So
>> I'm wondering what funds I'll do more research on. I wonder what funds BMR got added to from them.
>> It's great to see buying pressure on the stock and that from that perspective I like. But this does not mean that JP Morgan is like we love BIM. I mean, they'll sell it tomorrow if they like, you know, this they're not making a subject. It's like Black Rockck when they take positions. Not saying they love the stock. They have to buy these things for passive ETFs and for market making activities and because they have to be custodians for a lot of their high net worth clients on some of these names.
>> Did you like the uh title of the Palanteer article?
>> Oh, yes. So, Steve has his new article.
>> I threw it in the private for you. I I was trying to figure out a way to say I don't care, but I don't think it would have gotten published. So,
>> well, did you give it a buy?
>> No, but look at the title.
>> So, you you don't you're not bullish enough. You didn't give it a buy.
>> Look at the title.
>> That's not No. Where's the buy rating?
>> Investors shouldn't worry.
>> Steve, you can't have your cake and eat it too. You can't say
>> that. I absolutely can. I'll buy two cakes. I'll hold one in this hand and I'll eat this one.
>> I absolutely can. can't say you shouldn't worry but then say that you like because at that point you're not saying people should buy it
>> but because I don't think it's in buy territory right now but I did say if it gets to a certain point I would start buying again
>> what what is that certain point
>> I think I put around 125
>> that's a hell of a draw down
>> I said that I think it's gonna range between 150 and 200 00 and if it got to 125, I would probably start buying again. I'm pretty sure those are the numbers I put at the end. But look, this was one of the most, if not the most incredible quarter I've seen from a company in years. This rivals Nvidia's quarters to a degree. I mean, you got to give it to Nvidia because the sheer size that they did, but outside of Nvidia, I've never seen numbers like this from customer growth and deals. And I just I made the argument that I think this is going to be a trillion dollar company in the future. And when you look at their deal book, you look at the acceleration, you look at the 134% net dollar retention, I said I don't think the S-curve on revenue has even happened yet. And these deals are not part of the 134% net dollar retention. And when we start seeing that at in the back half of 2026 and then early 2027, I think you're really going to get a crazy scurve on revenue. And at their margins, this is a company that I think by 2030 has the ability to be doing what did I say on the projection just over 20 billion. If we go to the uh last chart that I made, projected revenue and projected free cash flow, I made my own assumptions and I came right within where the two most bullish analysts are for revenue and I think that in 2030 they can do 12.9 billion of free cash flow and I think they'll grow into the valuation and surpass the valuation in the next five years. I just don't think it's going higher than the 207 or wherever it peaked at the other week right now.
>> But do you do you actually think it gets to 125?
>> I don't know. I think that today would if today didn't reverse I think there was a great chance. I don't think it's getting below 150 right now.
>> That so like that's my thing again with pounder. We all know it trades at an expensive multiple. That's obvious. But I was actually saying this before you came on. The Bur short is really weird because when Bur is shorting, let's just call it short, puts, short, whatever. Him being bearish pound and Nvidia is essentially in my opinion being bearish the stock market because I think those two companies are so intertwined with the S&P 500. You might as well just go short with the S&P 500. Now, obviously, he thinks that pounder and video's multiples are too aggressive and pounder in particular because he has almost a billion dollar short. But I don't believe, and maybe I'll be wrong about this, I don't believe Pounder independently collapses without taking the market down with it. Or rather, the market has to collapse to take Pinter down with it. Same thing with Nvidia because I think they're two important stocks. They're not like Oakllo that could go down to zero tomorrow and no one really cares.
>> Here's my problem with what Bur did. Okay, I think it's one thing to short pounder 200. Okay, I wouldn't do it because I'm not crazy, but I think that there's a probability that fits a model that you can make money doing that. Shorting Nvidia is crazy talk. When we've read, we've listened to the earnings calls, we've read the transcripts, we've seen everything, right? You and I have seen everything with the big four. All rows lead back to Nvidia. Like, how are you shorting Nvidia here?
>> But so,
>> with the backlogs,
>> but that's my point. Like I don't think pounder can get to 150 125 unless the market takes it down. I really don't. And so like I I bought before earnings at 172. I know we got to like 169 today, but I think for us to re But that was when the S&P was like
>> so I feel like if we have if we get to 150 125 S&P's got to be down minimum 78%.
>> Look, I do believe that Palanteer is going to trade between 150 and 200 at this point. I said that it's going to trade sideways for a while while it grows into the valuation. The fact that they couldn't blow out because remember the big sell-off didn't happen the day of earnings on Monday. So the fact that they the fact that they couldn't blow through all-time highs on the most incredible earnings report that they did to me says that a short-term top is in or a midterm top is at. Now it the question is what range does it trade at while everything happens? I think it's between 150 and 200 because the fundamentals are so good. And this is my projection for their revenue and free cash flow. And I think that I'm pretty spot on. Now, look, time will tell, but if you go to the Seeking Alpha and you look at the revenue projections, the only two analysts that are willing to put projections out from the street are just over my number at I think 20.6 billion for 2030. I mean, that's a that's a big big number when you think about this. And then you think about going forward past 2030. I truly believe Palanteer is going to be a trillion dollar company which is what 1 point 120% return from here.
>> It's just a matter of when we get there. And I don't think we're getting there in the next couple of years. I think it's going to take several years to get there. But I'm not disagreeing that Palanteers is I'm not saying that Palanteer is going back to 50 or 60. All I'm saying is I think it's going to trade sideways for a while within a $50 band and then eventually when the fundamentals come up, it'll start going up again. That's all.
>> Let's get Sam on anything to worry about in my opinion.
>> Sam, what's up, man?
>> Yo, dude, I'm not going to lie. I I got scared this morning. I got so scared that I trimmed some stuff. And
>> the reason why I trimmed stuff can this morning you had a panic
>> a little bit of panic can but it it wasn't it wasn't like it wasn't like big that I trimmed or anything in terms of portfolio size. Uh it was mostly focused on the themes that are running. Right. So I was looking at the 50-day moving average on SPY. I've been looking at that thing for a while. We broke the 20-day moving average very recently and then you had that big volume coming down after that. And one thing that I noticed today was that crypto was strong all day. Right. So, crypto basically bottom well before the market did.
>> And uh we I I actually posted a tweet last night saying that, hey, look, basically saying like, look, we there's some news that's like falling under the radar over here that the Senate is going to basically vote for ending the government shutdown this weekend. I think it said it was supposed to be today or this weekend. I don't know which one, but um just looking at the moving average, the fact that it was supporting the 50-day moving average on SPY and looking at the technicals for other things and crypto being strong, it didn't necessarily seem like we're going to start plummeting further downward. So, I made the decision to basically reverse the trends that I had done this morning. And uh I actually also got back into BMR at like 3950.
>> Wow. Back in. So, remember I I sold I sold at 50 and I'm back and it's it's still a trade. I don't want I don't want people to think like, you know, this is like a long-term hold, whatever. But,
>> no, you have to join the cult.
>> Okay. So,
>> Hanner's in it, Chris is in it, Steve is in it.
>> You got to go.
>> The fact that I'm in the cult I I already have I already have some Ethereum. I already have some Salana, Bitcoin, XRP. like that that's my crypto holding and that's in a wallet and that just stays there. But dude, you got some upside over here if this thing really recovers. You already have the good sentiment like you mentioned this morning. I know like it doesn't really matter if like JB Morgan would ever buy it, right? But the sentiment is what's going to important matter. The sentiment is the part that's going to matter the most in this. And the sentiment is going to push a stock up if it does. But also it's the inflows of crypto. I mean you crypto did you would think that crypto would stay below a 100,000 but it didn't and the market basically bottomed as soon as it sniffed out the news that is my mic too loud
>> no you're good it's a little loud but
>> all right I should have fixed it
>> a little okay good
>> so yeah um when it comes to certain things then yeah but at the same time I I did not touch the uh the core positions so that always stays there, but I still got my trade. Are
>> you looking to exit on BMR?
>> I don't know. It really depends on the It really depends on the charts for Ethereum. Um, right now, Ethereum is still below the 50 and the 20-day, I believe. Yeah, it's still below the 50 and the 20-day. It did reclaim the 200 day moving average. Uh, so that's looking pretty bullish. Uh, Bitcoin has a bit of work to do. Bitcoin is still below the 200 day moving average. So, that 200 day moving average is around 110K. So, we got some work to do, but it's it's very clear if you look at the correlations of uh crypto when it comes to Ethereum and Bitcoin that Ethereum is just outperforming the last 3 days. So, something to consider being in this trade. Um, you know, but if it's like a long-term thing, then like this is all just noise when it comes to that stuff. So,
>> do do you think in the morning uh now we know it's kind of the shutdown stuff, but do you think in the morning there was fear about the fundamentals of this bull market? like is that what would cause you to feel a bit more worried?
>> Well, what what worried me was the where the moving averages, right? So, we haven't tested the 50-day moving average since May
>> on the S&P 500. We barely grazed it uh the Tuesday, October October 14, but literally May was the last time we hit the 200 day moving average and we had a crazy bounce from that. Right? I'm not saying that we're going to have a crazy bounce, but these algos look at this stuff and a lot of big money looks at this stuff for entries, right? So, if we I I would have said that if we broke below if we close below the 50-day moving average, which we have not had since the bottom in April, um that would be something to be a little bit worried about with certain positions, right? But
>> dude, you saw that massive buy up in the middle of the day. Like that was insane. That that was an insane buy up there. There are some of the Wolf guys that were that basically bottom ticked NQ futures on that thing, right? So, when that happens, I don't know. Wait for this weekend, man. I I I think the shutdown's going to end this weekend. I You're already getting talk and you're getting like a little bit of uh banter back and forth and acknowledgement. You know, we need like a kind of a bipartisan we need to end the shutdown, but actually working toward a solution. I think that really means a lot for the market and I think the market's front running and I think crypto was sniffing that out.
>> I have a question. I just saw the SMCI is under 40.
>> I think I'm have to take a very hard look at this.
>> I'm actually 40. It's crazy.
>> Look, they their their fiscal year guidance is the same. It's just
>> the street had a negative reaction even after they gave preliminary guidance.
>> I mean, I'm looking at Eden and Boring companies like Johnson Controls and seeing what they're doing on the data center buildout. Yeah,
>> I gotta tell you, SMCI under 40 looks very interesting, but that's something that I would have to hold for two years.
>> Speaking of the data center, Sam, let's get your take on this one. I ran. Um,
>> so I couldn't watch the earnings because Elon was live, so Sam got to stream it and
>> No, it's all it's all good. It's all good. Um, so the earnings were actually good. Like when it comes to this particular earnings, I don't think the financials really matter. Like almost all of their revenue is from Bitcoin, right? So they only had like $7 million in AI cloud, but that's kind of expected because they're still building out the AI cloud and making the pivot. So there was like a lot of negative connotation with that on Twitter where it was like, oh look, this is all they making cloud. Well, yeah, because they're going to be wrapping it up. But then now they're projecting, I think it was about $3.4 billion AR by the end of next year. And a lot of that is with Microsoft. Microsoft is $1.9 billion ARR. So I thought that was very surprising. However, I do think that during the earnings call, there's a lot of NDA with the Microsoft deal that they can't say certain things and like they're clearly not going to say things in front of whatever deals are going to come up for AI cloud. Um, but I don't think the market really heard what it wanted to hear. And since the market was riskoff today, high beta flying, this NBIS and Cipher and all those names were being sold off pretty hard this morning. But once you kind of got that reprieve that and also that the the news from OpenAI uh that they want the uh the chipbacks to be extended for data center buildout, I think it's mostly the market sentiment. Once that came back, of course, his name came back, you know, but keep in mind, I know there's like a lot of battle between like Nebius and Iron, which I don't see why it want there has to be a battle with this whole situation. Like, they're both going to be great companies. Um, Nebius is up today. It's up like one and a half% today. Iron and Cipher are down today. Now, who knows if that's actually going to hold, but that that's that's the first time that's been the case in like a week, right? Ever since last week, you saw the deals come in with Iron and Cipher. Iron with AWS uh sorry Cipher with AWS, Iron with Microsoft and Dell. Dell is more going to be uh payment that iron is doing versus anything. But you saw Nebas was just on a massive downtrend since then. So it was like what's the market thinking over here, right? So today was probably the first day we saw that reversal in terms of leadership. Uh so so we'll see.
>> Do you think Iran deserves to be trading at 60 bucks? Like is that a good valuation for it? I think there was a little bit of uh reality hit when it comes to IRA and I think there was a lot of expectation coming to the earnings. This thing was like around $80 uh after hours the other day. There was a lot of excitement coming into the earnings and to be honest there's there's there's a lot of uh retail in this too, right? But I think a lot of it is really attributed to like, you know, we want to see the stock continue going up on this break break neck rally and it kind of broke that momentum today. So I guess it puts people a little bit like a little bit worried like, hey, is this going to continue performing from a price perspective?
>> But but you're not adding at 60.
>> No, I'm not adding at 60.
>> So what does it have to get to for you as a bull ad?
>> Well, I I'm I'm basing it off the charts, right? So, excuse me.
>> It Well, right now we got the 50-day moving average at 50, right? We we broke the 20-day moving average of 62 and we held it pretty nicely today, which I was kind of surprised that happened. Um, if we get to 50, I'll probably add I think I I I added the other week at like 53 54. Um, so I I I hate to say it, but I'm not going to add here. Uh, it doesn't seem like it's a great idea riskreward to add here. And you could see like just in a matter of a couple days this thing can just drop.
>> What about Nebia? Nebas at 111 to you. Is that an
>> value ad or no?
>> Because I'm curious
>> friends of the market. So
>> you are in both of these names.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm curious is different for someone like me that doesn't have a position but for someone that has a position like like Robin at 140. I wasn't adding at 140 objectively.
>> Yeah. No, I added Robin.
>> So same thing for you like Nebius at this level. I rent it. Are these at all attractive even as they're down from alltime highs or you're still not in?
>> You know, I said the other week that Nebius is still a buy for the long term at like 120 125 when you would ask me. I still think it's a buy for the long term. Um, but I also think we have to be realistic guys like we we are on a break neck rally with some of these stocks and nothing goes straight up there. The the realization and the market being aware of the momentum and also the fundamental momentum of these stocks is already there, right? This isn't like, holy crap, Nebby said 24 bucks, let's pump this thing up or Iron's in like the single digits or Cipher is in like the low single digits. Let's pump this up. The market realized it. Okay. So, if you're in something a little bit bigger than you should be, you know, then maybe that's something to consider to DCA over time. Um, but, you know, I mean, if the bull market continues, then it could probably keep going. Uh, however, you know, I know there's like a lot of people criticizing Twitter. It's like, oh, I'll like I'm not going to name the person, but some people like saying that they're going to add to like iron of like 30, 40 bucks, 50 bucks. And I wouldn't dismiss that. It can happen. It can happen. Like I I if we're down 10% from here, you saw what happens to these stocks when the market's down one or two%. How can you be how can you be realistic and think that we can't visit there if we have a 10% correction, which we will get one at some point? The question is when right like who knows what if SPY closed below the 50-day today. You think these stocks will be back to green?
>> Probably not.
>> So here's a question for you, but Steve, I'll give you the the first jab at this question. Uh, Steve, you still think S&P to 7,000 by end of year? Yes or no?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Sam, do you still think 7500 by end of year?
>> I still got those contracts, man. I still got those contracts for 7500.
>> No, not SNP5 contracts. The prediction market contracts.
>> Yeah. No, I I still have those contracts. I'm still going to wait, right? Like I I that was a bet I was willing to make 7500.
>> Honestly, you need you need these pullbacks to get you. That's true. You need these. You need the reload. You need the sentiment reload. You need the froth taken out the door, right? like iron getting 80 bucks seems a lot more probable now that we pulled back below 50 bucks this morning, but it was unprobable to come into earnings and continue to 80 bucks after it was like guys this that that was the overlying thing about the earnings call and I think retail got hit with it was like look this is going to take years to build out and it's going to be capex intensive. They already they already raised for they're planning to raise 400 million through the end through the end of October which actually I think they already did 200 and two another 200 million. They already raised one billion the other week and they're going to raise another billion dollars. They're going to they're going to raise it. I don't know when. I think uh Fron or I forget the name of the guy on Twitter uh does really good DD. He thinks it's going to happen before the end of the year. I think it's probably going to happen maybe like beginning of next year um at least when the rates come down. Uh I I don't know if it's going to be a 0% convertible debt. Uh we'll see. But guys, these are capex intensive businesses. And if the mega caps are issuing debt, you better believe these guys are gonna issue debt. And well, that's another thing I saw about Iran. They're getting ready. This is what I heard. They're getting ready for another offering of over a billion bucks. Someone was looking at their 8K and trying to piece things together.
>> No, it's going to be a billion matter though because it's good dilution theoretically, right? Because it's all
>> Yeah. I mean, they there was also something from their earnings that I noticed um that they were actually profitable, but I believe they were profitable because they had a a write down that was able to make them profitable. Uh but again, like this isn't like the type of company where it's like I'm going to buy them based on their income today. I'm buying them based on their just in Ebida margins later on 85%. Right? And there's a lot of back and forth. There's always going to be back and forth and it's going to be a bumpy road and it's not going to end here, right? It's going to continue to be bumpy. Like these are the type of stocks where like they're going to be bumpy roads.
>> Steve, why are you still 7,000 S&P?
>> Because what really changed?
>> It's a good point.
>> Think about it. We heard from the most important companies. The only real important ones we still have to hear from are Broadcom and Nvidia.
>> Yep. Everybody has increased their Q4 earnings. Everybody is going to have pretty much record years. There's nothing to make it look like the capback spend is going to slow down. You have a 700 billion cloud backlog from just the big three. And the broader market is also putting up good earnings. So if the government shutdown actually ends in a timely fashion and you can get these damn reports out and force the Fed's hand to cut and as long as the Fed cuts and they don't get behind the April of just saying we need to be data independent and wait till the data comes out. I don't see anything that's going to stop this from going to 7,000. I really don't. I I think it holds up. So we'll see. And pullbacks are healthy. This is why I always say, don't freaking shoot your entire wad and go all in on one shot. Just freaking scale your way in because you never know when the market's going to retrace. Nobody can predict that. I don't care who you are. Nobody can predict minute by minute what's going to happen and when ALOS are going to get tripped. So, you know that keep in mind this selloff happened after some really great earnings. So this was a good buying opportunity. I think
>> even Hood Hood had amazing earnings and it went down to 120 today. Why? Because the market was down. I It was because the market was down. The market was down. That was the only reason why it went down. Like those earnings were freaking amazing. I would say that in my perspective out of all the fintech companies, it's you you just cannot deny the fact that Hood is probably one of the best ones. And I'm sorry, I'm not a I'm not a So yeah, I'm not a SoFi bear, right? Like I'm not a SoFi bear, but
>> what I know SoFi can get into other products, but maybe I'm biased because I'm I'm a hood shareholder, but this is a stock that if the market went down, I would definitely add to this one, right? Like they they they are changing the trading and investing landscape as we see it.
>> Yes. And I'm not a SoFi bear either. I actually bought some SoFi yesterday. Um but goodness, it's not Robin Hood. It's just like it's a different freaking league, bro. It really is a Vlad did three interviews in the past 24 hours on independent media outlets. Love Notto, but outside of CNBC and Bloomberg and Yahoo, this guy does not talk to any. And again, that's not a bare case. I'm just saying, you know, when you're building a generational company and you're trying to get the message out there and you're talking about everything and you have these exciting things to show to the world, it's just they're two different companies.
>> Dude, he was also on the open door uh conference. He was on the open door.
>> I was I was so surprised.
>> I saw it after the fact.
>> And he's so smart because he knows a lot of people that bought the open door rally when Eric Jackson was was getting the whole thing started was on Robin Hood. A lot of that was on Rob. So he knows that being good with that community. It's it's like, you know, politics. Making sure you have alliances and making sure there's a a a segment of the market that has a friendly opinion of you very important. And it's it's important for trading volumes, important for the overall growth, important for user growth. And I think Vlad's just playing this on a different level. By the way, folks, speaking of SoFi and BMR, TripleV sent me a text right now. He got assigned puts on BMR and SoFi. BMR, he's officially in at 40 bucks, 100,000 shares.
>> He wasn't in
>> today. Yeah. SoFi 28.
>> Oh, wow.
>> 222,000 shares. So now
>> yeah, he's after that he said not a ton.
>> Not a ton.
>> Just a couple hundred thousand shares, but he's in BMR so far.
>> Steve, what did you
>> what did you think of those Robin Hood earnings?
>> They're incredible.
>> I mean, is there
>> Does it make you want to buy it or No.
>> No. is and is it because valuation is still your concern on hood or
>> I mean I don't what's the market cap right now
>> 117
>> it's a little rich so what would hood have the reason I'm asking because you're big on SoFi and again
>> I like SoFi too but I think everyone can see there is a different league that Robin is I mean Robin Hood had 20 billion in net deposits SoFi had three just like again love SoFi great but
>> well hold on
>> in the past 90 days one had 20 billion the other
>> exactly a fair comparison because SoFi was a bank deposit
>> I I don't care I don't care how they got the this is a financial services company bringing in money from other players all I'm saying is one of them
>> once again SoFi is not counting anything going into their brokerage into deposits it's strictly bank deposits that they're showing that it's okay. Okay, sure. That's fine. But what do you think? Brokerage was another billion because I don't think
>> Oh, I have no idea. But I'm telling you 3.3 billion was strictly bank deposits.
>> Okay. So then we don't Okay,
>> we don't exactly know the number.
>> The let's say the number is five billion. That would still be billion of deposits versus my point is just the company is figuring out how to get money from every single area. JP Morgan, uh, Bank of America, all these high net worth individuals and bring it into Hood. And you got SoFi, which is supposed to be doing the same thing, and they're doing it at a good rate at three billion, but we're talking about a 6x difference on Hood.
>> This is what I like about Hood. Okay. But my question was, if you love SoFi so much for this whole financial services idea, when you see those numbers, yes, there's a higher valuation, but does that not at all make you a bit enticed to at least sell some puts on the thing and get into
>> What I like about Hood is the fact I'm just doing quick math in my head right now. Let me put it back on an annual. Um,
>> by the way, when Hood brings up banking next year, those deposits are going even higher. And I know it's it's not always the fairest comparison. I'm just saying when we have two fintexs and we're talking about getting money from X to Y, Hood is doing it at a just accelerated rate.
>> Is that already available in New York? I thought I remember hearing that during the call.
>> Yeah, for comfortable.
>> So, Hood's operating margin is like 48 and a half% 49% I believe if I'm doing the math correctly.
>> The fact that their total revenue is 4.2 billion and their operating income is two billion. I mean, that's an insane margin. And you and I made that point when we had the discussion with Tanner and Chris that the there's no comparison from the numbers. I mean, Hood is severely surpassing SoFi in their profitability because of their margins. And look, I think Hood is running a phenomenal business. It's hard for me to get around the valuation based on where I see the legacy banks trade. And I get it's not legacy bank, but if you look at the sheer amount of revenue, net interest income, and operating income that's generated across the board, I'm having a hard time with Hood's valuation. Now,
>> which is fair. That's that's a fair point. I don't think that's fair.
>> Now, to be fair, I haven't added to SoFi in years. Maybe not years, year and a half, maybe something like that.
>> You didn't have this whole year to Soi.
>> I don't think so.
>> I'd have to check, but I don't think I added SoFi this year at all.
>> If I did, it was in the beginning of the year when it was around 10 bucks. I've But I don't think I was I was buying Nvidia then.
>> So basically what you're saying is you bought SoFi at a low price. you picked
>> such a low price that I
>> you basically you picked you picked SoFi over Hood. Hood ended up running up and so now for you it's not worth because you already have the exposure to the entire industry of new
>> and I think SoFi can be a catch-up trade in 2026 for the stupidest reason. Okay, but it could play out like this. the fact that Hood ran so much if SoFi gets into the S&P in the first half of 2026, they could get a catch-up trade because everybody's going to be like, People don't look at Mark caps like us. People don't look at valuations, okay? They simply look at a share price on a screen.
>> Yeah. and they could have the logic of okay, I can get four shares or five shares of SoFi for every one share of Robin Hood and if they get into the S&P, it's going to do the same thing as Robin Hood or something similar and they'll be able to make a larger return. For that stupid reason alone, I think SoFi will put up a better year than Robin Hood next year simply on stupid logic.
>> Look, I I bought SoFi yesterday, not Hood. So, I agree with you. I I there is no disagreement. My only question is those earnings were so freaking good
>> those were amazing
>> that that it makes me think like are you at all interested in just eventually getting a position but I understand the valuation right now is too
>> if if it retraces and sells off I am interested at this level I'm not
>> what's your level
>> I'd have to really
>> $3 you know little
>> yeah a new a new low a new all time
>> no maybe like 7075 that area I'd be interested.
>> Do you think would you actually be interested at 75 or
>> Yeah, I think I would be
>> legit like when I look at their operating income when I look at their growth and what I remember from the earnings deck when I went through it and look I'm looking at the net income right now it is very interesting if it retraced a good amount I think I would be very interested in starting a position
>> Sam go ahead Okay, so you guys already talked about Palunteer. If Palanteer is like 120 bucks, the market's going to be down, which I agree. I there there's no way in this world that Palanteer gets 120 bucks without the market being like at least 7% down like you were saying. Maybe a correction. I think if there's a correction, it could be at like a 100 bucks. Um, do you think that's the case with Hood? Do you think the market can be up and Hood? Yeah, I I I would think so. I would think so, too. that could happen.
>> If 2026 is bearish, it could wipe out a lot of people like myself that are in these not wipe out, but I mean just significant draw downs, right? When you have these names because they're so tied to the bull market and I know that they trade at at at very high multiples. And so that's why when I when I hear Bur is going short these names, I'm like he's basically he's basically saying the market's going to collapse because unless somehow something happens in Palunteer, Nvidia specifically to cause them to collapse and the market stay okay, which Nvidia is 8% of the S&P 500. I think it's very unprobable and then Palunteer is not that much of the S&P, but it's a very big chunk of the overall trading volumes in the AI trade. You would need a market collapse. So I think Bur's betting against the market right now and if we get S&P 7000, he might not be right about it. I I would even argue that like like you're saying, you are shorting the market, but it would be much more profitable to short the market or to buy spy puts instead of buying puts and paying ridiculous premium.
>> Yeah.
>> On Nvidia puts and pounder puts because the beta on those stocks are so high. You know how much you know how much the IV is on those compared to like SPY? Like he could make way more money shorting spy versus those. like and like you're saying the AI trade, the AI trade for software is Palanteer and the AI trade for hardware is Nvidia. Uh my thing is that where does Hood fit in there? I I I don't think Hood is necessarily an AI trade. Uh but if the market is bullish, that is obviously bullish for traders out there and they make a lot of their money off it. And Steve, you also said that um from for just the share price standpoint, people might be more bearish SoFi versus Hood. And that's true not only for the share price of the notional uh share price but also the options right so the option uh the option ladders for SoFi is much cheaper per contract
>> versus hood so people will load the boat on like $30 calls for 2027 for SoFi but they're not going to load the boat for like $200 calls for
>> for Hood like it it just when you think of that gamma squeeze that SoFi could have there's much more potential for that to happen.
>> Yeah, look, it it's stupid logic and I call it stupid logic because it's exactly that. Like people just a lot of people just look at a share price. They look about how much they can buy and if it moves up five bucks, what are they going to make versus putting the same amount in a stock that's five times more expensive. It's the wrong way to look at things, but a lot of people look at it like that. So,
>> a lot a lot of people do, but I I think there's a bit more I I think I don't want to say the market's graduated from that type of thing. I think that thing was I think it was way more relevant I think before 2020 before the huge retail crowd came in and I think a lot more people are aware now but also I think the options speak volume also from an institutional standpoint but also like large retail traders in the market who are aware of the market cap but like I said like you can't load the you could buy way more $30 leafs on SoFi than you could with how much you're paying for like hood calls because The IV and Hood is very high.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, the one thing I don't understand with Bur is I understand taking a flyer on shorting Palanteer at 200. That I understand because the valuation to me makes zero sense. But the valuation on Nvidia does not look expensive. So, when you actually do the research and you look at where everything is going and how much backlog there is, I mean,
>> well, you saw Bur's pictures, right, that he tweeted. I mean,
>> no, I I don't I don't follow him.
>> He pretty much gives it away for why he's short without saying anything. It's this picture right here. This is what he tweeted.
>> No, just this whole uh circular finance. This is to me, I think, why he thinks it's going to collapse. I like how he has Nebas on there,
>> dude. He has everything. He has Figure, Nebas, Cororeweave, XAI, Oracle, Intel.
>> Why doesn't he just short Nebas? I feel like that would be a better short. The market collapses at some point.
>> He's saying this is all [ __ ] essentially. That's what he's saying in my opinion.
>> Th this is what my rebuttal is, okay? It's not all [ __ ] because when you look at what AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud did, and you look at their growth, and you look at their revenue, and you look at the run rates, and you look at the backlog, and that's just those three companies, and you look at the capex and cash from operations expanding each quarter over quarter. Obviously, this is not [ __ ] You see Oracle actually tapping the debt markets for it. And what regardless of what you want to say about Elon, Elon talking about potentially having to open up a fab. We know that we need so many more chips and we know that all roads lead back to Nvidia at this point. So I just don't understand what he's looking at for Nvidia. Palanteer, I'm not going to criticize because I think he can do very well. Look, if you shorted Palanteer at 190 and it goes to 150 or 160, you're going to do great. But is Nvidia really going to like 150 160?
>> But also he did not short at 190.
>> What What price did he short at?
>> The only price he could have possibly shorted at was from 142 to I believe 185.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So let's just say he short at 175.
>> Well, he's down on the short today.
>> Correct. But I would still say that that has a better chance of playing out than wherever the hell you short Nvidia. out of the two, you can't say that there's a higher probability of Nvidia crashing more than Palunteer at this point.
>> It just it doesn't make sense to me betting against Nvidia here.
>> It there if you're shorting AI, there are so many other better things to short out there that you could just make so much more money on. And if he's wrong and the market continues going up and the VIX collapses, which it's yet to do, right? So, we can either stay at 19 VIX or we can get back down to 15. I don't care what it is. Those puts are going to go down way more because the IV gets compressed. I I I like I just I know he's a very smart guy, right? And I know he was right. He was very right in 2008. However, he could be one of those people that gets it right one time and then he's probably I I don't know how he's making money at this point. You know, maybe he I think he's long he was long a stock actually.
>> Yeah. I just I I don't know at this point. Maybe the funds are just throwing maybe people are just throwing more money at him and he's able to collect the fees on it no matter what because you got to remember that part too, right? He he at the end of the day if he's managing other people's money, he's collecting funds off of it. So if more people are throwing their money at him, does it really matter how good it performs, right? He's still collecting a higher fee. So there's also that, but I don't know, he's predicted like five or six of the last market crashes or something like that.
>> Yeah. I mean, that's why I'm the Nvidia pounder short is basically saying this is a bubble and everything's going to collapse. He's either going to be right or wrong on it. And I I think based on the earnings picture, he might be wrong. Now granted, that that picture of the bubble of all the intertwining stuff, that stuff, I think to everybody is a little okay. like what exactly? But when you dig deeper into it, there's a simple way to make sense of it, even though no one wants to hear this right now, but it's will there be an ROI on all of this spend? And if Sam Alman says we're going to do hundreds of billions, as of what he said yesterday in 2030, 1.4 trillion is not crazy to imagine. Not at all.
>> I mean, other companies are already doing hundreds of billions.
>> I mean, is there an ROI on the spend? Look at the big three. Alphabet and Amazon post the numbers by segment. There's absolutely an ROI and there'll probably be a bigger ROI in the future. Like we've only begun to scratch the surface and I think what Barry's getting wrong is technology does not stay stagnant.
>> Yeah.
>> Technology always advances. Moore's law is basically shattered at this point. And with all the advancements that we have today versus five years ago or 10 years ago, how much is technology going to advance from here to 2030? I I just how can you bet against tech? It just doesn't make sense.
>> What year do you think we need to see a very legitimate ROI? Like I know we're already seeing it, but like 2027, 2028, what year has to be, oh, that's why Google spent $300 million? Okay,
>> let me ask you a question. Why do we have to have a significant ROI when take Meta out of it, okay? These companies are not tapping the debt markets. And you look at how much more cash from operations is being generated than capex is being spent. If they just stop increasing their spend and it levels off and they just go into maintenance mode, cash cash from operations is going to continue to explode, which is going to cause free cash flow to explode.
>> No, but Steve, that's you can't say it's 1989 and say they're going to start maintenance in two years. I
>> I'm not saying that's gonna happen. I'm just saying that. So my question is when do you think the ROI is coming then if they're not going to start maintenance for the next two years?
>> I think it's already coming and I think it's going to accelerate.
>> No, but the ROI we haven't had that type of oh my goodness they it's not search advertising.
>> I mean you want to go into an oh my goodness mode. These companies are putting up 120 billion in cash from operations already.
>> No, but
>> what number do we need to get to?
>> You you can't avoid it if you're if you're in AI.
>> What number do we need to get to?
>> I don't know what the number is. All I know is there has to be a time frame in which the market objectively says Google is making XYZ not just because of their legacy business that is still doing very well as you're saying but because they invested all this money into Whimo electronic data centers yada yada and now you're seeing the return. So
>> I think that number I think that year has to be 2028 2029. I think they have three years to figure it out,
>> right?
>> But if they go into maintenance in 2028, by the way, the Nvidia thesis falls apart. They need to keep spending for the next four or five years.
>> Well, that's that's not necessarily true because the life cycle for these chips is about four years, right? So these companies always need the latest and greatest chips and they're always going to keep buying them. Um I think I think Jensen Juan did did discuss that, right? So the the the reason why Nvidia was so cyclical back in like the 2010s and even before that was because most of their revenue was coming from the gaming sector and a lot of hardware that needed to be recycled every like one or two years and that's why it was a very cyclical industry. But now that you're dealing with data center this is like a three or four year life cycle. So
>> that's my point, Sam. If for Google to upgrade to Vera Rubin instead of Blackwell, they need to tell investors, hey, this is what we're seeing from all this money we're putting into these chips, which is why we're upgrading to the like, I'm upgrading to the iPhone 17 because I can easily see what it's going to do for my life versus the iPhone 15. If we can't put that number into context, that's an issue in three, four years. Now I think we need 3 four years but nonetheless there has to be some level of
>> well let's also remember that they have more than the data center ch the GPUs on their own they also have networking which is definitely something they want to keep in their ecosystem especially with um I keep on forgetting the name of the uh the the networking unit that they released that's actually compatible with ASIC processors that's going to be important too because people continue buying them that's all controlled by CUDA so obviously Nvidia is a hardware company but if they keep people in the ecosystem that continue using their software that's compatible with other GPUs,
>> they're still going to make money off that. Don't forget CUDA is high margin,
>> but CUDA is not bringing in the type of money that the chips are bringing in,
>> but it's keeping the money in there. And also on top of that, yeah,
>> it can't justify a 10. We're talking about Nvidia 10 trillion, right? All of us think it can get they have to keep upgrading the chips and get Meta, Google, Amazon to keep buying the chips. Like my question to both of you is at what point do you think there needs to be a significant easy digestible way to say hey we spent this money we're seeing the ROI therefore we're going to keep spending this money to keep seeing the ROI.
>> Bring up
>> I bring up the thing I have please.
>> Yeah
>> just give me a number because when you this is Alphabet's cash cash from operations. This is their cash flow statement. They've gone from a 100 billion to 125 billion and now in the TTM they're 151 billion from cash from operations and they could finish the year at 160 billion at this rate. So what's the number that we need to look for? Do we need to say that they're going to be at 225 billion in 2027 or 2028 spending 80 billion in capex to generate the a certain number of free cash flow? Because if they scale back into maintenance mode when they're done, let's just say arbitrarily maintenance mode is 50 billion a year just to upgrade because they're no longer building out additional capacity. You're already at 100 billion of free cash flow at that point. So what are we saying? We need to be at 150 or 200 billion.
>> I think I think you're using cash flow from their legacy business.
>> But that's not just from legacy. Google Cloud's part of that.
>> No, no. I I get it. But I'm saying we're only about a year and a half, maybe two years into them spending as much money into capex. I'm saying I don't need to say [ __ ] Sundar in a couple years needs to have an earnings call where he says, "Hey, we spent 300 billion over the past three years. this is exactly why the company's growing at these levels and if it's just you know the similar businesses that have continued to do well for them like search or what like I don't that's why Zucks is getting they get to weave in Gemini to that they get to weave in the data packages look I wouldn't be paying for the Google package if it wasn't for Gemini and other products they wouldn't be getting the monthly fee for me unless it was for that
>> subscription business and other things that is really because of the AI offerings.
>> Yeah. So my point is just Google needs to clearly say that the AI offering.
>> Yeah, I'm with you on that. I'm just wondering like do we need to get to 150 billion free cash flow?
>> Well, I'm wondering what year does that need to happen by? Like I think if they keep going at the rate that they're going, we need to see the biggest thing for these companies is we need to see the data center buildout plateau and go into maintenance mode. And I think that's the question that we can't answer right now because they're still in full-blown buildout. Like we need to know in three years this is going to be we're we're not building data centers anymore and it is just maintenance. Otherwise you could see these companies at 150 billion capex spend a year. I mean, [ __ ] Amazon's almost there now.
>> I get it. But like, like this, Amazon was dead the majority of the year because the street didn't know why they were spending this much on capex because AWS wasn't growing. Now AWS is back to growth. Best since 2022. Street's giving it a bit of more of a premium. Meta showing growth but not really showing AI related. I mean, this is objectively. Why is Meta down? the street has no idea how AI is actually accelerating their business.
>> It already is. It already is. Look, look at look at their operating income and their operating cash flow. It's still really up there. But the thing is that they're not building their ch they're not building their data centers and spending it to build a cloud like the
>> hyper point is in terms of new lines of businesses, Meta has one thing going for them that's actually working, which is ads, which AI is helping. Don't get me wrong. The problem is the street is like, well, are you spending hundreds of billions for ads? Now, the other three get the cloud which allows them to kind of subsidize and and you know and and and massage the fears. But the point is there has to be that thing like for Tesla, it's very obvious. Fast and robotics. That's why Elon's talking about building his own chip farm. The other four have to say, that's what I'm saying in a couple years. They have to be able to say we developed this new thing because of all this spend. It didn't just help our search business or our cloud business. It helped create this whole new industry, right? We're talking about this fourth and industrial revolution. That has to be apparent in a couple. We can't just mix that in with their cash from operations today and be like, well, it's kind of working. It's like, no, it has to be so explicit to get Nvidia to 10 trillion. Otherwise, you know, obviously that's not going to be there. Same thing with OpenAI, right? Hundreds of billions of revenue. Where is that coming from? I don't know. It's definitely not coming from just chatbt.com and Sam Alman has us believing that it's going to come in some manifestation. But if it doesn't, the point is that's where I think Bur thinks it's a bubble. I believe it will. I just don't know what it looks like. And so I was curious for you guys. I I'm thinking 2028, 2029, four, five years, which is like two, three years, I should say, we will get a more explicit ROI.
>> I I do think that, no, I agree with you in that take. Um I think we're actually going to start seeing the ROI late next year in 2027. Um that's when a lot of these data center companies are going to bring a lot of their stuff online and that was something that Iron has said many times is that they about I think it was uh Sweetwater 1 which is one of their um one of their two data centers that are in Sweetwater Texas that is going to come online in the second half of 2026 and a lot of these other players is going to be the same thing and in fact when you kind of spec it out that's when a lot of these data centers actually come online for Nebus Cipher and all these other companies and that's when they'll be able to start meeting the demand. And I do think 2026 is going to be a crazy year in terms of the stock market because the market's going to become impatient. And when it becomes impatient, you see what's going to happen. And when the ROI comes back, it's going to bring it back up. So when you when you're talking about the hypers skills though, it's already showing up. I mean, we have to take their word for it because they don't give us the specific numbers for uh AI products for each one of their clouds, but Andy Jasse continues to say it's triple digits. And then they're also talking about ASIC chips. So these comp these hyperscalers on their own which includes Microsoft and includes meta as well. It includes uh Oracle, Google and AWS. They're all building their own chips and those are much higher business higher margins for them. That's going to improve their operating income based on that alone. So that's going to continue happening. Then that is actively being rented out by a lot of clients and it's based on the demand too. So you have not only like just me just some Joe Schmo spinning up an E2 instant data but you have these large companies locking in larger contracts because they want to pay they want to lock in the cheaper price now but that's going to continuously happen as they start to build and bring more compute online like it's going to be a cascading effect in an upward direction and on top of that like you mentioned Tesla and robotics robotics is something that's become very important for Amazon and Macato Libre and for a lot of other companies out there so you're you're when you replace what is like 5 million robots and that's going to save them so much money in the long run in terms of operating expenses that in itself is going to expand the margins for Amazon and also Mata Libre but then you're seeing these other companies going to start adopting robotics to a certain sense maybe not today and I would say probably maybe not in the next couple years but that is going to start happening and accelerating by 2030 all this compute people will still need to buy Nvidia chips it's very unless That's all a sham. And people are like, you know what? We don't need robotics anymore. We don't need EVs anymore. Let's go back to gas cars. Let's start hiring all these people back because we need the people to run the warehouses. If that happens, the game is dead. But that's not going to happen, dude. You're going to have people who are Yeah, go ahead.
>> I I I agree with you. And same thing with Iren and Nebas. Like, they're not getting more of these hyperscaler deals until the hyperscalers are very explicit about why they're spending on capex right now. And and Chris was showing this last night. If you read Meta's call, Zucks is kind of aloof on why they're spending on capital. I mean, to the point where Zux literally says, "Hey, if we're spending too much, like we'll scale back a little bit if we don't need it." And that's really got investors thinking, dude. Like,
>> I I understand. I agree with that. That that's probably the reason why the stock went down because he was like, and I I I said this was like he sounded like he was being defensive on the call,
>> right? And no one likes to hear the chief operating officer becoming defensive. And I kind of got a little bit of that hint from the Iron call yesterday where like they were sounding defensive, but only because he couldn't really say certain things from the non-dis was also sounding defensive.
>> Oh yeah, he was super defensive.
>> And and that gets that gets scary, right? Because it's like he's saying, "Trust me, bro. We're going to be able to make sense of this 1.4 trillion." And all of us unequivocally if we're invested in this market, if you're invested in Nvidia, AMD, you have to trust them. which is why that's my kind of broader thing of like how many years does the market go to try to see if there's a real meaning or a reason to trust in Zuckerberg I trust since 2012 just saying
>> I I wouldn't bet against Zucks either but I also don't think even Brad Gersner if did you hear him today they asked him the meta question first of all he said he trimmed meta second of all he said I mean I could play the clip but he basically said I don't know what Zucks is going to do
>> wasn't from All In?
>> No, from uh from CNBC.
>> He was on All In. I'm like 20 minutes into it.
>> I'll pull it up. But it was one of those things where we were watching it live on the market open. I'm like, damn, this guy does not know why Zucks is spending this much money. And I and I don't blame him, but he he said maybe they come up with a cloud and I was like, okay, we know they're not going to come up.
>> No, it's I don't They might come up with the cloud, but I don't think it's going to be the same type of cloud we're all thinking about. Uh if if it's anything, it might be maybe rolling out services for advertising or something like that for other companies to use similar what AWS did or sorry, Amazon Prime did with their video ads. Uh they did with Roku. You might start seeing something like that because they they're their technology is pretty powerful. If they start renting that out or at least letting people enroll in their services, I don't exactly know how that's going to go, but if Amazon Prime Video is doing it, I would not be surprised if Zuck starts doing it. I think we will see the return. I don't know what exactly that return will look like. I know we're already seeing it, but we're not seeing it to that explosive S-curve growth. Now, we're seeing that in Palunteer, which is why I think the market is giving it a because Paler is saying, "Hey, you guys want to see explosive growth because of AI. We are showing you explosive growth with explosive margins in AI." That's why I think Paler is getting the premium. And I think that's why it quite frankly deserves the premium. Um, but some of these other companies, it's good growth. It's not explosive and it's definitely not tangible. Meta is not showing you the tangible ROI. Google is making the investments and electronic and Whimo and searches and Gemini is doing well, but it's still not super super tangible in terms of oh my goodness, this is like core. Cloud is a great business, but cloud at the end of the day is handling AI workloads for other companies that are man, you know, implementing AI into their enterprise or governments, etc. So cloud to me is like infrastructure for AI. It's not literally a bet on just AI. It's very important and it's very lucrative and they're growing super quick especially Microsoft 40%. Google at 35%. But I think there has to be that next layer of like what is it? And so when we had the internet, Google built the best search engine, Facebook built the best social network, Amazon built the best e-commerce platform. PayPal for about 10 years built the best payments infrastructure. Like you had all these different companies build on the internet the most amazing applications that all of us fell in love with and started using on a daily basis. In the world of AI, what are those applications? I think Tesla will have FSD. I think Tesla probably has humanoid robotics. Uh Meta, Google, Amazon will dominate advertising. Palenter will have enterprise workflows. Chat, GBT, and Gemini will be the the LLM, Anthropic as well, Grock. But then what's beyond that besides LLM, robotics, and self-driving, maybe AI personal assistance with Apple, right? But maybe it's stuff that we can't even think of. Maybe it's a new consumer hardware device like Zux was talking about that replaces the phone. That's an AI native. I don't know. I'm betting there will be something, but I think it's going to take four or five years. So, is Meta a buy?
>> I don't know. Steve, is Meta a buy?
>> So, if you don't have a full position, I think it's a great valuation here for it. If you have a full position, such as me, I would personally up what I consider a full position around 575 if it gets there. But you're trading it 18 times 2027 earnings here. Like it's the cheapest MAG7 Mag 7 stock. And do you really bet against a company that more than a third of the global population uses its products? And the biggest kicker is and I've listened to every Meta earnings call since I'd say 2018 2019. Zuckerberg used to say at some point, do not get used to this. At some point our growth in daily active users or monthly active users will stop and at some point we will get negative because we would just won't be able to capture anymore. He stopped saying that because it just hasn't happened and I don't know another company that has three to four billion people using their products.
>> It's not people, dude. It's not people.
>> I don't think it's fully.
>> Those are bots. Those are bots. the numbers that they are showing more than a third of the global population.
>> No, I mean that's going to keep going up. It's not going to go down. It's going to keep going up.
>> So, I mean look from a financial standpoint, the fundamentals, it's very undervalued.
>> 100%.
>> I agree.
>> So, if you want to look at it from just pure profitability and pure fundamentals, it's very undervalued. Especially when you have companies like Broadcom that are bigger than it right now that generate a quarter of the cash from operations and Meta spends 60 time no 11 times I think the amount of cap of capex on Broadcom yet it does an additional 20some billion in free cash flow. It's just the numbers are sick.
>> Steve Steve had a great point last night on his channel. He said that if they just cut Reality Labs tomorrow, stocks up 20%.
>> Yeah, 100%. I mean, think about it. I don't even need to pull it up. Over the past two years, I think it's something like $195 billion in operating income they've generated. And that Reality Labs has lost 39 billion. They've still generated $150 billion in operating income in two years with a 40 billion loss on Reality Labs. They could come out tomorrow and say, "We're cutting reality labs. Staying on us. Sorry. Stocks up 20%." Maybe not 20%, but 15%.
>> I think if that Wi-Fi didn't go out during that during that presentation, I think it would be it would be a lot higher. But that freaking Wi-Fi, man, I'm tell it wasn't the Wi-Fi, but I think that that finicky presentation is literally what just stopped it from going up after that.
>> I wish they didn't have that presentation.
>> I think the glasses are a dud, dude. I really do. Sam, are you are you bullish on the glasses or no?
>> I mean, I think it's like a great alternative to buying the the Vision Pro, which I think they're discontinuing, right? Um, I'd buy it, but not right now. Like, I'll buy it later on once it becomes perfected more. And I don't know. I I got my I got my warrants about Android OS. Um, Apple's got to make a better competitive product. Otherwise, I fi I find it very hardressed for me to like buy an Android product or any type of Android derivative.
>> Oh, whoa. We have a final trades. I didn't see this today. Whose final trade is Meta and whose is Axon?
>> Did you see this?
>> Axon was a crazy dip.
>> No, Axon Mobile, not Axon.
>> Oh, did you see this today, mate, on CNBC?
>> No,
>> hold on. I think a decent amount of people are excited about meta though. Um, but you know, I wonder how many people are going to actually
>> I put it in private for you.
>> I mean, look, Meta at 608. Like, I mean, you're also talking to the wrong person because I truly do believe it's going to be at a thousand at the end of next year.
>> Yeah. I mean I a thousand end of next year. So you're basically saying it's
>> Do me a favor. Pull up my screen very quickly and I'll show you why. I think I um showed you this last night a minute or maybe I showed Chris, but if you put a,000 share price on Meta, it's forward PE is less than 30. So it's less than Walmart and Costco at $1,000 today. You're telling me that freaking that doesn't make sense? Yeah, but I I don't think you can just compare it to those companies and say it deserves that price. There's a lot more quality or qualitative analysis that goes into some of these names.
>> I mean, Walmart and Costco do not deserve to trade at over 30 times forward earnings. Sorry. They're not profit centers. Costco has a 3% profit margin. There's more growth with Meta, more profitability, more buybacks, bigger margins. I it's just it's a ridiculous thing. So that's based on today's numbers. That's not based on where the forward earnings expand to at the end of next year.
>> That's fair.
>> That's based on what's priced in today. It's still under a 30p.
>> Well, that's why the street still has the street has 800 to $1,000 targets.
>> That's why I'm in the thousand count for the end of next year with Meta. It's just too undervalued. I mean at today's level you're paying less than 19 times 2027 earnings.
>> I think I think we we all we all agree uh that that that Met is undervalued. The question is entry price right?
>> Because that's like if we all think it's a thousand in a couple years then does it matter 570 to 620 or do you just jump in?
>> I mean look if it gets to a th000 that's what 75 80% return.
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> that's phenomenal return.
>> So think about it. Let's say it takes two years to get there. Let's say I'm overshooting it. It takes two years, end of 2027, and it's 80% return. You're telling me 40% a year for two years is a bad play. So, if you think Meta is $1,000, at the end of 2027, you're going to make 40% a year. You shatter the S&P average returns and you shatter the Q's returns.
>> It's just I think the street also knows that it's undervalued here. There's another reason they're not buying it. It's like PayPal, right? Like if we did these numbers with PayPal, it would also probably look stupid, but it's like there's a reason people aren't buying PayPal.
>> Yeah. I mean, Meta is actually growing its profitability.
>> That's That's fair. But but PayPal buying back a lot of stock. You can't tell me PayPal deserves to be 65.
>> I think PayPal's $110 stock.
>> Why is it a 65? That's my point. Meta is probably a $800 stock.
>> PayPal is a bro It's a broken stock, not a broken company. It's just It is what it is. Meta's got to do something to change the perception right now. Maybe it's killing reality labs.
>> I think in a couple years if there's nothing other than advertising, I don't know if that stock gets to a thousand. I think there's got to be and I I wouldn't bet against Zucks. I agree with you. I think he'll figure out something. He always figures out something. But that is the fear. Google, we knew it would be Google was stupid this year at 150 because they had this cloud.
>> So,
>> they had the DOJ thing, but that was like an external legal. Once that went away, it was off to the races.
>> I mean, think about alphabet that for a sec.
>> Is YouTube more valuable than Netflix? Do you think?
>> I personally believe YouTube is a billion times more valuable than
>> No, but not just because we're on it right now or whatnot, but like in all seriousness, is YouTube a bigger business than Netflix? Because if it is, then what's YouTube worth? Like if you were to spin out um all of Alphabet's segments into individual companies, is are you still paying a cheaper price today than with what the breakup value of the company is?
>> Dude, YouTube could go public at a trillion dollars by itself. I would buy it tomorrow.
>> I think it very well could. I also think that their cloud business could go public at 500 billion to 750 billion
>> easily. I also think that Whimo could catch 100 billion if not more. And then what about search? What about subscriptions and services? Because you got to figure Gemini, where's that go? That's got to go in subscriptions and services. So there's just so many things under the umbrella of Google that the valuation for Google is still probably undervalued at 22 times 2027 earnings.
>> Yeah. And and that's what I mean by seeing explicit AI ROI. Like let's say it's 2029 and Sundar says we have 1.5 billion monthly users of Gemini. There's no way that the revenues the cash flows are not going to catch up in a pretty exponential nature. So that's what I mean like in a couple years if we see that type of growth or we have I don't know how many Whimo rides they've done but make up another number like 10x the Whimo rides they're doing today that's when you know okay AI is like actually changing the business and I think it'll take a couple years but once you see that
>> Yeah. I mean it could take a couple years. absolutely could. But there are stocks that are undervalued in good plays for long-term investors. Meta happens to be to me and Alphabet happens to be in really interesting prices. And I'll tell you the one that I don't own, I'm getting really close to pulling the trigger on.
>> I'm getting I'm getting close to buying Microsoft.
>> Oh, you got my hopes up, bro.
>> I'm getting close to buying Microsoft. If it keeps falling a little bit, I'm starting a position.
>> Well, they're going to make money off the services revenue. Do you know in 2018 that was when they switched from product sales to services and that's since then the stock has been returning about 28% a year.
>> Microsoft.
>> Yeah. since 2018 when they switched because the old CEO was focusing more on the product sales selling Microsoft Office and the licenses and then Sate Nadella was like let's switch into services subscription model revenues and they basically jumpst started all of SAS Microsoft was the beginning of all of that Microsoft is the software player
>> I know you don't want to hear it fabric is going to take the [ __ ] off
>> I don't know enough about fabric to be
>> I know I know a lot about it it's going to take off. Now, I'm not saying that anything's going to happen to any other companies. I'm just saying that there's going to be a lot of synergies and a lot of companies using it, especially because they're going to compound PowerBI off of it.
>> That's that's bullish for Click House, dude. Like, I
>> Here's the thing that Microsoft has that other companies don't. companies are already entrenched in their environment because all of their information is in Azure and SharePoint and PowerBI just extracts it through fabric. Those things are going to take off because that's the model that Microsoft is now building.
>> All right, so we got to end it here. I'm gonna ask one question that I haven't asked in a while. Everyone can put their answer in the chat. Steve and Sam can think for a little bit. Don't you don't just say your answer. I want you to think hard about it. I ask this question once every month basically. So I guess we're asking it for the first time in November and then we'll be done for the day. Steve and Sam's Twitter, I'm also put in the chat. Please make sure to follow him there. Steve will be live on Saturday with his Saturday with the
>> live tonight. We'll be live Saturday. I may even go live in a little bit. We'll see.
>> Okay. And then Sam's YouTube right there as well in the chat. All right. What is the one Mac 7 for the next 10 years?
>> Oh, Jesus Christ. You ask the hardest questions. No, I ask this every month. I ask this every month.
>> It's such a hard question.
>> It's not. It's actually I have my answer already. It's
>> I'm gonna cheat. I want to see what Sam says first.
>> It's always going to be Amazon. Always.
>> Really? The Mag 7 for next 20 years. Amazon will always be one of the top companies in the world. Their mode is insane. E-commerce is still growing even on an emerging market scale. You even see with Macali, I think Maccatali is an amazing buy today as well. E-commerce is going places. They're the largest hypers scale in the world. They're only going to start reacelerating to next year most likely. I I just It's always going to be around. It's always going to be around all the time.
>> What was the time frame? 10 years. You said
>> 10 years. Do you want me to go next or you?
>> No. I'm gonna It's It's really hard because it's between Amazon and Alphabet for me. And I gotta go with Sam. And I'm going to tell you why. Because in addition to everything Sam said, I think that at an 11.2% 2% operating margin. They have the ability to get to 20% through robotics and AI. And as a $1 trillion revenue company in 2029, if they can get to that 20% golden margin, as I call it, that's 200 billion of operating income four years from now. So, I got to tell you, in 10 years, this is a company that could be doing 300 billion a year, maybe 350 billion a year in operating income because where's their revenue go in tw 2036 if they hit a trillion in 2029? Are they at 1.4 1.5 trillion at 20% margin? So, for me, it's got to be Amazon.
>> Okay. So, I really want to say Palunteer. I know they're not a Mac seven, but I think eventually they they get to that point. So, if I can't say pounder, I'm going with Tesla, dude.
>> Say that.
>> I'm going with Tessie. I Amazon and Google are more rational. 100,000%. And if I was pure rationally, it would be like Amazon, Google easily. But in terms of upside potential, I think it's Tessy. I think it's the robots. I think it's self-driving. Uh I I I I I want to say Nvidia, but at some point, you know, the chips stop getting sold and so Nvidia can't be putting up the types of growth they were putting up. I don't Tesla hasn't been growing for a couple years. So Tesla's eventually in the next maybe two to we're talking about 10 years, right? So 2036 by around 2029ish, even if it takes three years to get back to that scurve of growth. I think that happens if not sooner. And I know it's a a bumpy ride with Elon, but he's incentivized to make a trillion dollars. And so I I kind of think you let him do it. And then you got the energy business, which we can't underestimate given how much of a power glove we have.
>> I think the energy business is very it's very underestimated. uh if you're seeing all this data center expansion and the fact that they're partnered with a lot of medcap companies when it comes to their energy business and energy storage I think it's very underestimate and it's growing at like I forget what it was like 50 50 to 70% somewhere around there so reacelerated from last quarter um that is a lot of potential there and I think that that is going to bring all the revenue up um just not an owner just not an owner
>> yeah of the stock of the stock
>> yeah Amazon and Google make a lot more sense you can easily see how it plays out but in 10 years like which one gets you like a I don't know a 5x two 3x I I no I we're talking about 10 years max seven names I think we're looking for at least a 3 to 4x minimum 3x right not just a double in 10 years like I think Tesla has a higher probability than some of those also Tesla's still at 1.2 two 1.7 trillion or something. Amazon's at 2.3, Google's at three. Google's, you know, getting up there a bit. Um, it's funny none of us said Nvidia though. I see some people in the chat said Nvidia, but I think to some extent, maybe five years Nvidia, but 10 years it's like, okay, can they keep selling these chips at that level?
>> No one said Apple either.
>> No, no one said Apple might be the winner, too.
>> I know Apple might be the winner, as surprising it is because this thing just always sticks around. financial engineering. It's a safe haven for almost every single person around the entire world. It might be Apple. Yeah, Evan. Evan might be the winner here.
>> Stock news.
>> All right, folks. That is it. Thank you all for being here. It has been a wild week, emotional week. Very happy that we got some level of reprieve towards the end of the day as the S&P went green. We actually have some pretty nice after hours moves across the board. And um looks like we're in green for today. Uh obviously Monday is going to be very important. We'll see if we can get this shutdown done by the end of the weekend. Republicans already said they would reject it. So maybe they they they don't get a deal done. But at least the market is relatively happy that there's a chance they get it done. And if they do, that wouldn't be too bad. All right, that's it. Steve, are you going live after this?
>> 6:30. just say uh
>> Okay, there you go. Put in Steve's YouTube in the chat. People can go get his stream at 6:30 and that's what you got. All right, thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Putting Sam's YouTube as well in the chat. I will see you guys on Sunday for the market futures and hopefully we can get this government reopen and we can keep this going going into next week. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. We'll see you guys on the Sunday show. Bye everybody. Have a good one.