So we have uh at this moment I think we just cracked $18 trillion in commitments and investments in our country. Uh as an example the last administration was far less than 1 trillion for four years. We're at plus 18 trillion for 8 months. There's never been anything like it in history in any country anywhere in the world. So that's great. But maybe for purposes of this, more importantly, we're going to bring drug prices down at numbers that nobody ever thought possible. Done. I think nobody ever even thought it was possible. So, we're going to be doing a lot of business, but we're going to be uh also uh numbers that uh when you're 2 3 4 500% less. I just noticed one of them over here. 654% discount. 654. The lagard is 98%. Right. Nine is that what? Wow. It's 96. 96 230% but 654. And we have some that top that by a lot. So it's uh it's really going to be incredible. And that's going to be so good for Medicaid and Medicare and everything frankly for your life. It's going to be so good. So nobody ever thought they were going to see. And don't let Democrats take the credit because you know they'll try. They'll say, "Oh, we worked so hard and they didn't work hard. They did uh they obstructed. they actually did the opposite. So that's really more important than even the tremendous investments being made in our country. But think of it, we cracked uh $18 trillion with a t trillion dollars and uh frankly one trillion for four years wasn't that bad. He did less than a trillion, but we did that in a period of eight months. So it's pretty pretty record shattering by by many trillions of dollars. Any country, no matter what country you're talking about, nobody's done numbers like that. So, thank you all for being here. Do you want to have a couple of questions? Yeah, please. Mr. President, one on this if I could, one on China if I may. Um, first on this, could you have brought these pharmaceutical companies to the table without that 100% tariff that you imposed? Well, it's not 100%. You're talking about China might be I'm talking about the 100% you imposed on pharmaceuticals for that section. I would never have been able to bring them. Now, I'm not sure that Pascal would like to say, but behind the scenes, he did say tariffs were a big reason he came here. And also the fact he loved Virginia, he liked this guy. He liked me. Uh I think the November 5th election was a very important date. We had a good election. And uh that was important. But yeah, he he's here. A lot of a lot of I can speak for almost everybody that's here. Most of them are here because of tariffs. Because you have to understand he has no tariffs. If you build in this country, there are no tariffs. So, let me ask you about China if I could. Um, just want to confirm, have you canled your meeting with President Xi? And no, I haven't cancelled, but I don't know that we're going to have it, but I'm going to be there regardless. So, I would assume we might have it. But, uh, you know, they uh hit the world with something that really is not anything that people are going to do. And, and it's, uh, it was shocking. And I can tell you Howard and I and Todd, we all we all Scott were all speaking about it before and it was we said, "Where did that come from?" It was just that was out of the blue, right? Out of the blue, they came up with this uh whole import export concept and nobody uh nobody knew anything about it. So if they roll back their export controls, the new announcement, would you roll back? Look, we're going to have to see what happens. That's why I made it November 1st. We'll see what what happens. Yeah, Mr. President, the last time, Mr. President, go ahead, please. What else besides software could be on the table in terms of export control? A lot more a lot more. I mean, you have you have you have a lot more. We have airplanes. We have airplane parts. You remember that from last time? And we were just surprised that China have a very good relationship with President Xi and they did that. This is not something that I, you know, instigated. This was just a response to something that they did. And they didn't really aim it at us. They aimed it at the whole world. The whole world is uh is subject to it. So I thought it was very very bad. But we have many things including a big thing is airplane. They have a lot of Boeing planes and they need parts and lots of things like that. Steve, how did you persuade Israeli Prime Minister to to accept the Gaza deal and what will be your message to the commens when you speak to him? Well, he wanted it. You know, it's been a long time. He's been fighting a long time. He's been fighting hard. He wanted it. It's a great deal for Israel, but it's a great deal for everybody, for Arabs, for Muslims, for everybody, for the world. And as you know, on Monday, the hostages come back. They're getting them now. I mean, they're getting them now. They're in some uh pretty rough places under Earth. They're in some pretty rough places where only a few people know where they are some cases. So, they're getting them. And they're also getting the bodies. uh approximately 28 bodies and uh some of those bodies are uh being unearthed right now as we speak. I mean, they're working on it right now as we speak. It's it's a tragedy. It's a tragedy. No, he was very happy with it. And I can tell you that I saw Israel dancing in the streets, but they were dancing in Qatar and Saudi Arabia and UAE and many, many countries. Uh I saw Egypt, they were dancing. I'll be going to Israel. I'll be speaking at the Knesset uh I think early on and then I'm also going to Egypt. They were terrific. But all of the countries were great. Indonesia was great. Jordan was great. They're all great. Everybody Everybody wants this deal to happen. What happens in Gaza the day after the hostage release? Day after what? The day after the hostage release. What happens there then? Well, hopefully you're going to have great success for I call it everlasting success. I think you will, too. I think uh I think you're going to have tremendous success and Gaza is going to be rebuilt and you have some very wealthy countries, as you know, over there. And it would take a small fraction of their their wealth to do that, but and I think they want to do it. And we're also we're also setting up, as you know, a board of peace. It's called the board of peace. I don't know if that's the final name, but the word peace is definitely in there. And they asked me if I chair it. We'll make sure things go well. And how confident are you that the ceasefire will hold? I think it'll hold. Yeah, I think it'll hold. Uh they're all tired of the fighting. Don't forget uh you had October 7th, which was a horrible day. 1,200 people killed. Uh but uh Hamas has lost 58,000 people. That's big retribution. That's big retribution. People understand that. So, no, I think they're they're all tired of fighting and this really gives the whole Middle East, this is beyond Gaza. Gaza is very important, but this is beyond Gaza. This is peace in the Middle East. And it is a beautiful thing. You know, it's a term that you and I have been hearing since we were very young, right? And now we have a chance of really having that. And as you know, most of the countries have passed all these resolutions. Every country is there. Iran uh came in. And I was very happy to see that. I was very honored that Iran came in. They said they support it. Russia came in. President Putin, he supports it fully. Very fully. So I was happy to see even countries that weren't necessarily involved in the process. They all support it. Every I don't know of anybody that doesn't. And I've never seen happier people than many of these places, not just Israel. Many of these places. They're all dancing in the streets. I've never seen anything like it. Mr. President, please in the back. Thank you. Um, what guarantee did you give Hamas to persuade them that Israel will restart the bombing campaign once the hostages have been exchanged? What did I do with respect to them? Well, you know, I spoke a little bit tough and that's what would happen. I mean, you have to speak tough. It's a that's a tough world. That's a tough, as they say, neighborhood. And uh they're tough people. They're very tough people and they're smart people. Uh they're good negotiators. you know, they have a lot of things going. They put that to good use. They're going to be very, very successful. But, uh, they knew the retribution would be tremendous, unsustainable. It would have been unsustainable. Would have been it would have been complete obliteration. And uh, they didn't want that. And nobody wants it at this point. They want to get on with, you know, rebuilding the entire Middle East. It's not only Gaza, it's going to be the entire Middle East. uh they're going to be able to live in peace. Now, we have some little hot spots, but they're very small. You know the ones I'm talking about. They're very small. They'll be very easy to put out. Those fires are going to be put out very quickly. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. President. Um talking about the Middle East, still going to the phases that come after this first phase. Is there consensus on the additional points in your plan or are the details still being fine tuned? I think there is consensus on most of it and some of the details like anything else will be worked out because you'll find out that when you're sitting in a beautiful room in Egypt uh you know it's easier to work something out but then sometimes it doesn't work from a practical standpoint. So certain little things but for the most part there's consensus. Yes. Do you intend to hash that out when you're in Egypt? I I might. Yeah. I mean I'll be there because I'll be going to I think we'll I'll go to Cairo. I think that's where we're going as opposed to the place of the signing and we have a lot of leaders from all over the world coming to you know they've been invited and then I'm coming back I believe it's Tuesday night for Charlie Kirk friend of mine a friend of all of ours in front of a lot of the people right here and we're giving him the Presidential Medal of Freedom which is the highest honor you get outside of the Congressional Medal of Honor. one's military, one's uh civilian, but it's it's the greatest honor. And uh Erica's beautiful wife is going to be here, and a lot of people are going to be here. So, you know, it's not easy for me to get back. It's it's a very quick trip, but I'll be making two major stops, and then I'll be on the plane trying to get back in in time for Charlie. They're going to have a a great celebration at the White House in the East Room of the White House. Mr. President um Russell Vog said the the reductions in force have begun related to this shutdown. How many layoffs have you authorized for this first round and from which agencies? And it'll be Democrat oriented because we figure you know they started this thing so they should be Democrat oriented. It'll be a lot and we'll announce the numbers over the next couple of days but it'll be a lot of people all because of the Democrats. I mean they want to give $1.5 trillion dollars to people that came into the country illegally. more important than that because we all have a big heart. We want people to be taken care of. But you know, we have zero people coming in. You know that, Glenn, right? That's that's a pretty impressive number even for a successful governor. But we've had for the last four months zero people coming in illegally. They're coming in, but they're coming in legally. They're coming in through a process that's really a really good process right now because we want people to come in, but they have to come in legally. So what we're doing is uh as uh as these different groups come due, we're going to make a determination. Do we want them allow? And and I must tell you, a lot of them happen to be uh Democrat oriented. These are uh people that the Democrats wanted that in many cases were uh not appropriate. We fought them at the time and it was ultimately uh signed in. And some of these people, these are largely people that the Democrats want. Many of them will be fired. Yes, please. Behind. Yeah. Um the the Nobel Peace Prize was announced this morning. Your thoughts? Which one? The Nobel Peace Prize. You want your thoughts? Look, I I including a very big one. And I'm not sure you know when you say big, it's certainly I think to the mind of most the most important deal ever made in terms of peace. Uh but the one we just signed, it's been signed, sealed, and it's uh going to start taking place now. It's already started. Monday is going to be a very big day when the hostages come back. But uh I made eight deals, transactions of wars. One was 31 years going on. 10 million people were killed. One was 34 years, one was 36, 37. Uh one was 10, one was just starting. Two were just starting actually, but they were well on their way. In the case of India and Pakistan, seven planes were shot down. It was it was a bad one. And I I did it largely through trade. I mean that one numerous of them uh I talked tariffs I said look if you're going to do that we're going to put very big tariffs on your country and uh they were both great they they stopped fighting and they were two nuclear powers so you know they're all big there every one of them big you take of you take a look at the Congo you take a look at the Congo and Rwanda uh 10 million people killed over a long period of time got that one solved we we did a total of eight as of this two days ago I would have said seven which I did say but uh the other one was signed up sealed as you know the uh Israel signed it just now they signed it and they approved it today their parliament and uh it's a great honor to be involved with so many so uh the person who actually got the Nobel Prize uh called today called me and said that I'm accepting this in honor of you because you really deserved it that a very nice thing to do I I didn't I didn't say then give it to me though because I think she might have she was very nice and I've been you know I've been helping her along the way. She they've they need a lot of help in Venezuela. It's a basic disaster. So uh and you could also say it was given out for 24 and I was running for office in 24. You know all of the transactions that we did in terms of closing but uh there are those that say we did so much that they should have done it. But I don't take I'm happy because I saved millions of lives. Many millions of lives. And speaking of somebody that saves lives, don't ever play golf with it because Keegan Bradley just walked in. One of the greatest golfers in the world, the captain of the Rder Cup. And man, I'll tell you, you did a good job. You almost came back. I turned on. I said, you know, I sort of turned off. It wasn't looking good. And then a little while later, I turned on. I said, you guys might make that would have been the miracle. What a great job. He's respected by those golfers like nobody. And I just want to compliment you, Keegan. There's a incredible job. Right here, we have a lot of unfriendly fake news media. But and he's not used to that. He's used to getting only good publicity. I think Harry, these are all golfers, but uh you're some golfer. I'll tell you that. And some some leader. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Mr. on China. Yeah, please. On immigration, um, ICE are making arrests, targeted arrests at courouses in New York City and around the country. Arresting criminals. That's right. Yeah. Go ahead. I'm I'm happy about it. I want them to arrest criminals. And, uh, if you take a look at DC, uh, a year ago, DC was this our great capital was a very unsafe place. You know that some of you were mugged and, uh, talk openly about it. Some of the media was mugged. Uh but uh right now DC is one of the safest places in the whole country. Uh the restaurants are booming. They're opening up new restaurants. The restaurants were all closing. Now you can't get into a restaurant. They're opening up new restaurants. Uh it took 12 days for us. We sent in uh not politically correct military. We sent them in based on merit. You know, we won the case in the Supreme Court. Everything now is based on merit. Our country was founded on things based on merit. Like uh Keegan Bradley is not going to be playing golf if he wasn't a great player. He if he shoots lower scores it's boy there's no more merit system than that one Keegan right you the if you miss a putt you they don't say oh that's okay let's take it again do they no it's based on merit everything's based on merit and uh we're back to the merit system and when they saw that military that military is all about merit they're big strong people that want to they're patriots too and you take a look at DC and now we're in Memphis and Memphis was really crimeridden. It was terrible. A lot of people being killed. And they say in 12 days, they can't even believe how much better it is. And it'll take uh probably a month over there. And we're heading to Chicago because we want to save Chicago. Do you know they had over 4,000 people killed in Chicago over a short 4,000 people? And I have to watch this slob of a governor stand up and say that well everything's okay. We've got it under control. They had 4,000 people murdered over a very short period of time. That's there's not a city in the world I don't believe that can claim, you know, you hear so much about different I won't, you know, embarrass anybody like by saying Mexico City or by saying anywhere in Afghanistan. There's no place like that. And then I have to listen to the mayor who's got a 5% approval rate, maybe less. He's an incompetent man. And the governor is an incompetent guy. He's a guy that was thrown out of his family business like a dog. And it's I know his family very well. And now he's a governor. And when I watch him trying to say that it's okay, we have crime under control. Lost 4,000 people over a very short period of time. Uh over I believe it's like six 7,000 people were shot but didn't die. But 4,000 people died. Uh, and then he gets up and talks about how it's not a problem. Or Portland, Oregon. I mean, every time I look at that place, the place is burning down. There's fires all over the place. When a store owner, there are very few of them left, but when a store owner rebuilds a store, they build it out of plywood. And they don't put up storefronts anymore. They just put wood up because they know it's going to be ripped down. And then I hear how wonderful it is. It's not wonderful. It's a disaster. That's almost an insurrection, that place. So, we put our people in there and they do the job. and they've really done the job. And the beautiful thing is we've done it 12 days we had this place safe and now it's uh I would say within a month it was beautiful and it continues to be that was uh 3 months ago. I I'll tell you DC now is one of the hottest places just like this country. We were a dead country and you've heard me say it a hundred times. We're a dead country. King of Saudi Arabia said it. Others say the Amir of Qar said it. Many UAE said it, the leader, great leader, UAE, all great leaders, they said effectively the same thing. One year ago, we had a dead country. Now we have the hottest country anywhere in the world. I just want to thank everybody and I want to in particular thank Astroenica. What a great company you have. What a company you've built. You've been there a long time and done some job. It's an honor to have you. I I assume you're going to build so it's four 4.5 billion for a plant. That's a pretty big plant, isn't it? I was going to say, could he make it a little bit more? Well, we have a couple of them where they're going to spend 65 billion on one plant. You know, like AI, all I know is it's, you know, AI is based on information. I hope they're right about information. I don't know. You got to make a lot of money to there's got to be a lot of information out there, but that seems to be pretty hot, but we have a lot. We're we're leading the world on information, on AI, as you know, by a lot. It's not even close. So, we're doing a job. And I want to thank everybody, but in particular, uh, Pascal, thank you very much. It's a great honor. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Have a good time.