[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. It is Thursday, November 6th. It is quite an ugly day in the stock market. And quite frankly, we had a little bit, just a little bit uh of recovery kind of intraday, call it about two and a half hours ago. And as we get into the close that we're seeing right here, a lot of that recovery is going uh going away. A couple of stocks are holding on to the momentum. Most stocks are not able to hold on to the m momentum after one of the best earnings we've ever seen from Robin Hood. That stock is down almost 11% on the day. Ugly day. Ugly day for hoodie. Pounder down 7%. Tesla down 3.7. Nvidia down 3.5. S&P uh actually not at the lows. Again, you have individual stocks that are getting hit harder than the S&P 500 right here. The lows was 668. Got a little recovery up to 673. Now we're at 670.5. Looks like we will get a down 1% day, but uh might not be as bad as where it was a couple of hours ago at the absolute lows. And we're going to see in the next 12 minutes as we close out the day. AMD down 7% 238. SoFi 2744 lost 2850. Grab is somehow kind of holding green. Google is also kind of holding green. You got some good headlines on Google today in the context of new chips for their TPUs. But everything else, Reddit down 6%, Amazon down 2%, Meta down 2%, Salesforce down five, PayPal down two, ELF down 35. I don't think Dolingo has really recovered. Dolingo right here down 26% on the day. You got the VIX obviously that's up 9%. Volatility is indeed elevated. Small caps are down 1.6, six, but everything else is pretty much red. So, I think the question on everyone's brain is why why are we getting so red? Apple as well holding a bit strong uh as we get into the close. By the way, we have a lot of earnings today that we're going to talk about. We have Soundown, Airbnb, SMR, DraftKings, Open Door Firm, Square, MP, Monster, Pelaton, Texas Roadhouse, Take 2, and a ton of other companies. On top of that, you have the Texas shareholder meeting that should be starting very soon. Um, and then you have a bunch of different macro headlines that we're looking at. We will be watching the IN call or listening to it, but I'll be tracking all the other earnings in real time. So, what is the real reason for why we're so green or so red? We are definitely not green. Um, well, I think there's a couple things. Number one, well, there there's four kind of core things I'm looking at. There's a lot of people saying it's just a technical gap fill, and that's fair that it could be as simple as that. If you wanted something more substantive, uh if the Supreme Court ruling on Trump tariffs goes against them, the US would have to refund over a trillion dollars worth of revenue and deals. Uh that chatter is starting to become a lot more apparent to the broader market, which could be an issue. Number two is government shutdown is getting ready to shut down entire airports. You've already had 10% of flights get shut down at some of the most important airports in the country, including JFK. That's not the best thing in the world. Jensen kind of I don't want to say he messed up, but he definitely caused the kurfuffle by saying that China is going to beat the United States in AI. Not the best headline for semiconductor stocks in the United States if they can't sell into China and China's going to be beating the United States on AI. By the way, China's CCP Communist Party yesterday forced tech company. I mean, they've been doing this for a while, but they you just had a reestablishment of them forcing tech companies to be buying Chinese state-based chips. So, kind of adding fuel to the fire on what Jensen said that China is going to get ahead if Nvidia is not allowed to sell. And you know, you get Nvidia down about two-300 billion dollars when you have an announcement like that. And obviously the entire semiconductor market is getting hit as well. And then you had what I think is actually the broader reason for why we're getting some pain. The worst October for layoffs since 2003. The government is closed, but we are seeing some third party data around layoffs. Uh and it's obviously not pretty right here. Challenger, which is a third party firm, they came out and said warehousing and technology sectors led last month's surge, but there were 175,000 layoffs in the month of October, the highest since 2003, which obviously is not the best thing in the world. So, you got the most amount of layoffs we've seen in over a decade. You've got Jensen not questioning the AI trade, but definitely getting investors to question the United States role in the AI trade, whether or not that deserves to be questioned. You have the government shutdown accelerating more pain across the entire ecosystem of people that work inside of the government that don't have an income. And obviously, that's going to hurt earnings if they can't actually spend their income because they don't they're not getting any income in the economy. And then you have the Supreme Court ruling on the Trump tariffs that could be going against them, which also is causing some pain. And as a result, you got Robin Hood down 11%. BMNR, I think, is at 36. BMR 3746, that's down 10%. Ethereum and Bitcoin really haven't been cooperating today either. Ethereum 3,200 basically 3,300, 3298, and then Bitcoin right here is at 100.7. Bitcoin didn't go below 100 today, but you know, obviously it does feel like it could lose 100 at any point. So, it's an ugly day. It's one of those days where there's not much you can say other than it's ugly and we have a lot of earnings after the bell. We're going to see how these earnings turn out on a day when things are bad. As you can see, all the companies that have earnings. Openoro down 7%, SMR down 13%, Affirm down six, Square down three, Archer down seven, Monster down two, Airbnb down one, TTD down three, and then INEN down 12%. A lot of these names also in that heavy momentum trade. So, the fact that they're getting hit right now makes sense. And, you know, hopefully their earnings can turn things around, but if they don't turn things around, then it's just a kind of crappy day for them to be able to uh report earnings. On top of that, you had Sam Alman. So Sam Alman had a Bill Aman post today and he said a lot of stuff obviously because the OpenAI CFO came out and said that they are looking for the government to kind of backs stop some of these federal loans. He then had to come out and clarify that that's not what they're actually saying. So it's a very very long post. I'm honest honestly I didn't read the whole thing but the the part that he did say and the beginning paragraph was we believe that government should not pick winners or losers and that taxpayers should not bail out companies that make bad decisions or otherwise lose in the market. What we do think might make sense is governments building their own AI infrastructure, but then the upside of that should flow to the government as well. We can imagine a world where governments decide to offake a lot of computing power and get to decide how to use it and it may make sense to provide lower cost of capital to do so. Building a strategic national reserve of computing power makes a lot of sense, but this should be for the government's benefit, not for the benefit of private companies. I think that's absolute BS. He is obviously, if you read between the lines, making the point that the government should invest or fund or whatever word you want to use, whatever verb you want to use to make the argument into compute. What does open AAI need a lot of compute? And so, yes, they're not literally saying government give us loans, but they're definitely implying the government should make sure there is a way to uh ensure that compute is a quote unquote national security target. And as a result of that, companies like OpenAI would be the main beneficiaries. He also said and I thought this was actually the most interesting thing that he said in his post. We expect to end this year above 20 billion in annualized revenue run rate. Uh Street was expecting around 13 billion. So they are ahead of those estimates and grow to hundreds of billions by 2030. We are looking at commitments of about 1.4 trillion over the next eight years. So he's at least giving some level of hey I know we said we're going to spend almost a trillion and a half but if we're gaining hundreds of billions of dollars of revenue it's not like we're spending that much of an egregious amount of money because we're getting the ROI to justify it which is actually very important and obviously bullish Nvidia but nonetheless uh this is something that's not necessarily happen helping the AI trade in the short term even though long term that's probably a good thing if openi were to generate hundreds of billions of dollars of revenue I ran right there down about 11% on the day Airbnb down about 1.4% as we get into the close. We got 6 minutes until the market closes. S&P 500 down 1% as well. US judge orders Trump administration to fully fund SNAP food and benefits by Friday. All right. So, you've got a lot of these federal judges that are not allowing United States citizens to not get the benefits from SNAP. For those that are international, SNAP essentially covers food stamps, which is a program in the United States that allows people that are very low income to be able to get food uh subsidized by the government. Obviously, the government is shut down. So, the question is, how are people going to eat? Well, a US judge has just ordered that the Trump administration has to find a way to fund it even if the government is shut down. And that is just one, I guess you could call it, uh, reason for why the government shutdown hopefully comes to an end because Democrats and Republicans come together and they realize like if they're going to get if if if the federal judge is going to force them in a variety of different circumstances to fund the government, they might as well come together and fund the government. But number two, it means that there's no negotiating chip that either side has because some of these things are just not going to hold up in a court of law. And you know that brings up the question around tariffs which we're going to get some details on over the coming weeks. But obviously if that gets reversed and that's not going to be the best thing for the United States either. Rocket Lab right here down 12% on the day. Again, a lot of momentum names. There's really no safety. I'm not seeing any safety across the board. And the problem with not having any safety is just that when things get hit that bad, they get hit and they get hit in a pretty pretty ugly way. Uh the other thing that I thought that was also really important that we saw today here is this argument on uh the 10-year bond. So bond yields started getting a little bit more momentum. And the reason bond yields started getting some more momentum now they're starting to go a little bit more down on the day as you can see right here uh below 4%. One of the number one reasons um is because people are freaking out that if we're not going to get this rate cut, then there might be something that we have to do in terms of navigating the private credit market. Or if we are going to get the rate cut, then we need a better yield on bonds. So, we're going to sell off bonds if we don't have the capacity to be able to say that the the 4% the government's giving us is good enough because if we're cutting rates anyway, then we might as well lock in a different type of yield. As you can see right here, 68.9% on this uh December rate cut probability. really doesn't make a lot of sense to me that it's anywhere below 85% given the layoff report that we saw this morning. Worst layoff since 2003, but nonetheless, that one is at 70%. Matt's in the chat. Had to tell my boss I'm not actually resigning that I'm sorry I told him to make love to himself. Yeah. Um, anyone who told their boss to go f themselves, well, that's uh that's, you know, you might want to send an email that says, "Well, you know, I was a little drunk. You know, I I didn't mean to actually say that. That's not what I really intended to say." And hopefully the bosses welcome everyone back with with open arms. Um, all right. So, we got three minutes until the market closes. Let's do a poll right here in the chat and see what people think on what pumps or dumps. Uh we have a lot of stocks. Uh this poll which one outperforms uh which one outperforms today? We have INE. Let's do MP. Let's do Archer. And let me know which of these names you guys own. And then what's the other one? H let's do Open Door. Let's put Open Door in there. Got a lot of different names from a lot of different sectors. Legends being a little weird, guys. The charts as I'm looking at them are not loading up. So, I'm going to go back to using Weeble in the morning. We had some issues with Legend as well. So, we're just going to use Weeble right here. I think as a lot of people are checking their portfolios using the product today. You are uh you're seeing a little bit of weakness on the servers there. By the way, Robin did talk about the AWS issues that they had. Someone asked a question about it. I don't fully remember the response, but Vlad did respond to it immediately and talk about some of the issues and what they're working on to make sure that that doesn't happen again. All right, so let's build our watch list right here. I know we got a lot of people that are Ironbulls. We got Sound. We have tons and tons of different companies that we are going to get reporting today. The Tesla shareholder meeting will be happening at the same time as well. And yeah, as Benny says, it's a tough day to report, dude. It's just a tough day to report. I mean, the fact that Robin Hood put up those numbers and down 12% on the day. It It just means momentum is getting flushed out and sometimes that happens, but this is the reality of the markets and it's definitely an ugly Thursday in November, but nonetheless, that's how it's happening. See a lot of people saying sound. See a lot of people said they bought the dip on BMR. See a ton of elves in the chat. A lot of INS TTD, that one took that one's down 3%. That one took a hit uh over the past month. SMR, a firm, a lot of those companies are reporting today as well. DraftKings, they signed a big deal with ESPN. So, we're going to get there. DraftKings is actually a little green. One of the only names that's green, but we're going to see a bunch of those stocks as they report today. All right, folks. Here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. We got a lot of different headlines that we'll be trying to cover as we get into the close, including this Tesla shareholder meeting along with earnings, uh, crypto, and macro, and we will keep going from there. Thank everybody for being here. It is Thursday, November 6th, 400 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, here we go. Here we go. What a day. Tesla ends down three and a half%. American Airlines down 2%. Open Door down 9%. PayPal down 2%. Snapchat was up 22%. It ended up 9%. At least it was green. S&P 500 was down 1% on the day. Disney was down half a percent. Arc Innovation was down 4%. Meta was down 2.6. Coinbase down seven, lost 300. AMD down 7%. Netflix down about half a percent. Square was down 3.6. Roku was down 1%. Then DraftKings actually up on the day. Palunteer ended down 6.84%. Robin Hood ended down 10.81%. Grabby Grab ended 18% down. So it end down it was down about 1 cent. Oaklo down 11% on the day. Eli Liy was up about 1% because of that deal with Nova Nordis that Trump had in the Oval Office. Marll was up a little bit on the day. Figma was actually up 4%. They had a great earnings. Then Google ended up green on the day. The Q's were down about 1.86%. NASDAQ took a nasty beating, much worse than the S&P 500 as its leverage technology. Nvidia, did we get a 185 or at least close? We got a 188 close. So, Nvidia down 3.65%. Um, down about seven bucks on the day, but Nvidia closing above 185. All right, earnings, earnings, earnings. Let's get into it. These are the companies that we've got. We'll see what after hour moves. Trade up 10%. Tradeesk is up 10%. You got to move on TTD. It's giving you a little bit of something again. Trade has been hit really hard. Fell from 120 to 40, then got from 40 to 80, then came all the way back to 40. Now it's at 51 after hours. This one's just been a stock that had a lot of pain, especially in the advertising space. Let me see if I can get those numbers and then we'll get into the other companies that we have. Trade desk. Wow. Beat by 2% on EPS. Beat by 3% on revenue. 45 cents versus 44 cents expected on EPS. Revenue 739 versus 719. EPS is up 10% year-over-year. Revenue is up 18% year-over-year. You do have a 9% move right there on the trade desk as that is green. Iran. Um, Iran is up two. We got a little bit of juice right there on Iran. Iran up 3%. Don't have the numbers yet on Iran. Oh, no, we do. I uh, okay, revenue, it looks like they beat by 5%. Uh, uh, 240 versus 228. I don't have an EPS number. I don't have EPS. Did EPS come in flat? I'm not seeing any move on EPS. I'll try to get that in a second. TTD is fading now. There's that red candle right there after hours. Was up 10. Now it's up four. Pelaton also has earnings today, which they also had a recall of 800,000 bikes because of a technical issue. So, yeah, that headline today. Uh, Open Door is down 1.3% after hours. Iran now fading. I don't see an EPS target on Iran. Let me see if I can get in a second, but don't have the yet. Square don't have their numbers. That's up 1.4%. Pelon's up 3.4. Texas Roadhouse flat. Airbnb is flat. Archers up one. SMR is uh up two and a firm is flat. Airbnb is now moving. Airbnb you got 5% move a little bit on Airbnb. Let's see if we can get any of these other numbers. Sound don't have numbers yet. We do have Sunun if anyone cares about that. Uh 6 cents versus 14 cents EPS missed by 57%. 724 versus 601. They beat by 21%. Revenues up 35% year-over-year EPS up 116%. This is a solar panel company, right? Sunun up 3% after hours. Either energy or solar or panels. One one of the two. I think it's in that niche. I've heard of this company a while ago, but that one did miss on EPS. They beat on revenue. Sound, I don't have their numbers yet, but that's down 2%. Airbnb just got it. Airbnb missed by 4% on EPS. 221 versus 231 expected. Revenue was a slight beat at 4.09 versus 4.08. Revenue is up 10% year-over-year. EPS is up 4% year-over-year. Airbnb is up 2.8. Correct. They're solar. Okay. So, they are solar. They missed on EPS by 57%. Airbnb um missed by 4% on EPS. That stock it's up 2%. Nothing too crazy on Airbnb. Iren is running a little bit. Okay. Iran is running 5%. Let me see if I can get some more accurate numbers on Iran. Um, yeah, this is weird, dude. No one has the source for EPS. How is EPS not out, but revenues out? How does that make any sense? Revenue is 240 versus 228. Let me go to their website. Where the hell is the earnings per share? I don't see it yet. We are getting a move after hours 71 that's up 6%. Uh I ran website. Yeah, I renit's down too. It's not loading for me. 504 gateway. Okay. D I rent. Bro, you guys are spamming that website trying to get these numbers. That one's not showing it right now. So we'll see if we can get anything. We are getting I mean an 8% move is not bad. 8% move is and I know it's back to levels where it was a couple days ago, but still nicest. That's the only stock that's moving green after hours. Airbnb a little bit of green. Everything else sound nuked 9% down on Sound. Oh, Absela also has earnings today as well. Uh, Abselera down 5% after hours. It was down three now down 7%. It was down 3% in the day, down 7% right here. I'll see if I can get their numbers in a second. Absel right there down about 7%. US AR is getting wrecked. Don't have their numbers yet, but US wow down 9%. All right, that doesn't look the best for MP. That's also going to put up numbers. MP's only down half a percent, but US in that rare earth space is getting hit. Iran, the only stock that's really seeing any green after hours. I still don't have their am uh their um their EPS. I still don't have that yet. Ampria's Technologies, I do not have their earnings either. That stock was down 13% on the day. If I get those numbers, I'll see uh after hours. AMX is up 5%. So you got a bit of a move right there, but don't have their numbers yet. Sound down 10%. Do I have Sound? Okay, Sound. Wow. Missed by 200% on EPS. They lost 27 cents versus 9 cents expected. Revenue was 42 versus 40. They beat revenue by 4%. Revenue is up 68% year-over-year. EPS is down 350% year-over-year. Why are these guys losing that much money? I don't know. But that is definitely an ugly miss for uh Soundhound. That's gonna get Look, yeah, if you're not profitable and if there's a lot of momentum driving your stock and not a lot of earnings, I mean, on a day like today, it's uh it's not the prettiest. But I but I am confused, dude. Why are they missing EPS by 300%. That is like that there's an issue. feels either structurally or maybe there's a tax accounting thing but missing like in a world in which most companies are beating EPS by double digits missing by triple digits is a bit weird MPs down 1.2 to trade now goes red. Tradees now goes red. Expedia bookings grew by 12% driven by a 26 in 26% increase in B2B B toC gross bookings grew by 7%. Expedia stock after hours is up 9%. Weird day. You got some travel stocks going up, a lot of other consumer stocks going down, but you got Expedia at least getting that move after hours showing the travel sector might not be in the worst situation. Open Door is down. Oh boy, that is a dump. That is a dumpy dump. That's down 12%. Let's see if it can recover. If that number, if that candle has to stick, I'll see if I can get the numbers. Open door. Don't have them yet. I do have MP materials. They beat by 38% on EPS10 cents versus negative6 cents expected. Revenue 53.5 versus 53. Revenues down 15% year-over-year. EPS is up 17% year-over-year. So MP does have a double beat. US looks like it was a bit worse, but MP not getting hit as bad. Open door down 14%. My goodness, dude. What did these guys say? What did these guys say for it to be that bad? See if we can get the numbers. Uh ah that's uh not pretty. Not pretty. 71% miss on EPS. Negative 12 cents expected. Negative 12 cents versus negative.7 cents expected. 915 versus 8.82. They did beat on revenue. It's not a bad beat by almost 40 million on revenue. Beat by 4%. Revenue is down 34% year-over-year. My goodness. Revenue is down 34% year-over-year. EPS is down 9%. Okay, so this is obviously not a growth stock because they're not really growing anything yet. There's probably some other metrics they are growing that might not be kind of topline bottom line numbers that Wall Street looks at. Uh 71% miss is a bit aggressive. Now I I I believe they are gross profitable. They're not gap profit or no sorry they're profitable on an adjusted EBID basis not on a gap basis which you know companies over time as they can scale their models can get to that gap profitability but that is a bit more than the street expected. It was down 14 now it's down eight. You have a ton of people coming in and buying the dip on open door. It bottomed at 552 so far. It looks like getting a little bit of recovery, but that's down 7%. Pelaton's up 6%. Irene, we still don't have the EPS. The website's not loading. Sound hounds down eight. MP's down two. Open Door still down six. Affirm's up a little bit. SMR is up. And then Airbnb is up 5.6. Oh my goodness. GTA 6 delays release until November 19th, 2026. Take Two is down 8%. Someone asked me in the morning, "What do you think of Take Two?" And I I think the literal response I gave was, "It all depends on GTA." And I don't know enough about video games or the timing of that video game in particular to understand if uh the stock is worth buying because I don't know if there's going to be delayed. I don't know how successful the game is going to be. But I do know that game is everything for Take Two. Wow, dude. Take they delayed it by six months. Goodness gracious. November 2026. All right, it's going to take some time. Square, that's down 4%. Square is down four right here. I'll see if I can get those numbers as well. Uh again, Expedia, one of the names that's doing well after hours. Take 2 getting hit pretty bad as a result. I don't have DraftKings yet as a result of this GTA stuff. Square. Wow, they missed by 21% on EPS. 54 cents versus 68 cents expected. And then 6.1 versus 6.3 billion. Dude, I mean, a lot of tech companies last week were not missing by double digits. Almost every company today is either missing or they're missing badly. Why is Square missing EPS by 21%. Why is revenue up 2% year-over-year? Why is EPS up two? Like this is this is supposed to be one of the most important fintexs, at least in America. Cash App is the number one app on the app store. Goodness gracious. EPS up 2%, revenue up 2%, missed on the top and bottom. Square right there down 1.72%. Airbnb is up four. SMR is up one. And then a firm, another fintech, I'll get their numbers in a second. This one's at least getting a little bit of a move higher. That's up 4%. That is up 4%. MP is now dumping. MP down 2%. Not as bad as USR, but it's still dumping. Open door tried to recover. Now it's going back down 550. If it violates 550, you might see some pain, but that is down 9% right here. It was down 9% during the day. So that's an 18% draw down on Open Door. DraftKings don't have those numbers yet. Let's see if we can get this. Uh, a firm, wow, beat by 109% on EPS. 23 cents versus 11 cents expected. 933 versus 883 million on revenue. Beat by 50 million on revenue by 6%. Revenue is up 34% year-over-year. EPS is up 174% year-over-year. Uh stocks not moving like crazy, but that looks like a very strong topline bottom line beat on EPS. Okay, Irene's up 3%. Do we have the number yet for EPS? Do we have the number on their earnings per share? Yes. Uh A$18. A dollar8 versus nine cents expected. That's a,000% beat on EPS if that's accurate. Is that what you guys have? That's what I have. That's what I'm looking at. I ran a,000% beat. Now again, that dollar rate, is that because of Bitcoin, Fazby stuff? Is that because of something accounting or is that actually because the data center business had margins that allowed them to beat by that level? If they did, then that's a hell of a beat. That's a hell of a beat. If it's some accounting thing, then it is what it is. Uh, again, the stock is still up 6x this year, so it's not really losing too much momentum, but that's up 2.8% after hours. 2.8% after hours. I'm going to try to go on their website whenever it comes back and see how did they get that beat because I think I think that's what the street cares about right now. The website is not loading at the moment, but that's what you got on Iran. Uh, a firm again double beat square double miss. Open door missed by 71% on EPS by 4% on revenue. Uh, Dropbox beat by 14% 74 cents versus 65 cents expected on EPS 634 versus 623 million on revenue. So, you do have Dropbox getting a beat on the top and the bottom. That stock is up 5.4% after hours as well. Do you guys want Tesla? Do we switch to Tesla? I mean, those are pretty much all the earnings. We got call and I think an hour. We can go to Tesla if that's what people want. Yes. Yes. Let me get some yeses in the chat if that's what we want. I think that's pretty much all the earnings. I don't think there's anything else too crazy. Well, hold on. The meeting's not even starting yet. The meeting is not even starting yet, guys. We can't even go to it yet. It's live. The stream is live, but it's not starting. Okay. So, when it does start, we'll go to Tesla, but that's not live yet. Monster had earnings as well. Monster Energy. Uh Monster is flat after hours. Don't have their numbers, but it is flat. Uh Vlad is live. He's probably live on TVPN. Okay, let me see if I can get some of these other numbers and we'll go to Vlad and we'll see what he is saying. Let me pull this up real quick and then I'll try to get a couple other of these companies that are putting out earnings. We'll switch to Elon once the shareholder meeting is live. Now basically every single company comes and asks us about their retail strategy because they've seen what happens in the public markets to companies that engage retail effectively and so allocations have been generally going up. Um retail's more engaged. CEOs are talking about how you know they're giving bigger and bigger allocations. Uh you guys probably saw bullish which was after Figma
>> uh you know bullish co came out gave retail a huge allocation 20% of his deal uh 10% of that went to Robin Hood
>> and
>> okay Tesla starting [Applause]
>> my name is Brandonheart I'm the general counsel and corporate secretary and
>> the audio sucks on their side guys it's not that good for me so I don't think it's that good for you I'll see if I can get a better stream but this is on the main Tesla website. The audio is not really the best.
>> Similar to last year, this meeting will have two parts. We'll go through the 14 ballot items and the second part, Elon Musk. Today, we will discuss business outlook and may make other forward-looking statements. Such statements or predictions are based on current expectations. actual events or results may differ materially due to a number of risks and
>> it's bad on everyone's stream. I don't know why. I mean, if you guys are okay with it, that's fine. I can hear it, but I just can't hear it loud enough. So, I'll see if I can find another stream, but this is the Tesla official website.
>> Would like to welcome members of the Tesla team here, members of Price Waterhouse Coopers, and members of our board. Before we get started, why don't we hear from Robin, our board chair? [Applause] Well, good afternoon everyone. It's wonderful um to welcome you all to the 2025 annual shareholder meeting. I apologize for the my voice. I've been speaking to investors for the last couple of weeks, non-stop, I think. So, we here at Tesla could not continue to do the impossible without you, our shareholders. Our ongoing engagement with you all makes what we do possible. And I'm thrilled at how many of you made your voices heard this year as we aspire to create more value than any other company in history. Yes. Without your support,
>> DraftKings down 11%.
>> The heights that we've already demonstrated over our relatively short yet storied history. As we further expand our ambition in our quest to build a world of sustainable abundance, we are excited to continue this partnership. Tesla is at an inflection point. I think I've said that 3,000 times over the last few weeks. And this last year has been a critical one in our history. I want to take some time to review the acknowledgements and achievements by the Tesla team of which I and my fellow directors are incredibly proud of. We continue to redefine the automotive industry across production, customer experience, and ownership. Model Y was once again the bestselling vehicle worldwide of any vehicle in 2024. And with the new Model Y released earlier this year, it's now better than ever. Our energy business continues to reach new heights. And we deployed 31 gawatt hours in 2024, more than double what we achieved in 2023. Fabulous. I love the energy business. And we are actively investing in both of these businesses as we aim to maximize their installed base of production globally. The installed base serves as the platform for our future value. And that creation over time Tesla will achieve through services such as robo taxi and virtual power plants powered by our realworld AI. In 2024, through the use of our products, Tesla consumers avoided releasing nearly 32 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. And this is a 70% increase year-over-year. Our ability to avoid emissions will only accelerate from here as we displace larger volumes of fossil fuel-based alternatives and increase the utilization of our products through AI. But emission avoidance is is not only the thing that we focus on here at Tesla. Improving safety has been paramount to our mission since day one. Our vehicles consistently achieve the highest safety standards uh when tested across the world and that safety is increasingly enhanced with autopilot technology. In 2024, our global fleet of vehicles experienced one crash after driving more than 6.8 million miles. That's amazing. 6.8 million miles. And to put that in context, that is 10 times better or safer than the average driver in the US. 10 times better. And in 2024, uh, and is nearly double the safety performance of our autopilot technology in 2018. With many enhancements we expect to make from here, we believe our autonomy technology will improve this performance by orders of magnitude. Sustainability extends beyond the impact of product use. The Tesla team continues to focus meticulously uh evaluating each step on the product journey from raw material extraction to a intermediate processing, manufacturing, delivery, product use and the end of life. looking all the way through to making sure that we uh reduce our resource impact and the resource use and bringing uh that to life across the entire sorry the entire sustainable and closed loop economy. For more details on what we do each and every day, I encourage you all to read the impact report. It is an amazing document and it continues to improve over time in terms of what the team is doing and we are also laser focused on ensuring the resulting prosperity of our efforts can be shared by all. This applies to our employees, our customers and even those who have yet to enjoy one of our products or engage with our company in any meaningful way. Tesla spends countless hours ensuring that we procure the most uh responsibly sourced and produced inputs. we maximize the safety of our operations and that all Tesla employees can benefit from the appreciation of our equity through our incentive programs and that we continue to bring down the cost of our fabulous products across the range, increasing that accessibility for all. At the end of the day, we here at Tesla are working tirelessly to make the world a better place for all through innovation and grit. To our amazing employees, thank you for all of your hard work in achieving our mission. You are the beating heart of Tesla and we cannot continue to deliver without you. to the management team who never get a shout out. Thank you for your huge efforts. To our shareholders, all of you in the room and on the webcast globally, once again, thank you for your support. Please know that we are listening to you and are here to represent your interests. You are the owners of the company and your voices, your perspectives and your input are critical to what we do here at Tesla each and every day. My fellow directors and I serve as serve you as your fiduciaries and oversee Tesla's mission, purpose and strategy and these responsibilities are in our minds every day. I would also like to thank sorry to take this opportunity to thank my fellow directors for their diligence, their dedication and their tireless efforts. Changing the world for the better uh is always accompanied by um uh uh difficulties and what I can say is that you can't do it by checking the boxes and and just reviewing PowerPoint presentations. Thank you for rolling up your sleeves, each and every one of our directors, the hard work that you do, lending your unique talents and delivering to our shareholders. Our Thank you. Thank you. Our our accomplishments have been hard-earned and these last several years have not been without their challenges. We still have much to accomplish and I believe that we have the right team, the right technologies, the right physical infrastructure to create a world that we've only just begun to imagine. The future is bright. Thank you. Now, I'm going to hand it back to Brandon. Thank you very much. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Robin. I will now call the meeting to order. It is 3:25 p.m. and I declare that the polls are now open. We have already received over the past few weeks voting proxies from our shareholders. However, if you wish to vote your shares now, you may do so on the online portal or with the ballot boxes you received at the front. Tesla has appointed Tony Cario, a me member of the Cario group to serve as our inspector of elections. In addition, Broadidge Financial Solutions has has certified that starting on September 17, 2025, the proxy materials or notice of internet availability of the materials were sent out or mailed to shareholders of record as of September 15, 2025. We have a majority of the outstanding shares represented at the meeting. So, I declare that a quorum is present. We now will proceed with the meeting. The items of the agenda are as follows. There are six Tesla proposals. The election of our three class three directors, Ira, Joe, and Kathleen, to serve a term of three years until their successors are duly qualified. Number two, to approve seon pay on a non-binding advisory basis. Three, to ratify the appointment of Price Waterhouse Coopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2025. Four, to adopt amendments to our organizational documents to eliminate certain super majority voting requirements. Five, to amend and restate the 2019 equity incentive plan. And number six, the 2025 CEO performance plan to Elon Musk. The [Applause] The Tesla board has recommended that all our shareholders vote for each of the director nominees and for the Tesla proposals except for the one on supermajority voting where no recommendation has been made. We also have eight shareholder proposals that are described in our proxy statement. I'd like to remind the shareholders that Tesla's board has prepared a statement of opposition on each of them except for the one regarding XAI. Those statements are in our proxy. Now, let's go through the shareholder proposals. The first one is an advisory vote regarding board authorization of investment in XAI. Our board has not made a recommendation on this. The shareholder proposal is proposed by Mr. Steven Hawk, who I believe is here to present the proposal. Mr. talk.
>> Thank you so much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, fellow shareholders, Elon and esteemed board vendors. Thank you for this historic opportunity. I am Steven Hawk, shareholder since 2012. Is truly my honor to present shareholder proposal number seven. It is uh the proposal is simple. I urge the board to exercise its discretion and authorize a strategic investment in XAI in some meaningful way sooner rather than later. This isn't just capital. It's about formalizing Tesla's role as a leader in autonomous intelligence. Turning AI into our new book, not just a new chapter. Tesla has always been an AI company, revolutionizing transportation, energy, and robotics through FSD and Optimus. But as we approach the singularity during this tsunami of AI outsourcing our brain to external providers, risks, misaligned goals, data vulnerabilities, and loss innovation. XAI founded by Elon is different. It is mass maximally truth seeeking, curiositydriven, and aligned with humanity's best interests. Like Tesla's mission for sustainable abundance, XAI was seated with Tesla talent enabling birectional flow for highest caliber staff attraction and retention. Integrating Grock models within our vast real world data would further supercharge FSD for safer vehicles, empower optimists to navigate complex worlds and to optimize energy grids. Think vertical integration of Tesla as a neural link of AI platforms. Controlling the coming Optimus Army with prudent stewardship financially is a no-brainer. Xi's explosive growth could yield massive returns, strengthening our balance sheet amid EV pressures with Elon stewardship the best for shephering AI safely. Conflicts are minimal. Board oversight ensures fairness. Xi needs Tesla more than vice versa. But together we foster human happiness, consciousness, and meaning beyond work. Shifting purpose from labor to truth seeeking in a world of abundance. Shareholders, we can't be spectators. Tesla must actively participate. Let's not outsource our destiny, but rather own it and maintain power, control, and safety. I call on the board to formalize this investment relationship and on you to support it. Thank you to Elon and Special thanks to Tesla, Bloomer, Mama, Alexander Merch, [Applause] Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The second shareholder proposal is an advisory vote regarding adopting targets and reporting on certain sustainability metrics with our senior executive compensation plans. Our board has recommended that our shareholders vote against this proposal as explained in our proxy. The shareholder proposal is proposed by Tulipshare Capital LLC whose representative Mr. A Rouge has prepared a pre-recorded message.
>> Hello shareholders, I am Antoan Arou, CEO of the impact fund, Chulip share, speaking in support of proposal 8. Our proposal asked Tesla's board to take a simple but meaningful step link a portion of the executive compensation to measurable sustainability performance. Tesla's success has always been built on bold measurable goals, production target, market cap milestone, and innovation. But as we enter a new era of scrutiny around climate, labor, and governance issues, it's time that part of those milestones also reflect how sustainable that success is achieved. Proposal 8 is not asking to replace all the financial goals. We're asking to strengthen them. Imagine if one or two trenches of the future compensation were tied to tangible outcome such as reduction in carbon intensity per vehicle, verified improvement in worker safety or supply chain transparency. These are metrics that protect long-term shareholder value, reduce legal and reputational risk, and ensure Tesla's leadership is rewarded not only for scale, but for sustainable impact. Tesla's mission is to accelerate the world's transition linking compensation to sustainability metrics ensure that this mission lives at the very core of the leadership decision-making. This is how Tesla can continue to lead not just in innovation but also in responsibility. We urge shareholder to vote for this proposal and support a compensation framework that drives both performance and purpose. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. Arouge. As a reminder, the board's response is set forth in the proxy. Our third shareholder proposal is an advisory vote regarding an audit of certain labor practices. The board has recommended against that as set forth in our proxy. The shareholder proposal is proposed by the National Center for Public Policy Research whose representative Stefan Padfield has prepared a pre-recorded message. My name is Stfan Padfield and I am the executive director of the Free Enterprise Project. The Free Enterprise Project is part of the National Center for Public Policy Research, which is the proponent of proposal 9 requesting that Tesla conduct and report on a child labor audit. Let me begin by emphasizing that we are strong supporters of free enterprise innovation and shareholder value. We recognize Tesla's extraordinary contributions to the electric vehicle market. Our proposal is not anti-Tesla. It is pro- transparency and pro-shareholder. Proposal 9 asks for something very simple and reasonable, a verified accounting of whether and to what extent child labor is implicated in Tesla's supply chain. Tesla's opposition statement relies on policies, but policies are not the same as proof. A quote unquote zero tolerance policy is commendable, but without independent verification, it is only a promise, not evidence. The US Department of Labor continues to list cobalt mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo among the sectors with the worst forms of child labor. A 2023 white paper on the financial and material impacts of child labor authored by Hace identifies Tesla as a case study in the ongoing risks that cobalt and other mineral sourcing pose to automakers. And while Tesla's own 2024 impact report notes that the company invested more human and legal resources than ever before to combat forced and child labor, it provides no metrics showing whether those investments are working. Shareholders deserve data, not just asurances. We are asking Tesla to back its admirable words with verifiable results through a third-party audit or a transparent report. This is not just a moral question. It's a governance and riskmanagement issue. Reputational, legal, and operational risks can directly affect shareholder value. So too can the risk that enthusiasm for electric vehicles undermines proper accounting of the often hidden cost that child labor may be embedded deep in EV supply chains. If Tesla is truly the industry leader it claims to be, it should also lead in transparency. We all know that proxy vote counts can be distorted by a plethora of conflicts of interest. Accordingly, we urge Tesla's board to see this proposal not as an attack, but as an opportunity to properly account for the costs and benefits of Tesla's mission, regardless of the final vote. If you have not done so already, please vote for proposal 9. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. Padfield. As a reminder, the board's response is set forth in the proxy. Our fourth shareholder proposal is a vote to amend the bylaws to repeal a derivative suit ownership threshold. Our board has recommended against as set forth in the proxy. The shareholder proposals proposed by the comproller of the state of New York as the lead filer whose representative Thomas D. Napolei has recorded a pre has proposed a pre pre-recorded message. This is Thomas Dapoli, New York State Controller. As trustee of the New York State Common Retirement Fund, owner of more than 3.3 million shares, we urge shareholders of Tesla to vote for proposal 10 to amend the bylaws to repeal the 3% derivative suit ownership threshold. We filed a proposal along with New York City Controller Brad Lander to restore one of the most fundamental investor rights, the right of shareholders to hold directors and officers legally accountable when they breach their fiduciary duties. When Tesla asked investors last year to approve its move from Delaware to Texas, the board assured us that shareholder protections were similar in both states. Yet within months, Tesla's board engaged in a bait and switch scheme and immediately turned its back on its investors by amending its bylaws to reduce shareholder rights as soon as Texas offered an opportunity to do so. The new bylaw allowed Tesla to block nearly every investor from bringing a derivative suit unless they hold 3% of the company's stock, currently about $30 billion in Tesla shares. That threshold leaves only Elon Musk and a handful of giant Wall Street funds with any legal standing to act on their own. It effectively makes the board immune from accountability. Tesla claims this rule is meant to discourage frivolous lawsuits, but courts already have tools to dismiss meritless cases. This bylaw doesn't stop abuse, it stops proper oversight, and it tells shareholders that the board no longer wants to be answerable to them. Our proposal simply seeks to repeal that bylaw and restore accountability. It ensures that if directors violate their duties, all investors still have a path to protect the company's long-term value. Unfortunately, this attack on shareholder rights is part of a larger pattern at Tesla. We see a board that lacks true independence. The board has allowed our CEO to divide his attention among multiple outside ventures and then offered a pay proposal that could hand him a trillion dollar windfall and even more unchecked power. These are not isolated issues. They all stem from the same problem. A board that refuses to act as an independent check on management. Tesla has changed the world through innovation. But no company, no matter how visionary, can thrive without accountability. Strong governance protects investors and strengthens companies over time. I urge all shareholders to send a clear message that accountability, independence, and respect for shareholders are essential to Tesla's future success. Thank you for your time and consideration.
>> Yeah. Oh, thank you, Mr. Dapoli. Our the board's response is set forth in the proxy. The fifth shareholder proposal is a vote to amend article 10 of the bylaws. The board has recommended that our shareholders vote against it as set forth in our proxy. This shareholder proposal is proposed by the treasurer of the state of Illinois and trustee of the Bright Directions College and Savings Trust as the lead filer whose representative Michael Far has prepared a pre-recorded message. Fellow Tesla shareholders and members of the board, my name is Michael Ferris. I serve as treasurer for the state of Illinois and as trustee of the Illinois College Savings Programs. I'm here to present proposal 11, which asks Tesla to adopt a simple investor protection. If the board chooses to impose more restrictive requirements for submitting shareholder proposals as newly permitted under Texas law, those changes must be ratified by a supermajority of shareholders. At its core, this proposal is about protecting shareholder rights. If the board decides to limit our ability to submit proposals, this amendment ensures the shareholders have the final say. It helps to ensure that Tesla remains aligned with the will of its investors. Plain and simple. Now, why is this important? Tesla is navigating a period of volatility, leadership transitions, intense competition, and heightened scrutiny from regulators and customers. In times like these, strong governance and active shareholder input can be critical. They serve as competitive advantages that position Tesla to lead, not just react. This proposal seeks to implement a reasonable safeguard who would reinforce accountability and build trust. The board itself has emphasized the importance of investor feedback. In the proxy statement, Chair Robin Denholm and director Kathleen Wilson Thompson wrote, "We are in Texas because it provides a more predictable governance framework that allows us to hear from you, the people who know Tesla best." If the board actively seeks to hear from shareholders, it's hard to reconcile that position with their opposition to this proposal. To reiterate what's at stake, Texas law now allows shareholder submission thresholds higher than SEC standards, requiring shareholders or groups to hold 3% of voting shares or $1 million in stock to submit a proposal. Compare that to current SEC rules which allow a shareholder to have holdings as low as $2,000 to $25,000 depending on how long the shareholder has held the stock. If the board chooses to adopt the Texas thresholds, they risk silencing investors who could drive meaningful governance improvements as well as narrowing the pipeline of ideas. Note that this proposal does not limit the board's direction to evaluate governance options. It simply ensures that if the board adopts the Texas shareholder submission thresholds, a supermaajority of shareholders must ratify that decision. That's fair. It's reasonable and fully aligned with the board's stated commitment to its investors. Again, I encourage my fellow investors to vote for proposal 11 as a clear step towards protecting our rights as shareholders. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. Far. As a reminder, the board's responses set forth in the proxy. The sixth shareholder proposal is an advisory vote to elect each director annually. Our board has recommended against as set forth the reasons of the proxy. This shareholder proposal is proposed by James McRichie who has prepared a pre-recorded message.
>> Thank you shareholders. We've presented this proposal before, 2021 and 2024. It won a majority both times, even with board opposition. But Tesla requires a super majority of shares outstanding. So those majorities weren't enough. Today, we ask again, join the 90% of S&P 500 companies that elect all directors annually. Declassification means accountability every year, not every three years. Most institutional investors support this reform. It's the retail votes we need here today. A Delaware court recently found three major governance failures at Tesla. The board wasn't independent. The disclosures to shareholders on its pay plan were misleading. And the board failed to negotiate properly on our behalf. Declassifying the board is part of the cure. It ensures shareholders can hold directors accountable each year or nominate qualified replacements when needed. Matt Muscardi of FreeFlat Media calls this one of the most important votes of the year because it could shift Tesla's board from a friends and family plan to independent professionals with the skills necessary for Tesla's next chapter. were also endorsed by Nell Mow, co-founder of Value Edge Advisors and ISS, one of the most respected proxy advisors. John Chaveetan's related proposal number 13 calls for simple majority voting. We'll need that reform too for this proposal to succeed. Tesla's Musk premium, once a source of strength, is fading along with his global reputation. Remember, Tesla is his only publicly traded company. It's the liquid piggy bank that fuels his other ventures. Yes, Elon Musk is brilliant, but no company should depend on a single personality. Either he stays long enough to keep using your capital elsewhere or he moves on when the tap runs dry. Either way, shareholders must prepare for Tesla's future. A democratic, professional company led by a capable, independent board. Let's build Tesla to attract customers, employees, and investors who all contribute to its innovations. Vote for proposal number four. Declassify the board. Vote four, proposal number 13, eliminate supermajority requirements. Together, let's restore accountability, independence, and trust at Tesla. Vote now before the polls close. Your vote can make a real difference in Tesla's future and your future as well. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. McRichie. As a reminder, the board's response was contained in the proxy. Our seventh shareholder proposal is an advisory vote regarding a proposal that won 54% at last year's meeting. Our board has recommended against for the reasons set forth in the proxy. This shareholder proposal is proposed by John Chaveetin who is on the line to present this proposal. Mr. Chaveetin.
>> Hello, this is John Chaveetan. Proposal 13. This proposal is about Tesla being governed by a Democratic majority vote standard. This proposal 13 is proud to be on the same topic as the Tesla proposal six. Ser requests that Tesla take the steps necessary so that each voting requirement in the Tesla charter and bylaws that calls for a greater than simple majority vote be replaced by a democratic requirement for a majority of the votes cast for and against such proposals or a simple majority vote standard. It is important to vote for both proposal 13 and proposal six which are on the very same topic. In fact, it's more important to vote for proposal six because proposal six is a binding proposal and this proposal 13 is an advisory proposal. It is important to vote for proposal 13 because proposal 13 is a backup proposal in case the Tesla proposal 6 does not get enough votes. This proposal 13 has one advantage over proposal six in that it requires less votes to be approved by shareholders than the Tesla proposal six since this proposal 13 is an advisory proposal.
>> Bro, what is going on? This proposal is a backup in case proposal six doesn't get approved because this proposal needs less votes. What's actually going on here? annual election of each Tesla director will tend to keep Tesla directors away from their current status as being lap dog enablers for Mr. Musk and Mr. Mus outrageous executive pay and Mr. Mus outrageous distractions from Tesla. Please vote yes for Tesla being governed by a Democratic majority vote standard proposal 13 and vote for the Tesla proposal six on the same topic. Thank you, Mr. Chaveetin. As a reminder, the board's responses set forth in the proxy. Our eighth and final shareholder proposal is an advisory vote to seek shareholder approval before adopting certain bylaw amendments pursuant to Texas law. The board has opposed it for the reasons set forth in the proxy. This shareholder proposal is proposed by Eric and Emily Johnson and Bruce Bryce Mathan as co-filers whose representative Bruce Abear from Newground Social Investment has prepared a pre-recorded message.
>> Good afternoon. I'm Bruce Herbert of Newground Social Investment in Seattle and I stand to move proposal number 14, a simple request that Tesla hold a vote before adopting any bylaw that would restrict the ability to file a shareholder proposal. Here's why this matters. Texas recently passed a law that allows companies to set skyhigh barriers to shareholder participation instead of the SEC's current one-year ownership threshold of $25,000. These Texas rules would require owning $1 million of stock or 3% of the company. In Tesla's case, roughly $30 billion before one could file a proposal. And Tesla could enact this without a shareholder vote. simply by issuing a notice. This is not shareholder democracy. It's silencing shareholders like nearly every one of us in this room. Whether you are an individual, retiree, or institution, the backers of such thresholds presume you must be ultra rich in order to have a good idea, which on its face is a baseless and undemocratic proposition. The shareholder proposal process serves both Tesla and the capital markets. This is because stockholders frequently spot emerging risks long before they hit the headlines. Whether in the form of labor relations, climate impacts or failures in governance, shareholders provide an efficient early warning system that helps companies to stay ahead of the curve. We are a lowcost, high value cornerstone that keeps companies and capital markets healthy. In closing, corporate democracy is not a nuisance. It's an important safeguard. It's how shareholders ensure accountability and informed long-term value creation. The idea here is quite simple. Before limiting shareholder rights, put it to a shareholder vote. Therefore, to keep Tesla engaged, accountable, and forward-looking, please vote for proposal number 14. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Mr. Abear. As a reminder, the board's response set forth in the proxy. Please note now is your final opportunity submitting votes for them to be counted. I declare that the polls are now closed. Based on the proxies that we have received and the votes submitted at the meeting, I'd like to announce these results on a preliminary basis. With respect to the shareholder proposals items 8 through 14, our shareholders have supported the recommendations on this Tesla board on all of them other than proposal 12. [Applause] With respect to proposal seven regarding XAI. While we have received more votes in favor than we did in against, there were a significant number of abstensions. Since this is an advisory vote, the board will examine the next steps in light of this level of shareholder support. Now, moving on to the Tesla proposals. First, on the proposal to adopt amendments to our organizational documents to eliminate certain supermajority voting requirements, our shareholders have not approved. Second, on the seon pay advisory vote, our shareholders have approved. Third, on the ratification of the appointment of Price Waterhouse Coopers as our Tesla's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2025 fiscal year, shareholders have approved. Fourth, on the election of our three class 3 directors, Ira, Joe, and Kathleen, our shareholders have reelected them. Fifth, on the amended and restated 2019 equity incentive plan, our shareholders have approved.
>> Elon gets paid.
>> There you go. Sixth, and finally on the 2025 CEO Performance Award to our founder and CEO, Elon Musk with over 75% voting in favor. Approved. Elon will make a trillion if he takes it to 8.5 trillion. It is officially approved with 75% of the vote. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] I I declare this meeting is now closed. Elon Musk [Applause] [Music] welcome. [Music] So, uh, what [Applause] what we're what we're going to [Applause] [Music] And those bots are just dancing. There are no wires. Those are actual robots. [Applause]
>> Thanks, guys. Uh first of all, I'd like to just give a heartfelt thanks to uh everyone who supported the the shareholder votes. Uh I super appreciate it. Thank you everyone. Um I'd like to take thank the Tesla board for their immense support. We have a fantastic board, fantastic group of shareholders. Thank you all. and uh and and what we're about to embark upon is not merely a new chapter of the future of Tesla, but a whole new book and I'm going to talk about that. So, this this really is uh this really is going to be quite the story. Um and uh Optimus is a fundamental part of that. The the sheer scale of Optimus I mean I'm I'm going to say a bunch of things that probably I shouldn't say, you know, but um but but that's what keeps it interesting. I mean, have you have you watched any other annual shareholder meeting? I mean, honestly, it's like I mean, if you need to go to sleep, sure. I mean, that other shareholder meetings are like snoozefest. I mean, but our ours are bangers. I mean, look at this. This is sick. [Applause] Yeah, we got like the the cyberpunk nightclub here with real robots just standing there and uh milling around and dancing and um you know round out our engineering headquarters in Palo Alto. Uh the robots are just walking around the office 24/7 with no one minding them. they just and then they go charge themselves and um yeah so the the the scale of of of Optimus like I said that's really going to be something else um I think it's going to be the biggest product of all time by far yeah so [Applause] like bigger than cell phones bigger than anything um I guess a way to think about is that uh every human on Earth is going to want to have their own personal R2-D2C3 video. Okay, guys, I'm interrupting one last time to say we're going to stick on Elon. If anyone wants IN, I'm putting Sam's YouTube in the chat. Sam is streaming it. The majority of you guys want Elon. If you really want Iran, we'll go to Ian after Elon. But if you want it immediately, go to Sam's link. He's streaming it and you can listen to Iran on Sam's channel.
>> Everyone's going to want one. uh I think with in terms of uh industry providing products and services I think it's probably I don't know three to five robots in industry for every you know one that's a personal robot. I I I think there could be tens of billions of of Optimus robots out there. Um, now obviously it's very important we pay close attention to safety here. Uh, because uh we do we do want the the the Star Wars uh movie, not the Jim Cameron movie. Um, I love Jim Cameron's movies, but you know uh you know what I mean. So um yeah and yeah so so we're going to launch on uh the the fastest production ramp of of any product of any large complex manufactured product uh ever. Um and starting with building a million unit production line uh in in Fremont um and uh that's that's that's line one. Um and then a 10 million unit uh per year production line here on the [Applause]
>> I don't know where we're going to put the 100 million unit production line. maybe on Mars. I don't know. Um but uh but I think it's it's going to literally get to 100 million a year. Uh maybe even a billion a year. Um and um you know, people often talk about like eliminating poverty, giving everyone amazing medical care. Well, there's actually only one way to do that, and that's with the Optimus robot. with with humanoid robots you can actually give everyone amazing medical care. Uh so uh in terms of optimist will be more precise optimist will ultimately be better than the best human surgeon with a level of precision that that isn't possible that that that is beyond human. So I think that's that's a pretty wild concept to say okay if you you know there's always people always talked about eliminating poverty but actually optimists will actually eliminate poverty. Optimus will actually give people incredible medical care. [Applause] So, um I mean and and so you start getting like sort of some pretty wild sci-fi sort of scenarios. Uh where uh and some of these things I say will obviously be taken out of context and used in snippets and you know sent around but whatever. I'm still going to say them. You know, like I think we may we might we may be able to give people a more uh if somebody's committed crime, a more humane form of uh containment of future crime, which is if if you you say like you now get you now get a free optimist and it's just going to follow you around and stop you from doing crime. But other than that, you get to do anything. Just it's just going to stop you from comm committing crime. That's that's really it. um you know you don't have to put people in like prisons and stuff. I think u it's pretty wild to think of the the various of all the possibilities but I think it's it's it's clear it's clearly the future. Um and um you know my book recommendation for the maybe the best mostly utopian sci-fi future are the inbanks books the culture books. So if you're curious like what what do I think the future's probably like? I think it's probably a bit like that. um or you know um as to some degree but but but I think it's and heinland um but uh in banks if if you're like saying what what what does Elon think the future probably will be like for AI and robots it's kind of banksian um so um now now and and and things do get kind of wild from an economic standpoint Um because at a certain point uh with AI and robotics you can actually increase the global economy by a factor of 10 or maybe a 100. Um there's there's not like an obvious limit. Uh so um like Optimus is kind of like an infinite money glitch. uh you know uh and maybe there won't even be money in the future um or or money battery might be measured in terms of wattage like how much uh you know power can you bring to bear from an electrical standpoint. Um so uh I guess what I'm saying is hang on to your Tesla stock. [Applause] So, uh, yeah, man, it's pretty wild. Um,
>> you're welcome. Um, let's see. I think we got some slides to go through. Um we say adlib a lot of the stuff but so the the you know when we started Tesla the the goal was to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy and that is uh that's what we've done and Tesla has really led the way in with with electric vehicles with battery packs uh with a lot of solar and uh many other companies have have then followed our lead and done that and electric cars which used to be uh non-existent are now prevalent. Um and uh and the and the Model Y, for example, is the number one selling car of any kind on Earth.
>> So um but obviously now with with AI and robotics, uh we need to update our mission. Um and our mission um I think it's a good it's it's the it's a great mission which is to achieve sustainable abundance which is it's like because often ask people like what is the future that you want? What's the best future you can imagine? Um you know because we want to try to make that future like make the best future you can imagine. And and I guess probably the best future is if people uh you know can have whatever they want from a goods and services standpoint or medical standpoint. Um and but at the same time we we don't destroy nature and we we keep the rainforests and the the beautiful national parks and and all the all that stuff. And so that's that's what I mean by sustainable abundance. Uh is that people, you know, can have whatever they want um have all the needs met. Uh, but we still keep all of the natural beauty that we watch. I mean, if somebody can think of a better future, I'm all ears. Uh, but I think that's that's probably the best the best way to go. Um, so yeah. Um, see, so yeah. Um, as you know, every Tesla is designed to be autonomous. So, the it's sometimes difficult to explain to people if they've not, in fact, I'm sure you've all encountered this where you try to tell people that the Tesla can drive itself and they they think you're crazy or something. Um, I mean, especially like apart from the Cyber Truck, our our cars look pretty normal. Um, I mean, they're good-looking cars, but they don't look super they look normal. Um, but I guess uh it's kind of like having a cat or like and and the cat's just sitting. Let's say you've got a cat and it's like just sitting there on the couch and you try to tell people that the cat uh can actually um it's actually puss and boots and and it and it can actually put on boots and a hat and and swashbuckle and sing and dance. And people are like, "No way, man. That's a cat." until the cat does all those things. You're like, "Damn, what the um so, uh, we've got, you know, millions of Tesla cars out there that are the kind of like puss and boots that they're intelligent, but people don't know that they're intelligent. They look like normal cars, but actually they're super smart and can drive themselves." So as um I think that's probably the single biggest thing we need to do is to educate uh potential customers that you you can either have a car you can either have a cat that's like normal cat or you can have frozen boots and frozen boots is very cool. Um, so, uh, that's so we these days when people come to our stores, um, or even people that have the car haven't turned it on, we find and sometimes people have paid for FSD and they haven't turned it on, we're like, what? You should at least try it once. Um, and so, so now we like we the sales team, the service team will actually sit with customers and say, look, let let us show you how it works and how easy it is. And then once they've tried it for even just a few days, uh they they can't live without it. Um and and and now with version 14, we're actually getting to the point where we're almost feel comfortable allowing people to text and drive, which is kind of the killer app because that that's really what people want to do and do do. Um and uh actually right now the you know the version's you know the car is a little uh strict about keeping eyes on the road. Um and uh but I'm confident that in the next month or two uh we should we we're going to look closely at the safety statistics but we will allow uh you to um text and drive essentially. Yeah,
>> that would be a big deal.
>> So yeah, that's that's uh it's it's certainly been in the current situation which often people will actually turn off FSD to text then turn it back on which is less safe. So um so yeah that's probably the single biggest thing is is just get people aware of of FSD. Um and then obviously we need to get it approved in in Europe. So we certainly appreciate the support of our customers in Europe uh pushing the regulators to approve FSD because you can't even get super even just normal supervised FSD is not allowed in Europe currently. Um which doesn't make any sense. And I've had these like crazy conversations with regulators that seem like a Frona novel where where I'm like, well, look, we have, you know, billions of kilometers of data that shows that FSD increases safety. Um, and they're like, well, we have to have all these committee meetings. I'm like, yeah, but people's lives are at stake here. So, definitely a pressure from our uh customers in Europe to to push the regulators to approve would be appreciated. Um and then we have partial approval in China and we hopeful hopefully we'll have full approval in China uh around February or March or so. That's what that's what they've told us. [Applause] Uh yeah, but uh yeah, the the fact that every Tesla car is capable of full self-driving, every car we build and have built for the last several years is capable of uh full self-driving is is pretty wild and most people don't don't know that. So, um, and then we've got the the first car that is specifically built for, uh, unsupervised full self-driving to to be a robo taxi. It's called a cyber cab. It doesn't even have pedals or steering wheel. Um, yeah. So, no, there's no side view mirrors. There's no Yeah. So it's it's and and it's it's very much optimized to min for for the lowest cost per mile in in an autonomous mode. Um and that production is happening right here in this factory and we'll be starting production in April next year. [Applause] So the the way that um CyberCab is designed is it's it's it's designed uh obviously for a purely autonomous world but also the manufacturing system is uh unlike any other car. uh it the manufacturing system of the cyber cab it's it's sort of it's closer to a high volume consumer electronics device than it is a a car manufacturing line. So the net result is that I think we should be able to achieve I think ultimately less than a 10-second cycle time basically unit every 10 seconds uh maybe ultimately take a few years to get there but it's theoretically possible to get to a 5-second u production time and um so so what that would mean is you could at on a on a line that would normally produce say 500,000 cars a year at uh a one minute cycle time uh like Model Y the this this would be maybe as much as you know 2 or 3 million maybe ultimately you know it's theoretically possible to achieve a 5 million unit production line uh if you if you can get to the 5-second cycle Okay. So, [Applause] it's a lot of cars. So, the these will be everywhere in the future. So, and wanted we wanted to look futuristic. So, like it changes the look of the roads. Um so now the yeah um the ingredients when you look at at at what Optimus is what's required to make Optimus and the various ingredients uh what do you need to do to make to do high volume uh humanoid robot production uh I think it's worth considering that really the cars we make are already robots but there four-w wheeled robots. So Tesla is already the biggest robot manufacturer in the world because every car we make is a robot. Um and when you break it down to the fundamental elements, you've got you've got batteries, power electronics, u motors, um gearboxes, you've got uh you know connectivity, you've got a vision based AI. Hi Optimus. Um and um you know all the various pieces that you need for a humanoid robot. You need the AI chip. You need the AI software. You need to be able to manage a large fleet. And um and so really Optimus is a robot with arms and legs as opposed to as opposed to a robot with wheels. So, you know, Tesla's ideally suited, I think, to to make to succeed in this arena. Um, you you you will see certainly many uh companies showing demonstration robots. There's really three things that are super difficult about robots. One is the engineering of the forearm and hand because the human hand is an an incredible incredible thing actually. It's super dextrous. So, uh engineering the hand really well, the uh real world AI and then volume manufacturing, those are generally the things that are missing. One or more of those things are missing from other companies. Um so Tesla is the only one that has all three of those. U yeah so yeah. [Applause] So this is the Optimus kind of uh initial it's kind of a prototype production line. The the high volume production line will be very automated obviously but this is this is really the production line that we use to make the prototypes. So you can get a sort of rough sense for what it takes to build the robot. Um, got to pull the finger. Um, and then as I've said before, I think once we reach about a million units per year uh of sustained production or in excess of that, I think probably the cost of production uh is around $20,000 in current year current year dollars. So this will be certainly very affordable. Um and uh yeah, like I said, I think Optimus will ultimately increase the size of the economy probably by a factor of 10 or more. Um you know, next year we saw production with Optimus version 3. Uh this what you're seeing here is Optimus version 2.5. Optimus 3 is is an incredibly good good design. The Tesla engineering team is amazing. Um, when you see Optimus 3, yeah. Uh, you it will seem as though that there's someone like like a person in a robot outfit. Um, which is how we started with Optimus. Um, really is going to be something special. Um, and then Optimus uh, Optimus 4, you know, that that hopefully starts production in 27 and then Optimus 5 in 28. So, it's kind of like an annual release cycle with significant improvements uh, with each one and and gigantic increases in the scale of production. So yeah, s sustainable abundance via AI and robotics. That's the future we're headed for. [Applause] And as you as I think most people here know, the safety statistics show that uh miles driven on FSD are much safer than miles driven with without it. So uh what this will translate to ultimately is saving the lives of millions of people uh and preventing hundreds of millions of accidents. So a massive increase in the in um you know lives solved and and tragedies avoided. Uh, it's going to be amazing.
>> Open Door just did a direct offering.
>> And how many people here have tried 14.1? Okay. All right. Cool. Um, yeah, you can see the even with the point releases, it's getting quite a bit better. Uh, it should be pretty smooth at this point. Um, but really 14.2 2 is there are major changes 14.2 and then 14.3. Um and uh I think I think by 14.3 is when we'll really be at the point where you can just uh pretty much fall asleep and wake up at your destination. So, um, and then I've been putting a lot of time into the new Tesla chip design, um, because in order to have a functional robot, you have to have a great AI chip. Um, and it needs to be an inexpensive chip and it needs to be very power efficient. So we we we believe the uh AI5 chip will be probably about a third of the power of uh say something like a Blackwell um an Nvidia Blackwell which is a great a great chip um for roughly comparable performance um and about and and much less than 10% of the cost. So, [Applause] this is a chip that is that is very much optimized for the Tesla AI software stack. So, it's uh it's not meant to be a general purpose chip. It's meant to be an amazing chip for the Tesla AI software. Um, and uh I mean a couple things that I think make like how is Tesla able to achieve such an improvement? I think it is because uh because we are specialized. We're not trying to you know Nvidia has to serve the superset of all past and future customers. So all of their requirements, all of the software that they've written has to work which is a very difficult problem. Um whereas uh we just need to make it work for our software. Um and and so we were able to simplify the chip dramatically. Um and then we we also uh I think I think we're unique in this but like we we have an integer based uh system. Um and integer operations are fundamentally more efficient than floatingoint operations. So we can do floatingoint but we but the vast majority of of our inference is done in integer. um which is if you're familiar with sort of logic gates like the simplicity of of integer and uh it's integer is much more power efficient much more silicon efficient um but you have to you actually have to train for uh integer uh inference which everyone else is training for floating point um those that's kind of like a niche technical detail but it's actually very important. So um yeah this this is this is going to be a great chip. Um so this this chip will be um made in basically in four places uh TSMC Taiwan, Samsung Korea, TSMC Arizona and TSMC Texas. [Applause] and and we already know what improvements to make for AI6. So I I'm hopeful that we can within less than a year of AI 5 starting production, we can actually transition in the same fab to AI 6 and uh double all of the performance metrics. So [Applause] I'm super hardcore on chips right now, as you may be able to tell. Um, I chips on the brain. I dream about chips literally. Um, I can I can I can draw the the the the the you know the the at least the broad brushstroke physical design of the AI5 chip by off my heart at this point. Um, it's it's it's a good chip. It's a good chip, sir. Um, so this this is this is really key. Um, now one of the things I'm trying to figure out is how do we make enough chips? Um, so uh, you know, I have a lot of respect for our the the Tesla partners TSMC and Samsung. Um yeah, you know, maybe we'll we'll we'll do something with Intel. Uh we haven't signed any deal, but it's probably worth having discussions with Intel. Uh but um even when we extrapolate the best case scenario for chip production from our suppliers, uh it's still not enough. So I think we may have to do a Tesla Terraab. So, it's like giga but way bigger. Um, I I can't see any other way to get to the volume of chips that that we're looking for. Um, so I think we're probably going to have to build a gigantic chip app. [Applause] It's got to be done. So anyway, uh some of the stuff I've already talked about. Um yep, we've we've uh done a tremendous amount for sustainable energy. Um and that uh that's only going to grow over time. Um the world is moving towards a a solar battery economy. Um which is ultimately the that's it's where that's where it was going to go anyway. But what Tesla's done is accelerate um accelerate that outcome. Um sometimes people don't understand quite how much energy comes from the sun. So the sun is 99.8% of all mass in the solar system. Jupiter being 0.1% and then 0.1% is miscellaneous. Uh Earth being in the miscellaneous category. Um so the the total amount of energy like so sometimes people what say like well we'll we'll build fusion reactors on Earth. It's like well actually the giant fusion reactor in the sky is basically impossible to beat. um to such a degree that even if you uh could burn Jupiter in a thermonuclear reactor, the amount of energy produced by the sun would still round up to 100%. That's how much energy the sun produces. So solar power is necessarily the future. Um and I think uh there's going to be a lot of solar powered AI satellites and um I think Tesla's going to play a role in that. [Applause] Um, we've obviously refreshed the product line. So, S3XY. Uh, if uh if people haven't tried the Model S 3X or Y or the Cyber Truck, I recommend at least getting a test drive or a test ride as the case may be, try out the full self-driving. Um, and I think you'll be blown away. To those who do not, if you may be listening and don't have a Tesla, you should try one. Um, so, and of course, we've got the, uh, Cybert truck, which is the toughest truck of all time. Uh, it's literally bulletproof, uh, faster than a Porsche 911 and can out tow a a Ford F350. So, it's a it's a great car, great truck. Um and then starting next year we uh we manufacture the Tesla semi. So this this is already we already have a lot of um prototype Tesla semis in operation. Uh Pepsco and other companies have been using the Tesla semi for quite some time. Um, but we will start volume production uh at our um Northern Nevada factory uh uh in 2026. So, we got we got two big products or three three massive products starting production next year. We got Optimus, we got uh Tesla Semi, and we got the Cyber Cap [Music] [Applause] and then battery packs. So the uh if if you look at total uh US power generation capability, it's roughly a terowatt. Um but the average power usage is less than half a a terowatt. And that's because the the big differences in power usage uh between uh day and night. So the the the daily and seasonal variations in power consumption mean that uh the United States and and really every country is only using about half is only producing about half as much electrical energy as it could because without batteries there's no effective way to buffer the energy. Um so what batteries actually enable is uh even if you don't build any incremental power plants you could double the energy output of the United States just with batteries. Now, this is a super big deal. Um, and in fact, I think that's really where most of the incremental energy production in the United States is going to come from is literally batteries. So, a bigger deal than it may seem. [Applause] And then we've got we keep improving the battery design. So the the mega block which makes it really easy to deploy battery uh utility scale batteries. Um so we've we've just simplified and and brought more of the components to be internal to the batteries so you can just show up and drop off a battery and it works. Um and then hopefully with uh well not hopefully over time we will actually add uh more and more of the power electronics so that uh mega pack will actually be able to output up to 35 kilovolts directly. Um so you you won't need a substation is what I'm saying. You can just literally drop it off kind of like the way that a power wall you just connect it to the house. The utility wires go in one side and the other side goes to the house mains and that's it. Um, so we want to get Mega Pack to the point where you just literally take the utility wires and you plug them in and it just works. So [Applause] then we've got uh the we've also built the world's largest Supercharger network. So we do a lot of things here at Tesla. Um, that's the biggest uh supercharger network uh in the world by far. Um, and uh ultimately you'll be able to go anywhere on Earth using a Tesla supercharger and it's pretty close to anywhere on Earth, but it's uh you know it's going to be ultimately just anywhere. It'll just work anywhere. So, um the Supercharger team has done done great work expanding that and improving the efficiency of the Supercharger network. Um, and uh in in North America they did such a good job that the uh uh the other car companies basically said, "Well, they'll just use the Tesla Supercharger network." Like like, "Okay, sounds good to us." Um, you know, it's always important to have a a slide on safety in the factory. So, we continue to improve uh safety for our factory workers. We're we care a lot about their well-being. Um and uh you know like one way you can just tell like if a company's a good company or not if you if you just walk through the factory or walk through the office and catch the vibe and the vibe in the Tesla factory is is good. People are happy. You know that's how you know it's a good company. [Applause] Um we we've also put a lot of investment into uh raw materials. So um the uh we we've built in in South Texas and Cor Corpus Christie uh the biggest lithium refinery um outside of China I believe. Uh so it's it's going to it's starting off with 50 uh gawatt hours of of of lithium uh and we'll expand from there. So this is a very very important to have uh um you know in a worst case scenario that we have the ingredients necessary to make a battery. Very important. Um and uh and then we've got here on this site the the cathode uh factory which is just the sort of giant building uh about a half mile that way. Um and um and we're just making sure that we from a supply chain standpoint are uh resilient against any potential geopolitical challenges. [Applause] And then also at this factory we also make the 4680 cell uh which is getting better and better. Um and that 4680 cell uh will be used uh in the cyber cab cyber it is being used in the cyber truck and will be used in in the cyber cab and also in Optimus. So that that's going well. U but we continue obviously to get sales from many suppliers. It's kind of like the the chip bad thing. We'll we'll take as many chips as our suppliers can provide us, but then beyond that, if they can't provide us with any incremental sales or chips, we we kind of have to make them ourselves or we get stuck. That's the uh Tesla Semifactory. So, it's going to be pretty cool to see these going down the road in scale. Yeah. So that's that's the that's the basic uh plan sustainable abundance for all. [Applause] All right. So yeah, I guess we can go into Q&A now.
>> I didn't know they were doing Q&A, but we got Q&A.
>> Maybe at the next annual shareholder meeting, we'll have Optimus take some of the questions.
>> That'd be cool. So, let's see. Alexander, well, thank you for your help, by the way. Yeah, please go ahead.
>> Thank you, s No, let me hold it. It's okay. Well, what a year has been, right? I mean, just a year ago, President Trump got elected on the same day. These 12 months have been a heck of 12 months. Thank you to the board because I think they had to weather quite some storms. Yes. Institutional investors and obviously thank you to you and we stand with you. I think we we showed it and we will show it.
>> So, we would like to express a wish, please. This is a nice venue. We love coming to the factory and I think it's actually great we're doing this at the factory but there are thousands of retail investors who are crying because they cannot they come to me. I love playing the mama but I now give it to you. Please organize a bigger venue. We're bigger than Bergkshire and we will do better than Bergkshire.
>> Okay. Sure.
>> We can pay to make it happen.
>> Yeah. Uh, actually Tesla will be way way way bigger than Bookshore long term. It's going to be kind of nutty. Um, so um all right, we'll do the next one. Maybe we'll do it in the
>> Yeah, like the Yeah, maybe the the the downtown arena or the the the soccer stadium or something like that
>> and get your security check. We want to make sure that you're safe. What if I just
>> and weave?
>> But you know, we want a party and if you can bring the other Elon companies there as well. Okay.
>> Investors would really appreciate it.
>> All right. Sounds good.
>> Thank you very much for listening.
>> All right. [Applause]
>> Elon, as a father, I just want to first thank you for the everything you're doing in the world, especially freedom of speech. Thank you. And one question. Will will you or Tesla ever consider FSD tied to a owner's account rather than a vehicle to encourage more frequent upgrades provided the transfer is to only a brand new Tesla vehicle while fostering brand loyalty? If the vehicle is sold or traded without upgrade to another Tesla FSD, the ownership would end.
>> Well, we we have done that a few times. Um, I guess uh I guess we could extend it again. Um, all right. We'll extend it. We'll we'll extend it for at least another quarter. Um, and then and then play it by ear after that. All right.
>> Uh, howdy Elon. Congrats on not having to show up to work for free anymore.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [Applause] Uh we now have over a $40 billion war chest. We're cash flow positive and yes remain that.
>> Uh we know how you feel about fiat already. Is it time to take a look at Bitcoin? What's your belief on that? Also, you've hinted towards that there's a wheelchair accessible model in the works. Were you referring to the Rabovian? And if so, can we please speed up production to help the least fortunate?
>> Sure. Um, yeah, the obviously we need um a vehicle that's big enough to to fit a wheelchair if it's wheelchair accessible. Um, so I think um that that's that's that's that is uh the Robovven or Robus or whatever we call it. Um I mean the it's it's not like we we're slowing down because we we want to slow down. It's it's like, you know, we're spinning like a zillion plates here. Um, so um, but I do I do think it would be very cool because I think aesthetically as well, it's just it just would change the look of the roads and make it feel like the future. So um, so it won't be long before we make that. Uh, but it's since we do have Optimus, you know, the we've got Cyber, Optimus, and Semi all next year, it'll we'll probably have to be maybe the year that you know a couple years from now or something like that. Um but we certainly will make uh a wheelchair accessible vehicle. [Applause]
>> Hi Satoshi. Um I was I was privileged enough to uh attend the investor day and uh you also talked about the factory being a product. I saw the dry cathode method and and so forth and I wanted to know the progress in that and also would optimist be working on that in the future uh production line in the future.
>> Yeah. Um I guess the dry cathode man that's turned out to be a lot harder than we thought. Um so uh I mean it it does look like it's going to be successful and it will have some cost advantage relative to wet cathode. Um but if I had to wind the clock back I would probably have gone with wet cathode instead of dry cathode. Um because it it just turned out to be a lot harder to make it uh you know high capable of high volume production with with super high reliability. Um so yeah um but we will be we will be scaling up uh battery cell production at Tesla um and looking for cell production from our suppliers as well um because we're we're going to be ramping up production very dramatically at Tesla. So um now now that we we we believe we have uh full self-driving that we have autonomy solved uh you know or or at least or within a few months of having it uh unsupervised autonomy solved at at a reliability level significantly better than human um it's not that that means it's time to ramp up production um because the value proposition is now much greater than a regular car. The killer app really is uh for people, can you text and drive or can you sleep and drive? You know, can you um can the car take you to your destination or do you need to pay attention and be uh and have to drive it? Um and before we allow the car to be to be driven without paying attention, we need to make sure it's very safe. But but like I said, we're we're on the cusp of that. Um um I know I've said that a few times, but um but we really are at this point and and you can feel it for yourselves with with the the 14.1 release. Um so the you know the what we're we're going to try to we're going to push to expand vehicle production as fast as we possibly can. Um so aspirationally would aim to increase vehicle production by about 50% by the end of next year. Um, so yeah. Um, so that's it's it's very hard to increase production, but that's that's roughly, you know, I don't know, maybe we get to like I'm just guessing at at an exit rate to by the end of next year of around 2.6 2.7 million vehicles annualized production and then aim to get to maybe four million by the end. annualized rate by the end of 27. Um and then maybe five million by the end of 28. That those are rough those are our aspirational goals. Um so these are this this is a gigantic increase in in output. Uh which means that the entire supply chain has to move in in uh in unison with that uh with that increase in in volume. Um and uh the nature of the nature of producing a large complex product is that it moves as fast as the least lucky dumbest element in the entire system. And there's 10,000 plus items. U but um but this like I said this really is a new it's not just a new chapter for Tesla. It's a new book and and that new book is massively increasing vehicle production um and uh ramping up Optimus production faster than any thing's ever been ramped up before in history. So
>> awesome Elon thank you uh thank you from all of us. um you know the retail shareholders really really care and so I I echo the sentiment of you know a larger venue where more can more can come. um you know as a testament to that I was here I was fortunate enough to be here last year and since then touring the factory talking to you know people that work here I'm just a retail shareholder but increased my holdings 12 times
>> right so I you know I know it's really engaging and gives people a confidence and and so thank you for having us and I I do echo that I hope it grows um last year I'm the one that asked you about your well beinging and safety.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Still alive.
>> And you know that it was a broad you know general question and it was before you know some of the uncertainty that's unfolded since then and uh
>> so I I hope it had a positive you know impact and um you know we all care. Um, and so my question this year, you've talked recently about the most mindblowing product demo of all time,
>> and I shot it being the most memorable product on ever.
>> Roadster.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I have patiently been waiting on my Founders series Roadster reservation. So on behalf of the founder series guys that have stuck in there,
>> can we be unvited to this unveil?
>> Oh yeah, sure. Absolutely. Definitely.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
>> So all founders series can be invited.
>> Yes. Yes. I mean it's the least we could do frankly for people that have are long our longsuffering uh roasted reservation holders. Um the I I I I I feel confident in saying it will be the most exciting uh product unveil ever. And I hope that whether it goes well or doesn't go well.
>> Since I'm up here, can I get the first one? Well, I I guess the it's it's according to who whoever um put down their deposit in in that sequence. So, that's the but you'll get you'll get a very early one. Um and um I mean the the new roster is very much sort of like a it's not even the icing on the cake, it's the cherry on the icing on the cake. So, I mean, it's really kind of like um you know, it's it's it's like it's not essential for sustainable abundance. Let me put it that way. Um but I do think there should be uh you know, very cool technology in the world that is um that, you know, that's way beyond anything that's ever existed. And I think I'd like those like even if I could never have access to those things, I'd like to know that they exist and and see the future happening. So I think I think it will be inspiring to a lot of people. Um and and just it's it's extreme. It's like the coolest car, if it even is a car, uh that has ever that will probably ever exist.
>> Yeah. [Applause] Hi Elon, congrats on the uh proposal plan. That was amazing. Uh the compensation question back to chips. So chips chips chips chips will be the limiting factor
>> to the to the future. So on that
>> it's chips and electricity are the two limiting factors.
>> Yeah. And we got the energy and power and energy packs ready to roll. So I think on the chips I think you said TSMC, Samsung perhaps Intel 14A and several different sites. I heard a couple US factory sources which is
>> I mean we're like everyone
>> you know it's like
>> and and so I guess the is there an open door in the future of investing directly into some of those boundaries and second question how big is a terraactory can you put that in scale in
>> semiconductor terraactory
>> yeah well the the I mean thing is that we actually have agreed to buy all the chips that are made from the fab you know Uh, so it's basically a money printing machine for TSMC and Samsung. It's like literally the faster you make the chips, the faster we send them money, but it's still not going at this fast enough. Uh, so that's why I think as far as I can see, the only option is to go build some like uh very big chab. Um, and then you got to solve memory and packaging too. So, uh, but otherwise you just you just tap out at whatever the the chip production rate is. Um, and um, so I guess Terror would be you you'd want to say it's it's got to be at least 100,000 wafer starts per month size and maybe that would be one of 10 in a complex. So ultimately be a million way starts per month. Yeah, exactly. You can tell when you when it gets the giggle factor, that's probably a good sign that that we're on to something special. But I wouldn't be surprised if longterm it's like a million wafers a month. Yeah.
>> Hi. Uh I'm a long-term uh investor, so I've been uh holding the shares for 12 years. I worked at the autopilot team development uh for 10 years and uh brought my dad here from Brazil. Uh we actually won the Tesla vision contest with the Cybert truck B video. So I hope you got to see that at some point. So thanks for the free Model Y. And uh my question is about obviously market expansion but not only South America, Brazil but also into Mars like with the upcoming rendevous of Mars and Earth. Uh what's going to be in the payload? You know what are we going to send there? Well, uh, Optimus is going to play a big role. Well, Optimus and I think Tesla vehicles will play a big role on the moon and Mars. So, for a moon base and a Mars a Mars city, um Tesla vehicles and and Optimus robots um are natural natural fit for building um and operating a moon base and a Mars city.
>> So, sorry,
>> Cy Cybertruck also.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's cyber truck. Um, you will need to drive around in a pressurized vehicle if there's a, you know, a person inside. Um, but yeah, it it'll be it'll be something cool. Uh, next level moon buggy or and Mars buggy. So, all right. Hi, Mr. Musk. Uh, Gorov, uh, been a fan of yours since 2006. I think I saw a piece in Popular Science magazine. It was really cool and I think I was 15 at the time. Um shareholder since 10 years now. It's been really really rewarding. It's changed my life. Uh so thank you very much to you and Tesla. Uh my question is regarding uh Tesla's mission for a sustain sustainable future as it pertains to autonomy. Um I personally fully expect a deflationary period um after um well unlocked by autonomy basically uh both in moving humans and goods and whatnot. Um excluding Optimus even. Um yeah,
>> what efforts um are is is Tesla going to focus on to reduce the dollar per mile? Rough math. Um I think like 30 cents a mile would be really nice. Um 50 cents is pretty good too. I mean looking at inflation later on. And then um I guess a second part of that, how low does it have to be for people to just stop buying cars like where it doesn't make economic sense to do that? Um I expect that to affect economies of scale and then further increase the pricing of vehicles there on out. So like how like what is that node at which inflection happens?
>> Well, in terms of cost per mile, I mean we do see a path with a lot of work to get below 20 cents a mile in current year dollars. Um and um and and I I somewhat agree that there's things will probably be deflationary um as productivity increases because you can think of money supply as being the ratio of goods and services to um the like what's what's the growth in goods and services to versus the growth in the money supply. That ratio is basically inflation. Um and um and so if the output of goods and services grows faster than the money supply, then you necessarily have deflation or vice versa. Uh they try to make it sound complicated, but it's not. Um so um I'm not sure that that even government over overspending can actually I think government overspending will will not be will be lower than the increase in productivity of goods and services uh which would imply deflation as you expect. Sorry.
>> What about economies of scale and the impact it has to how you respond as an automotive company when people stop potentially buying cars?
>> Economies of sorry, economies of scale
>> in like auto manufacturing for instance. It only makes sense if lots of people buy your vehicles.
>> Oh. Uh the total number of vehicles will decrease. Um you know the the sort of vehicle fleet out there is about two billion cars, right? two two billion if you add up all cars and trucks that are not at a scrapyard I think it's around two billion um but the that that number would decrease uh with autonomous vehicles so the total fleet size would drop um I actually think uh miles driven will increase because it is now much less painful to travel somewhere um so if if somebody's thinking about traveling across a busy city then they'll take into account well how much pain do I have to deal with if I have to go through two hours of traffic I probably won't uh won't do it. But if you're just say sitting in a a cyber cab watching a movie or doing some work, then it's just like sitting in a little lounge. And and I I so I think you'll see um probably a significant increase in total miles driven u but at the same time a decrease in the total uh active fleet of vehicles. Um, I'd just like to reiterate how grateful we all are to have you uh on board ready to lead us to another 7 trillion in market cap at least.
>> At least
>> obviously.
>> Thank you. Um my question is how much of a concern is it that when Cyber Cab starts production in Q2 next year that regulation won't be there yet to where you can deploy cyber cabs being produced or are you guys confident that uh every cyber cab you guys make you'll be able to deploy?
>> Yeah, I think I think the rate at which we we receive regulatory approval will roughly match the rate of cyber cab production. Um it'll be maybe a little tight, but um that's it's it's about right. Um and I'd like to thank thank Whimo for paving the the path here. It's very helpful. Um so uh yeah, but it I I think we'll be able to deploy all the all the cyber caps that we produce. Um, and the other thing is like once it becomes like extremely normal in cities, it's just going to become like the regulators will have just fewer and fewer reasons to say no. Um, and then you've got this, you know, you've got the AC the accident statistics at scale and you can show that autonomous miles save lives then and you've got unequivocal, you know, billions of miles to prove it, then I think it's it's hard for regulators to say no.
>> Yeah, true. All right.
>> First of all, Elon, thank you so much for everything you do for the Tesla shareholders.
>> Thank you. Do you see a path for uh optimists to have consciousness uh downloaded to it?
>> You mean human consciousness or
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. I mean it's not like uh immediate um but if you say it down the road uh would you be able to say with a neural link have a snapshot of or at least an approximate snapshot of somebody's mind and then upload that approximate snapshot to uh an optimist body. I think I think that at some point that technology becomes possible. Um, and it it it probably less than 20 years. Yeah. But of course, you won't quite be the same, you know, be a little different. Um, because you'll be in a robot body and uh the the the mental snapshot will not be precise. It'll be probably pretty close, but not not exactly the same. On the other hand, you know, are you the same person that you were five years ago? Nope. I mean, a lot of things have changed. Uh so, uh yeah, but I guess at some point if you want to be uploaded to a robot body, my guess is that becomes possible.
>> Hi, Elon. Um spacebased data center is a great idea and I agree with that. um was curious on your views on space-based solar power. The idea of beaming down microwave energy down to earth so that you can just point it to where it needs to go without transmission, without distribution lines and it's more energy dense. So, you know, less band use curious on your views. Well, space solar power and with until the advent of something like Starship um where the cost per ton to orbit um you know drops by orders of magnitude um the cost of getting payload to orbit is so high that there was no possibility of space solar power uh solving anything really. Um, now with with Starship, um, like I see a path to Starship cost per ton to orbit being lower than airflight. Uh, like if you were to fly, you know, do a longdistance uh, airflight with cargo, like say took a 747 from here to, you know, Sydney, Australia or something like that. I think um I think ultimately Starship will be able to do that trip for less cost per ton than an aircraft. So then you so now that now you've got that that opens up a a wide range of possibilities. Um like the the most obvious one I think is is actually uh solar powered AI satellites. So to move the AI uh to to or to orbit um and and essentially deep space over time uh because the the you can actually access over a billion times more energy uh from the sun in deep space than you can on earth. uh the the the scaling if you to to scale to cautev any to make any progress on a cautv scale uh which is using some non trivial amount of energy from the sun uh you kind of have to do space solar power. Um now you you could only beam a tiny amount of that back to earth or you would melt earth. Um so earth actually receives a very very tiny amount of of the sun's energy. We're I mean earth is a tiny dust moat. Um we see like earth to scale with the sun we look like a little crumb. Um so the the to scale civilization like I said to be at all relevant on a kajv 2 scale um like to even use a millionth of a percent of of the the sun's energy you you really have to be uh have use solar power in in deep space. Um and you could beam some of that back to earth too. Um, but you can only beam a tiny bit of it back or you'd melt.
>> And this will be our last question.
>> We'll do Okay, we'll do a few more. We'll do a few more. Sorry. Uh, sorry.
>> All right. Elon, look around you. This is a very, very small sample of Tesla soldiers. Maybe actually I should say Elon Musk soldiers.
>> Well, thank you for your support.
>> So, thank you everyone. So,
>> I just I just like to say thank you from the bottom of my heart uh for your support. Thank you and thank you everyone out there.
>> So, I I know for sure a lot of them sold the farm to buy Tesla and they stuck with Tesla through thick and thin, good days and bad days.
>> Yes. So my question to you is how do you feel about repeating the success but in a safer way where you get qualified Tesla retail investor only to invest in SpaceX avoiding all these market manipulator those crooks and the short sellers.
>> Yeah it's it it is a tough problem that you highlight. I mean the basically the unfortunately over time the parasitic load of being a public company has just grown over time. Um and um and so you get all these like you know spurious lawsuits obviously and um they just make make it very difficult to operate effectively as a as a public company. Um, so, uh, but I I I do want to try to figure out some way, uh, for Tesla shareholders to participate in in SpaceX. That would be very cool. Um, I I I've been giving a lot of thought to how to give people access to SpaceX stock because I I do I do want supporters to have SpaceX stock, but there's there's a sort 2500 shareholder threshold for you know before you become a deacto public company. Um but uh I don't know maybe maybe at some point Tesla may maybe at some point SpaceX should become a public company um despite all the the downsides of being public.
>> All right. First of all, thank you very much Elon. Just a amazing job you're doing not only for Tesla shareholders but the humanity in general. So we got a couple questions many of us are asking like we want to know many of us think you are one of the most consequential business people on earth ever and we want to understand how do you think like uh for example like a couple one how did you know in the master plan part two this is like 2018 or something like that you calculated at that point it takes six billion miles of FSD miles driven before maybe the world the regatory would approve it and then the second is like when you were deciding if Tesla's going to have, you know, the hardware chips, AI chips. Did you know at that time that at some point when you get to AI5, it's going to be used not only for cars but for bots and for AI data centers? Like was that luck a little bit or was it like you kind of knew that that was going to happen? Well, I generally I mean in terms of the estimates like the you know for the self-driving stuff I I generally try to get things to within an order of magnitude. Uh so if so I I it seemed to me like probably um and and this was technically in in kilometers but it it it would be more closer to 10 billion kilometers which is roughly 6 billion miles uh than it would be to 1 billion. Um, but I think I thought it would not take a hundred billion kilometers. So, it was really just you're trying to when when you're trying to guess something where there's a lot of uncertainty, you just try to get it um get the estimate to the nearest order of magnitude. Um, you closest factor of 10 and and that's that's why I said, you know, probably around 10 billion kilometers or 6 billion miles. Um and then uh yeah um the the the chip the reason Tesla created a chip team um and it's important to know like the vast majority of like Tesla is like a dozen startups in one. Um and you know the the only we've only really done one major acquisition which is Solar City and then at some very small ones. So all of this is almost all of this is organic. So uh I built the chip team from from scratch and the you know the AI AI team from scratch. Um the it was just because it became a limiting factor. So um for hardware 2 uh we used Nvidia but Nvidia was at at that time uh focused on making uh really AI server hardware which obviously was a smart bet. They're the most val currently the most valuable company in the world. Um and and you know Jensen Wangi's team have done an incredible job at Nvidia. My hats off to them. Um you know I'm a huge admirer of of Jensen and and Nvidia. They've they've done done amazing work but but they were they didn't want to do a co a lowcost power efficient uh car computer at the time AI car computer. So I was like, well, okay, I guess we we need to start a chip team to solve that. Um, so then that's when I hired Jim Keller and we built the chip team. Um, and did AI3 uh then AI4 um and then we to be honest we made a few we made some mistakes there with with with AI5, but now AI5 is back on track. Um, and uh and and we'll have a very rapid cadence to AI6 and and so forth. And this will really this is really necessary for you know for for the car to like like with with AI4 I think we can get to you know two or 300% better than human safety maybe 400% better uh but with AI5 I think we can do a thousand% better um or or maybe even better than that uh so than than human safety. So um at a certain point actually it might be too much intelligence for a car um because like I was thinking like what if you get stuck in a car and you have too much intelligence. But then the one of the things we could do is when the car is idle is use the car as a massive distributed uh uh AI in inference fleet. So um you know with the consent customers we're like do you want your car to earn money for you while it's sitting in your garage at night? you know, um I don't know, we'll pay, you know, $100 a month or $200 a month or whatever the right number is, uh if you allow te Tesla to do, uh AI inference workloads, uh when you're not using your car. Um so, and that will also help the AI in the car not get bored. Um so, because like I sort of imagine like what if I got stuck in a car? you know, and then well, and the highlight of your day was driving. It's like, you know, but they don't always want to drive, so then what do you do the rest of the time? Um, so so so I think Tesla could actually end up having the the largest uh the Tesla might end up having the most amount of AI inference compute uh in the world. Um like if if you think like maybe if we had a 100 million car fleet and at some point we may have more than 100 million car fleet um and they'll have AI6 AI7 you know and uh if you're able to run a kilowatt of inference on a 100 million car fleet now you've got a 100 gawatts of distributed inference with built-in cooling um and and power electronics and and distributed power Um, so you know, probably the market's valuing that at 0.0 right now is my guess. But but but it seems like an obvious thing to do. Um, if you if you've got distributed uh inference AI and you've got the power and the cooling, which is very difficult to do the power and the cooling um and 100 gigawatts is a lot. I mean the average as I said the average power consumption in the US I think is around 460 gawatt for the that's the entire electrical consumption of the US. So the if you did 100 gawatt that would be a pretty big number. Um but yeah it's basically something as a limiting factor and then we take actions to address the limiting factor.
>> A quick followup. Thank you for that very much. Uh, a request for you. So, you guys just unveiled the cyber bear. Looks fantasty bull here in Giga, Texas.
>> Uh, my name's Herbert. I've got a Brighter with Herbert channel on YouTube. This is the Cyber Bulls. We are representing the Tesla Bulls and we stand with you, Elon. But wouldn't it be cool to have a cyber bull right here in Texas?
>> Like a cy a cyber longhorn?
>> Cyber Longhorn.
>> All right. We'll we'll we'll do a cyber longhorn for the factory.
>> All right.
>> Good afternoon. I'm um very excited to ask this question. I've dreamed of giving away a Tesla for a very very long time and I finally wore EVJ down enough that they're willing to foot the bill for it. But it turns out to give away a Tesla, I have to have your permission to say we're giving away a Tesla. So simple.
>> Just give it away.
>> You don't have to do anything. Tesla doesn't. We're going to go through the normal channels. We'll buy it from a store.
>> All that stuff.
>> You can give away Tesla. Totally cool.
>> Yeah.
>> Um Yeah. But certainly you don't need my permission to give away.
>> Dude, what are these questions, bro?
>> We'll take like maybe a couple more questions.
>> What type of nonsense was that?
>> You need you want to say you have to give away what? Hi, my name is Jonathan. You mentioned that the Roadster will have more tech than all the James Bond vehicles combined.
>> Do you think there's any possibility that any of that tech will make it into the current vehicle lineup?
>> Um, no.
>> And to follow up on that, do you have any estimate of uh production or delivery timelines for the Roadster? Um I I guess uh well so we're aiming for uh the so the the product unveiled uh will be of of of the Roadster 2 which will be very different from what was shown previously. Uh that that demo event will be April 1st of next year. I have some deniability because like I could say I was just kidding. Uh but uh we are actually tenatively aiming for April 1st uh uh for this what I think will be the most exciting whether it works or not uh demo ever of any product and then um I guess production is probably about a you know 12 to 18 months after that.
>> I think production is probably a year a year or so after that. Oh, well, I can't give away the secrets. Uh, but you won't be disappointed.
>> All right, we'll take one last question, I guess. Hey,
>> three last questions.
>> Okay.
>> Hi, Elon. I'm really excited about this uh future of sustainable abundance that we're talking about. Uh I mean you're going to be saving a lot of lives with FSD but the number of lives that will be saved and improved with this future vision you have is really inspiring and very exciting. Um so even today you've mentioned though that in a post scarcity world the role of money could diminish or become obsolete.
>> Given that much of today's power including yours is tied to wealth. Do you think achieving this abundance would require powerful people to relinquish their power? And how might we address resistance from those who hold power to make this vision a reality?
>> Well, I mean, I think actually long term, uh, the AI is going to be in charge to be totally frank, not humans. Um, if if if artificial intelligence vastly exceeds the sum of human intelligence, it is difficult to imagine that that any humans will actually be in charge. So, we just need to make sure the AI is friendly. Yep.
>> Thank you.
>> Is that was that the question? Go ahead. Sure.
>> Yes. Okay. Sorry, Elan. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So, uh I'm Cybercat on X and uh uh I'm doing YouTube and content creator. There's one thing I always heard about uh Tesla owners or people who want to buy Tesla complain about that is about a super expensive insurance, right? And uh uh this the thing is uh Tesla I know uh Tesla also do insurance however it's not cover every place like like based on Boston I don't have too much options it's super expensive and the other point is the FSD is very safe right now I've been using FSD for about four years right it's getting to a point it's like almost unsupervised however the insurance still does not take this into consideration They don't ask you whether you have FSD or not and they don't know how much you travel with FSD and that is not a part of the uh risk prediction kind of thing right so I feel like u uh what is what's your thought about insurance going forward especially when we getting close to the autonomy uh what is path like uh uh either using your own or with the external partnership for example there's a company called lemonade We we do need to not have the questions be super long. Um the the uh I mean Tesla insurance uh is trying to expand as as quickly as possible, but the regulatory structure for insurance is extremely complex and and uh works on a state-by-state basis. Um so it's it's really somewhat of a racket. Um uh and uh the the rules for insurance are different with with every state. Uh it's it's a very very complicated thing. Um so uh you know the I mean yeah so there's but I I'm aware that insurance often is too expensive and doesn't take the right things into account. Um but so all I can say to that is yeah we'll keep expanding Tesla insurance. U when the car is operating as a cyber cap Tesla will simply selfinsure. So that kind of solves that. Um but uh insurance is is a yeah a real pain in the neck for sure. Um but okay I do need to end this at some point. Um I'll take yeah one question and one question there.
>> All right. Thanks Elon for taking my question. I appreciate it. My question has to do with compute and what the buildout or what how much is necessary to train Optimus and actually get them to a very household meaningful um robot that can do things and if the partnership with XA with XAI would um help accelerate that. Uh yeah this there is a lot of training compute needed for Optimus um and um because the the the AI chip in the robot is relatively weak because it's it's really limited on limited on power uh you can make up for that with a lot of training uh to have a lot of training result in in a um a very efficient uh AI that can run on a a low power chip in in the robot. So it it is we we we will actually have to spend a lot of money on on training like uh you know ultimately it'll be like tens of billions of dollars on on training compute so it's a big number
>> would a partnership with XAI help accelerate that
>> uh yeah I think potentially yeah I think that that that could uh uh yeah I think there's potential for accelerating that so yeah did the XI invest would think get approved. Uh
>> no. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. Whatever. Um um you know whenever like it's it's like uh you know Tesla and some other company that I have an interest in and it's like always quite complicated to uh you know do things um has to go through a lot of hoops to happen. Uh but uh you know I do think there's a lot of potential for collaboration with XAI in the future um and with SpaceX. So right
>> okay this is the last one.
>> Yeah. Sorry. Thank you so much.
>> Captain Alon X. I support you. Thank you so much for everything you do.
>> Um very simple question. I'm from Israel. I don't represent a lot of people, but uh people do ask me and I'm going to ask you any chance to have the app in other languages like Hebrew for example. Some people struggle with
>> mean even the the app is
>> the app itself. Yeah, just the app the
>> app is not in Hebrew.
>> No.
>> Oh,
>> and a lot of people don't speak English. So it's
>> Oh, okay.
>> Shoot. I I thought I thought we had it in in all languages. Okay. Well Well, definitely the ALF needs to be in in all languages. All right. So, all right. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] Okay, there you go. We are uh we're done. That is uh that is it. Um all right, cool. So, that was the Tesla uh shareholder meeting. I didn't know they were actually going to do that much Q&A, but they did. So, cool to see. Um, but that is officially done. Tesla's stock after hours uh was going up and down. Didn't really make too much of a crazy move. Basically flat 445. It was down three and a half% on the day. The entire market was down on the day. Uh, in terms of earnings, folks, let's just look at all these stocks after their earnings. A firm up 13%. Good earnings. They crushed it. Likely deserves to get the move that you are seeing right there. So there is that candle up 13%. DraftKings down six. New scale down four. Airbnb up four. Archer down nine. Um Street One at 400,000 in revenue. They came in at zero. Although they did lose less money than expected which was good. Texas Roadhouse flat. Pelaton up nine. Square down 11. Just did not look like good numbers across the board. Sound flat. Monster up three. IN flat. Uh Trade Desk up one. MP down six. Open down 15. Open Door did a direct offering, but they didn't have a price on it, and there's like dividend warrants for the offering, which I don't fully understand. Um, so I'm going to try to look into it tonight. I I think it's kind of bullish, not really bearish, but it's definitely not getting the stock to get that much love. So, I gotta read into this tonight and see financially what exactly does mean. Sandesk is up 7%. Yes, that's green. And then AMX, uh, they had a relatively decent earnings. That stock is up 10% after hours. Amprias, which also didn't do too bad. Uh, overall folks, it was just an ugly day across the board. I put the red or green poll for tomorrow. 63% of you say green. Tomorrow is Friday, so we are ending out pretty ugly week. I mean, you had some good moments, but obviously today kind of wrecked a lot of the momentum over the past week. S&P 500 was down 1% uh up about 19% after hours. I think the the simple argument here is if you are a believer in any of the stocks that are downheavy today, whether it's a Robin Hood that had an amazing earnings and is down 11% or whether it's an archer that's down 10%. You know, this is where you ask yourself how much do you believe in those companies? Do you want a DCA? Do you want to manage the position? Or do you want to just do nothing and hold and you know, let them continue to compound if you think everything is going right according to the trajectory of their growth. And that's what earnings are for, right? To re-evaluate the thesis. Open door right here down 14% after hours. MP's down seven. Uh, US AR also kind of took a hit. Down 7% as well in terms of rare earths. I want to show you guys a little bit of the open door call. I didn't get to watch too much of it. Uh, and we're not going to watch it, but this is just a little bit of what it looked like. Uh, and you can see a little bit of the opening statement from Cass right here. I I I mean, I'm gonna listen to it later. I really like that they're doing this on video and uh outside of the results themselves, they missed on EPS by 71%. But this is what the call looked like.
>> Anything much less to make our work less toilsome. When I joined the team, I'm not kidding. There were a dozen people whose only job it was to copy and paste information from PDFs into um glorified spreadsheets. So, look, regardless of the actual earnings, I really do like that the CEO is staring at you talking on a camera about earnings, especially given that there's so many retail investors inside of the stock. So, uh I hope more of that continues to happen, but that's what you got on Open Door. I have not looked through all the earnings. The one thing I will quote right here is Neil, who's saying the earnings are not as good as what people think. And he's saying right here, there would be no net income without 665 million in unrealized gains on financial instruments. And that is the reason they actually put up a profit. They beat EPS by about a,000%. Now, you got a lot of other people saying they're guiding for three and a half billion of ARR in 2026, which is a very big deal. And uh it's hard to be bearish with that type of a guide. You do have some other people like Neil, who does own Iran, by the way, saying that, well, the EPS is only there based on some financial engineering. There's not really massive profitability. So, I got to go through the earnings. I have not fully gone through it, but I'm going to look through and see see what we've got. David, thanks for the super chat. Hi, Mid. I'm in high school spending my lunch money just to hear your thoughts. Okay, David, first of all, if you're actually spending your lunch money, DM me on Twitter and I'll I'll send you back the $10. Please, please do not spend your lunch money. Lunch is getting expensive, bro. Lunch is getting expensive nowadays. So, message me on X. I will I will Venmo you your 10 bucks back. What do you think about Meta and where do you see it heading in the future? So, I spent a lot of time talking about Meta this morning on the market open. Uh, so I think there's a Meta chapter. You can click on that and listen to it. Um, I'm still trying to do my due diligence. You know, I'll probably talk about it with Steve tonight. I'll be live with Steve at 9:30. So, we'll discuss. Maybe Chris will join us. We're going to see. Uh I'll leave Steve's YouTube right here in the chat if anyone wants to join. But um look, the the the thing I talked about this is I had a session with a friend who's a very large shareholder of Meta relative to, you know, his net worth. He's not like some massive massive massive super wealthy person, but he has been in Meta since $200 and it's his largest position. And he told me that this is not a dip to buy. And so when someone who's been in Meta for a long time tells me this is not a dip to buy, I take it seriously. and his number one reason was because Zucks is spending with no plan and the street is justified in taking down the stock regardless of the free cash flow or the net income growth or the overall revenue growth at 26% which is incredibly impressive because if they're going to keep spending on capex and there's not a meaningful way for them to get a return on that or at least the street doesn't see that meaningful way then it it would behoove people to at least wait another quarter to get a little bit more guidance. Now maybe by then the stock's already back to the moon and you missed the dip. possible, but if you're adjusting for some risk and you're not super convinced, maybe you want to wait and hear some some more perspectives. So, I don't know to be honest. Now, here's the thing, dude. Like, is medicine generational opportunity at at 620? I don't know. I don't like I think it will I think a year from now we probably think, okay, this is this was a good dip. But, you know, it's not meta at 88, right? So, if you miss it, like again, this is all about risk management. If I miss meta at 620 and it goes to 750, okay, there's other opportunities that are that are there in the market. Uh, but am I going to be like, you know, so so upset that I like, no, not really, dude. Like I like, okay, cool. You know, you then you could buy it at 750. Then a lot of the risk is gone. Yeah, you're not getting it at the best price, but you're paying 15% more, but you at least have a lot more clarity to to, you know, further go on with risk or for for further managing this. Google at 140 felt generational. Is meta Google at 140 right now? I don't know. even on a multiple basis, it's not exactly Google was trading at like 14 times. That is still at 21 times. So, I don't know. I don't think you should overthink it. I think I think giving yourself some time to kind of navigate it is fine. But if you've been always looking for a meta entry, then you know, you have your 15% dip. This is the opportunity. The question just becomes, do you want to buy more? By the way, you know, Steve is bullish on Meta, but he's not buying more at these levels. Even today, I think he told me that he's waiting for 550 for him to really get interested and because he's he's been in since the IPO. So, I have two meta shareholders right now, Steve and Sebastian, telling me they're not buying the dip. They need to see below 600 to even think of getting interested. And they both are super early, which does, you know, make me think, okay, so why am I getting super excited at 620. The reason would be because I don't have a meta position, right? Which is fair. Uh, but nonetheless, I think waiting for the next quarter is not crazy. So, those are my thoughts today. But yeah, in the morning, I I spent a lot of time talking about it and I think you can listen to that there. I'll talk about it with Steve tonight. We'll kind of uh go through the intellectual thought project and get his thoughts as well. I know Steve is super bullish because he likes the numbers, but I'm curious on Steve's perspective on where does he think the spend is actually going to lead to? Because the the street didn't take it down for the for the for the tax charge. Like that's not the reason the street took it down. The street took it down because Zuck's on the call said they're going to keep spending more and the street doesn't know why he's spending more. They don't see the plan for how they're going to make that make sense. Where for Microsoft, Google and and and and um and Amazon, they see the plan. The plan is the cloud and the cloud is growing dramatically. So, it's not because of the tax thing like that that that the algos would have figured that out pretty quickly. I think it's a deeper structural problem. That's why I think the dip has not really been bought yet on Meta. Then again, do you bet against Zucks? I don't know. I wouldn't fully bet against Zucks. So, 618 on Meta. Obviously, below 600 would be very attractive, but got to see if the street actually actually takes there. So that's what we got. That's what we got on Meta. Tesla's there's too many opportunities in this market currently right now. Meta isn't that discounted compared to many other great apps. And that that's the other thing. It's like for the max sevens, Meta is the cheapest obviously, but the risk you're taking if you believe that there's not a meaningful plan for an ROI means that there's other riskadjusted opportunities that are out there. Which is why I'm saying I don't it's I don't think it's Google at 140 where it's like, oh my goodness, this is about a double. Google literally doubled from let's call Google at 300 right it was almost at 300 the other day 150 to 300 in four months is meta going from 600 to 1,200 in four I don't I don't know not with the plan that or the lack of plan that Zux has not been able to proide to the street so those thoughts on meta siege thanks for the super chat to be fair Mark Zuckerberg never really had a plan he just did things and it worked out back when they went public one of the biggest arguments to not buy the stock was that there was no real plan yeah look that's fair I just think of the age AI, if you're going to be spending a hundred billion dollars of capex, I think investors want to know just like what should they expect from it for for Microsoft, Google, and and Amazon, the the the street knows that much spend is going to go back to the cloud. And all three of those companies have a variety of different initiatives that they're working on. Google with TPU, Amazon with Trrenium, Google with Whimo, Microsoft with Copilot. I mean, there's so many different things that they're working on with Meta. It's like the Vibes app, which I don't think anybody uses, Threads, which is just ads, Instagram, which is ads, WhatsApp ads, and then Facebook with ads, and then maybe glasses, which I don't think you need to spend 100 billion of capex to build glasses. Like that that seems a bit aggressive. So, I don't want to be I'm not saying I'm bearish on it's a phenomenal company growing faster than most SAS companies, right? So, it's hard to be bearish on. question is, do you really want to put your capital here or just give it a little time and wait? And after sping to a, you know, long-term meta shareholder, I don't think it's crazy to just say, hey, I'm going to wait it out a little bit. I'm going to wait to see get some more details and then go from there. But who knows, maybe it maybe it rebounds immediately and it is what it is. At this point of the year, I'm also interested in preserving capital as we get to the end of the year. We've all seen how quick money can go up and money can go down. So again, if you're buying the dip, you really got to be convicted on what you're buying. And you can't like the thing I would hate to do is buy met at 620 and then feel so and like feel bad and sell at 580. It's like no, if it goes to 580, I have to be convicted enough to buy it again at 580 and just DCA. But if that conviction is not there, then you know, maybe there's other opportunities that are out there. All right, cool. So that's it for me. I got to get out of here. Again, thank you all for being here. Uh, I ran. I know I'm going to get a lot of [__] tomorrow from the Iran shareholders for not streaming the call. Well, what was I supposed to do? I don't know Elon would be freaking live at the same exact time. So, at least you guys got to see it on Sam's channel. Um, again, I did not look through the earnings. There's a lot of mixed opinions on Iran. Stock pumped and it dumped and it pumped and it dumped again. It's still up 6x for the year. So, not making a big move after hours to me is not that crazy. Basically flat after hours down 12% on the day. Try to go through the numbers, see what we got going on. Open dooror down 14%, Archer down 4% or 10%. Abselerad down two, DraftKings down seven. Then the S&P up a little bit after hours. I bet you did the right thing. It was either Elon or I like like I mean I like I but it's like Elon. It's like you gotta listen to Elon. You gotta listen to Elon. Tony, thanks for the super chat. Uh why haven't you bought the dip in Roblox? It is the future meta. every kid is on it. I really have not done work on Roblox ever. I know a couple people that really like it, but I just have not done the time have spent the time to actually look into Roblox in a meaningful way. So, yeah, it will require some time for me to to go deeper into it. But, you know, again, it's just like gaming, oldest type, like it's never been that interesting to me. So, just personally, I've never felt super excited to look into it. Speaking of gaming, Take Two down 7% because of freaking Grand Theft Auto being delayed, but I will have to look a little deeper into to Roblox to to see it. By the way, for those that missed it, Elon 1 trillion compensation package officially approved with 75% of the vote. And that is what you got. What do you think about BMR? I am going to say the same thing I've said for the past couple of days about BMR. Obviously, the price action is ugly. Can't do anything about that. You have to ask yourself how much do you believe in Ethereum and the long-term thesis? And again, if you don't believe in it, then it's a tough hold. If you do believe in it, and if you do think there is this world, I mean, quite literally, the question I asked yesterday to Vlad on that call was a question around tokenization, which is about Ethereum, right? Robin Hood is building their layer 2 of tokenization on Ethereum. Remember what Vlad said? It's not just equities, it's everything. real estate and private credit are the two things that he's the most excited about. That's not going to happen overnight, but when that does happen, you have to ask yourself over the next five years, does that benefit Ethereum as a blockchain the most? And right now, obviously, that's not happening at any scale and you're getting a little bit of a crypto deleveraging event, which is why Ethereum and Bitcoin have been so ugly. But if that does benefit Ethereum long term, I think that would obviously benefit Bitmine. But that's not happening in the short term. So, uh, I have not sold a single share of my BMR. I haven't bought on this dip because I do have a pretty large position like I would say my position is built out. So the question just becomes do I want to be over indexed on it and like as of now if Ethereum is going to be as flat as it is then no right there's no like burning desire to get in there. So that's it. You either believe in it or you don't. If you do you stay. If you don't then you know you have to reevaluate how you're thinking of Ethereum long term. Okay sounds good. But before you leave can you stay till market open? You know, one day we will do this 24-hour stream. We got close last week with that 9-h hour stream, but one day we are going to do it. All right, that's it. I'll be back. Um, where I'm going to be back? I'm going to be back tomorrow morning. Uh, I know we haven't done daily recaps this week, but that's because we've had all these earnings. So quite frankly, I think it's impossible to do daily recaps on earnings season, which is about three weeks every four months because like I'm live till like 7 8:00 p.m. every day and there's so many earnings and so you know you're on the market close. That's kind of when we're recapping everything. But um we will be getting to the daily recaps again next week. And then I'll be live with Steve tonight at 9:30 on his channel. Chris might join us. We'll talk macro. We'll talk meta and uh we'll get into a bunch of topics. BMR's MNAV is not under one. It's 1.14. 1.14. Also, there's a bunch of screenshots going around saying Tom Lee bought almost like 250 million of ETH this week. We won't know until next week, but it does seem like he is buying the dip. Uh, but next week, we're going to know for sure how much he has continued to buy. Also, remember, he hasn't started staking it. So, as he continues to stake it, that will generate close to 4 500 million of net income per year. And that could be used to buy more Ethereum. By the way, Robin did get a bunch of uh price target upgrades today. So, you had Needam 145, Caner Fitzgerald 155, Craig from Bank of America 166, Dan Doof 172, Street High, um Ed Angel from Compass Point 170, Bernstein 160, Key Bank 155. Um Piper Sandler 155, Devin Ryan 170, Barkclays 162, Deutsche Bank 140, and Goldman Sachs 152. So, I do think the Hood dump today was not really based on anything on earnings. I mean, got all these guys upgrading the stock. I the macro was ugly and as a result, Hood being a proxy for a broader bull market. If the market's getting hit, then Hood is getting hit. So, that's what we got. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate you all being here. Um, I know it's been an ugly day today, but we will live to survive another day. We will keep going from there. This was a quick week. This was a very quick week and we're going to see where we got on Friday. I have like two missed calls from my dad. I got to call him back. He's probably wondering what the hell's going on with the market. So, I gota got to play therapist with my dad after this. But thank you everybody for being here. Appreciate it. I'll be with Steve tonight at 9:30. We'll talk more markets. You guys saying Trump is live, bro. Trump is not live. He's not live again. I feel like you guys are just saying it's a troll, but there's enough of you saying it where I think he's actually live. No, he's not live. Okay, it's just everyone trolling. Uh, I'll be back for the market open tomorrow and then uh tonight with Steve, dude, he called me at 2 p.m. but I was in a meeting and then he just called me right now and I'm like then I'm live. I'm like, "All right, I gotta I gotta call him." Every time we get on the phone, he's like, "So, what happened today?" I'm like, "Dad, it's like it's like it goes up, it goes down." He's like, "Yeah, but why is it down?" And I give him some reasons. He's like, "Well, it's like it just this is what's happening." But, you know, it's kind of fun because it's like it's a it's it's it's like the stock market allowing us to bond, you know, because uh it's it's a it's always good to have a if if you're able to keep a relationship with your parents. I know as you get older, it's hard. You need something to talk about, right? And the stock market kind of creates that thing for me and my dad. And so, that's what we we talk about. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. I'll be live tonight with Steve and then tomorrow for the market open. Bye everybody. Have a good one.