Hey everybody, welcome back to the channel. We are back on another episode of the daily recap. It has been five long months, but we are back. Over the past couple months, had grandparents come over from India, was moving out of my parents house to this new apartment. So, honestly, it just became impossible to do a daily recap every single day. But, I'm excited to be back. For those that are new to the channel, if you've been uh subscribed over the past couple months or just recently discovered the channel through the live streams, we do a market open and market close every day, and I truly enjoy doing those two live streams every day. The daily recap is a concept I came up with about seven, eight months ago to just consolidate all the most important stories in the market open, market close that people don't have time to sit through and listen to for four or five hours a day into one concise video 8:00 p.m. Eastern every day that people can watch, they can wake up to. They can while they're brushing their teeth, while they're in the car, while they're taking the kids to work, just something that gets you a little bit of a gist of what happened in the stock market um during the day. And so unfortunately, again, life took over. Couldn't do it for the past five months. just got really really busy. But now that I'm settled into my apartment, I'm very excited to do this every single day. One reason I really love doing it is it keeps me a lot more concise in analyzing what happened during the day. And then the next day when I kind of go back into like what happened the day before because I did a daily recap and I can kind of consolidate what happened, why it happened, and the implications of it happening. And you put all that stuff together to continuously an analyze the markets every day. kind of really got to be on top of your game on understanding every single thing that's happening from a macros perspective, earnings perspective, AI perspective now in this market. And so I love doing them. I just really got busy over the past couple months, but we're back and I'm excited to do it. The goal is 15 minutes each. You know, I can yap. I can really yap. I mean, I know how to yap. So, some of these daily recaps, unfortunately, used to be like 25, 30 minutes long. And I agree with a lot of people who love the format, but they were just like, "Dude, 2530 minutes is like not even a recap, right? It's like it ends up being a podcast." So, I do want to keep them 15 minutes. We're going to try to do five stories a day, three minutes each on each story, and try to consolidate to the most important stories every single day. And hopefully we can get that to 15 minutes. This episode will probably be a little bit longer than 15 minutes because of this intro, but the goal is 15 minutes every single day, daily recap. And hopefully people that don't get the market open, market close can catch up with all the most important news of the day. And you know, given Wall Street is the greatest show on earth and it has been a crazy year. And I don't think the years that are coming are going to be any less crazier, having the ability to look back on every single day and see what the heck is happening and try to analyze it to the best that we can. I think it's going to be important because this might be one of the greatest decades to be an investor and hopefully we get to cover it every single day together. So, thank you everybody for being here. Daily recaps are back Monday through Thursday 8:00 PM Eastern every day and let's get into it. All right, so first story of the day is what happened over the weekend with China. Now, obviously we had the first negative 3% down day on the S&P 500 for the first time since April 21st. Uh pretty monstrous day. Obviously, we haven't seen that type of a draw down in the past 5 months. However, Sunday afternoon, Trump tweeted, "Don't worry about China. It will all be fine." Highly respected President Xi just had a bad moment. He doesn't want depression for his country and neither do I. The USA wants to help China, not hurt it. Obviously, Trump deescalated the situation. Bent deescalated the situation this morning when he said, "Hey, President Trump wants to work with China." JD Vance yesterday deescalated the situation. At the end of the day, I think the way this market is culminating is by basically getting everyone to recognize, wait a second, the structural problems with the stock market or the structural problems with the economy in order to have pain on the stock market needs to be a lot greater than a Trump tweet because although we got that 3% draw down on Friday, which like look it was it was it was bound to happen at some point. You hadn't had a red day in so long. You were going to have some reason that would create some some some downside momentum. October is also the most volatile month of the year. So kind of got served up on a silver platter with Trump saying something about China. He mentioned tariffs and then you have the the the the sort of hot streak weak we were on. It all kind of collided in one place and it came down. Today the rebound was 800 billion added to the S&P 500. It was a massively green day across the entire board. And I think the dip buying momentum came back. The institutional volume potentially came back today. We'll get uh more aggregated consolidated data on that over the coming days in terms of how much money is actually buying this dip. And you're starting to see more and more people say, "Look, Trump tweeting about China or China retaliating by saying, "Hey, the United States is being mean and you know, we want to we're going to defend ourselves and we have the right to defend ourselves." Which by the way, China also deescalated to an extent by saying, "Hey, like we also want to work with the United States, but if they're going to fight us, we're going to fight back." Like both sides at the end of the day, it's an ego match. And I think what Trump did on Friday was essentially check China's ego. And quite frankly, I think a lot of stuff got lost in translation in terms of how the communication ended up playing out, which is why he kind of fixed his statements going into Sunday night. And now the market's kind of back to normal. S&P 500 was at 673. It fell all the way to 647. Let me know in the chat if you bought any of the dip or if you took a swing at some of these stocks. I know a lot of people bought BMR, Amazon Grab. Those were some of the main names that I saw. JP Morgan this morning said A to buy the dip. B, they said the top three stocks that retail bought based on their data, Meta, Nvidia, and Robin Hood. So, I mean, look, Hood went from 150 to 130. Nvidia went from 195 to 180. There were some pretty decent opportunities. Bit mine went from 62 to 47. Now, it's back at 56. The broader point is this is a market that is hard to deny the earnings growth, which we'll talk about in a bit. The Fed getting ready to cut rates, which is also going to be very important for earnings growth. and these random one-off tweets that might feel like it's destroying the market in the short term. When the VIX spikes up by 30% end up being that I think the takeaway on this is that when the VIX spikes the way it spikes, just like we saw in April, it usually ends up being a buying opportunity. To have a prolonged downturn, you need the VIX to slowly go up every day. When it happens all at once, it's likely peak panic, peak fear. You end up buying the dip. And for those that did, you ended up not doing too bad. So, let me know if you bought the dip. And it seems like the markets are starting to once again be in the most hated Vshape as they were back in April. All right, next story we've got is Broadcom and OpenAI. So, this was a pretty big deal today. I didn't expect to see this deal, but we saw it. Um, last week, OpenAI partnered with AMD, six gawatt deal. The terms of the contract were that AMD would get uh around call it 70 to 80 billion of revenue probably upwards of 100 billion of revenue from OpenAI over the life cycle of the deal. OpenAI would have to deploy hundreds of thousands of AMD MI450 chips. And as a result, OpenAI would get 160 million shares or warrants of AMD stock at a scent each effectively for free. Uh which would be about 10% of the company, which is pretty cool, right, for opening eye to own 10% of AMD. And you have to ask yourself, is Luca Sue kind of not in the best position of leverage and negotiation if she has to give up 10% of her company? But regardless, the stock went up 35% in a day. If you've been holding AMD, I mean, you've done very well. Uh that stock has been dubbed the advanced money destroyer and it turned into the advanced money duplicator literally and it quite frankly made a lot of people that follow this channel in the chat uh millionaires overnight. So incredible story, incredible name. The week before that, OpenAI signed a $und00 billion deal with Nvidia that would allow Nvidia to invest $und00 billion into OpenAI rather than OpenAI getting a percentage of Nvidia's company. Today, OpenAI came out with an announcement that they are now partnering with Broadcom. And the idea of this partnership is that it's going to be a 10 gawatt data center buildout, which is a massive amount. That's 4 gawatts more than what they did with AMD. And it's going to be custom ASIC chips that Broadcom's going to be delivering to OpenAI. OpenI did a partnership with Broadcom uh leadership today as well. And basically in the podcast, Sam Alman said, "Even if we had 30 gigawatts of data, it would still not be enough for the amount of demand that we see coming through." Greg Brockman, the president of OpenAI, also said, "We don't think the industry and the broader landscape of people that are interested in AI understand the computational challenges that are necessary to actually build out what we think will inevitably be artificial general intelligence." What is the takeaway for investors? First of all, if you're in Broadcom, congrats. Stock was up 10% on the day. If you're in AMD last week, congrats. Stock was up 30%. If you're in Nvidia, the stock was stuck at 170. This OpenAI deal got them up to around the 190s, so not too bad. And if you're in Oracle at 230 or anywhere below 230, this deal with OpenAI, the 350% increase in remaining performance applications pumped them up to uh 350. Now the stock's at 300, but obviously OpenAI has done very well for Oracle. The takeaway is if you are in any of these AI names, I think the first thing to understand is that OpenAI is at the center of all this. If you're an Oracle, Broadcom, Nvidia, uh AMD, Micron, SMCI, all the other derivative plays inside of that semiconductor ecosystem, if OpenAI doesn't work, we're going to have some issues. So, I think the first thing to take away is that OpenAI is one of the most important companies in the AI landscape. There's a reason they're worth $500 billion. Whether you love Sam Alman or hate him, it has to work. Second of all, there's a chart that has been floating around that I showed in the market open for the past couple of days. Uh 800 million weekly active users are now are now on ChadBt. It took the internet the whole worldwide web 13 years to get to 800 million users. It's a chatbt two and a half. So the level of growth that we've seen in usage and that's just chatbt that's not Gemini Xi anthropic. I mean the level of growth we're seeing is exponential. I don't think we've ever seen that. I mean I know we have never seen this type of growth before in technology just through the raw data. And then the creative financing that OpenAI is engaging with in all these deals to be able to lock in all these contracts to me is because Sam Alman said a couple of years ago he needs a trillion dollars. He's not going to get a trillion dollars handed to him, but he's going to get into a lot of these deals that are very creative and financially engineered in order to get that trillion dollars. If Sam Alman and OpenAI are right that the level of demand they are anticipating is unprecedented and that is why they are securing all these massive levels of deals when it comes to gigawatts and gigawatts of data centers which by the way helps Iran Cororeweave Nebas Bit Farms CleanSpark all the other companies Galaxy Digital um Marathon the the Bitcoin mining companies that have transitioned into the Nebuses of of of data centers and now they're completely turning around their business models to supply the demand to the hyperscalers. Obviously, it helps Google, Microsoft, and Amazon if there's that much demand. It means the story continues. If you're in those stocks, obviously you've got to keep up with the valuations and execution of those companies. But the broader macro theme for AI based on these four Open AI deals, Oracle, AMD, Nvidia, and Broadcom that we've seen over the past four weeks, it doesn't seem like it's slowing down. All right, next topic for the day. BMR, Tom Lee. He is buying more Ethereum. It took me a while to fully understand the digital asset treasury thesis. Tom Lee was nice enough to come on the market open and I think a lot of you guys got to watch him on the show explain what he's doing. Um, and then after that it kind of started making a lot more sense to me. There's two reasons I'm excited about Ethereum and those reasons have been really well articulated by Tom Lee on like a hundred podcasts over the past couple months which is stable coins and tokenization. If you believe that Wall Street wants to tokenize traditional financial assets that's happening on Ethereum, that's a reason to be bullish on Ethereum. If you believe that stable coins are going to be a new way that we transact and that money gets settled in different countries, crossber payments, etc., that's going to be done on Ethereum. In fact, the stable coin market cap right now is 305 billion. 159 billion of that total stable coin market cap supply is on Ethereum. So, in a nutshell, the reason I'm bullish on Ethereum and the reason I'm starting to learn more about Ethereum is because Wall Street, Robin Hood, PayPal, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Black Rockck, they are all getting excited about Ethereum. And when Wall Street gets excited, you've got trillions of dollars that are ready to institutionalize the asset. BMR is just Tom Lee institutionalizing the asset at a faster pace than any of us can by issuing stock to shareholders at a premium, a premium to your net asset value. And based on that net asset value premium, he is able to buy more Ethereum because he's able to dilute stock and issue stock. And as Ethereum rises, the premium on the MNAV rises as well. We've seen this story play out with Micro Strategy. Bitcoin went up 10x. Micro Strategy went up 30x uh since Micro Strategy started implementing the strategy and it has worked out really well. Today, Tom Lee came out and said they have 3 million Ethereum. They bought 202,000 Ethereum over the 3% draw down that we got from uh from the Trump Truth Social China Post. Uh that probably got them to buy Ethereum at around that 37 $3,800 price range. And they now have more than half the supply of Ethereum. They're trying to get to 5% or sorry, they have 2.5% of their 5%. So they're halfway towards their full supply of getting to that alchemy of 5%. The alchemy of 5% is essentially this concept by Tom Lee of saying, "Hey, we can start staking when we get 5% of Ethereum and we can start lending out Ethereum. We can start building applications on top of the Ethereum network that we're building." And so at its core, he wants to get to 5% of Ethereum. I think he's going to get there pretty soon. I mean, it looks like by February, March, if he continues this pace of buying and if Ethereum tends to uh do well, you know, he has a public price target of 10 to 12,000 by the end of the year. I don't know if that's going to happen. I don't know if his Bitcoin price target of 200,000 is going to happen. If it does happen, I would be very happy. I have a large Robin Hood position. Robin would probably do very well if those assets go up. But at its core, I think Ethereum long-term will be worth more than what it is today at 4,000. And these dips are just opportunities for Tom Lee to load up. If Ethereum goes up, he's able to issue more stock, able to buy more Ethereum. And if Ethereum goes up longterm, you're going to have that MNAV. Just like a company would have a price to earnings, right? Like the reason you pay a high price to earnings on a company that's growing really fast is because A, they're growing really fast. be the quality of the company warrants a higher multiple that you pay to access their earnings. In the context of Bitmine, the velocity at which they're able to buy Ethereum warrants the ability and their ability to raise money, which again is not easy to do. There's a lot of digital asset treasure companies out there. There's it's not that easy to raise money and then execute the deployment of that capital in a way that Bitine has done. A lot of that being the Tom Lee premium. He is a guy who gets people to believe in the thesis. And you kind of need people to believe in that thesis in order to have that premium against your net asset value which now is $12.9 billion. He's able to do it. And as a result, because he's able to do it, I continue to trust Tom Lee, continue to hold on to my BitMine. And now they have 2.5% of the entire supply of Ethereum that's out there. All right, next story today. Howard Marks. So, um, this was pretty incredible. If you know anything about Howard Marks, he is a value investor. He is one of the best value investors of all time. Uh he is someone I looked into very deeply because he does have a massive position in Grab. Grab is a name that I am uh pretty excited about. I have a pretty big position. A lot of you guys know my thesis on Grab. If you haven't read it, grab thesis.com. You can easily read the thesis. Um by the way, my deep dives on Substack, they'll be launching this week. So amitsdeepdives.com for those that want to subscribe. Uh free to subscribe. No payw wall. You'll be able to get all my deep dives, which is my long-term written research that's going to be out starting this week. Howard Marks is someone I started studying because of his interest in grap. And so I'm like, okay, let me get to know Howard Marks. And over the course of the past three months, I really got to understand Howard Marks. Last month, he did an interview on Bloomberg. And let's just say he wasn't the most excited about the state of valuations. He wasn't the most excited about the stock market. Broadly speaking, he said he's cautious and worried that there might be the early days of a bubble forming. Today, I don't know what changed over the past month. And you can go watch the Bloomberg interview from a month ago. Type in Howard Marks of Bloomberg on YouTube and and go watch the interview because this month we got a full 180. Three things he said this morning. Number one, I don't see mania in the market right now. I mean that's that's that's a pretty big statement for Howard Marks to say I don't see euphoric mania. Howard Marks is the guy who actually predicted the do bubble. He made his name during that time. So for him to say I don't see mania, you know, one could say it's a top signal. Another person could say well Howard Marks probably understands a little bit about bubbles. Number two, he said the S&P 500 is expensive which I will agree with as well. trades at 26 times, historically trades at 18 times, but he said the quality of companies are much better. So, you've got him making the excuse, same excuse that Tom Lee makes, same excuse that uh you know, your favorite equity analyst that has a 7,000 price target on the S&P is the same excuse they will make, which is like, yeah, it's expensive, but like the quality of the companies are better. Nvidia, Amazon is not Proctor and Gamble and Coca-Cola, so we can't be that upset about the multiple expansion that we're seeing. And then finally, he said, I quote, "I'd struggle to call the market a bubble right now." I think it's important to cover this because Howard Marks is not some random average investor, and he's not some guy who's going to say something just for the hell of saying it. He usually speaks his mind. I mean, he's a very authentic individual. That's why a lot of people respect and value his philosophy. For him to come out and say, "I don't think we're in a bubble, and that valuations are aggressive, but they're not unwarranted, and that the S&P 500 is filled with quality companies, and I don't see stock market mania." I mean, one could argue there's plenty of mania happening in the market and you know, you've got a lot of names that are very frothy that have tens of billions of dollars in market cap, don't have any revenues. Um, but I think Howard Marx's argument is well, if those companies go to zero, it doesn't really matter. If there was mania in Amazon, Nvidia, Microsoft, which means they would be trading at astronomically higher multiples than they are right now, MetaTrad at 25 times forward earnings. That's not expensive. Nvidia trades at 27 times, 2027. That's not expensive, right? It's just not. You probably don't have a bubble. So, I think it was very encouraging to see one of the biggest value investors come out today and say he doesn't think the market's in that bad of a situation from a euphoric valuation perspective. And as a result, you know, if we have good earnings and you have some of the big guys thinking that this market does make sense, maybe there's a world where the markets not only go higher, but justifiably based on the earnings growth continue to have the momentum to go higher. All right, last topic for the day. Thank you again for joining the daily recap. Hopefully, we'll be able to make sure it's efficient every single day at that five stories, 3 minutes each, 15 minutes an episode. Um, again, really, really appreciate all the support and thank you all for joining. We got that 100,000 subscriber uh plaque right there in the in the background and it's because of you guys. So, thank you for consuming the content and for subscribing and being here every single day. Gold and silver, gold and silver and copper and all precious metals for for that respect. Gold prices at a new alltime high today. Gold is up 65% year-to- date. Silver is up 69% 69.65% year-to date. Copper is up 30% year-to date. I mean, it is really hard to calculate the magnitude of the move that is happening in precious metals. And obviously Trump has said he wants to put an emphasis on rare earth metals, rare earth minerals. Uh you've seen TMQ, USR, MP, all these stocks go up three to 5x on the year based on Trump either taking an equity stake in those companies. Lithium Americas is another one, CRML, Critical uh Minerals is another one, or uh just signaling that they are going to pull back regulation like they did for TMQ on Friday uh or on Thursday, getting rid of some of the uh Biden era regulations that stopped the mining of certain areas in Alaska and TMQ went to the moon. So, a lot of these companies don't have revenue. A lot of these companies don't have earnings. However, in this market, that's not exactly what matters. Oaklo, a company that's in the nuclear space that has no revenue. It's worth 25 billion because maybe one day Trump gives them a $5 billion deal or Microsoft gives them a $5 billion deal because Microsoft needs a lot of energy for data centers and these small nuclear reactors, SMOR, small modular reactors are going to be positioned somewhere in the nuclear ecosystem and it might go to a Google, a Microsoft or a Meta or any other entity that needs a lot of energy and then boom, Oaklo gets revenue overnight. I think the same thing is happening with these rare earth metals and rare earth mineral companies. So then the question simply becomes why are gold and silver running? And I think there's two simple answers and I would love to know thoughts in the comments as well for why you think gold and silver are moving the way they're moving. Number one, um you're going to need a lot of those precious metals to build out data centers. Copper is one of the main ones that my uncle in Singapore who's been, you know, he's been he's been deeply studying copper for a long time, um he started talking to me a couple weeks ago and said, "Dude, all these data centers, you need a lot of copper." And I started doing my own research and I was like, "Shit, you do you do need a lot of copper. You also need a lot of aluminum." I mean, you all these precious metals are starting to find a bid, I think, in the renewed AI capex um I guess you could say philosophy that's being formed, which is that you need as much compute as possible. You need as much capacity as as possible, which means the prices on all these assets are getting bid up even before they're being utilized because the market already understands how much demand is coming. Which is what we're seeing with all these data center stocks that are getting excitement. The other simple argument for why they're running up is because cash is not where you want to be. Goldman Sachs came out three weeks ago and says, "Dude, if the dollar is losing purchasing power and the dollar is not really going to be the most exciting asset over the next couple years, uh which by the way, the dollar is down about 10% for the year, you've got to be somewhere else. You got to be in digital gold like a Bitcoin. You've got to be in an Ethereum. You've got to be in the S&P 500. You got to be in the NASDAQ. You got to be in tech stocks. Or you got to be in copper, gold, silver, precious metals that are going to do a lot better than the dollar. I mean, to give some context, it took gold 10 years to double from 2010 to 2020. It took gold two and a half years to double from 2022 or sorry from less than two and a half years about a year and a half from 2024 January to now to double. So, it has taken a long time for gold to start getting this type of interest, but now you got gold basically doubling in a year and a half. And the question becomes why? And I think the answer is you're going to need more and more precious metals in a variety of use cases across this entire ecosystem for AI, which is very important. But B, you don't want to be stuck in cash. And so, I would be very curious from people in the comments on do you believe this gold, silver, copper, precious metals rally is real? Do you think it can survive? Do you think it can last? Is it a bubble? Does it have enough momentum to keep going? or is this a multi-deade breakout that's happening and if rates are coming down which means earnings are going to be not only good which we get into bank earnings next week bank earnings start tomorrow so we'll talk more about bank earnings but rates are coming down which means you have a premium on earnings growth and you have a premium on anything that is growing outside of the dollar which is not growing as the rates come down which means the dollar is less valuable does that mean precious metals continue to have a bid I mean I would love to know what people think but it seems like the rally in gold silver and copper is not stopping All right, thank you everybody for joining. Deeply appreciate being back for the first episode of the Daily Recap. This one was probably a little bit longer than 15 minutes. We will try to make it as efficient as possible going forward in the future. Monday through Thursday, every day 8:00 PM Eastern, we'll be live. And yeah, let's get back to the daily recap. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. I'll see you guys tomorrow on another