Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. I'm Steven Carroll and this is Here's Why, where we take one news story and explain it in just a few minutes with our experts here at Bloomberg. That fiscally fraught four I think are very vulnerable to significant worse selloffs. Luku warning that the deficit could actually reach 6%. The largest sustained fiscal deficits we'd seen in a really long time. Those are pushing our star higher. The US fiscal situation is that of of a nation that's trying to work its way out of a recession. High level of deficit is potentially inflationary. There are still people who pedal the idea that we could just abandon economic responsibility, cast off any constraints on spending. They are wrong. France is breaking records for short-lived governments. Britain's Labor Party has seen its popularity collapse within a year of its landslide election win. And by contrast, Italy's current government is one of the most stable in recent history. Governments across the developed world are more indebted than ever, forcing difficult choices from politicians who see a greater proportion of their public finances going to servicing their debts. How they address this challenge is also now even more closely tied to their political fortunes. Here's why debt is now a driving political force. Our head of economics and government, Stephanie Flanders, joins me now for more. Stephanie, first of all, how big a problem is debt in developed economies? Well, I guess the quick thing to say is it's a much bigger problem than it was 10 or 15 years ago before the global financial crisis, the early years of the 2000s. Um, we used to talk about debt in advanced economies being in the range of 40 to 70% of GDP. There were exceptions to that, but you remember even when countries joining the Euro zone, they were supposed to get to around 60% of their national income level of debt. And that for most countries was not a big heavy lift. But when we had the global financial crisis, governments had to bail all the banks out and support the economy for a long time. We had debt take a step change up and then another step change came when we had COVID and all the expenditure associated with that. And you end up with a situation where debt has more or less doubled in many economies relative to the overall size of the economy. What's funny is that although the debt rose quite significantly after the global financial crisis, it's really only been a problem recently because you had a combination of high debt and interest rates going up. You had an amazing situation before that where although debt has gone up a lot, the cost of servicing that debt had been going down and down and down. You know, we went into this era of sometimes having zero negative interest rates and that was making it very easy for governments to ignore the problem of debt, the big stock of debt sitting there. but no longer. But when we think about the world's developed economies, are they all in a similar boat? How similar, say, is the situation in France or in the UK, both of which are seeing impacts on the political scene? There's some structural forces that are common to all countries and then there's specific things that are causing markets to focus on one aspect more than another and making things particularly difficult for government. So you know the structural things are you know I've already mentioned it it's interest rates have taken this kind of step change up in response to the inflation we had after co that's made it more expensive to finance the debt everywhere and suddenly finance ministers are noticing that a much larger share of the money coming in in tax revenues is going out in the form of just servicing debt which no no finance minister really likes to do. They want to spend on hospitals and schools and and so the voters want them to do that. So there's there's that structural problem. There's also the problems we often talk about aging populations, the pressure of health spending. All of those things are not going away. I think what is distinctive in different countries is how much those problems are really sort of biting and interreacting with the politics of the country. So in the UK, the stock of debt is actually not as high as it is in France. It's around 100% of GDP. And uh we have a pretty sort of reasonable approach to stabilizing that debt. But unfortunately we have very low maturity debt. So our debt sort of rolls over very quickly. You quite often have to go back into the market to refinance your debt. And that means that it's been much more susceptible to that rise in interest rates than say France which actually had slightly older debt. It had a higher maturity debt. the average bit of debt owed to the French government was kind of seven or eight years and it's quite a lot shorter than that in the case of the UK. So there were specific things that caused the problem to be different in different countries. In the UK it's a sort of liquidity problem, not so much a stock problem. People in the financial markets just worry a bit year to year about how that money is going to be raised to finance the debt. In France it's more people look at it and say well they can they can finance it this year and next year but you know when are they actually going to bring it down? when is the political system going to coalesce enough to actually take action on this? Is the United States in the same situation or is it exceptional in this regard? So, if you didn't know that you were talking about the US and you just looked at their numbers, you'd think it was sort of a worse case than Italy. It's got higher debt, 120% of of GDP. It has a higher fiscal deficit. It's borrowing a lot even though the economy has been very strong. It's actually, you know, not in a recession, which is pretty unusual. and it has a Congress and a president that have are now adding to debt, passing tax cuts and other things that are costing a lot of money. If you didn't know it was the US, you'd say all of those things, it's heading for a disaster. What the US, of course, is is exceptional. And the one of the big things it has in its favor is the dollar as the reserve currency for the whole world. It is also often a safe haven for financial markets. And probably most important of all, it's been growing a lot faster than the European countries I've been talking about. So it doesn't have to work so hard to finance that debt yeartoear even though it is growing and growing and people do wonder whether the situation is going to shift in the next few years in terms of people worrying a lot more about the US but at the moment if surprisingly little how are political leaders dealing with the challenges then of of higher debt and debt repayments are there good or bad examples that we can look to I was thinking about this and I was all the good examples I could think of they all seem to be a long time ago and there's very few good examples today. So if you look back in the early '9s, Sweden had very high levels of debt and actually had an interesting time where the Social Democrats, the left-wing party said, "Look, as long as we haven't got on top of this debt and spending, we're going to be beholden to the financial markets, we won't have our own freedom of maneuver as a country and we won't be able to do the things we want to do." And they took some really difficult decisions various times. Other countries do that. We even saw it in the US in the 80s. Long-term problems they were facing with social security got fixed well ahead of time in the UK as well. We had changes to to pension rules that actually longterm reduce the cost of spending. There hasn't been a lot of that in the last few years, I have to say. And when you talk about how well politicians are dealing with it, there aren't many that are really dealing with it at all. Can debt via the bond markets actually help to rein in politicians who might have more unconventional fiscal plans or who are ignoring some of their debt problems? I mean, that's what we've traditionally seen. And you know, you you remember there was that famous, you know, the adviser James Carville to to Bill Clinton said, "Oh, when I when I die, I want to come back as a bond trader because they get to call the shots." And it used to be that that kind of pressure did make a difference to government's changing policy. And of course, we've seen that in extreme cases in the last few years. Liz Trust government was famously brought down by the bond market's reaction, among other things, the bond market's reaction to her budget, her emergency budget. But if you look at the US, as I said before, it just doesn't seem to be operating in a way it might have done in the past. I mean, the US is the only developed economy to have seen its 10-year cost of borrowing actually go down slightly since the start of this year. I mean, it had gone up a bit since before that, but when you think about how much debt has now in the future is going to go up as a result of Donald Trump's uh big beautiful bill and the sort of lack of responsible policym in in Washington, it's in a way the bond market's kind of letting the US off the hook. Do we have any conception that voters are making political choices because of the debt problem or paying attention to it in a close way? I mean, the curious thing about this is if you look at opinion polls, the majority of voters and probably more than a few years ago are worried about debt say it's a big problem that the government needs to fix. In the case of the UK, people more generally are sort of worried that the government has kind of lost control of the economy or at least has has lost the ability to do the things that it wants to do because of this bind they're in over debt and the low level of growth. But then you look at what voters actually vote for and by and large they haven't shown a great desire to vote for parties that are promising tough decisions. You know, in the UK, one of the things long-term that's really affecting the structural increase in spending is the pensions triple lock. This commitment to always increasing the state pension by either 2.5% or the right of average earnings um or the rate of inflation, whichever of them is higher. It's been consistently rising the pension spending as a share of pretty much everything. But no party, even when they pay lip service to wanting to control the debt, is willing to say to voters, you know what, that's got to change. Okay. Thanks to you, Stephanie Flanders, our head of economics and government at Bloomberg. For more explanations like this from our team of 3,000 journalists and analysts around the world, go to bloomberg.com/explainers. I'm Steven Carroll. This is Here's Why. I'll be back next week with more. Thanks for listening.