You said the Federal Reserve is going to start expanding its balance sheet.
>> My guess is that my guess is that they will have to otherwise they will lose control over the the repo market and they don't want that to happen.
>> Joseph, great to see you. Welcome back to Monetary Matters.
>> Thanks so much for inviting me. It's a pleasure to be here and congratulations on the success on your show. Such great guests over the past few months.
>> Appreciate you saying that. Joseph, obviously you're writing at fedgu.com. You used to be a senior trader for the New York Federal Reserve, which is where, you know, the bulk of the monetary operations go. Just coming out of the Federal Reserve meeting, we had the interest rate cut from 4.1% roughly to to 3.8% roughly. A lot of questions about what the the Federal Reserve is going to do in December. Is there going to be a cut? The market was pricing a cut. Pal said, "Not so fast." Uh his exact words were a cut in December is not a foregone conclusion. Far from it. which for Jay Powell that's basically saying like did I stutter? You know that's a that's a big big bombshell. But Joseph want to set aside rates for a second. You know the 20 minute 30-minut mark we we'll talk more about rates. Want to start out with the balance sheet and money market which is your expertise. That's what you were doing at at the New York Fed. Powell dropped a big announcement that the Federal Reserve's reduction in its balance sheet or quantitative tightening QT is going to be effectively over on December 1st. So break this down for our audience here today. what's the significance of it and what's your interpretation of the the specific mechanics?
>> First, I'll talk a little bit about why they start they're stopping QT and then I'll talk about the much more much bigger question that is what the final composition of the Fed's balance sheet is going to be going forward because that's the part that's actually going to have a market impact. So, the Fed has been shrinking its balance sheet through QT for some time. And when they shrink their balance sheet, what they're doing is they're solely withdrawing liquidity out of the financial system. Now they want to make sure that their balance sheet is just small enough so that the banking system has enough uh cash to function. Now a bank holds deposits at the Fed. They're called reserves. So that's what they're thinking about. Now the problem is that the Fed doesn't actually know what the right size uh well right size for their balance sheeting is or another way of saying this is how many reserves banking system needs. Now they have models and so forth but at the end of the day they don't really know. Now, the last time they did QT, they kept shrinking their balance sheet. And in September of 2019, there was a tremendous spike in the repo market that forced them to intervene. Now, the Fed thinks that one of the reasons why there's that huge spike in the repo market back then was because they overdid QT. So, they're very eager to avoid that right now. So, when they're looking at whether or not they're shrinking their balance sheet too much, they look at market rates, specifically market rates in short-term funding markets like repo rates and the federal funds rate. Now, over the past few months, what we've seen is that uh the reverse repo facility balances have gone down slowly and now are basically around zero. So reverse repo facility is basically a place where money market funds park their excess cash and the Fed looks at it as kind of a repository of excess liquidity in the financial system. So when that facility went to zero repo rates began to gradually drift higher and over the past few weeks they've traded higher than Fed funds and higher than interest on reserves. That sends a strong signal to the Fed that you know maybe we should stop doing this QT and that's what Cher Powell mentioned today. Now QT has actually uh been tapered over the past few months. So it's really not a big deal in the market anymore. Uh but they noted today that they're going to stop it effective December. So that's kind of the big thing they did with their balance sheet. Now from my perspective when I look at repo rates and since the Fed likes to focus on this, if you're at the Federal Reserve, one of the most important things you can do is you have to control short-term interest rates because that's how you adjust policy, right? you're trying to toggle short-term interest rates to adjust the financial conditions through the wider uh market and impact the real economy. So, your bread and butter is being able to control short-term interest rates. So, repo rates are part of that complex and it's driven by supply and demand like anything else. Part of the supply of funding available to lend and repo is related to the size of the Fed's balance sheet. That's that's definitely true there. But the demand though, that's largely because the United States runs a 2 trillion fiscal deficit and at the end of the day, some of the people who buy the Treasury debt finances those purchases uh in the repo market. So that's kind of necessary because let's say that you're issuing $2 trillion in debt. Let's say that you you're you're um you know the US Treasury, you show up to the market, you sell like 10 billion. Most people don't have that lying uh you know under a couch or in their pocket or something like that. So you need someone who's be able to elastically expand their balance sheet. So buy that on leverage because if you buy it on leverage you get the money instantly, right? You don't have to rely on you know inflows from your investors or premium payments from your uh insurance people who buy insurance from you. So at the end of the day uh a lot of the purchases in the cash treasury market uh to finance the US Treasury are funded in the repo market and as you have tremendous uh issuance demand for repo increases. So the Fed right now they're stopping their balance sheet thinking that you know this is this is going to have an impact on uh repo rates but at the end of the day as long as the fiscal deficit continues to grow you have increasing demand for repo funding. And so rates are going to go higher. So my expectation is that uh they're going to have to be adding liquidity into the financial system shortly. And they can do this in a couple ways. One thing that's different this time compared to the past is that they have something called a standing repo facility. And what that means is that uh if you are a securities dealer, you can go and borrow from the Fed uh in borrow repo from the Fed basically anytime you want. and they've been doing that but really not a lot and also obviously not enough to constrain the repo rates and there are probably technical technical reasons for that um with regard to okay super in the weeds but if if you're an SRF you're barring in triparty repo and that's not balance sheet friendly it's not netible and so I think that's part of reason uh but what they're likely to do going forward is once they realize that stopping QT uh does not put downward pressure on repo rates. Once they see rep rates continue to rise, they're probably going to be buying a lot of bills to add liquidity into the financial system. They call these reserve management purchases and they did that in 2019 as well. So that could happen actually maybe as soon as December. I mean it's really hard to say about about these things because so much of it is uh opaque. Um like the spike in repo markets in September 2019 came kind of out of the blue. I I was there at that time. It was kind of exciting. Um so I I expect them to be expanding their balance sheet again shortly. But you know that that's actually pretty technical. The really really big picture that's going toffect impact markets going forward is just what the ultimate composition of the Fed's balance sheet will be. Now, that's kind of important because the way that the Fed impacts market pricing through their balance sheet is through the supply and demand of Treasury securities to the private sector. So, if the Fed, for example, is going out and buying a bunch of 10ear treasuries, there's less treasury treasuries available for the private sector, right? Less supply, uh lower lower interest rates. Now, right now, the Fed has a portfolio whose duration is pretty high, much higher than the overall markets. That's by design. They bought all these Treasury securities because they wanted to put downward pressure on longdated interest rates. So, they swallowed out a whole bunch of duration on the FOMC right now, and this is something they're still discussing. But from what we've heard, and we've heard from a couple governors right now, is that they're going to be pretty hawkish on the balance sheet. Uh, Governor Waller, for example, would like to, you know, maybe just hold uh, you know, hold a lot more Treasury bills, as many Treasury bills as they have reserve balances. So, that'd be upping it significantly by over a couple trillion. So, what does that mean? Well, if you're holding uh, if you have to hold, let's say, three trillion bills, that means you're going to have hold fewer coupons, and that means that the private sector is going to have to hold a lot more duration. So, you know, that's kind of uh super hawkish um in that it will increase the supply of duration to the market and maybe they'll do that solely and really depends on uh who's on the committee. Another member uh Governor Bowman has actually even suggested that the Fed should outright sell mortgage back securities. Now, I mean that's going to be, you know, so if you sell mortgage back securities, the market's going to have to absorb it. that means higher mortgage rates and uh you know that's that could be potentially pretty disruptive and uh I think it's going to make a lot of people in the White House unhappy. But listen, I think what I've taken away from this so far is that the people who have been very hawkish on the balance sheet uh have been the Trump appointees, the same people who have been clamoring for rate cuts over the past, you know, few meetings. So I think that suggests that maybe there's there's the Fed is still functioning as a you know pretty independent organization. I'm just talking about Governor Bowman invol and governor uh Waller because they were the people who have been climbing for rate cuts in the past recent month going so far as to descent. So there's a narrative out there that all these guys because they're Trump appointees that they're just going to you know cut rates and do what the boss says. But, uh, what they're saying with the balance sheet is very hawkish. So, I think that it's it's more complicated than that narrative.
>> So, I I'll get back to the balance sheet in a second, but what you're saying is that the President Trump appointees on the Federal Reserve Board are uh uh they are not being super dovish and doing whatever the president wants on the balance sheet. Counter to the narrative that they are doing whatever the president wants on the interest rate story. How are you evaluating that narrative?
>> So, what I'll just add one more thing here. So in in uh the in 2019 the Fed had a confidential memo that was subsequently declassified to the public and in that memo they said that you know if we were more hawkish on the balance sheet longer dated interest rates would go up and we could cut more on the front end. And my sense is that rather than you know these these Trump appointees just you know trying to please the big man uh they are being very political and diplomatic in that they are giving the president the rate cuts he wants but on the other hand taking it away by being more hawkish on the balance sheet. So you end up with a steeper curve but the impact on the economy is about the same. So I I think that's actually what's happening at the Fed. So it doesn't seem like the Fed is uh completely uh part of the executive uh just yet. Probably will be in the coming years and maybe it should be. I I don't know, but not yet. Now on the interest rate part, I think we should kind of level set a little bit. So the last time we had a Fed meeting, we had the dot plot and the dot plot guided towards two more cuts this year. So a rate cut today and a rate cut in December. Now, between then and now, it's been a difficult time because of the government shutdown. The Fed has been basically flying blind, not receiving a lot of the important data that would usually inform their decisions. Now, they do have access to private data like ADP, like Adobe data, and they have their own internal network where they go and they talk to people and they write the Beechbook about it. Now between then and now it seems like the uh well inflation has come in a little bit better than expected but at the end of the day it's still around 3%. And the labor market still, you know, kind of slow, trudging along, low hiring, low firing, not doing anything there, but not deteriorating. And heading into today, the market was fooling pricing in one cut today and one cut in December. But the papa surprised the market by just openly pushing back against that. I think his memorable words were not a foregone conclusion, forcefully suggesting that maybe he's not going to cut rates in December. I think the rationale for that seems to be that the labor market is not deteriorating as much and if you look at these GDP now casts it looks like growth is you know growth is okay so that leads us to and you know not fully pricing in a December cut maybe it won't be there and that I think that's where we are in rates right now
>> so going into today there there was fully priced as you said that there would be a cut in December that cut has been taken away a good chunk of those odds. So the interest rate market has changed. Interesting when Powell said that not a foregone conclusion about December. You know the market stock S&P was down around 76 basis points regained a lot of that. So just goes to show we are not in 2022 anymore and you know the days of Jay Powell's hawkishness causing the stock market to decline two three 4% in a day and you know a large bare market in 2022 was we were not in that day. we not those those days are over you know um at least at least so far. Joseph want to get back to the balance sheet your your first comment. So the Federal Reserve has been withdrawing liquidity since the middle of 2022. Um just $8.9 trillion to around $6.5 trillion. So you know 2.2.3 trillion of liquidity removal balance sheet uh reduction. And it's been a a long and slow and somewhat steady process. That process is going to go on for 30 to 32 more days, but it is going to end on December 1st. And the uh the treasuries are going to just constantly be reinvested. So held steady. The mortgage back securities that the Federal Reserve owns are going as they mature, they are going to be reinvested into Treasury bills. So the aggregate balance sheets, the Federal Reserve's assets are going to stay flat, but the composition is going to change and mortgage back securities are going to basically be converted as they mature into Treasury bills. That itself is kind of a form of tightening, right? Because mortgage back securities have more duration and convexity risk and just replacing, you know, treasury bill has almost no risk at all. So you're you're supplying the private sector with an increased uh mortgage back security. So it's it is still somewhat a form of tightening, right?
>> Well, I I would point out that mortgage back securities that the Fed holds have very low coupons. So they're not going to prepay quickly. So someone who so mortgage back securities get paid down either monthly as principal payments go go go through and that takes 30 years or if someone refinances their mortgage that is to say takes out a new loan to repay the old loan. Now because the Fed bought these mortgages during the very low interest rates of the pandemic uh these are like you know 2 and a half 3% mortgages and no one's going to u you know take out a new mortgage to repay that. So the monthly principal payments that the Fed is receiving each month, it's really low. It's like, you know, say 14 15 billion a month. So it's I don't think it's going to have a big impact. Uh but but when it comes to the mortgage portfolio though, the Fed would like to have no mortgages on its balance sheet. It wants to have a final portfolio that's old treasuries. The rationale for that is that they feel that owning mortgages is basically the Fed allocating credit to the private sector and they don't want to do that even though they've been doing that for for quite some time and to an enormous enormous size too, right? They have a couple trillion under balance sheet. So if they wanted to go to an old Treasury portfolio, uh they probably have to wait 30 years. Now that's a long time and you don't really set goals and just take 30 years to achieve them. So there is a possibility that they could try to speed that up a little bit by selling mortgages. I think that's really unlikely. It'd be a very hawkish outcome. We haven't seen them do that before. Uh looking across the world, the Bank of England has uh shrink their balance sheet by by selling outright, but uh usually people just let them roll off. So that that is a possibility. So I think that's a that is one of the interesting things that happened today. mortgage principal principal is going to reinvest it in not just treasuries but treasury bills and Paul noted that's part of the effort to reduce the duration of their overall portfolio but again it's going to be so slow and and so minor it's not going to be meaningful I don't think it'll affect the market
>> and and now let's connect the balance sheet to repo as you said the Federal Reserve's reverse repo facility which are liabilities of the Federal Reserves has been shrinking down and are now effectively at zero. So the excess cash parked at the Federal Reserve has been deployed into the financial system as the Treasury has increased a lot of Treasury bills that have been bought by the money market funds that were buying um the the uh that were investing in in the repo facility. Um and and so now they are lending to hedge funds who are now buying the treasuries on on credit you know 10 50 100 times levered um I've heard 200 300 400 times levered um in the in the so-called basis trade so Joseph you know broad painting painting with a very broad brush the US deficit and US increased treasury issuance from 2000 to 2010 bought was funded a lot by foreigners a lot of which were China let's say 2010 to 2022 was financed by the Federal Reserve in yeah a ton but also domestic banks, domestic households, domestic corporates. A lot of the financing of the treasury and you know you've pointing this out on fedgu.com has been now from the hedge funds. So it's it's levered like a bank buying treasuries, but they're borrowing in the repo market and they're borrowing from money market funds and as a result the demand for borrowing as you say is insatiable. So the the repo rates are spiking and ever so slightly. So, you know, as Powell noted today, over the past three weeks, there have been elevated signs of I'll call it stress where sofur rates are 10, maybe 20 basis points above the the Federal Reserve rates. And, you know, I'll go both for the New York Fed as well as your website to get the exact data, but uh even the effective federal funds rate, which is supposed to be the most vanilla rate in the world, is like three to five basis points above where it should. So, stress is in the the money markets. Tie this all together. explain this to me as well as to the audience because I I really need your your expertise here. And then also uh expl you know in on your uh your most recent piece on fat.com balance sheet dominance you talk about how the Federal Reserve is losing control of its balance sheet policy to the growing fiscal deficit. Explain explain that as well.
>> Well well Jackie you you actually had a really good description on what's happening. US Treasury issuing a lot of debt. The marginal buyer of that debt finances in repo at the moment it's these guys who are financing it uh buying treasuries selling treasury futures and their basis trade and so as long as the US as in this current configuration as long as the fiscal deficit grows there's going to be more demand for repo financing okay demand continues to grow what about the supply of funds well we exhausted all the money market funds and right now the marginal lenders are the commercial banks and Because repo rates are trading above interest on reserves, you have some commercial banks that are happily taking money that they have on deposit at the Fed and lending it in repo instead, but they're the amount of cash they have is is not unlimited. So eventually they're going to run out of cash, too. And so repo rates will continue to go higher and maybe spike. If you're the Fed, you have to control short-term interest rates. So, that means you're committed to continuing to add liquidity into the financial system to keep these short-term interest rates under control. And that means you lose control of your balance sheet because by pitting rates, you you lose control over quantities. You that's just how this is set up here. So, that seems to be the game we've been in actually the past few years. We didn't see it. So when the Fed first lost control over short-term interest rates in 2019, uh they added a whole bunch of uh reserves by buying by buying Treasury bills and then we had 2020 where they just kind of threw in the kitchen sink and you know increase the amount of liquidity in the financial system by by trillions. But we've burned through all that. So uh we're back to where we are in 2019 where you have to just keep adding otherwise you'll lose control for short-term interest rates. So, that's kind of an interesting, I think, conundrum they have. They really have no way out of it. Uh because it is absolutely essential for a central bank to be able to control short-term interest rates.
>> Yeah. And just to underscore that point, like if the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates to zero on its statement, but actual interest rates in the market are still at 4%. Then they have no control whatsoever. Like they're basically that's like if you or me on a podcast said interest rates are 0%. It's it's what actually happens in the market. And, you know, 99.9% of the time, the Federal Reserve has close to perfect control over these short-term interest rates, but you're starting to to see a discrepancy where those those interest rates are are going up. And I I have the the data from the New York Fed and from you that the the uh sofur over the OBFR over overnight something you you could explain it is uh now 10 to 15 basis points wide. So, those repo rates are going up marginally. And interestingly, we're it's it's in the middle smack riddle smack in the middle of the quarter. It's not like it's June 30th and all the banks are pulling out, you know, they're they're repo financing to make it look good for investors and and regulators for their quarterly reporting. This is, you know, there's no window dressing at all. Um, and these these repo rates are going up a lot. Is do you think this is what really drove the Federal Reserve to make this decision of boom, December one, we are stopping quantitative tightening? And also explain the framework. Powell talked about that framework. Um maybe it was Roberto Pley's thing. I know this from you. Talk about that that framework for reserve scarcity.
>> Yeah, I think it's from Roberto. Roberto is the solo manager. So Roberto or his team came up with a really interesting graph. I think it's like a hexagon or octagon or something like that that has different corners trying to measure out when uh liquidity in the financial system is scarce. So he'll look at things like how sensitive is the Fed funds rate to changes in in reserves? How high are repo rates? uh let's say uh are pe are banks holding back their payments throughout the day trying to conserve liquidity uh is there increased uh let's say you know intraday intraday overdraft things like that uh so that's kind of the indicators it look but it looks like they looked at all those and decided that yes indeed report rates trading far above IR that's not good I don't want September of 2019 to re to reoccur again so I'm going to stop it uh in December 1st So that's the end of the balance sheets QT story for now. Jack, I think we've been through QE and QT before. This is like the entire cycle, right? So we're right back uh back back uh back to where we were a few years ago, I guess.
>> And do you think the Federal Reserve I think you already said yes, you I think you said the Federal Reserve is going to start expanding its balance sheet.
>> My guess is that my guess is that they will have to otherwise they will lose control over the repo market and they don't want that to happen. So I think what they misunderstand is that you know de repo rates rise not because reserves are scarce but because you have a tremendous tremendous fiscal deficit that's financed and repo and without paying attention to the demand side of that uh you are going to uh be misled and end up in a situation where repo rates do once again spike like they did in 2019 and hopefully they'll realize that be again because it would be very embarrassing to make the same mistake twice. And how are they going to expand their balance sheet? Are they going to be themselves buying treasuries?
>> Yeah, they'll buy Treasury bills. So, a lot of people think that the Fed expanding their balance sheet is QE and it's easing, but that's not how the Fed looks at it. So, the Fed looks at QE in a specific way that they're taking duration out of the market. So, they're buying longerdated uh Treasury securities. So the private sector has less of a supply and longerdated Treasury securities putting downward pressure on interest rates. Now from this perspective when the Fed is buying Treasury bills which are shortdated, it's it's neutral. It's not having an impact on the market even though many people will perceive it as such. So that's probably what they'll begin to do. I suspect they'll have to do it I I think in size too because if you look at how well you look at a couple things. One is you look at the fiscal deficit. It's two trillion a year roughly speaking. The second thing you want to look at is the growth in repo volumes. Now silver volumes grew 800 billion a year. So that's telling you that you know there's a tremendous demand for leverage repo financing. Where is that cash going to come from? So it looks like you're probably going to be have to add well expand your balance sheet by a few hundred billion a year to be able to to meet all that demand. So it's complicated because once you you let's say that you add liquidity in the system, someone lends it and it ends up into someone else's hands and maybe it can be relent again. So how these thing these effects actually circulate and net out it's hard to say. Uh but it's definitely going to be I think in a few hundred billion range. And yeah, you've got this great chart from your most recent article on fedtoguide.com showing that secured overnight financing volumes, sofur, has gone up from a trillion dollars in 2022 to $3 trillion now. Wow. So, a good chunk of the deficit.
>> That's all. Yeah, it's financed financed um
>> in the leveraged hedge fund community. Uh
>> those guys these guys, they're not just buying cash treasuries for the heck of it, right? It's part of a spread trade or basis trade where they buy cash treasuries and sell treasury futures. So, treasury futures are overvalued because a lot of the mutual funds, they want to have exposure to treasuries, but they don't actually uh they don't actually want to go and have u a repo a repo loan and buy cash treasuries. They'd rather just do it in futures. So, they buy futures. It's easier for them uh to manage that. And so that leads to an overvaluation of treasury futures relative to cash treasuries which leads which creates this trade where hedge fun can go and then sell these uh expensive treasury futures on one hand and buy cash treasuries on the other hand and see that basis converge. And Joseph Powell today in in the October FOMC press conference said that they plan on holding the assets constant from December 1st effectively. Uh but in terms of the liabilities, bank reserves are going to go down. So the assets of commercial banks, the liability of the Fed, basically the money that the Federal Reserve owes, you know, commercial banks is going to go down and that's going to be offset by an increase in other Federal Reserve liabilities, namely cash, you know, which we're all familiar with. you know the thing that uh is in wallets and how do you think that is going to affect liquidity conditions because presum you know presumably people are not buying treasuries or securities with physical cash I bet but it's almost impossible and you know they commercial banks are and bank reserves are what add liquidity and what are liquidity basically so um just explain the significance of of that comment
>> so over time uh people go and they So the Fed, if you have paper currency, that's a liability of the Fed. If you look at it, it says Federal Reserve notes. The amount of uh paper currency outstanding actually grows every year in line with the economy. Um, strangely speaking, when you actually look at it, a lot of the paper currency is actually held abroad outside of the US. Uh, probably by, you know, cartels or people who want to avoid their their own their own monetary system. So that that paper currency grows with the with the economy roughly speaking. Where does how do you get that paper currency? Well, you go to a bank, right? So let's say you have a deposit at a bank. You ask the bank say, "Hey, I have $100 on deposit at your bank. Give me $100 in currency." And where does the bank get that currency? Well, a bank gives the Fed $100 in reserve. And the bank and the Fed sends over an armored card to the bank with a $100 bill. And when you say the the bank gives the Fed a reserve, what you mean is the bank asks the Fed, "Destroy this $100 of reserve that I have. Destroy it." Right.
>> No. No. It's just like when we go to the commercial bank, like we take we have $100 in our checking account and we take $100 out. Well, that $100 in our checking account, it's evaporated. It's erased. And I have a So, it's the exact same exact same mechanism. And you know over time if the Fed keeps its balance sheet constant uh because demand for currency gradually increases over time you'll have fewer reserves and more currency as people just naturally go and ask for more currency with the expansion of the US economy. But again that's is what he's saying. I continue to believe that he's going to have to add liquidity into the system to to control short-term interest rates. But if I'm wrong uh that's what that's what will play out. We just slowly have fewer reserves as currency liabilities increase.
>> And what's your current read of the stress in money markets? Is it a drip drip uh you know very very slow thing or do you think there's a chance that things could get unhinged quite quickly. I remember you know just entering the business in in 2019 and you know first started studying and and writing about that repo spike. I had you know almost no knowledge about it whatsoever. But uh I remembered it kind of came out of nowhere. Do you know what do you think is more likely that you're going to see a spike that's going to cause the Federal Reserve to intervene or is there going to the Federal Reserve intervention that you are predicting? Do you think what are you assessing the odds that that is going to be a proactive measure?
>> So I think one thing that's different today is that we do have a standing repo facility and so if there really is an emergency need for cash, they can always go to the Fed. So I think that makes huge spikes less likely. Uh but the thing is the repo market is mostly an overnight market. So in the morning at 7:00 a.m. it opens. If you are someone who wants to borrow money, you go and you call up your contacts and you ask them for money and they give it to you. And usually you know each other. So it's kind of a handshake deal. You know set quantities and you know prices are market prices. Uh but the thing is the people who lend cash, they don't actually have super great visibility as to how much cash they have available to lend. Uh for example, um let's say that you are money market fund. Uh you know, you know that uh on certain days your clients withdraw money, maybe they want to do a big M&A deal, maybe they have to pay taxes, you know, maybe you have less cash to lend. And if you're a commercial bank lending in the repo market, again, you are you have inflows and outflows. you know sometimes you have more cash to lend than other times. So the supply of cash after the RP goes to zero becomes a little bit more volatile. And from the demand side, you know, if you are, let's say, in a basis trade or if you're financing a worth a an inventory of securities, you got to get funded, right? So you're borrowing short-term overnights and your liabilities are are longerdated. So uh you got to get financed no matter what. That inelastic demand is what creates the huge spikes because no matter what you got to get uh financed. But also note though that these are overnight loans. So even if they spike significantly on an annualized basis, it's it's not that much money becomes a problem if it persists for a few days. But uh if it's just one day, it's it's tolerable.
>> So we had that repo spike to you know on an annualized basis absurd levels in September 2019. We now have the standing repo facility. Why haven't banks jumped in and started to use that standing repo facility? Um I have the overnight repurchase agreements, you know, now at $2 billion. So $2 billion of the standing repo facility has been tapped. Why isn't it more if these disequilibria in in money markets are making themselves apparent?
>> That's an interesting question. So it is being used a lot more than it has in the past, right? It used to be zero for a long time. Now, it's it could be that banks are just not as comfortable as just borrowing from the Fed. It's possible that there could be some kind of stigma like borrowing from the discount window. Uh I don't know. But another possibility is that when you're borrowing from the Fed, you're using Repo and on a platform called triparty. And in that platform, it's not netable. So if you are uh for example if you're borrowing 10 billion and then lending it out to someone else at 10 10 billion to someone else uh if it's a netible uh if it's a netable transaction then on your balance sheet it doesn't increase its size right 10 billion in liabilities 10 billion assets it nest zero
>> so that netting netting is kind of important because uh a lot of times if you're part of a bank holding company the size of your balance balance sheet incurs regulatory costs. But if you're borrowing repo from the Fed, it's not netable and so you're expanding your balance sheet that incurs regulatory costs and that has to be taken into account as well. So that's a possibility as well. Um I'm sure the Fed is encouraging dealers to borrow more, but so far it just hasn't been super effective in providing um I guess something of a selfsealing for repo rates. So the uh the the spread of 10 to 15 basis points of sec so sofur over fed funds over OBFR is not sufficient to uh induce dealers and uh banks to and other people to tap the uh standing repost facility. You're you're going to have to see uh a bigger spike.
>> Looks like that's how it is so far. So far. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I gotcha. Um, all right. Well, let let's turn Joseph to the more vanilla more typical topics of just interest rate cuts. Um, what was what was your take of of the meeting today and I guess the significance of the Powell's comment that don't take it for granted that we're going to cut in December because the market was a little greedy coming into it. Nick Timosro asked the first question and said, you know, are are you alarmed by the fact that the market has basically, you know, taken it, you know, priced in so so many so many cuts.
>> Yeah, he was being hawkish. Uh so I think what he's really doing is being cautious. So he doesn't want to commit to that December cut because he just doesn't know. He doesn't have any data. He doesn't know what's going on. And I think he looks at uh financial conditions, sees that they're loosening. I think he looks at those GDP now predictions. It looks like the economy is booming. I think he looks at uh and you know looks at the labor market. It's not getting better but it's not getting worse. Part of it could be just due to reduced labor supply. Last time he thought that you know we've had such a decline in the supply of labor that even zero jobs growth a month would be okay would be at the break even rate. So I think he's looking at all this and saying I have no idea what's going to happen. I don't like all these cuts placed into the market because you know maybe things are not as bad as I I think they are. So I think uh I think that's that's what happened there. So really that it's a hard place to be in because you just don't know don't have the data to make good decisions,
>> right? And we had two dissents. One from uh Governor Myin who asked no 25 basis points not enough. We should do 50. and then Schmid uh who's a bank president who's a voting member um he he opted to not cut it all.
>> So he's a Fed president he's been pretty hawkish and I think there's an interesting question what will happen to the Fed presidents who are supposed to be reappointed in in February. So there was a question about that. One of the thinking was that, you know, if you have a more Trump centered uh board of governors who could veto Fed president appointments, maybe they would just swap all the Fed presidents out with someone who is or people who are, you know, more pro rate cut. Doesn't look like that's happening so far, but yeah, he wanted to have uh no change in the policy rate. And Governor Myron, as you mentioned, would like 50 basis point cuts, and I think he's going to do that uh at each meeting, ask for 50 basis point cuts. And he has some interesting reasons why, right? He gave a good speech that clearly shows that, you know, there's been a lot of changes in fiscal policy in other policies that make make it so that maybe the Fed can be a little bit more dovish. In the beginning of the year, Cherpa was looking at everything that was happening with policy with tariffs, with immigration, with regulation, all forth, and he cher was like just shrugged his shoulders and said that I don't know what's going to happen, so I'm just going to do nothing. Basically commit to being late. uh Governor Myron and Governor Bowman is actually thinking that, you know, that's not a good idea. I think we should be more forward-looking. And one of the things that uh Governor Myron has been saying is that since we have less immigration, that means less demand for shelter. That's going to put down pressure on on rents. That's disinflationary, right? And that's been playing out over the past few months and at the recent CPR report as well. So if you take into account some of these policy changes, you could make an argument that rates should be lower. But again, it's very very difficult to uh to know how these policies will play out, especially since they're changing all the time. Like the president is in Asia making all sorts of trade deals, encouraging more investment and so forth. Looks like uh he's going to have a summit with President Xi and looks like tariffs on China will come down. So it is hard to make u forward-looking prognostics. But on the immigration side though over the past few months that's been very clear and it is also going to obviously have downward pressure on on rent.
>> Right. And so you said uh President Trump looks like he's going to meet with President Xi lower tariffs on China. He said that he expects to lower the fentinel tariff uh from potentially from 20% to 10%. There's so much uncertainty because only a few weeks ago, earlier in October, Trump, President Trump posted on Truth Social that uh President China is is not being very nice and that he's going to, you know, spike them to a huge level. So, it's very very hard to interpret the future here. Um, Governor Myin Aly has made the argument that the cocktail of lower immigration, tariffs, etc. is going to lead inflation to be lower, therefore interest rates should be lower. So, he's a doubbish center. And then of course there is the argument um that tariffs and the the Trump uh policy the the one big beautiful bill is going to be inflationary. Um how where do you fall on that spectrum of the current Trump administration's policies? Are they are they inflationary and therefore you know the Fed should be hawkish or are they disinflationary and therefore the Fed should be doubbish?
>> They're both inflationary and disinflationary. I I don't know how super complicated, right? You put tariffs on, obviously that's going to have some import impact on prices. So far, not a lot. Um, you decrease the growth of population, that's going to have some impact. It's going to put upward pressure on wages, which I think is part of the reason why the president got elected, but it's also going to put downward pressure on things like shelter because housing is it's less not elastic, right? So, you can't suddenly build a whole bunch of housing. So once you have less population growth, rents will come down. And looking at his other uh other let's say expensing for example, OBBA does a lot of encouragement for people to build in America. Well, that short term you're going to have more demand and real resources that's going to put prices up. But if you do increase factories and so forth in the United States, that increases supply going forward. So that's disinflationary. So there's a whole lot of moving parts. It's not easy to say. And of course the president is doing something very interesting with international trade. He's basically confiscating the foreign reserves of um allied countries and forcing them to take that money and build factories in the United States instead of buying treasuries. So you know maybe that will also have a increase in supply in the coming years. So I think the big picture is that they are trying to increase supply and get uh and get inflation lower. But in the short term though, uh it we might might not see that impact.
>> Thank you, Joseph. How are you thinking about the stock market right now?
>> Obviously, we're in a huge bubble, right? Uh
>> but
>> yeah, obviously I mean things only go up. Everything goes up. So when I look at the stock market, I it kind of reminds me as to how gold traded the past few weeks, right? You go into a period where you just go straight up, straight up, screw up, look like you're going parabolic, and then suddenly you decline. So I feel like when I look at the markets, we're entering this phase with it seems like it we stocks only go up. I've noticed that when we have, you know, bad data, oh that means rate cuts, market go up. If you have good data, that means the economy is good, market go up. And there's a lot of people pouring in here just chasing momentum. They have a lot of different narratives, but at the end of the day, you know, people are just buying because the market goes up. And it's been working very well. And I I think feel like when you're in this phase in the market, you can it's hard to say how high you can go. You know, maybe you really just follow the com blueprint and go higher than anyone imagined. Uh but at the end of the day though, it's most likely followed by a sharp uh decline. And that worries me a little bit because so much of the economy is dependent upon the wealth effect. if we do actually go have some kind of blowoff top and afterwards we have a decline that almost guarantees us to be in a recession and not just that I think from a there's so many people who have basically just spending their day just buying stuff in the market right I go to a cafe I see this nice old man sit down open his laptop I think he's looking at photos of his grandkids but actually he's you know he's drawing candles and trying to figure out you know when to buy and when to sell so it's really very much a speculation nation here. And usually speaking, most of these guys, they lose money. And I think that's going to upset a lot of people. So, uh, I understand the president likes the stock market higher, likes to claim credit when it goes higher. It's definitely making people like him, but you know, if you take credit on the way up, you will get blamed on the way down. So, that may not be super wise. And Joseph, you noted um for for being a giant bull on on the equity market uh throughout 2023 and 2024 um primarily for reasons of just very very strong uh earnings growth and GDP growth, consumption as well as declining inflation. All of which has been proven right. How much of it do you think is just the earnings growth is really Nvidia as well as other companies that benefit from uh AI capital expenditure? You know, most of that money being spent by extremely large companies, Meta, Amazon, Google, uh you know, Microsoft, the list goes on. Uh Open AI, which is not publicly traded, but may may IO in 2027, who knows? And you know, with the exception of OpenAI, these are very very profitable companies. And so just you know, the the profits and the profit expectations for Nvidia just keeps on going up. Nvidia is now a five trillion dollar company and you know Joseph you could be right the other bears you know could be right obviously you you know not having been a bear throughout all this but uh you know recently you I guess sounds like you're a little more bearish on the economy on tariffs but it's just that doesn't matter you're right on the wrong issues and AI capex just continues to to the moon until it eventually goes down and implodes but you know there's a you can call a bubble and be right three years later but that's not that's not the same as being right you know Well, to call first off, I want to be totally clear that I have not been on mark the equity market this year. My call on the equity market, I've been bare most of the year worked really well until uh until the president posted that we should buy stocks and then it did not work out well. So, no it um so I've not been doing well not have a good call on the equity market this year. So, keep that in mind as I say this. Now the companies have been spending a lot on capex and the market has perceived that as positive. But at the end of the day you have all these companies that are generating a lot of cash. They used to give it back to their shareholders through buybacks. Now they just basically burn it on investments that you know may or may not pay off. And you know a lot of reports suggest that the AI stuff super cool doesn't seem really to be making money so far and doesn't seem to have a clear path to do so. So that kind of I think that kind of speaks to the market sentiment. Whereas I feel like if the market could easily perceive these investments as being a waste of money and penalize the companies for it today, they're perceived as, you know, everything is great. You know, you have all these daisy chains of investments and so forth. So I think it's really just sentiment and momentum. I I wouldn't really read anything more into it. Everyone has a good narrative as to why they buy something, but at the end of the day, you know, it goes up, you feel good, and you buy more.
>> And how are you thinking about foreign ownership of equities as well as the valuation of the dollar? This, you know, view and theory that tariffs would spark a sell-off in US assets, both treasuries as well as stocks. You know, the world, the rest of the world owns a lot of US assets, as you know. Um, you know, that theory hasn't really played out. Yes, you've seen an increased hedging uh amount. But in terms of, you know, the the Iceland, Norway selling Nvidia, they really haven't. They've they've been buying more Nvidia and they've been doing dollar swaps and hedging off that currency risk, but have they been selling Nvidia? No. No. No. They sold uh I think in one month or two months and they came back in size. They they just can't get enough of that stuff. I I was speaking with some of our investors and they felt that you know US tech is the place to be and you can see that in the $5 trillion market cap of Nvidia. Now that kind of surprises me really. So we have this administration that's you know doing a lot of things that if you were foreigner I feel like you would be a little bit a little bit more cautious but apparently not. Apparently number go up. What I do think this means to me though is that when the downturn does come, I think you would be very nonlinear. So you you kind of have this built-in dollar exposure built into the to the market that is I think very very large and could potentially mean the downside could be larger than it would usually be because let's say that we do have real recession. Let's say we have a tumble of the market. Okay, then that would mean the Fed will cut rates rapidly and that would mean the dollar would depreciate maybe a lot. Uh, you know, that's a that's a recipe for disaster for a foreign investor because you're losing as the stock price goes down and you'll lose as the dollar depreciates as well. So, you you definitely need to get out and because there's such large foreign exposure to the US equity markets, that decline could be significant. So I think this is one of the mechanisms going forward that if we do have a blow up top that actually leads to a sharp decline uh could accelerate that to be something that that that's quite deep. So it's just another mechanism uh in the market that I think we should be aware of. Well Jose, I guess let's just talk about this issue of Federal Reserve independence. You know, if President Trump is appointing people who are going to be calling for interest rate reductions, which the president wants, that would be a Federal Reserve that is no longer independent. That is a strong influence um by by the executive branch by by government. And you know, President Trump himself has said, "I think I should have a say about interest rates." That's kind of declaring that he doesn't believe in central bank independence. That's my interpretation. a lot of people view number one do you think that that is a a departure from central bank independence number two do you think that that is a bad thing which you know I'd say a lot of economists think is a bad thing
>> so obviously the president would like to set interest rates what president doesn't right so I'll say this about central bank independence now I think central bank independence can be a really good thing because we are in a political process where know the executive would always like to have lower interest rates to temporarily boost the economy And we've seen that happen with Nixon, for example, trying to get lower interest rates, boost his chances in the election, and then afterwards, you know, maybe we have inflation, but hey, I'm not up for re-election anymore. So, I think that's the fear there. But that tells you one thing very clearly in that a central bank is never really independent. It's always operates under uh the elected government. So, we've had an independent central bank in the US since the 1950s. And yet we did have that episode happen with Nixon and we have this episode happening right now. So central bank is composed of people and they always operate under uh political constraints. So that's one thing. But more broadly speaking though, if you look across the world, so let's say that you have central bank independence in the UK and France, they didn't get that until the 1990s. And it wasn't because they had a whole bunch of inflation and finally the legislator said, "We can't take this anymore. we got to give our centric independence. It was they were having you know low inflation leading up to the independence and they just decided to change the system probably just to you know uh get in line with what other people are doing. So even without central bank independence you can still have low inflation and you can even look across the world uh to China which has a you know very complicated managed economy. They don't have central bank independence and they still have low inflation. So you can have a central bank independence and still get inflation and you can not have an independent central bank and have low inflation. So it's not necessary and it's not sufficient. Now this is but the last point that I'm going to make is I think it's more important and that the central banks today are very different from the central banks in the past. Today the Fed is super super powerful much more powerful than the central bank has ever been. you not only have interest rate policy, you have balance sheet policy where you can go and buy you know trillions of mortgage back securities, get mortgage rates super low, uh make uh you know a whole generation of people locked out of the housing market today. And of course you also have regulatory power over banks whereas you can control who gets access to credit. You know maybe uh in some countries they could do this uh make sure that loans are given to green endeavors for example. So a central bank today is super super powerful.
>> Although the Federal Reserve has abandoned that I should note, right?
>> Yes. But you know I'm just talking about central the Fed as an example. So the ECB also super powerful as well. Central banks in general today are much more powerful than they are in the past. And when you look at the political issues today as a society, the one of the most pressing ones is like home ownership, right? a whole bunch of people can't afford homes because a whole bunch of people uh well home prices have gone up in part because mortgage rates are low and of course it's wealth inequality. People who own financial assets well they're doing pretty well. We have this K-shaped economy. So some of the most important distributional things in our society are basically determined by a a small group of people sitting at the central bank. So if you believe that we should have a democratic society, it seems to me that it makes sense for the public to have some say in matters that have huge distributional impacts on the society. So you can make the argument that because central banks today are much more powerful than the past, they have to be less independent or you could pair them down, maybe separate regulatory power out, maybe make them single mandate, inflation only and so forth. So uh yeah I think you can make a good argument that uh central bank is too powerful to not have any kind of democratic say simply you know so I think that's an argument you can make and so it's not super unreasonable for from my perspective uh for you to say that uh maybe the Fed shouldn't be independent and I understand that um you know it's a it's a policy decision right there they're there pluses and minuses it's not just oh my god God, we have independent central bank, these guys would be so wise and smart and everything will be okay. That's just not how the world works.
>> Joseph, this uh near consensus among economists that central bank independence is good and necessary to have stable uh prices and not have runaway inflation. Have you always disagreed with that or do you has that been a process and you you know if so you tell us about that process? So what you read in textbooks is what you're what you're saying Jack and one of the things that I have come to realize in my life is that uh a lot of the things you read in textbooks sound reasonable but are not actually true and they're basically the work of very high IQ people but we don't have a lot of direct experience. So that sounds totally reasonable, but it's just just not true. And I've well we've talked about many examples why that's just not true. Uh one thing I'll note is that inflation is unpopular. So you have other checks on inflation and that's a democratic process. One of the reasons why President Biden was not su okay Vice President Harris was not successful in the last election was because inflation was too high. So boom, you have you mismanaged the economy. Inflation was too high. you got kicked out of office. That works, right? And uh I mean it works in Argentina as well. Inflation too high. You have this guy with a chainsaw going on and cutting things. So you have this democratic accountability there as well. So that's another thing to keep in mind. It's just not about the central bank. And one other thing is that inflation is a complicated thing. Uh so at at the high level, it's when demand pushes against supply. But it it's not demand and supply are not all about interest rates, right? We've seen over the past few years that interest rates went up to you know multi-deade highs, but because of all the fiscal spending, it just didn't work. And because of um you know COVID and things like that, supply chain stuff, inflation was high. So it's not all about interest rates. So it doesn't really make sense to give inflation just to one organization who does not have the tools to carry it out. Now a lot of the research that people cite and saying that central banks have better outcomes for inflation blah blah blah a lot of that was done during the great moderation when we had China entering into the global stage. Now the central banks were doing their thing and inflation came down to 2% and they kind of patted themselves on the back being like my gosh I convinced everyone inflation expectations stable and got inflation down it's all me. So you got to give uh central bank independence. But on the other hand, you had literally several hundred million people enter the global labor force with the China entering WTO. I'd say that had a pretty big impact on uh on inflation as well. So you have all these things that determine inflation that are definitely far more than interest rates. So to think that you could have some kind of uh entity that interest rates rates and inflation would be under control, I I don't think that's how the world works. for for the sake of argument, I'll just uh you know push back a little bit which is that you were correct when you said or you basically implied that the you know this whole central bank independence thing is a very new thing 1980s in other countries 1990s and I'll say you're correct but I'll say you know the era where we had you know runaway inflation where we didn't have central bank independence was the 1970s and you know that whole oh Richard Nixon just let interest rates go up you know he he asked interest rates to to not go up too much isn't it a le lesson from the 1970s that that ran a muck. And I would also make the argument that you know pre-1971 the US was on the gold standard and the rest of the world was also constrained to a lesser degree because they were on the dollar standard the Bretton wood system and then of course you know we were on the gold standard uh in in the 1920s and then you know going going back there's been various metallic standards that were constraining the amount of basically you know the print this let let the central banks have interest rates wherever they want and let the government set set interest rates. that that is a you know often been accompanied by uh monetary instability. So just what do you make about about that argument?
>> You're right. There's a different regime back then and it's and it's difficult because of all the uh differences in the system, but you don't have to go back that far. You could just go back let's say four years. We have independent central banks across the western world. inflation to the moon or you can go back to uh today inflation's at 3% and has been for some time
>> we have independent central banks right so you know it's not it's not all about that you have um you have a lot of other factors that have have to uh that matter as well
>> that's true uh what if Joe Biden during 2022 was you know tweeting and saying that Jay Powell is out of control raising interest rates from 50 basis points to 125 basis points. Maybe I'm thinking about firing him. You know, would that have been a good thing? Clear clearly the Federal Reserve raising interest rates in 2022 was um you know, not just good and necessary, but like probably overdue. Um you know, would you have, you know, supported President Biden uh just stopping Fed rate cuts or as well?
>> In 2022, it seems like inflation was pretty high. So, I think that was the right thing to do. And I think they did have political support to to do that at that time.
>> Um but again inflation is not all about rate rates and also the central bank always operates within the political constraints and at the end of the day when inflation was out of control the elected government lost and we got replaced so there was democratic accountability as well. So it worked. Um um so I wouldn't be too worried about about um the Fed losing independence. It probably will. It looks like we're in that kind of political era, but it doesn't mean that we'll go into hyperinflation, right? A lot of people point out that oh my god, we'll begin we end up like Ergodon.
>> That's an extreme example, right? Remember, we've uh countries have been under uh politically controlled central banks for a long time and things were okay. So, that's not the only outcome. I think that's very obvious fear-mongering.
>> Yeah. I mean, hyperinflation means 50% inflation or 50,000% inflation. Uh I I just think that in the United States that is is very unlikely just to to put put my views on there. So, Joseph, the price of gold has been rallying like crazy despite the recent pullback over the past, let's say, 10 days. Um, a lot of people attribute the surge in gold to fears of central bank independence and basically the Federal Reserve is is is cutting uh cutting rates. How are you thinking about precious metals? Uh, and yeah, what's your outlook on it and it potential relationship with with the Feds?
>> It's just momentum like everything else. So, there's a popular thing like you got debasement, right? So what does that mean for a fiat currency debasement means your money is worth less than it was before that's inflation right? So debasement 100% happening. Got a $2 trillion deficit got inflation was 2% now it's 3%. So your money fiat money being debased. No doubt about it. Does that mean gold has to go to the moon 10,000 100,000? That's up to you to decide. So the debasement trade and all these things there I think I think of it as just momentum like everything else like we see in Bitcoin like we see in AI stocks like see in uranium stocks and so forth. a bunch of people just buying something that works, making a lot of money, and then when it collapses, move on on to the next thing. So, I wouldn't read too much in these macro narratives. I think we just have a class of investors who understand now that basically everything is like an NFT. You buy it, it goes up. You squeeze it, it goes up, and then you try to go to the next thing,
>> right? And gold has no real intrinsic value in terms of trying to value it. So, there's no reason for it can't go to 10,000. No reason it can't go to 2,000 or or lower. um as opposed to stocks that you know valuation anchor what he said Palentland here is trading at let's 600 PE so I'm not sure I'm not sure that really matters either
>> yeah fair fair point um Joseph um closing closing thought for you is you know in preparing for this interview I read your most recent pieces on fedgu.com they are just so good I mean you're such a good writer obviously you're such a smart thinker and good writer but in particular there's no fluff in your pieces and it's it's amazing like I guess only like some like novels and literary authors who are famous for this quality is is where I see such a an economy of words. Uh so I just want to give you a shout out there. Your most recent your your penultimate piece uh on Wells Fargo was interesting. Just share your reviews on the overall commercial banking sector as well as this thing that you talked about uh with swap spreads. So not so far but you know interest rate swaps uh have been negative. So basically swaps are a lower interest rate than treasuries but they have been getting less negative and you attributed this to Wells Fargo Fargo's asset cap being being lifted. Explain just your your thoughts on on this issue as well as just your overall uh outlook of of commercial bankings in in this context you know which which have most of the big ones have have reported earnings so far.
>> So based on the recent earnings of the big commercial banks and the big regional ones as well the US economy is doing fine. I mean if uh JP Morgan asked about the state of the US consumer flat out and said the US consumer is fine. So everything seems to be okay and these big banks they have a lot of information about the economy because everyone has accounts there. They see your credit card spending and so forth. So they have the absolute best data and they think the consumer is fine. And with regard to credit concerns we see that report in the market as well. If you look at the loan loss reserves the banks hold delinquencies they're all fine as well. excuse me, uh they've actually improved over over the quarter sequentially. So from their perspective, the US economy is good and I think that's the key takeaway from bank earnings reports. Now with respect to the other stuff, you know, Wells Fargo had an asset cap on them. Yours Fargo is one of the largest banks in the US. Also, they have a sophisticated markets practice. So when you have an asset cap on you, you kind of limits your ability to do new businesses. Once that cap was removed, uh they actually grew their markets business by about a hundred billion dollars and 50 billion of that seems to be increasing lending and repo. 50 billion seems to be in higher inventory of securities. Now what that means is that you kind of have the pipes in the financial system are wider and so that helps get cash to where it is. That that narrow spreads and you you can see that I think a little bit in how quickly the RP was emptied. So now you can have uh money market funds instead of lending to the RP they lend to Wells Fargo who then lends to someone else. Pipes are wider and the swap spreads are also less negative. There's a lot of things driving that but one of the things I think contributed to that is that there is more balance sheet capacity available throughout the broader financial system because Wells Fargo, one of the largest banks in the US uh had his asset cap removed. So that was a smart thing uh the the Federal Reserve and other regulators did and I think we're going to see more of that as they try to deregulate the bank uh reduce regulations on bank reduce capital requirements. So that that is a a bullish thing for the US economy but it's going to play out slowly and gradually.
>> Joseph, you got this phenomenal chart uh on an issue I've actually you know been pleased to cover a lot on monetary matters. The commercial bank loans to non-bank financial institutions. a huge amount of loans, commercial and industrial loans that banks were making actually, you know, disappeared overnight because they were reclassified as loans to non-banks. So, the old model of a bank lends to a company or an industrial facility, a factory, that's kind of out the window. Now, the bank is lending to a a private credit company or a business development company. Uh, and then those companies make the loan. So, the banks you could say is derisks. It has a more senior position. But uh you know increasingly banks are are not really lending to the economy. Um and I was actually at a conference so you know this data is recent that uh like nine to 10% of bank loans are to non-bank uh financial institutions or non-depository financial institutions. Uh what do you think is the significance of this and do you think it makes in any way the Federal Reserve's jobs harder?
>> No, it makes the Federal jobs much easier because it derisks the banking sector. In the past, you if you were a bank, you would lend to a company and you know, you'd have some risk there. Now, what you do if you're a bank, you lend to a a private credit fund or some kind of private investor. They're usually teams of people from very highly regarded companies, you know, your big asset managers like a like a Black Rockck or or something like that. And then those guys then take the money and they lend to other companies. So, let's say that the company has a default. What happens? Well, uh the private credit lender deals with it. And when the private credit fund has exhausted their resources, then it becomes the bank's problem. So, the bank has this extra layer between them and the ultimate borrower that insulates them from credit risk. And that's the reason why they do it because it's uh from a because there's less risk. It's cheaper. There's less it costs the bank less capital uh to make that loan uh to the NBFI than it is to the ultimate borrower. So we have this basically this shadow banking sector that gets his financing from the commercial banking sector and then lends it to the real economy. So it makes the Fed's job more difficult in that it doesn't really know where the money goes, but it makes the banking system safer. And I think that's really what the Fed cares about. Uh because when the banking system fails, you know, that affects everyone. When you have some private credit fund in the shadows that fails, you know that they're not tradable. So they don't really cause panic in the market. And also no one has deposits there. I mean they borrow from wealthy individuals and so forth, but it's not like a systemic event that impacts the broader public.
>> Yeah. When when you describe it, it sounds like nothing can go wrong. And I understand the argument, but often Joseph, as you know, what causes financial crises is are not um risky things. It's things that seem very safe like mortgages. you know that all the analysis going to subprime mortgages were was correct that like during a recession housing prices never go down and everyone pays back off their loans and but that you know Denuad had an obvious credit bubble so it kind of seems like everything you said is correct but because it's so safe and so great it's going to keep on happening and happening until it gets to wretched excesses to to use a uh Charlie Meris ism
>> well it's not safe it's just that the risk is borne by people that is not it's not borne by the public like if you were if it was born by the commercial banks at the end of the Hey, the government has to go bail them out because banks are too big to fail. Uh but your private credit funds, your big financial sponsors, those guys, they're not too big to fail. They can go bust. And so uh I think it's just placing risk uh away from the public. And maybe that would align symptoms a little bit because let's say that you are a big gibb, you know, you can do whatever government will bail you out. So that's a bad incentive. But if you move that risk to the uh the private financial companies, they won't get bailed out. At at least I don't think maybe the Trump administration is different. And maybe that makes them uh makes their incentives more aligned with uh with their with just being more prudent with their risk. So right now it does seem like there are people worried about what's happening in the private credit space. If you look at the publicly traded private credit funds, they're called BDC's. they've been taking a big haircut on their price. So, uh it does seem like there's some uh concern over there. But again, if a if a private fund goes bust, it's not systemic. It's mostly money from wealthy institutions and rich people and they can bear the losses.
>> Yes. I I've um you know, actually some of those BDCs I think the the sell-off might be overblown. You know, what do I know? But in particular, it's these uh so non-publicly traded uh BDC's like private credit funds that I I don't want to say I have concerns over. I just have questions over them. Like you know some of these yields I've seen actually this is in BDC's are 15% 14%. Like if you you don't get that risk that money uh risk-free and I think these are kind of being marketed to investors a broader swath of investors who are maybe less sophisticated. You know Yale and Harvard used to be allocating to them. Now they may be tapped out. Now they're going to wealth managers and all the types of people and you know maybe it is going to be impacting people. Also Joseph a selling point of these things were that they're unlevered or it used to be we use almost no leverage. The BDC's are levered but the the private credit funds were not levered anymore. Now they are being levered like banks are lending to private credit funds. So the leverage is increasing. The equity is coming less from institutional investors more from retail or you know retailish people investors. It is becoming more levered. I think the cycle is aging. Again, I don't want to, you know, say say portray just a doom and gloom narrative, but just, you know, just want to give the the full perspective.
>> Yeah. Good perspective.
>> Yeah. Um, all right, Joseph, can you just give us just a a brief overview of where do you think the the what do you what what are you going to be tracking for the Federal Reserve over the coming weeks and months?
>> I think the trend this year is less about the Fed, more about what happens with the White House and the AI companies. So, unfortunately, as a Fed watcher, it's just not that important. But if you were to focus on the Fed, it will be about the ultimate composition of the Fed's balance sheet. Whether or not they really will significantly shorten their duration and how quickly will they get there. Will they actually sell securities to get to their final composition? Uh that's what I would be looking for in the next few months.
>> Oh, that makes sense. And Jose, just just a final question. How tightly correlated are the level of bank reserves but in particular the minute stresses of a few basis points here a few basis points there in terms of sofur spreads going up in terms of swap spreads going whatever uh how correlated is that with true financial stress of credit spreads going up and the stock market going down like
>> I don't believe it's correlated at all it's just tiny tiny it's a huge market very important but also very obscure
>> uh so I don't really I think it I mean if you look at what happened in September 2019, it didn't really affect the broader market at all. So it's just kind of too niche, too in the weeds, but at the end of the day, it's essential from the Fed's perspective. And so the Fed will also always step in and build that market out. So I don't think it's anything to worry about. All right, Joseph. Well, we'll leave it there. Um, people can find you on FedGuy2. Your your excellent writing is at fedgu.com. And I'll also say, Joseph, that next week, so very early November, I will be interviewing a very high-profile guest. Uh, and I by very high profile, I mean very, very important. So, a true VIP, definitely the most powerful and influential person uh, who I've ever interviewed on my show, Monetary Matters, on my previous show forward guidance, in my entire career. And, uh, so people should stay tuned to Monetary Matters in early November. they will want to be paying attention. This is not one you want to miss.
>> And I know who it is. And Jack, he's not overselling it. It is someone you don't want to miss.
>> Thank you, Joseph. This will obviously air on uh Monetary Matters, Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and YouTube. Subscribe to all that. Leave a rating and review. On Spotify, we now have video. So, we'll put up a few of Joseph's charts from fedgu.com so Spotify listeners can now see that as well. And we'll also uh be sharing this with Joseph. So, this will go live on Joseph Wang's YouTube channel where he has his his weekly updates which which are uh very very uh valuable and good as well. Thank you everyone for listening and thanks again Joseph.
>> Thanks Jack.