Today, I have the pleasure of chatting with Kyle 
Harper, who is a professor and provost emeritus  
at the University of Oklahoma, and the author of 
some really interesting books: The Fate of Rome,  
Plagues Upon the Earth, Slavery in the Late Roman 
World, and an upcoming one called The Last Animal. 
The reason I wanted to have you on is because 
I don't think I've encountered that many other  
authors who can connect biology, economics, 
history, and climate into explaining some of  
the big things that have happened through human 
history in the way you can. The most recent  
reason I wanted to have you on is I interviewed 
David Reich, the geneticist of ancient DNA, and  
some of the questions we were discussing, he kept 
emphasizing this overwhelming and surprising role  
that diseases have had in human history, not just 
in the recent past, but in his work going back  
thousands of years, tens of thousands of years.
He said, "You gotta have Kyle on." I emailed  
him afterwards, asking "Who should I interview 
next?" And he said, "You gotta have Kyle on". 
You have this graph in The Fate of Rome.
You show human population over the last few  
thousand years. I assume that these two 
downspikes are both the bubonic plague,  
Yersinia pestis, right?
Yeah. 
And so this is not like some small little 
nudge you can see, the overwhelming —I mean,  
other than the hyper exponential growth in human 
population— the overwhelming, not just one,  
but the overwhelming two major features in human 
population going back the last 10,000 years,  
is this one bacteria, right?
Yeah. 
One of the things you discuss in the book 
is that the collapse of the Roman Empire  
was a result of this one particular event.
The period that I normally work on is from  
the High Roman Empire, the glory days of the 
Pax Romana in the first or second century,  
through what we call the late antique 
or early medieval period, the sixth or  
seventh century. At the beginning of this 
period, Rome dominates this Mediterranean  
empire. It's what you think of when you think 
of ancient Rome. It's the largest city in the  
world. It's the center of this huge network.
By the end of this period, the city of Rome  
has 50,000 to 100,000 people. It's a tenth or 
twentieth of its former size. I think we now can  
say pretty clearly that environmental factors 
like climate, but also especially diseases,  
play a part in that really big transformation.
While there's a problem because we don't have  
the same kind of modern government mortality 
statistics that we do for COVID or even for  
the last century or century and a half, we have 
to piece together from clues. But it's pretty  
clear that the bubonic plague events, whether 
you're talking about the Black Death of the 14th  
century or the plague of Justinian in the sixth 
century, these events are capable of causing  
death rates, temporarily, that are just orders 
of magnitude beyond what we're accustomed to.  
Even in these ancient societies, the reason 
why these were so shocking, in a world where  
the death rate is always pretty high—probably 
several percent of the Roman population, three,  
four percent a year may be dying in a normal 
year— for them to just be utterly shocked by  
the death rate already tells you that it's 
some multiple of what they're accustomed to. 
Yeah. I think you discuss in the book the 
possibility that the death rate might have been  
close to or even over 60% wherever the Black Death 
hit. This is literally the most significant thing. 
Yeah. It's mind-blowing. In the case of the Black 
Death in the 14th century, it's pretty clear. It  
kills 50, 60% of the population in entire regions. 
We don't necessarily think that it killed 50,  
60% of the whole continent, although that's 
actually not impossible. But even the fact  
that it's killing 50% of the people 
in cities, in provinces, in countries,  
is just beyond the damage that other plagues do.
Right. And do you think that were it not for this  
60% mortality event plus the fact that we haven't 
even discussed yet, this super severe cold snap,  
do you think that the Roman Empire might 
have otherwise just kept going? You discuss  
there were these two previous other big 
pandemics. The empire still survives. 
I think Will Durant had this quote that the 
Roman Empire fell for longer than most empires  
have lasted. Do you think it'd be similar 
to China maybe? Maybe a dynasty collapses,  
but fundamentally, the same sort 
of cohesive nation reemerges? 
Yeah. That's a great comparison. Not just decline 
and fall of dynasties, but also geographic changes  
in the configuration, that parts get added and 
parts get cleaved off, but you still kind of  
think of it as fundamental continuity in the core. 
That to me is a very plausible counterfactual. 
Justinian, the emperor in the 540s—he reigns from 
the 520s to the 560s—he’s on a path of success.  
He's retaken Africa. He's mostly retaken 
Italy when the plague hits. To me, a very  
plausible counterfactual is that a more or less 
Mediterranean core of the Roman Empire could have  
survived east and west. It does sort of survive in 
the east, but even including really all of Italy,  
Africa, and probably Spain. That would have been 
a very reasonable outcome of the sixth century  
if you hadn't had this kind of random shock.
The Roman Empire would keep going. Remember,  
it does, and it calls itself the Roman Empire 
until the 15th century. But we would think  
of it as maybe more the Roman Empire if it 
still included the western Mediterranean and  
was this major, powerful, urbanized polity 
that resists invasion from the southeast,  
as happens in the seventh century. So the answer 
is yes, I think that the Roman Empire absolutely  
could have had another turn as the thing we 
kind of mean when we say the Roman Empire: this  
pan-Mediterranean, powerful, urbanized empire.
Yeah. Okay, one of the things I found really  
interesting was you were discussing the 
firsthand accounts as this big —and feel  
free to explain the cold snap as well as 
it's happening— but the firsthand accounts  
of people who are experiencing this, some of 
whom come from this burgeoning Christian faith,  
which already lends itself to millenarianism and 
apocalyptic thinking. I'm curious basically how  
did different people try to make sense of this 
once in a 1,000-year event that's super intense? 
Clearly, people have to try and explain, within 
the elements of a worldview that they have,  
how something like this could happen. They don't 
have modern science. They don't have germ theory.  
They don't think of it in terms of a biological 
event or climatic event. Since that's come up and  
you've invited, I'll say a little bit about that. 
This is one of the other really exciting frontiers  
where we're learning new things about the human 
past that we just didn't know 10 or 15 years ago. 
In this case, we now have really cool paleo 
climate data that helps us understand that this  
period of the sixth and seventh century 
was also a period of really abrupt and  
significant natural climate change. We're all 
familiar with anthropogenic climate change,  
that carbon emissions stay in the atmosphere, 
trap heat. Humans are changing the climate.  
That's a big problem and we can talk about 
it if you want. I just want to clarify,  
that view is not incompatible with the 
reality that the climate does also change  
for natural reasons on every timescale, from long 
geological timescales to much shorter timescales. 
We live in the Holocene. The last 
11,700 years have been pretty stable,  
pretty warm. It's an interglacial. We're 
literally between Ice Ages right now. It's  
been really stable in the big picture. Yet even 
within that stability, there are smaller scale  
climate variations and climate changes. Because 
we need to understand how the earth system works,  
how the climate system works in order to 
be able to model what's happening, we need  
an empirical record of what the climate has done.
For historians, this is great news because now we  
have a huge number of sometimes even pretty high 
resolution climate reconstructions for historical  
periods across the Holocene. We now know, like 
we did not know this 20 years ago when I started  
graduate school, that the Roman period experienced 
some really abrupt episodes of climate change. In  
this case, the sixth century, we know the cause: 
there was a series of really significant volcanic  
eruptions. Volcanoes are a very powerful 
short-term climate forcing mechanism.  
They eject sulfur into the stratosphere. It 
aerosolizes and creates a reflective shield that  
scatters the radiation entering the atmosphere.
It leads usually to short term cooling. In this  
case, you had a series of really significant 
volcanic eruptions that cooled the climate for  
several decades. In some ways, the later series 
of eruptions even like a century and a half. It  
wasn't just a little bit cooler, it was like a 
degree to two degrees cooler, which we all kind  
of know now: two degrees isn't weather, this is 
climate. Two degrees doesn't affect your day, but  
two degrees globally is a pretty different globe.
All of a sudden in the late Roman world,  
it's much, much cooler. Probably areas that have 
been wetter are now drier. Places that are drier  
may be wetter. It changes the hydrological 
cycle as well, which is more complicated. In  
addition to the shock of the plague, you have 
this simultaneous and probably not unrelated  
shock to the climate system. We know that it was 
essentially challenging for agriculturalists.  
When the sun is blocked and it's really cold and 
the wheat doesn't grow, your society then starves. 
The Romans get this wham bam double 
shock of climate change, famine,  
and plague. So back to how people explain this. 
Apocalyptic thought is one of the principle ways  
people frame it. To them, nature's going 
crazy. Huge amounts of the population are  
dying of this horrible sudden disease and the 
crops don't grow. You don't have microbiology  
and you don't have climatology. So you explain 
it with the resources of the worldview you have. 
There's a huge burst of apocalyptic 
thought in the sixth and seventh century,  
which is always kind of there. You mentioned 
that Christianity is eschatological. It is,  
yes, fundamentally, but that comes out in 
different ways with different emphases in  
different time periods. This is a period, the 
sixth century, when there's a really sharp  
emphasis on eschatology in Christian thought.
I found your early chapters in the book about  
what the Roman economy was like in 
this happy period quite interesting.  
There's a bunch of questions I have about 
this. If you read Gibbon, writing in the 1770s,  
I think he says that the happiest time in human 
history was this period you're talking about. That  
was true at least according to him as of a couple 
centuries ago. This was still peak civilization. 
You discuss the complexity of the Roman 
economy. The fact that millions of tons of  
wheat and other products have to make their way 
to Rome and the trade networks and everything.  
You basically say they were experiencing 
productivity gains. The wages were increasing,  
population was increasing, but they were still 
not at the level at which it was plausible that,  
say, for these climactic and biological factors, 
they might have had an industrial revolution. I'm  
curious why you think... paint a picture for me of 
what the Roman world looked like as of this happy  
period and why that still counterfactually 
couldn't have just saved us a thousand  
years of history if they were on the right track.
First of all, I think this is the sort of question  
that historians ought to worry about all the time: 
why didn't the Roman economy catalyze the takeoff?  
In some ways it was so precocious for its time 
period, and it seems not utterly impossible. The  
Roman world is still a pre-industrial economy so 
agriculture is the dominant sector. The majority  
of people work in agricultural pursuits 
and productivity is low. They don't have  
modern mechanized traction. They don't have modern 
synthetic fertilizers. They don't have the modern  
green revolution yields, all the things that 
have made agriculture stupendously productive. 
The primary sector is fairly limited in 
terms of its productivity because of the  
limitations on technical inputs. We can think of 
the inputs to an economy are going to be capital,  
labor, and ideas. What the Romans have 
is people. They have some investment,  
but they don't have technology. They don't 
have ideas. It's a late Iron Age civilization.  
I do think there's productivity growth and 
that productivity growth comes from markets,  
from trade where you get comparative advantage.
In Egypt, I'm really good at growing wheat.  
You can make glass in Syria. And then 
we'll trade. The urbanization of the  
Roman world certainly facilitates that. 
Cities are these hubs of productivity  
and exchange. There's some technology. If you 
look really hard over five or six centuries,  
there's certainly economies of scale where the 
production process and manufacturing is moved  
from artisanal to industrial scale. But there's 
no takeoff because they don't have science. 
They don't have research and engineering that 
drives continuous productivity gains. I think  
they go precociously far in a pre-industrial 
setting where you take trade really far. They  
have good institutions in terms of strong 
property rights. There's relatively reliable  
contract enforcement. There's financial markets. 
They have the most advanced financial markets in  
the world before the 17th or 18th century. 
There's impersonal financial intermediation. 
It's not like you have to know me and come 
ask me for a loan if you wanna build a ship  
and go trade something. There are banks that 
take money from depositors, keep balances,  
and then lend out to debtors who want to go 
and do entrepreneurial things. They have so  
much potential, but there's no spark. You never 
see these sustained productivity increases. I  
would just say ultimately it's because the 
Romans don't have technology improvements  
that are really self-sustaining.
The reason they don't have that is  
because they don't have science. Their science 
sucks. I'm offending some of my colleagues,  
I'm sure. Galen is great. Ptolemy's incredible. 
I love Pliny the Elder's encyclopedia, but if you  
look in the big picture, the contribution that 
the Roman Empire makes to our knowledge of how  
nature works and then the applied technology that 
comes out of that is really pathetic for five, 600  
years. They go as far as you can with Smithian 
advantages to market exchange and specialization,  
to banks and finance. But without the 
kind of creative destruction of new  
technologies that improve productivity, you're 
eventually gonna run out of improvements. 
If you're Augustus or some other 
Roman emperor and you're like, "Look,  
we've got this big good economy, but I wanna 
see productivity gains," and you wanna make  
it happen somehow, is there something from a top 
down perspective you could have done? In Britain,  
the government subsidizes the royal arts 
and so forth and the Longitude Prize. 
That's exactly what I was gonna say. This 
happens first in France and then Britain,  
but you get royal societies for science where 
you're doing really... I would say there's like  
three things that are essential there. One is 
the promotion of what we would call basic or  
fundamental science. It doesn't all have to 
be immediately practical or commercialized.  
But you're promoting deep knowledge of nature.
Two, you're doing it in an empiricist way. This  
is something very important in the 17th century 
that the Romans by contrast don't have, is the  
spirit of Francis Bacon that we need to ground 
our knowledge in experiment and observation,  
not just believe whatever authorities 
or Aristotle said. That's very much the  
spirit of places like the Royal Society: 
we don't take things on anybody's word,  
especially Aristotle's. You need basic science. 
You need empiricism, rigorous and self-correcting. 
Third, you need a sense of useful knowledge, 
and that's the other thing that really comes  
together in the 17th century: not just the 
basic and abstract science, but the application,  
and the 17th century language for that is 
useful knowledge. That is something that  
doesn't ever get wired together in the Roman 
Empire. There are tinkerers and engineers,  
but they're not talking to the mathematicians and 
the physicists. If you were from on high to design  
self-sustaining innovation, I think you would want 
to bring those elements into proximity. Augustus,  
unfortunately for them, didn't do it. 
Probably good for the world. The Romans  
are pretty nasty people in a lot of ways.
I definitely am of the opinion that the  
high science matters, that Isaac Newton is 
not a tinkerer. He's not building pumps.  
But the guys who are are his friends. 
They're in and around the Royal Society,  
and they're absolutely... Look at Denis Papin, 
who was a French engineer who was very much in  
the circle of Leibniz and the very high abstract 
mathematics, trying to build vacuum pumps. 
The proximity of high math, high science, very 
abstract with what is ultimately gonna be the  
sectors that lead to mechanization where then 
you can harness this source of energy that is  
there all along but hasn't been tapped in coal. 
That's what catalyzes the big positive cycle of  
positive feedbacks. What the Romans don't have 
is that. What the Romans do have is the kind of  
specialization, and now that we look for it, 
it's there. When you look at food processing,  
which is a huge sector, the way that 
they built mills, there's definitely  
improvements. But there's never the catalytic 
change where you get runaway positive feedbacks. 
That's right. A previous guest of mine, 
Nat Friedman, I don’t know if you saw this,  
launched this challenge called the Vesuvius 
Challenge. This library at Herculaneum in 79  
AD was buried under the ashes of Mount Vesuvius 
when the volcano erupted; speaking of volcanoes.  
Now they figured out with modern techniques how 
to read the burned scrolls and it is supposedly  
the biggest library of classical text ever. 
It would double the amount of classical text  
we have. As a scholar of ancient Rome, what 
would you personally find most fascinating?  
What are you excited to find from this data?
I'm super interested in the history of math.  
What happens after Euclid? It's very hard to 
say because you get these really interesting  
people that pop up, like Diophantus who's 
later, in the early Roman Empire. There's  
still really interesting math going on. Euclid 
is incredible. The Greek experiment in math  
and science is the one that I think had the 
better chance of sparking sustained takeoff. 
And it didn't. It'd be interesting to know more 
about why. Why did things stall? Because these  
people... Euclid is not just a towering genius 
who comes out of nowhere. He's very much a product  
of the culture and the questions that are being 
asked in the generations before. It just sort of  
feels like after him, you fail to get that kind of 
sustained continuous progress and advance. Maybe  
back to that big question that we were asking 
before: what prevents the kind of breakthroughs  
that we see in the modern world?
What is the population of  
Greece during their golden age?
Of the greater Greek world or individual  
city-states like Athens? We think of Athens 
as being a couple 100,000 people. Not massive. 
So I wonder if the Greeks had the science 
but not the people to sustain a modern  
economy. Or not modern, but even a 
sort of industrial economy. And then  
the Romans had the people but not the science.
Yeah. There's probably something to that, that  
there's just not the critical mass of educated 
people, of sheer cognitive power to keep it going.
Let's turn to another one of your books, the 
one about slavery in the Roman world. I did not  
realize before I read that one how much Rome 
was a slave society. I guess that just isn't  
a salient thing in a conventional understanding 
of Rome. Why don't you paint us a picture of how  
much slavery was involved in that world?
Slavery tragically is a really important  
institution throughout history. We sometimes tend 
to think of it as a distinctly modern phenomenon,  
but that actually misses the deeper picture. 
In fact, it obscures the importance of modern  
slavery because modern slavery is uniquely 
important and it's uniquely tied up with  
certain kinds of market exchange and certain kinds 
of production, certain kinds of racial ideologies.  
There are things about modern slavery that are 
really important to understand are different,  
but not just because slavery is there.
Slavery has this longer history and slavery  
is more important in some societies than others, 
and we want to try and understand that, to ask  
why and then what implications does that have 
for understanding those societies? Rome is one  
of those societies. Slavery is really a prominent 
institution in Rome from the late republic. As the  
Romans conquer other parts of the Mediterranean, 
they start taking captives as slaves en masse,  
and they build an economy that really relies on 
slave labor in important sectors of the economy. 
Plantations where commodities like wine, 
olive oil are produced for market exchange  
that allow landowners to amass enormous 
amounts of wealth. Slavery becomes this  
really important institution that's entangled 
in the development of the Roman economy from  
maybe the third or second century BCE, and 
then with ups and downs and really important  
changes along the way for centuries and centuries.
So you're pointing towards from the supply side,  
all the Roman conquests lead to all this 
surplus labor that they can make use of,  
and on the demand side, these cash crops.
Exactly. I'm very big proponent of the idea  
that you have to have both. You have to have 
a source of slaves. After the conquest stops,  
the Romans figure out other sources of slaves. If 
anything, the demand is equally or perhaps even  
more important because if there's not a mechanism, 
if there's not institutions that let you  
turn this kind of exploitation into cash flow, the 
institution's not gonna go very far. It really is  
the institutions, the presence of markets 
where you can take labor and turn it into  
profit that's the most important element.
One of the things I find interesting is  
in the age of colonization we're used 
to thinking about slavery in terms of  
race but also religion and other things which more 
obviously demarcate free and slave populations.  
In the Roman world, it doesn't seem that that's 
clearly the case, yet there's no abolition  
movement the way that emerges out of England 
in the 19th century or maybe even before that. 
The reason that's mysterious is, if you were 
literally descended from slaves, if you were like,  
"My grandfather was a slave but then we were 
freed," and they're basically just like you,  
you would think that there would be more 
of a sense of... not everybody would be an  
abolitionist, but at least some people 
would be writing about abolition. With  
Christianity and so forth burgeoning, they 
didn't seem to have a problem with it. Why  
is there no abolition movement despite the 
heterogeneous nature of the slave population? 
It's sort of disturbing in a way, isn't it, that 
humans have the ability to convince themselves  
that it's okay to own other human beings 
as property through a variety of different  
kinds of ideological justifications. You see 
even in the ancient world there are different  
models that people use to say that slavery's 
okay. Aristotle develops a theory of natural  
slavery that actually some people deserve 
to be slaves by their very nature and that  
it's actually good for them to be in bondage.
What's really interesting though is that that  
doesn't actually ever seem to be the dominant 
ideology. The Roman ideology of slavery is not  
racialized. It's not like the Romans think that 
the Greeks or the Germans are some fundamentally  
separate kind of human that justifies their 
exploitation. The Roman ideology of slavery  
is really rooted in the law of property and 
status. They think that slaves are people who've  
been conquered and rather than killed, they've 
been spared, and they've been sold into the  
condition of being somebody else's property.
This seems to mentally explain to them  
where their slave system comes from and why 
it's justifiable. You have different kinds  
of criticism of the slave system from within, 
but remember, most of what we have written is  
from the slave ownership class. I don't think the 
slaves were themselves believing this ideology,  
and there must have been sort of what we would 
think of as abolitionist movements or spirit  
that we just don't have really good records of.
It is this curious thing that the Romans are able  
to build this huge system that's really brutal 
and really violent, but has this kind of flimsy  
ideology where they tell themselves these stories. 
The deeper lesson of that is that humans can  
create these systems of belief that will exclude 
others and justify almost any form of exploitation  
and convince themselves that it's okay.
I hope your next book about The Last  
Animal discusses the potential 
parallels with factory farming. 
There's some... there's a pretty 
gruesome chapter, I'll say that. 
I don’t know if you mentioned, what numbers 
you say, I think it was like 10 to 20% of the  
population under the Roman Empire was enslaved. 
Given that large a size of a slave population,  
it's surprising to me that there are 
so few slave revolts not only in Rome,  
but even throughout history. There's Spartacus 
in 71 BC, then there's the Haitian Revolution.  
If 20% of the population is enslaved, how is 
this sustainable? If you're running a farm and  
there's 4,000 slaves and then the next farm over 
also... why aren't there more slave rebellions? 
Why not? How did they do this? They have 
a really elaborate system of repression.  
They're worried about it. Probably the parts 
of Roman society where there are 20, 30,  
40% slaves are pretty limited to certain 
regions and certain time periods. Partly  
because once you cross some kind of threshold, 
the challenges of repressing direct violent  
resistance… It's a system of exploitation. That 
means there's always a mix of carrots and sticks,  
to put it crudely. The Romans extract people's 
labor partly through physical violence, but also  
partly through systems of manumission that try and 
incent people to obey and not to rebel in order  
to earn their freedom. They're using everything 
from literal chains to enticements to try and keep  
rebellion from ever coalescing in a way 
that can turn into collective violence. 
It's a little bit challenging for us to look 
back. We know in Pompeii, the slave population  
is huge. It must be 30%. Not all of these people 
would've been plantation workers who were lashed  
every day and worked to the physical bone. A lot 
of them are nurses and textile workers and maids  
and tutors and all sorts of things that are 
sort of quasi-embedded in households as well,  
where there's always this weird psychological 
dimension too. Part of the strangeness of  
slavery is how deeply embedded in 
domestic institutions it is as well. 
There are ideologies in which the paterfamilias is 
sort of the father and the master. That tries to  
brainwash people against resistance. The important 
thing to recognize is it's just a pervasive system  
that tries to colonize people's minds and 
pervasively tries to keep them from resisting. 
I wonder if we can close the loop 
with the question we began with,  
which is, why didn't Rome have an industrial 
revolution? I don't know if it's a plausible  
explanation that cheap slave labor reduced the 
incentives for mechanization and engineering  
and other crafts or if not. I don’t know.
It's definitely an argument that's been  
made. Aldo Schiavone was an Italian historian who 
argued that. It's kind of a neo-Marxist tradition  
that argues this. It's an interesting argument. 
I don't buy it at all. The good version of that  
argument would just be that the Roman Empire 
is using slaves in many of the most forward  
elements of the economy too. We tend to think 
progress and economic growth and innovation  
is good, and we know slavery's bad, so we tend 
to think that those things don't go together. 
But in reality, it's the most economically 
advanced sectors of the Roman economy  
that had a high degree of organization and 
productivity that tended to employ slaves.  
In the Roman world, you could make the argument 
that if the labor in those sectors had been free,  
there would've been more opportunities 
for positive feedback loops. The way the  
argument's usually made is just that the 
Romans got rich without really thinking  
about productivity. They just wanted to extract 
labor, extract wealth rather than create wealth. 
That's not a terrible argument, but ultimately I 
don't think it's the system of labor that keeps  
the Roman world from industrializing. There are 
lots of sectors in the Roman world where slavery  
is not a dominant institution, and it's not like 
they're more productive or flirting with some  
kinda breakaway. So it's an interesting argument, 
but not one I've ever found all that persuasive. 
Final question about Roman slavery. What 
did Gladiator get right and wrong about?  
Would they just abduct you in front 
of your house and make you a slave? 
You mean the first one? The first one got right 
that when you're making a movie you should worry  
more about making a good movie than a certain 
amount of history, but actually the first one's  
a great movie. If it was completely historically 
accurate, it would've been much more boring. So  
I'm not gonna be critical of that movie. It plays 
very loose with the facts of high politics around  
Commodus and the creation of this character. 
But who cares? Russell Crowe's incredible. 
But on slavery in particular.
On slavery in particular, I think actually that's  
one of the strong suits of the movie. You see this 
completely exploitative system that brings people  
from very different parts of the world who have 
very different backgrounds. The system of urban  
spectacle is very real. The use of slave labor 
in that is certainly a part of it. So the movie  
actually gets some really important things about 
that right. That makes it totally forgivable that  
it has to create a kinda high politics storyline.
Okay, I think that covers all the questions about  
Rome. We can get back to your most recent 
book about human history and plagues. 
What do you make of the general argument that 
people have often made that we were living in  
a sort of Eden before agriculture? Especially 
given you've explained that all these diseases  
that we're sorta stuck with are actually quite 
new. If we take that perspective seriously,  
was life before human population 
exploded and we had agriculture  
just much more pleasant, at least in comparison?
Homo sapiens is 200,000 to 300,000 years old. We  
emerge in Africa and disperse, multiply, but 
we spend 90, 95% of our history as foragers.  
People who are hunter-gatherers, who 
take energy from wild food sources,  
rather than sedentary farmers who've domesticated 
plants and animals and live a sedentary lifestyle  
where you're enslaved to this wheat or rice, 
but it gives you reliable calories. That is  
along with the Industrial Revolution, and then 
whatever this thing we're about to go through,  
the biggest change in the history of our species.
The shift from foraging to farming affected  
everything. It affected our beliefs. It affected 
our genetics. We're all basically genetically  
different, adapted to live in a different kind 
of environment with different kinds of diets. It  
affected our societies, it affected inequality, 
it affected culture in every possible way,  
and of course it affected our health in really 
basic ways. It affected our labor regime; doing  
the same kind of labor over and over every day is 
very different from running around as a hunter,  
chasing deer or whatever, which sounds quite nice.
It changed our labor regimes. It changed our diet,  
most of all. Hunter-foragers tend to 
eat high protein, high fat-ish diets,  
with no refined carbohydrates, but limited carbs. 
It's a very varied, highly varied diet. Sedentary  
farmers tend to eat more monotonous diets and they 
tend to be dependent on grains and starches, so a  
very narrow spectrum for your calories. Changes 
in labor regime, changes in the diet, and then  
changes in lifestyle, being sedentary and living 
in big populations that then puts you in proximity  
to other humans, puts you in proximity to human 
waste. Feces are a major conduit of infection. It  
puts you into proximity to the air they breathe, 
which is conducive to respiratory diseases. 
This transition, which takes thousands of 
years, is more of a process than an event.  
It has massive implications for human health, 
including the infectious disease environment  
that we inhabit. It's not like hunter-gatherers 
were living in paradise. The infectious diseases  
that they had were seriously burdensome, 
they sucked, and probably most people died  
of infectious disease. Malaria is a really 
old disease. Lots of diseases existed in  
the Pleistocene, in our Paleolithic past.
It's not like it was Eden. There is this idea that  
the transition from foraging to farming... Jared 
Diamond called it humanity's biggest mistake.  
Certainly these changes entailed some things 
that were not net positive for humanity and  
one of them is that it definitely increased 
the infectious disease burden. Simply as our  
population multiplies and as we're in contact with 
feces and as we're sharing the air through which  
respiratory pathogens can spread, diseases 
are constantly trying to take advantage of  
this. That's just how nature works. Energy is 
scarce. Everybody's trying to steal it from  
everybody else, including microbial parasites.
The disease burden of humans over time definitely  
increases. The burden of infectious disease on 
humans goes up over time. Very broadly across  
these thousands and thousands of years, the 
diseases suffered by people by the time of the  
Roman Empire are absolutely much worse than 
what had been the case in Stone Age times. 
James Scott has an interesting theory in Against 
the Grain. I don't know if it originates with him,  
but he argues that one of the reasons that the 
early agriculturalists were so successful... And  
David Reich, if you've seen his stuff about The 
Yamnaya 4,500 years ago conquering all of Eurasia,  
but before them, the Anatolian... the initial 
farmers are the ones who displaced the initial  
hunter-gatherers across Europe and Asia.
He argues that initial wave was so successful  
because of these first diseases that the farmers 
had created the conditions to engender. Basically,  
the relationship these farmers had with respect 
to the foragers they were taking over from was  
similar to the relationship the Europeans had 
to the Native Americans, where inadvertently,  
the disease is just a significant player 
in why you were able to dominate them. I  
don't know how plausible you find that.
I mean, first thing, it's important,  
I think you were starting to get at this, that 
there's never a generation of humans that has the  
opportunity to make this choice once and for all, 
like, should we stay hunting mammoths or should  
we become sedentary farmers with basically 
torturous dentistry and die by diarrhea?  
This happens over thousands of years through an 
evolutionary process where nobody can... It's a  
story of unintended consequences. The mammoth 
are gone partly because we killed them all. 
People start... the first livestock that 
are domesticated are goats. Nobody says,  
"Hey, let's become goat farmers." The goats 
are wild. They're ibexes. People are hungry,  
and so they start managing them to only kill 
the males to make sure that they can reproduce,  
and they start penning them and they start 
killing the wolves who are trying to attack  
them. Over very long periods of time, this 
becomes this tight mutualistic relationship  
where all of a sudden we're goat farmers. But no 
generation makes that whole decision for anybody. 
That's part of it, is that it's unintended 
consequences that are made in very incremental  
steps. Two is, I definitely agree that there's 
some kind of cultural selection here where  
the farming groups are simply so much more 
adapted to extract energy efficiently from the  
environment. It's all about energy. You want to 
multiply, you want to grow, you want to survive,  
it's all about energy. Foragers require huge 
landscapes to extract enough energy to feed  
themselves and grow and reproduce, whereas farmers 
per unit of land can extract such higher rates of  
energy that then can be, through photosynthesis, 
turned into edible sugars that we can metabolize. 
Those populations are just growing faster, 
that they quote unquote out-compete the  
hunter-gatherer population say of Europe that 
are largely but not completely displaced. Now,  
on top of that, just the energy story alone 
is a big piece of it, but then on top of that,  
you probably do have some kind of population 
difference in the exposure and possibly even  
immunity to infectious diseases. I definitely 
think that early farmers, the first farming  
societies that are starting to live sedentary 
lifestyles where you have aggregations—these are  
not cities, these are villages—but still, 
that's more than a hunter-gatherer band. 
Your childhood is then going to be constant 
exposure to a series of pathogens. Those kinds  
of populations, when they're then migrating 
into Europe, are probably carrying these  
pathogens with them that may have had a kind of 
further effect that on top of just being able to  
extract more energy and multiply faster, drives 
up the mortality of the existing populations. 
Yeah. The point you made about fertility is 
interesting. I vaguely remember reading that  
it's not just the fact that the energy density is 
lower, it's that you're also moving around a lot.  
Because of that, you're spacing out kids 
much more so than if you were just in the  
same place. I think the actual fertility for 
foragers is sort of like reasonable—I don’t  
know if sustainable is the right word because I 
don’t mean in an ecological sense but more so—it  
keeps your population constant.
Yeah. Don't make me swear,  
but it's like more like four than six. 
Because women who are moving with the  
foraging bands miles and miles on foot 
on average a day, and also carrying kids,  
are gonna have very different life history 
than sedentary populations. That's very clear.
One thing I'm really curious about is what 
effect these diseases through history have  
had on the cognitive functioning of people. 
You discuss this in the chapter about more  
recent history of the great divergence and 
probably attributed the productivity of Europe  
that they were able to have public health earlier. 
But literally going back thousands of years,  
you mentioned, for example, that Caesar was 5'5" 
and that was considered tall during his period.  
Did the same diseases and malnutrition that 
caused these physical health effects also mean  
that the average IQ was much lower, because 
when you're a kid you're sick and that steals  
away nutrition from brain growth or something?
Yeah. Short answer, yes. Long answer, we know  
that in the modern world, say over the last 250 
years, first in Western European societies and  
their settler offshoots and then more globally and 
more rapidly globally, there have been really deep  
physiological changes in the average human. We're 
talking about populations with distributions.  
What's happened is really two things. One is 
there's more energy per capita. People eat more,  
they eat more calories, and they eat better 
calories. They eat lots of bad stuff too,  
but people eat more. Two, the burden 
of infectious disease has been lowered. 
Growth for a human is a very complicated 
trait that's influenced by genetics. I  
was never destined to be super tall. But it's 
also affected by environment, which includes  
nutrition and what you spend either doing labor 
or what you spend fighting infectious disease.  
Infectious disease imposes a huge burden on the 
body. The immune system is extremely metabolically  
expensive. If your childhood is spent just 
fighting infectious diseases, you're going  
to struggle to invest energy in growth.
There's massive increase in the size of  
populations over the last 250 years and even 
though it's an even more complicated trait,  
this improves people's cognitive abilities. 
People are smarter. May not feel like it—I  
think it has rapidly leveled off—but people are 
more intelligent today than they were 100 years  
ago. Their brains are better nourished and their 
bodies spend less time fighting pathogens. I think  
there's no doubt that pre-industrial populations, 
and again, populations—so you still have your  
Isaac Newtons, who whatever infected him as a kid, 
didn't slow him down—but at the population level,  
I think there's no doubt that not only 
were pre-industrial populations shorter,  
this is just a total fact that we know from 
their bones, but they probably also, on average,  
had a lower distribution of cognitive 
abilities. But with a big distribution. 
You have a great profile in the book about 
living in London in the 18th century and  
just how disgusting it was.
It was pretty disgusting. 
But at the same time, in that city, you were just 
mentioning, there are these scientists and people  
with towering intellects who were basically 
figuring out how the universe works and how  
to make all these machines and so forth. 
One answer is just like what you just said:  
the distribution was lower, but maybe Newton 
would have had an IQ a standard deviation higher  
if he was born today. Just seeing that from 
the small population, you're seeing so much  
genius. I guess the question is, how could you 
have had this much of a deleterious impact on  
cognitive functioning and still had enough spare 
geniuses to kick off the Industrial Revolution? 
Obviously, it didn't keep them from discovering 
some pretty amazing things. So it couldn't have  
been completely destructive. That's what's 
interesting about the early modern period in  
the 17th, 18th century, in particular, is it's 
sort of this between period where you have the  
pre-industrial and the modern that are still mixed 
together in these really interesting ways. The  
example I use in the book is the very famous diary 
of Samuel Pepys, who's this incredible figure and  
is very close to Newton and that social group and 
his name is on the first edition of the Principia.  
These people are this close to each other.
But the stuff that I evoke, I won't say—this  
is a family podcast—but the stuff that Pepys does, 
bodily functions, is mind-blowing to us. It's vile  
and disgusting. But at the same time, right down 
the way, you've got people who are making the most  
fundamental discoveries about the nature of 
the universe and inventing machines that will  
improve productivity and ultimately economic 
output. That's what's precisely so weird and  
interesting about that particular period is you 
have this kind of mingling of the old and the new. 
When I had Joseph Henrich on, one of the things he 
discusses is if you look at... cultural evolution  
has figured out some remarkable things. If you 
look at the cuisines of different cultures,  
apparently the spices they use match the 
antimicrobial and antifungal properties you  
need in that particular biome. At the same 
time, you’re reading that part of the book,  
I'm like, "Okay, I get in some cases, they just 
genuinely did not have the resources to invest  
in public health and so forth". But come on, 
you're just like sleeping in your own vomit and  
so forth. Why didn't cultural evolution 
or something like foresight just be like,  
"Hey, this we can sort of do without"?
It's a deep question and what I think we  
don't think enough about is how, in a really 
fundamental way, hard are some problems to  
solve? Some problems are just very, very hard to 
solve. Even though the incentive is really there,  
you think, "Ugh, that took a really, really long 
time to figure out". Even though if you'd only  
known, it would've made your life so much 
better. There's tons of trial and error. 
The example that comes to my mind is the mention 
of vaccination. Which is one of the great human  
achievements, like, of all the public health 
improvements is the most important one. Public  
health is never perfect. It's this system of six 
or seven really critical tools that involve clean  
water, personal hygiene, vaccines, antibiotics, 
different kinds of therapeutic interventions  
or rehabilitation therapy. We still can't fend 
off all the germs. You have to have all of that  
and you can sort of achieve this equilibrium 
state where you mostly have it under control. 
Vaccination's the most important one and it 
took forever to find the first vaccine. It took  
this huge period of all kinds of weird trial and 
error, like inoculation with the actual smallpox,  
which is very, very dangerous. Not vaccination. 
Vaccination uses cowpox, the lymph of an infected  
cow, to intentionally cause the immune reaction 
of humans. Before that, people would inoculate a  
person with actual smallpox, which is just giving 
somebody smallpox. You do it through the skin,  
but you're giving somebody smallpox.
It was absolutely in a utilitarian way,  
the rational thing to do. It had these horrific 
death rates. It would never get FDA approval. But  
in a world where 10, 20% of kids die of smallpox, 
it's this horrible decision, but you'd be rational  
to do it. We actually don't know where that 
comes from. It may come from Africa, it may  
come from China. It spreads for like a century 
or more before Jenner discovers vaccination.  
So it's clearly really hard to figure that out.
Even after Jenner, it's like another 60 years,  
70 years before Pasteur kind of systematizes it 
and says, "Hey, we could do this for everything".  
Some of these discoveries and innovations are 
really, really hard to discover. But then the  
beauty of cultural evolution is that we can 
store that information, and you and I don't have  
to figure out any of that. We can go on to the 
next problem because that's now been collectively  
stored in the library of cultural evolution. 
It's known, we don't even think about it  
most of the time until it's controversial. 
What a blessing to live after people like  
Jenner and Pasteur who figured that out.
There's this great blog post by the author Slime  
Mold Time Mold where it's discussing....
Wait. Author what? 
You don’t know internet culture, you know, 
there’s a bunch of weirdos out there. 
I'm in a different world, 
sorry. What did you call them? 
Slime Mold Time Mold.
You can't just drop that. Like I'm gonna  
let that one slide. Okay. I got some homework.
Anyways, they have a blog post about scurvy and  
why it took so long to discover, and he was 
discussing all these sort of... it's sort of  
an epistemic conundrum because you can use lime 
and you realize, "Oh, it works". But then if you  
use lemons, which have much less vitamin C, or 
maybe it's the other way around, they just work  
way worse. Then there are certain kinds of fruit 
which have vitamin C, certain kinds which don't.  
It's actually hard to figure out what is it if 
you don't have a mechanistic explanation about  
how you solve this problem, and I think they 
had once figured it out and then they lost the  
knowledge until it was rediscovered again.
But it makes it all the more mysterious  
that the kinds of things that Henrich discusses 
forager societies having figured out. Literally,  
there's this 10-step process for how to process a 
certain kind of bean so that you don't get cyanide  
poisoning, and if you mess up any one of those 
10 steps, you're gonna get cyanide poisoning.  
A society just figures out the right taboos and 
traditions to process beans. But you can figure  
that out, but this thing which is causing 20% 
mortality, you only get in the 17th, 18th century. 
Yeah. We need to think more about the computation 
that's happening. You said it takes like 10 steps  
to figure out how to process this one particular 
kind of food, but I'm guessing it is just really  
hard to figure out infectious disease. It's 
a really steep mountain. Once you get up to a  
certain plateau, then the discoveries come really 
fast. They become systematic, and they become more  
fundamental. But it was really hard to get there.
Not that many societies really scaled it,  
not even within the societies that did. 
It was just a handful of people at first,  
but they did get there.
Okay, and then asking about  
where different countries were at around this 
time. What evidence do we have about what was  
actually happening in India before the British 
or the Mughals because it does seem to be this  
sort of black box in terms of historiography? 
Do we know if there were these huge plagues? 
Yeah, it's such a tricky problem. Start with the 
third plague pandemic in the late 19th century.  
We know that that's in India. India's a big 
part of its history. In fact, its where the  
plague bacillus is discovered by Alexander 
Yersin. It's called Yersinia pestis in his  
honor. A Japanese scientist finds it exactly the 
same time. Gets left out of the nomenclature. 
It’s a special kind of honor to 
have the deadliest agent in history. 
To be the worst pathogen ever; immortality. The 
plague is definitely in India in the 17th century.  
We know that from contemporary written records 
that are pretty unambiguous about the presence  
of the disease. What we don't know is was it there 
before that? And if not, why not? Because it kind  
of actually seems like it's not. At least not in 
this same explosive way. That's pretty curious. 
We don't have a great explanation of that because 
India's connected to the Central Asian world  
where the plague is endemic. There's plenty of 
trade. It would have plenty of chance to move to  
the subcontinent. So we don't understand that. If 
you go back even further, that's the Black Death.  
You go back even further to the late 
antique period, it's like a total mystery,  
and the Indian sources from the fifth 
and the sixth century are not great. 
They're hard to use. This is totally outside 
my language abilities. They require totally  
different expertise. I've worked with some people 
who think that there are oblique references  
that may be interpreted as epidemic. One of the 
interesting things is we actually think that the  
plague moves through India to get to Rome.
This is not definite, but the plague's  
enzootic, its natural animal reservoir is the 
Tian Shan Mountains where China, Kazakhstan,  
and Kyrgyzstan meet, and we can actually identify 
a pretty small region where the pandemic lineage  
comes from. We know that it doesn't go overland, 
so it's not like the Black Death, which goes  
across the steppe, the Mongol trade networks, 
military networks carry it. In the sixth century,  
probably, the plague goes south through India, 
and maybe the ports in Gujarat or along the  
West Coast that are still pretty connected with 
the Roman world, with East Africa, with Arabia,  
with the Red Sea, that the plague travels 
on ship across the Indian Ocean, because  
the Plague of Justinian shows up in the Red Sea.
That is a clue that it probably is imported on  
this seaborne commerce. But how it got from 
Central Asia to Gujarat is a hard question. 
Huh. I know the way we found that the Yersinia 
pestis existed in these Yamnaya 4,500 years  
ago is by... Didn't they just find the...? I 
don't know how, but if you can figure that out,  
why can't you look at the fossils of people 
500 years ago or 1500 years ago and just see  
if they have Yersinia pestis in them?
There's two things. First of all,  
you have to look. There is at present not nearly 
the same amount of ancient DNA laboratory work  
that's happening on remains from ancient India. 
So if you're not looking, you're definitely not  
going to find it and people aren't looking.
Secondly, it takes a lot of luck for it to  
preserve. The DNA molecule starts degrading the 
second you die, just starts falling apart. Even in  
the best of cases where we're getting it from... 
usually, if it's pathogen, you're getting it from  
the dental cavity. If it's human DNA, you're 
getting it from the inside of the skull. But  
it takes a lot of luck for it to preserve because 
the soil conditions will affect the degradation,  
the temperature will affect the degradation. 
Just in a crude sense, heat is bad. That's why  
there's more DNA, ancient DNA, that's preserved 
at more northern latitudes so far. But it has  
as much to do with the fact that people aren't 
looking. We should be looking, and if you've got  
skeletal materials from an ancient mass grave 
in India, call me. We can definitely look. 
And just to be clear for the context-
Ancient, ancient, ancient. 
Okay, going forward to the future a little bit, 
speaking of future technology, maybe the one  
that's more relevant than AI is synthetic biology, 
and there's a worry that you can potentially  
create diseases which... maybe the evolutionary 
gradient is one that is not catastrophic where  
diseases are incentivized to be transmissible 
but keep you at a chronic level of infection  
that doesn't necessarily kill you immediately. 
Actually, it's interesting why the bubonic plague  
diverges from that selection pressure, which 
maybe you can answer. What do you think about  
the potential that with synthetic biology people 
can make diseases that have the transmissibility  
of measles, but also the deadliness of 
something like Ebola? Is that, given your  
understanding of biology and whatever, is that 
plausible given your understanding of biology? 
Let me start with the plague where I'm a little 
more comfortable and can say something as a  
knowledgeable person. I think it's relevant 
because you said it's weird that the plague  
seems to sort of evade some of these evolutionary 
constraints, and it's worth saying what these are.  
A pathogen is a disease-causing organism, 
a microbe, usually a virus or a bacterium,  
but also fungi and single-celled organisms like 
protozoans that cause disease in a host. They're  
not trying to cause you disease. COVID doesn't 
hate you. Plague doesn't hate you. It's just  
evolution. It's just trying to steal energy 
or hijack your cells to reproduce its genes. 
In fact, it has incentives to try and do that as 
well as possible while doing the least possible  
damage. It's always kind of trying to thread 
that needle or to find the right balance,  
because if a pathogen just kills you instantly 
there's nothing to steal and it can't transmit  
its genes into the next generation. Every pathogen 
has these basic evolutionary problems. How do I  
get from one host to the next? And how do I evade 
my host's immunity, which our immune systems  
are incredible, for long enough to multiply?
Most pathogens have to explore the space where  
there are these various constraints, and they find 
all sorts of weird ways around it. Evolution is  
really good and really creative, unfortunately for 
us. The tricks that they find to hide inside your  
immune system or to fake it out are really wild. 
There are two reasons why plague is so weird,  
and we don't completely understand why plague is 
so weird, but I think there's two basic reasons.  
One is that it's vector-borne, which 
means that it's transmitted through  
another organism that is the intermediate.
Arthropod or insect vectors are really annoyingly  
helpful to certain pathogens, and most... there's 
actually a relatively small number of diseases  
that are transmitted through a vector like this, 
but they tend to be really nasty, like malaria,  
typhus. They can kind of get away 
with it because even if you're dying,  
a mosquito can come and bite you and transmit 
malaria to me. Plague is a vector-borne disease.  
It's very well adapted to transmit, particularly 
by fleas, but we think also maybe by lice and  
other biting organisms, but really by fleas. 
It's really good at transmitting by fleas. 
That's evolution. This is one of the cool things 
with ancient DNA we've been able to piece together  
at the absolute molecular level, the genetic 
changes that let it make this protein that have  
this effect in fleas. It's really weird, it forms 
this biofilm in the gut of the flea that chokes it  
and makes the flea feel like it's starving. So the 
flea just starts feeding and feeding and feeding,  
and meanwhile it's regurgitating bacteria.
Sorry, can I ask a question about that? Why  
is it the case... 'Cause there are diseases 
that hijack the flea's mind or ants' minds  
or something. Why isn't there a disease that 
makes humans zombies? Is it just the human  
brain is so complicated that it's like...?
Let me come back to this. We can talk about  
zombies, but we need to wind up for that. Okay, so 
one, flea- So the plague is vector-borne, and it's  
really good at manipulating the fleas, and it's 
just evolution. Two, I said this before, but it's  
an animal disease. We're like collateral damage. 
We're totally irrelevant to the really core  
evolutionary history. The plague just wants to 
infect rodents. Of course, I'm... it's not really  
wanting to do this. The plague makes a living, it 
survives out there in burrowing rodent colonies. 
We're like tertiary. It doesn't care at all. It 
has no evolved incentive to modulate its virulence  
to be able to transmit sustainably. Plague never 
sustains itself in human populations. It can  
transiently infect human populations, but then it 
always dies out. It becomes extinct, that lineage. 
And then what is the reason that you have 
these 1,000-year cycles basically? Why  
is it not 500 years? Why is it not 10 
years? Why is it not… What causes it to  
go dormant? What causes this to reemerge?
You need to ask me in five years because  
we've learned so much and now this is like the 
thing that would fall in the category of almost  
a new question now that we can ask. Now that we 
have the Neolithic lineages and the Bronze Age  
lineages, we're starting to piece together this 
fuller history. But we still don't even totally  
understand the boundaries of when the plague 
is really sort of not circulating in human  
populations, and what are the factors 
that cause it to be so explosive. Like,  
is it evolution of the bacterium? Is there 
something about the genetics of the lineages  
that escape from the animal reservoirs that are 
especially transmissible? Is it human ecology,  
like, that we put rodents like black rats in the 
right place to get the disease? Is there something  
about the climate stress that renders the 
population…? We don't have a great understanding  
of like why the plague comes and goes.
That's scary. Connecting it to your other  
question about these superbugs, what's interesting 
in the very big picture about the plague to me is  
the history of infectious disease is like, on the 
one hand, there's a real core of it that's just  
basic principles of ecology and evolution. We do 
certain things in the environment that creates the  
conditions that pathogens can evolve and take 
advantage of. But on top of that, evolution  
is just creative and weird and contingent and 
unpredictable. It's those little, contingent facts  
that can end up having these really huge effects.
In the case of the plague, if you were really  
knowledgeable about the basics of ecology and 
evolution of disease, you would never be like,  
"I think that every now and then a rodent disease 
from Central Asia is gonna wipe out half of the  
continent". Like, that shouldn't... that's not 
predictable. That shouldn't be happening. That  
one's kind of an outlier, but infectious disease 
is always kind of like that. Tuberculosis has  
probably killed more people maybe than any 
other infectious disease. It's like this  
horrible disease. We don't really understand 
it. Now we really don't understand where it  
came from because it doesn't look like it 
has an animal host before it has humans. 
It's just a weird disease. It's just a bacterial 
pathogen that, in the huge world of bacteria,  
this one is very good at hiding. It gets in your 
chest and it just lurks. Then it'll just waste  
you away, particularly if you're poor and you're 
stressed. There are some core principles there,  
but then it's just something weird about it. 
It's just this terrible luck that makes it  
what it is. To me, there's going to be another 
pandemic, maybe bird flu, maybe something else. 
But it's the real outliers and the weird ones 
that we should maybe worry about a little bit  
more than we do. If you want to go to zombies, 
I'll go there. You don't have to twist my arm too  
hard. But like prion diseases or fungal diseases 
where we don't have nearly the same infrastructure  
and level of knowledge, biomedical research 
as we do for bacterial and viral diseases,  
if we create the incentive, evolution is 
gonna find some weird ways to exploit it.  
It's not just transmissibility and virulence. 
Those are like two really basic parameters. 
When you look at even COVID-19, part of what 
made it insidious is it just has just the  
right parameters to be latent for just long 
enough. The first COVID, SARS-CoV-1, 2003,  
slightly more virulent, and in fact, it was just 
more virulent enough that it made you sick pretty  
quick. Just that little difference was enough to 
contain it because you could figure out who was  
sick. COVID-19 was impossible to contain because 
it took several days before you really presented  
with clinical illness. It's just that little 
quirk that made it totally impossible to control  
through non-pharmaceutical interventions early on.
Follow that train of thought... if pathogens are  
going to find ways to take advantage, and there 
may be pathogens that push the limits on latency,  
it can be very hard to control. One of the 
takeaways or the big evolutionary history of  
our pathogens is evolution is very weird, very 
contingent, very creative at exploiting whatever  
weakness we give it. It's because there are 
billions and billions and billions of microbes in  
this room. I don't know how many tens to hundreds 
millions of species of microbes are in this room.  
Most of them are not even remotely pre-evolved to 
be pathogenic, but lots are and they're constantly  
seeing if you managed to lock that door. 
They're just looking for a way to break in. 
Okay, just a couple more rapid fire questions 
for you. Have you found tools like Deep Research  
useful for especially your kind of work where you 
just have to compile insights from many different  
fields? If we throw in a question, the kinds 
of questions you honestly investigate and now  
maybe they can rely on you as a citation for those 
particular questions about what effect did climate  
have on the fate of Rome or something... But if 
you just had a different question which maybe you  
would write a book about in the future, how well 
do they do at synthesizing this kind of literature  
and coming up with a thesis the way you do?
Yeah, amazing. But not yet completely displacing  
or totally threatening the kind of work 
that a historian does. But at this point,  
I can't even conceive of what a research 
project would look like without using AI. 
Really? Oh, really? That fast it's 
become so central to your work? 
Yeah, but for just like, it's just like a constant 
conversation partner when you're doing research,  
when you're writing, you know, you can go back 
to that PDF and ask whatever, "How many species  
are there in this taxon," or you can just ask the 
AI. You still have to check it, but it's getting  
obviously more and more reliable really quickly.
But I think it hasn't yet... in some of the deeper  
research, it's not the equal of humans yet, 
and then in the synthesis, it's really not.  
There's still that creative element of synthesis 
that's... where conceiving of the question is as  
important as the answer. It doesn't feel like 
it's right around the corner. But it's changed. 
Have you used Deep Research?
Oh, yeah. I started using it  
like two weeks ago or so. I don't know how long 
it's been around? Somebody told me about it. 
It's not that much longer.
Okay, somebody told me about  
it less than two weeks ago. Yeah, it's 
incredible. I mean, it's really incredible. 
Yeah. Now, I want to touch on your next book 
that isn't out yet, The Last Animal. One question  
I have is basically how worried should we be 
about extinction given that we're on the cusp of  
technologies which will make it possible for us to 
reanimate many lost species? I assume if we have  
their genome or something, our descendants will be 
able to make more wooly mammoths and saber-toothed  
tigers and so forth. Should we discount the 
value of endangered species as a result? 
I would say no. We should still be concerned 
with extinction for a couple reasons. One is,  
absolutely this is a legitimate, serious 
scientific field to understand the genomics  
of extinct animals. There is small but 
serious enough science of de-extinction.  
It's feasible that some organisms could be 
targeted for serious de-extinction efforts. 
At the same time, a couple of thoughts. One 
is, I'm not that optimistic that it will work,  
not because I think it's necessarily impossible, 
although it's not yet totally feasible,  
particularly for animals that don't have very 
similar modern descendants. It's because a species  
isn't just a genome. A species is an organism 
that inhabits a food web and an ecosystem.  
We could bring the wooly mammoth back, but 
there's nowhere for them to live. The mammoth  
steppe that they need to thrive is not there.
There's really very little point in bringing an  
animal back from extinction just to put it in a 
box at a zoo to satiate our curiosity about it.  
Without the ecosystem, you can't have the species. 
One of the themes that I try and get at in the  
book that I'm trying to finish is, we need to 
think about living systems, ecosystems, and the  
extinction question is very much a question 
of what kinds of systems will exist on the  
planet? Whatever happens technologically in 100 
years, 1,000 years, the impacts that humans have  
on biodiversity is gonna be very long-lasting.
We're part of a species that has been impacting  
biodiversity for over 10,000 years, and there are 
things we can't undo. There are things we can't  
change about the past. We're making decisions 
right now that will be binding on the future  
whether our descendants like it or not. We need 
to think very hard about what choices do we want  
to make to keep intact the kind of variety and 
vibrancy of living systems that in 1,000 years,  
10,000 years, that will be a huge part 
of our legacy. The impact that we make  
on the stream of macroevolution will be one of 
the really big things that our species does.  
It can sometimes be very hard to recognize 
that in our individual lives, but collectively,  
it will absolutely be part of our forever 
legacy on Earth. We need to think very  
carefully about the choices that we make.
I think that's an excellent note to close  
on. Just to plug one more time, we've 
been discussing Plagues Upon the Earth,  
which is the history of disease going back through 
the Neolithic to modern times, Fate of Rome which  
discusses the plagues and history of the Roman 
Empire considering climate and biology. We also  
discussed, what was the name of the book on 
slavery? Slavery in the Late Roman World? 
Slavery in the Late Roman World.
Yep. And the upcoming book is The Last Animal. 
The Last Animal.
All linked in the description  
below. And where else can people find you?
In your descriptions. That's it.  
I’m not on social media, sorry.
Okay, got it. Well, you can find  
him here on this podcast.
Yes, exclusively.