Bro, what just happened? What just happened? We are live five minutes early, but I'm going to be finding out with you guys at the same time. Where did this red candle come from, bro? We had all this bullish momentum going into the end of the day. You had PAL that was bullish. You had D Jameson Greer that was bullish. What the hell just happened? Literally all at once. Boom. AC SMB just went red. 665 to 663. I mean, it's kind of holding on. I I I I don't know. I'm I'm literally going live early to find out with you guys what happened. Trump tweeted. Oh my goodness. All right, here we go. I believe that China purposefully is not buying our soybeans and causing difficulty for our soybean farmers is an economically hostile act. We are considering terminating business with China having to do with cooking oil and other elements of trade as retribution. As an example, we can easily produce cooking oil ourselves. We don't need to purchase it from China. Okay. So, soybeans is the issue that Trump has with China. This is not how I I thought I was going to start this market close. Dude, I I had a whole different plan on how to start this market close. Let's see the impact of what's going on here. So, Robin just dropped another percent. S&P, look at that. 662. We recovered down 1.5% all the way to make it green. Uh, and we'll talk about why that happened, but I guess this Trump soybean comment goes the opposite direction. Uh, SoFi still green, AMD still green, Grab was at six, now it's back to 595. This is just alos, right? Everything gets hit. Meta's down one, Amazon's down one point. Amazon was at 219, now back to 216. Apple about to go red. SMCI about to go red. Bitcoin and Ethereum. There's some red candles across the board. Ethereum was at 41. Now it's down to 4,000. Iran was pushing freaking 72. Where's Iran? 69.92. I mean, it still might get the $70 close. We got to see how the market interacts with this uh soybean news. But, okay. So, soybean soybeans is the issue. Again, if you're just joining, Trump says, "I believe that China is purposely not buying our soybeans, causing difficulty. We are considering terminating business with China and we will buy cooking oil ourselves. Well, for everyone who bet that we were going to close red this morning, you were wrong for literally the past three hours and you might end up being right. Goodness gracious. 2% down on the S&P. Dude, I put a green thumbnail. I put JPAL on a green thumbnail. The reason I made it green is because we were green. I guess soybeans are making us red. I don't know. I don't know if this is that big of a deal. I mean, I'm being a little hyperbolic here, but obviously equity prices are reacting to the downside now. They're not going as down as they were in the morning. The morning was a whole different issue. 1.5% down on the S&P. That was a bit nasty. We're at 657, but hopefully it's not as bad of an issue. But that is the news update for what we've got. Yeah, it feels like a nothing burger, dude. It feels like ALOS, as soon as Trump says anything about China, the ALOS go down because they're afraid that we're going to get into a full-on trade war with China. So, look, I don't think it's that big of a deal. We're going to see how it plays out. But those all-time highs that some of these stocks were making, Iran, AS, etc., might not get that on the close with 17 minutes left. might not get that on the close with 17 minutes left. All right, so let's get into it. I mean, let's talk about what happened throughout the rest of the day regardless because we do have a bunch of different updates that are super important to discuss. We will have technical Tuesday today. Jason will be on at 4:20 and we'll see what goes on from there. But the breaking news right here is Trump says China won't buy our soybeans. Um, so we can produce cooking oil ourselves. That is the update right here. I mean, there you go. There you go. That's what that's what you got happening. This is the tweet right there for those that for those that didn't see it. Okay, cool. So, um, let's get back into some of the other stuff that happened today. So, first of all, the the most important thing that happened today outside of PAL, which we'll talk about Pal in a second, was Jameson Greer. Jameson Greer basically said, "Hey, the market should calm down because the China issue is not that serious." Obviously, based on what Trump just said right now, it feels a little bit more serious. But here's what Greer said today about rare e rare uh earth minerals. And then we'll go from there. For the past six months, we've been having constructive conversations with our Chinese counterparts. Uh way back in May in Geneva, Switzerland, we arrived at a deal uh where we would take down our massive 145% tariffs. We'd suspend most of those. And in return, the Chinese would suspend their controls on rare earth minerals. Last week, the Chinese decided to, you know, re-expand uh their controls on rare earth minerals
>> out of nowhere.
>> Uh I would say out of nowhere. Yeah, that's right. I mean they there's always some level of dramatics to it uh where they will you know if we take measures you know little measures here and there they'll they'll threaten to you know bring down you know hellfire and things like that. Um but this is something that is completely disproportionate to any measures that the US has.
>> I was going to say they would probably say well you're doing this on semiconductors. Oh, well I mean listen, every country has uh very specific export controls that are product specific, company specific, sometimes country specific, and it's on things that are very high-tech. What the Chinese are doing is broad. It's on the whole world, a broad range of products that contain a tiny.1% of it is is is rare earth materials. Um, and they're doing it to low tech stuff. The rare earth materials here, these are things that the United States pioneered 60 years ago. It's basic materials that they're trying to control. But we need
>> So it's not like what he said was the most bullish. But the reason the markets, if you were watching the market open when we watched that entire interview live, did a literal U-turn and ended up getting to that V-shaped recovery is because the markets finally got some clarity over what the heck is happening with China. So we're not out of the woods with China, but basically the markets interpreted that as okay, there is going to be some negotiation that happens in South Korea when Trump and Xi meet. They did confirm that they would be meeting again and that this is a situation that can be solved. It's not just Trump randomly starting some 100% tariff back and forth, which is I think the perception of why the markets fell 3% on Friday because they thought Trump was just going crazy and we were getting going to get these random tariffs from nowhere again. Now, having said that, 10 minutes ago when Trump or five minutes ago when Trump tweets what he tweets, you're getting back to that same argument that Trump is trying to pick fights. And apparently, even though Greer tried to calm down the markets based on this whole China situation, Trump tweeting that we are not going to uh buy cooking oil from China anymore and that they're becoming hostile, which again, you know, like at the end of the day, that's just another form of Trump probably trying to negotiate with the Chinese before his meeting next week. It's enough to get the Algos to be upset. I kind of think it's a nothing burger, but nonetheless, that's kind of reversing what uh Jameson Greer said today. So, obviously not out of the woods. We're not as down as we were in the morning when the rare earth metal stuff uh came out from Reuters that China was being a bit more hostile. Greer kind of calmed people down. Trump is kind of escalating here saying that China's not buying our soybeans, which is an issue. This is almost exactly what happened in 2018 and it kind of messed up Q4. I don't think that happens this time because the Fed's not hiking like they were back then and earnings are going to be way better than they were in 2018 Q4. But the government shutdown happened in Q4 2018 and the China soybean issue happened. So we have two of the same things that happened six years ago and you know ultimately we're going to see how it plays out going into the end of the year. But obviously we've got a massive Fed easing tailwind and an AI tailwind that's different. Speaking of the Fed, so JPA, and this is a story I was going to lead with today, but then soybeans got into the picture. Uh JPAL was pretty bullish, dude. Here's what JPAL said. Number one, the data is showing that the economy is largely where it was in September. The data before the shutdown suggests growth may be better than expected. And number three, the labor market weakness justified the September rate cut. Before I left on the market open, my simple analysis of what JPA would say would be labor market weak means more rate cuts. And basically what he said for 50 minutes in his Q&A is, hey, the labor market is showing weakness, which means we're likely going to get some rate cuts. Nvidia down 4% because of soybeans, not because of JPL, because of soybeans, but Nvidia's down 4% right here. Now, the most bullish thing that JP Pal said, which I think is is like the real reason we had a a phenomenal V-shaped recovery towards the end of the day until the soybean stuff, is that Pal basically said we might come to an end of quantitative tightening of QT. Federal Chair Jerome Pal said the central bank is nearing a point where it will stop reducing the size of its bond holdings aka selling off assets on the balance sheet which would inevitably even if we don't start buying bonds which would be you know direct QE if we stop selling bonds and we stop quantitative tending and we've already stopped the pace of how dramatic it was back in 2022 it would be a form of quantitative easing which is really good when you pair that with rate cuts does that create a bubble maybe but we'll see that when we get to that but quantitative easing and rates going down means asset prices likely go up. And that was kind of the story I was going to leave with today. But then we got the soybean news. So I mean, look, that the soybean stuff doesn't change that macro trend for what JPL said today, which is incredibly bullish. But nonetheless, you've got this.3% draw down on the S&P 500 based on what Trump just said. Let's get some coverage right here on the soybean stuff and then we'll talk more about what JPAL said. But, you know, I was going to compliment JPAL for being such a QT for starting to get back into QE, but the soybeans kind of messed that up
>> because the president is talking about China on social media. Here's what he posted. He says, "I believe that China purposely not buying our soybeans and causing difficulty for our soybean farmers is an economically hostile act. We are considering terminating business with China, having to do with cooking oil and other elements of trade as retribution. as an example, we can easily produce cooking oil ourselves. We don't need to purchase it uh from China. Note that word considering there, Scott, because even though there's been a lot of intense rhetoric from President Trump and Treasury Secretary Besson over the past four days, the thing to focus on is what hasn't happened, which is any action actually to raise tariffs or to retaliate concretely. You saw that word considering the retaliation there in the social media post. Now, I'm told that that's part of an intentional effort by the US to manage through this situation. So, even as tensions are rising, the US action here has been proportional to the Chinese action. And because the Chinese have so far threatened to impose export controls on rare earths, but not yet actually done it. The US retaliation remains in the realm of hypothetical for now, too. Now, that means there's still a way to dial back from this relatively quickly if the two sides can find an offramp. One point a senior administration official made to me today, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce they feel has taken a much more aggressive role in the negotiations than the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been part of the reason for the flare up. US officials are concerned that some in the Chinese Ministry of Commerce are adopting a more hostile style of diplomacy known as the wolf warrior ethos. One person who's getting a lot of attention in that regard, Scott, is Lee Chengong, the Chinese vice minister of commerce. You see him here. He's said to be one of the most aggressive officials on the Chinese side of these negotiations and a potential disruptor or uh problem in these talks, but it doesn't seem uh to the US side that all of the Chinese officials are adopting this approach. And so that raises the question of how much of this Chinese this is Chinese domestic politics playing out and how much of it is an intentional good cop bad cop strategy. US officials see the trade truce since the talks in Geneva this summer as fragile but stable despite the rhetoric of the past four days and for now the betting in Washington is that face-to-face meeting between President Trump and Xiinping will actually happen at the end of the month Scott. So some insight into imagine getting liquidated over soybeans over soybeans. There you go. I mean, look, it's not that dramatic of a red candle, but I think this is more so annoying to market participants that thought this China stuff is not over, but it wouldn't escalate to to to the point where soybeans gets into the conversation again. But there you go. Now, again, as as he just said, Xi and Trump are going to be meeting next week in Korea. So, they will be having a conversation. Trump might be putting this stuff out, not really caring about how the market's going to react, but more so caring about um getting leverage and using soybeans as leverage. And Jameson Greer did uh say this morning that China realized that they got too aggressive with their rare earth exports and um and export controls and they pulled back some of their statements on Saturday night, which he was right about. The the Ministry of Finance in China came out and basically said we we don't want to escalate this to that extent, which is why the market started U-turning at 12 p.m. because they were like, "All right, both sides want to get a negotiating uh conclusion to what's going on right now." But now when you put soybeans into the conversation, that changes some of the dynamics. So, S&P 500 right there, 662. I mean, look, it's not down as much as it was, but it was pretty damn green before we got this announcement. And I guess we're going to have to take a couple days to see how the market reacts to this, what China says to this. I mean, now there's a lot of unknowns that we have to deal with in regards to the broader market. Nvidia right there still down 4%, potentially going back below 180 right there. Pounder is still up 1%. It was at 180. Tesla was at 435. That's back down to 1.7. And then Robin Hood was at 141 right before this came out. now down to 13539. This is very fatiguing. This is indeed fatiguing, but this is the nature of investing uh in this administration. Again, for those that are just joining, Trump said, "I believe that China purposely not buying our soybeans is an economically hostile act. We are considering terminating business with China having to do with cooking oil." I'm going to Google real quick how much cooking oil does the US buy from China. I didn't know it was that much. 1.27 million metric tons. We account for 43% of China's total cooking oil exports every year. Holy crap, dude. Well, now we know why Trump mentioned cooking oil. We're we're almost half the entire cooking oil that China exports across the world. Seems like a lot. So, it looks like that's why he's choosing that to uh to make his claim. Why can't he say this after the market close? You know what? I'd rather he does it before the market close. I mean, if you're going to rip the band-aid off and not let us have a green day, you might as well just do it before 4 p.m. versus take our hearts out after hours. But regardless, it has been a good day for a lot of names. Look, as got to freaking $99. I know it's a 95 right now, but that's still up at 5%. Ren, I mean, congratulations to those that are in the stock. Hit 7230. Muckabe, thank you for the $200 super chat. Um, I saw some screenshots from Muckabe today in my DMs. Let's just say he basically took 60,000 and turned it into a lot more than 60,000. We're talking about seven figures from 60,000 because of Iren. So, I mean, this stock has created literally millionaires. It has been in a phenomenal name. It continued to go higher throughout the entire day. That's up 8% now. It was at 72. Probably would have closed above 70 if it weren't for the soybean thing. But I ran having a great day. SLG that was up. TFC that was up. The banks again completely crushed it. Wells Fargo had one of the best days for all the banks. Wells Fargo right there that's up 7% on the day. Again, it was a really good day in regards to the banks, in regards to Jameson Greer. And then in regards to what Powell said, it's just this last minute notification on the soybeans is kind of what messed up the the green close. But overall, absolutely incredible. And uh again, it's as as as Makabe says right there, it's very humbling to go from 60,000 to multiple seven figures off one stock. I mean, and you deserve it when you do the due diligence and you get in so early into a name like this. But it goes to show how great the demand is obviously for AI data centers. That's why I rent is running and also how much the market wants to continue pulling forward the multiple because they think that growth is going to be there. SoFi as well 2778. SoFi was pushing 29 before that soybean announcement came out. SoFi right there now at 2777. I mean, you had a day where someone literally bet $500 on Kshi if JPAL would cough. He would win $500 if JPAL would cough. And as you can see in this video right here, JPAL coughed and this guy won 500 bucks. So, I mean, it was a pretty exciting day across the board. Exciting day across the board. JPAL gave us some pretty bullish statements, but you know, now we have to navigate this soybean stuff. This is the world. world the prediction markets are taking us into. Dude, this is the freaking world the prediction markets are taking us into. Walmart had a massive day chatp instant checkout for Walmart. So the partnership with OpenAI that also helped Walmart. I mean a lot of these companies if you're able to partner with Open AAI, I mean at this point Nvidia should just announce something with OpenAI every freaking week and that will continue to help their stock. But Walmart instant checkout with OpenAI. Same thing that Shopify said. I mean look at Walmart. It's up 5% on the day. Walmart's not a stock that really moves five, seven percent a day. It's moving 5% based on AI integrations on checking out and that was really good for Walmart. So yeah, that's getting some momentum. And then you had this from the senior vice president of Apple in marketing posted this. Um I would love to know what you guys think it could be. It kind of looks like a laptop, but maybe it's more than a laptop. I mean, no, it's definitely a laptop. I was thinking for a second, maybe it's a foldable phone, but it's probably a laptop. So, looks like the new either M5 chip or MacBook series are getting ready to come out and Apple likely will be hosting an event to talk about that in the coming weeks. Apple right there 247. That one also losing 250 based on uh based on the soybean tweet. Prolithic says, "I won the one gram gold bars from Robin Hood." Wow, congrats. Uh I forgot they were doing that giveaway last month. Um so, if you were a winner of gold bar, congratulations. Super awesome stuff. I mean, gold continues to do its thing. Gold hit a new all-time high today, 4158 on the day right now. Silver as well still above 50. So you are still seeing silver is actually a little red on the day, but gold is green. Gold and silver are not slowing down. Paul Tudtor Jones came out. Remember last week he said it kind of feels like a bubble or there's a resemblance of a bubble. He came out today and he said two things. Number one, he said the NASDAQ will be significantly higher between now and end of year. Bullish. Number two, he said, "I think the federal funds rate, aka interest rates, will be two and a half to 2.75% by the end of next year." Oil prices, by the way, WTI crew down about 1.7%. I mean, if Paul Tudtor Jones is thinking the NASDAQ's going to be higher by the end of the year, and he thinks rates are going to get get basically cut in half by the end of next year, obviously, you're going to have a market that feels a bit more excited about uh the potential for risk on assets and as a result, you're getting some momentum. Last thing before we get into the market close, we got about 20 seconds. Sam Altman said today that they are working on building out more of their data centers uh to support and for those that didn't hear it, uh this might be a little bit of a shocker to a lot of people. You might be a bit surprised, but nonetheless, this is probably going to be the biggest use case of AI to an extent. A erotica for adult users. So Sam Alman explicitly said, "Hey, uh we see that this is high in demand and we are working hard on building out our GPUs and our data centers to make sure that we can serve erotica to uh to adult users. Having said that, Tuesday, October 14th, 4 p.m. Thank you everybody for being here. the stock market. I mean, dude, take Nvidia to the literal moon. Take if Sam Alman is I mean, if that's if he thinks that's one of the biggest verticals of AI to go after, we're taking Nvidia to the moon. I guess we're gonna have to It's It's It's kind of crazy, bro. But that was one of the headlines from an AI perspective today. And like Sam Alman literally tweeted that. So it wasn't like misqued by some report. It was literally announced today. And uh it was in the context of like trying to deal with mental health for ChatBT, but he went on further to talk about all the other things that they are getting ready to to put out. So that's what we got. Again, if you are just joining, the main headline of the day is not what JPal said. It's not what Jameson Greer said. It is Trump 10 minutes before the market closed saying that I believe China is not buying our soybeans and as a result we want to counter by not buying their cooking oil. The United States is almost 50% of China's cooking oil exports which is likely why Trump mentioned this and as a result it looks like this trade war potentially is escalating. I mean I guess we'll hear what China says later but the market definitely acted like it was escalating in the last 10 minutes of the day. So that is what we've got. All right. How did the market end? Robin Hood 13544. That was down about 3.72% on the day. Palanteer right here 17957. That was down about 1.3%. Tesla 1.4%. If you heard a sound at the end of the market close, it was probably the Robin Hood sound. It does this like opening sound, closing sound when the market opens or market closes. So that's probably the sound you heard when uh when the market closes at 4 p.m. Nvidia right there, 180. That was down 4%. S&P only ended down 0.0. 08% but unfortunately could not go green based on that soybean quote was at 665 went all the way down to 662 but I mean it was better from 6 uh what was it 657 in the morning so you did get a bit of a rebound or 653 it got to AMD 218 that ended green soi that's up 2.6% on the day that was green Google was down about half a percent down about 3.6% 6% Amazon. I did buy more Amazon today. I'm continuing to DCA into Amazon. I mean, we've been through the thesis for a while, but Amazon below 220 to me is a buy. So, I bought more at 217 today. Meta right there 708. That's down. Salesforce was down 4%. Salesforce announced a freaking OpenAI partnership and they could not get their stock to move. Unfortunately, everyone can get their stock to move if they say they're working with OpenAI, not Salesforce. So, they announced like some multi-year enterprise um addition to what they're already doing with with OpenAI stock unfortunately fell 4%. PayPal was actually green on the day 6915. Apple was down. SMTI was down. Ethereum 4100. Bitcoin at 112. Oh, by the way, that Bitcoin guy who was uh doing the short, the same guy who did the short after or right before the Trump Truth Social post on China, which allowed him to make $200 million, he closed the short. He closed the short. He literally closed the short right when I ended the market open. and I got the notification that he closed the short. And so, I mean, that's pretty bullish, right, that he ended up closing the short, but so far, we have not seen him uh open the short. Let me show you guys the post right here of him closing. He closed it, I think, at 114ish. So, there you go. That was the close of the short and or at 112 he closed it. I think he made he made some good money on it uh because he started at 116. But even he probably heard what Jameson Greer had to say and he was like, "Hey, I don't want to short this if the China thing is not that big of a deal." I mean, I'm not in the guy's head, but I would imagine that's probably what he was thinking. And then boom, you get this Trump tweet right at the market close, which you would think if he was the guy who knew that the Trump tweet was coming, he would get the intel that another Trump tweet was coming. But I guess his plug wasn't able to deliver him the soybean notification before it came out. And as a result, you kind of had the market to get. It's Baron Trump. It might be Baron Trump. It might be. It was You emit. Dude, I I mean, $200 million, bro. That is crazy. I don't even know how to do perpetual futures contracts. I've never even signed up to a platform that like allows me to do that. But but the point is at the end of the day, JPAL, I think, was the most bullish thing that happened uh this morning. It's just that soybean stuff kind of changed it. So, again, what did JPL say? We talked about it for a little bit, but the most important thing he talked about was the balance sheet. And essentially Japow made the argument that the risk of continuing contracting on the balance sheet aka quantitative tightening is not something they want to engage in at the level at what they were doing before. And as a result you had the markets immediately interpret that as pretty bullish. And that kind of changed the perspective on what the markets were thinking about. So let me pull up this uh this clip right here where JPA is talking about that and then we'll keep going from there. All right, we got technical Tuesday in about 15 minutes and then we'll get Jason on in start getting into TA.
>> That tumultuous period, we continued to purchase in order to avoid a sharp unwelcome tightening of financial conditions at a time when the economy still appeared to be highly vulnerable. Our thinking was, pardon me, was informed by recent episodes in which signals about
>> that was the cough by the way that that made someone $500 on call she betting on JP coughing at least once. Reducing the balance sheet had triggered significant tightening in financial conditions and we were thinking of the events of December 2018 as well as the 2013 taper tantrum. Regarding the composition of our purchases, some have questioned the inclusion of agency MBS purchases given the strong housing market during the pandemic recovery. Outside of purchases aimed specifically at market functioning, MBS purchases are primarily intended like our purchases of treasury securities to ease broader financial conditions when the policy rate is constrained by the effective lower bound.
>> And then this was JPAL talking about why they made the decision they made in September
>> decisions uh according to the FOMC schedule. But I think uh it will be a lot better once we start getting for example, you know, the September employment report is going to be a very important report and we we're not on track to have that. We there would still be time for us to get that. We will get of course the the uh September inflation the CPI and PPI reports. So that's a that's a positive, but you know, we're uh we don't comment on fiscal matters, but from our standpoint uh we'll start to miss that data and particularly the October data. if this goes on for a while, they won't be collecting it and it could become more challenging.
>> Uh you use the term gold standard and you didn't mean it in this context, but I'm going to pivot here because there's a question from the from the audience that's getting a lot of up votes. Uh so one of your predecessors, Ellen Greenspan, used to view the price of gold as an indicator of inflation risk. So in that context, how do you view the rally that we've seen in gold? And if you want to throw in Bitcoin, you can comment on that too. I I you know I'm not going to comment on any particular asset price uh including that one and uh I think we we think of of uh inflation as driven by you know fundamental supply and demand uh factors and uh it's not something we look at you know actively.
>> So JP didn't give us a reason for why he thinks gold is going higher. Again the sort of gut check most people do when they think gold goes higher is that inflation expectations are going higher. The problem is the 10ear is going lower and the 10ear should be going higher. Aka people should be selling off treasuries if they think inflation's going higher because they want to get more bang for their buck and that's the credit market's way of saying we don't want to lock in a 4% rate for 10 years. We want to get 4.1 or 4.07 because we think inflation is going to be higher and we want to beat the rate of inflation. So it is kind of weird, right? Gold is going up, which usually signals a hedge against inflation, but the 10-year is going down, which signals that the bond market thinks that there's not that much of a risk of inflation. And I mean, you know, the fact that AI could be massively deflationary over the next 10 years could be something that they're factoring in. But it is a little weird the dichotomy between why gold's moving up and why the 10 years is moving down. You would think both would move in the right direction if they both believed inflation was coming down or both believed inflation was coming up. But there are different perspectives from that. And Bitcoin 112.5. I mean, Bitcoin even holding above 100,000 is still pretty damn good given that it fell all the way to 106 on Friday. So, you do have a rebound, but it is down from 116 that it was yesterday. Uh, Unid has a good comment right here. He says, "Aid, can you speak about why PTG, Howard Marks, and JPAL all changed their views suddenly and around the same time?" Now look, I mean, look, Paul Tudtor Jones, I I I can't really speak for him because I mean, at the end of the day, I think he's he Paul Tudtor Jones believes that there will be a bubble. He thinks we're in the the early signs of a bubble. So, he's not actually changing his views when he thinks that the NASDAQ is going to increase significantly by the end of the year and that rates are going to come down significantly. I think he's basically feeding into the narrative that we are going to get into a bubble, right? Because you're going to have really low rates, you're going to have the Fed quantitative easing, you're going to have the NASDAQ going up. That's kind of how 20 1999 2000 played out. At least that's how he's described it. So I don't think he's necessarily changing his tone right there. JPAL, you know, JPL is looking at the labor market and realizing they have no choice but to cut in rates. The Howard Marx pivot is the most surprising pivot to me. And I kind of have a reason for why Markx might have pivoted. And I don't want to speak for Marks, but if you guys want to hear my tinfoil hat theory, uh, Brookfield bought out a decent chunk of Oak Tree Capital yesterday. And I found that out late last night. So, I mean, Howard Marx just got paid. Brookfield acquired the rest of Oak Tree for $3 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of next year. Maybe there's a world where Howard Marx is like, "Hey, markets are great because I'm about to get a three billion dollar payday." And uh I don't want to say that we're bubbly because then the acquisition of my investment firm would potentially make it seem uh you know unreasonable to spend $3 billion. But if the markets are great and the economy is fine and the S&P is not expensive, then you know $3 billion is not that big of a deal. Having said that, I have a lot of respect for Howard Marks. Like a lot of respect. And if you've listened to his memos, if you've heard his interviews, he is not the type of guy to [ __ ] you. I mean, he will call it straight no matter what type of market environment we are in. So, at its core, I do think he believes that the S&P is expensive, but the quality of companies are much better. It's just if you listen to him on Bloomberg a month and a half ago, he didn't sound as optimistic as he sounded yesterday. He really didn't. And if you don't believe me, go listen to his Bloomberg interview from a month ago. So, yes, as S says right here, sometimes you got to let the ink dry. Sometimes you got to let the ink dry. And maybe maybe that could have been a reason. Uh, Grab did get another upgrade today. City Bank upgraded them to $7. So now we have four analysts that have upgraded grab to $7. City analyst Alicia Yap, her last name is Yap. Huh? I need to find this woman. Raised her grab price to $7 from 660. Maintaining a buy rating opens a 30-day upside catalyst watch. Dude, I think $7 is on the table. I really do. I mean, I could be wrong, but I think if they give a good quarter, all the analysts are kind of coming to the conclusion that this thing probably deserves to be around seven bucks. And if so, there's some upside. But we're going to see how this end ends up playing out. Yeah, YAP, bro. Her name is YAP. Alicia Yap. I need to I just I I mean I mean I mean I'm a yapper. I feel like I have to talk to someone who has who is blessed with the last name of Yap. Yap. Oh, did Bezos sell some Amazon? Maybe is the Maybe this is why Amazon's been getting hit. Amazon Jeff Bezos reports updated decrease ownership of 9%. How much did he own before? Um I think it was like 9.5. So not a crazy decrease. 9%. Yeah, there it is. He owned 900 no 883 million shares. 9%. There you go. Decreased ownership stake of 9%. I think I I don't think he was at like 12% before or anything. I think he was around like 9.2 9.3. So I mean we and we knew that he was selling over the past couple months. So that's not that surprising. But yeah, Bezos has to, you know, pay for his weddings. So uh I also closed their $1 billion convertible note offering today. So that is something that is good for IM. They raised a billion bucks 69.49. I mean again this stock has just done wonders for people. Um, year to date, the stock is up 565%. I mean, absolutely life-changing for a lot of people. And look, if they get a deal like Nebius got with Microsoft, who knows where the stock can go if they are going to continue to expand. And I imagine they're buying all these GPUs to one day get that type of a deal. The question is just when you think that ends up playing out. His most was like 10%. Yeah, you know, he would have another um he would have another I think he would have another Hold on, let's do the exact math. Um, well, it's not going to be literally the exact. He would have another 50 billion if he didn't get a divorce because he gave 4% uh of his Amazon stock to McKenzie, his wife, which at the time was worth about 36 billion. That obviously increased, but she gave away a lot of that money. She still has around 30 billion, but you know, Amazon stock did really well since 2019. So yeah, I mean he would have another probably 40 50 billion if he didn't give away that 4% stake. I mean he would officially be the rich or very close to the richest guy on earth. I mean I know Elon has dwarfed him but still that 4% stake kind of kind of set him back. Um all right so that's what you got in the context of Mr. Basil. So let's see what other headlines we got. Again Jason will be on in about 10 minutes or about five minutes and we'll get into technical Tuesday. Oh here's a big update today for Bitcoin. The DOJ seized 15 billion in Bitcoin from a pig butchering scam based in Cambodia. So you got the DOJ getting another 15 billion. Add that to the United States balance sheet and you know they're probably not going to sell it given how bullish Trump is, but you got more Bitcoin that has been seized by the United States and likely they are going to hold on to it. Uh Rocket Lab successful deployment with Sinspective. So this was great for Rocklab today. Again, that stock didn't get the $70 close, but did get around 6850. So, not too bad there. And Rock Lab got some momentum today as well. I don't know exactly what the pig butchering scam was about. I didn't read too much into it, but the DOJ did seize 15 billion of it. All right, last headline for today and then we'll get into Technical Tuesday. This thing, I think, was actually really bullish for both Spotify and Netflix. Um, they're now having a video podcast deal. So Netflix is going to be licensing Spotify video podcast from Spotify studios on their platform and you got sort of the most important podcasts on Spotify. Bill Simmons, True Crime, all that stuff that is going to be available on Netflix. The funny thing about this is on Google, all of these podcasts are available for free because like people just upload them to YouTube. So Google really doesn't have to pay for these podcasts. on Netflix, they have to pay Spotify a licensing fee just to get the content onto the platform, which has always been my gripe with Netflix as a company. It's like they always have to pay for more and more content, but the fact that they have so many people willing to pay them for the content because people assume Netflix is like some premium brand of content, you know, that's why they're able to afford it. So, Netflix right there was green on the day. Then the Trump soybean news came out. Spotify, did that go green on the day? Spotify, yeah, it was at 700. It fell to 680 right when the soybean stuff came out. But Spotify also was green as well. Why would you watch a podcast on Netflix? It's a fair point, but I mean people do watch podcasts on YouTube, so you know, maybe people just turn on the same thing on Netflix and that's what they would watch as well. All right, that's what we got, folks. That's what we got on the day. Again, I thought this market close would be a little different, but we got an update for soybeans. This was the tweet for those that didn't see it. Trump is considering to stop buying cooking oil from China because they're not buying our soybeans. Obviously, it is a further escalation of trade tensions after Jameson Greer kind of deescalated this morning and we're gonna have to see how the market reacts to that. But ironically, the same reason why the markets were down one and a half% in the morning is why the markets potentially could be down tomorrow, which has to do with China. And as a result, this is some of the pain that you're seeing as we uh as we get into the market close. All right, that's it. Let's get into technical Tuesday. For those that care about technicals, we're going to spend the next two and a half hours going through all the main tickers, Nvidia, Hood, Palanteer, Tesla, etc. looking at their technicals with the person that I think is one of the best TA people on the planet. And in about an hour, we will start taking the audience requests and we'll try to get through as many tickers as possible. Five minutes a ticker. We got the shot clock on the board. You guys like the flow last week when we implemented that. So, we're going to keep that going and let's get into it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for technical Tuesday.
>> We have market closed, dude.
>> I know. I saw it. Soybeans
>> was the it was the the the soybeans trump the QT was the line.
>> Soybeans trump the QT. It is what it is.
>> Well, we're live. How are you doing?
>> I'm good. I'm going to see if I can join. I can't always see the comments. Maybe I can join this through the Oh, there you go. Do you have it on your phone? Yeah, I actually have it on my iPad. My iPad. I mean, I I haven't showed you guys this, but this is how I keep track of all the comments.
>> Yeah, because I can't look like multiple places at the same time, and Streamyard comments don't really keep it up that well.
>> And this is my background of my iPad for those that have never seen it.
>> Dude, it's been like this for almost two years. I just haven't changed it.
>> I mean, you know, it's a nice background. Why not? Why not? I'm never beating the allegations. All right, so let's get into it. Thank you everybody for being here. I'm going to put a Google doc right here in the chat. This will keep track of all the tickers. Couple things. Please do not spam your ticker. I promise I have a big ass iPad. I can see all the names. So please do not spam it. If you spam it more, it's going to make us not want to do the ticker. So that's the first thing. Number two, do not give us any OTC stocks or stocks that are under a billion. If you keep asking us, first of all, Jason can't really do TT on those. it's it's likely not even that legal for us to
>> to talk about them because they're probably of low floats. We don't want to be moving those stocks. And number two is just like we can't do those names. Like you can go to other places for those names, but we really can't talk about those names. And then number three, again, we will take audience requests in an hour. We usually get to most of them. We're going to miss some of them, but we usually get to most. Just got to be a little patient. We will get to all the big ones that matter. But uh we'll be here for the next two and a half hours. And Jason is very grateful every single Tuesday for free to spend his time with us. So I'm putting his Twitter right here in the chat that you guys can follow him and his YouTube and we will get to as many tickers as possible. And again, I I like if you spam, dude, like it's it's really hard for a chat to function if they're spam. So if you spam your ticker three, four times, you're just going to get banned.
>> Is this what we've come to?
>> Yeah. No, because people people are so, you know, they love their tickers so much.
>> I get it. I understand. like we're gonna try to do them, but if you spam some random ticker over and over again, you like you're just not gonna be able to participate and that and that sucks. And it sucks for the rest of the chat. So, I don't I'm not even the one that wants to ban you, but the rest of the chat will not function if there's one ticker over and over and over again coming back and forth. So, please don't do that. I hate being a dictator, but please do not spam a ticker.
>> All right.
>> Secretly secretly he enjoys it, though.
>> No, I I do. I really don't because then people freaking email me like, "Oh, Mid, you banned me. What's going on?" and they have to go to YouTube and go in my settings and unban them. And it's annoying for me. I'd rather not have to ban it. But it really disrupts the flow of the chat if there's some person spamming Kraken every five minutes. And like Kraken is an OTC stock. We can't look at Kraken. Tell Kraken to go to the NASDAQ. Maybe then we can look. We can't look at these over the counter. Not Wolf of Wall Street. We can't look at these pink sheet stocks. I'm sure some of them are great companies, but we just can't do TTM. All right. Having said that, let's get into it. Um, I think let's start off with SPY. Let's go with spy. And what are you thinking is going on with the S&P 5?
>> All right. So, let me go ahead and share
>> and yeah, we'll keep the five minutes. We'll keep the flow good. I'm pissed because of the soybeans.
>> Ruined his They ruined his thumbnail, guys. Like, he had
>> I put green on the thumbnail green clothes
>> and now it looks stupid because we're not green. Like I put JPL in a fresh green thumbnail and then you know
>> he's like that's legitimately what he's upset about right now.
>> That's what I'm that's what I'm mad about.
>> All right. So um I got a little for my throat. These uh throat bombs. What is it called when you with the noises the when you know you hear me with the Anyways, so we'll work through it.
>> All right. Are you ready?
>> I'm ready.
>> On the top left of my screen, there is a ticker here.
>> Oh, that's good. That's even better, bro. Keeping it. Yeah, that's better.
>> Oh, you want to keep it this big?
>> A little bit smaller. Yeah, that's perfect. That's perfect. There you go.
>> All right.
>> There you go. All right. S&P. Let's get into
>> So, this is the countdown. So, if you're wondering why, this is the countdown to kind of keep us on track. The attempt. Ready, set, S&P. All right. So, so spy, I think you have to start on the weekly. Last week, we had um really just like the Trump the Trump shenanigans, if you will. And um you know, I'll just take this off for a moment. A couple of my other lines. I wasn't able to prep fully, but from a weekly perspective, not last week, but the week before last, that's 672 to 661. Hopefully you guys can see all the numbers. Looks like you can see all the numbers on my screen. Um, so at 66161, that's where we're actually going to be above not last week, but the week before is closed. That's going to be an important level when you see a candle like this, like this big giant, what we call this a kill candle because it kills the momentum. Um, and it's usually just it's a sentiment thing. So, first of all, sentiment is important. What I just did was I threw a fib on just this this past week's candle and that 50% range is 66340 right here. This is what we're going to call a bearish retracement. So in this box, this is a uh it's a bearish retracement. And that's actually exactly what we hit today right here. And so that's kind of like the top of a bearish retracement. In order for this to actually follow through, what what needs to happen is we actually need to expand above 666 and a half. And that's going to be your key point. It's also going to line up with about a 20-day simple moving average. So put that it's a 20-day simple moving average. I have mine locked on the daily even though this is a weekly chart, but the 20-day simple, that's going to more or less be your your major trend break for now. If we're below 661, then the way this works is really you're just going to go candle to candle, possibly the bottom of last week, which is more or less where we've stopped. If we do lose this, the next rung down here, next candle low is down to 647. And that's really um that's actually where we would probably end up stopping anyways on the next next kind of retest of support. So for now,
>> did you did you think the 665 uh level we hit today was bullish before the soybeans thing? Do you think that was a good reversal that we had throughout the day?
>> It was a good it was a good intraday reversal.
>> It actually go to go up to do that 1.5% sort of Vshape. Yeah, it really was. But then when you look at when you and now I've zoomed into a 30-inut chart in our in our private group, my note was look, we're running into on both the Q's and spy. And I've just kind of traced this. The white line is that 20-day simple moving average. For whatever reason, technicals and these random news flow events always line up. And so to see this rejection literally at the 20-day simple moving average wasn't surprising to me. My note to our group was it's not a good spot riskreward-wise for net new money longs. I could easily see this coming back and actually kind of like chopping around and putting a couple days of sideways action into the market to really just digest what just happened. And usually that's what happens when we see a big what we call kill candle like this. It's not really a short until you're breaking these lows in between this. What we call this? We call this an inside day. Meaning that t like these days, these last two days were inside the prior like large candle. And so until this area breaks, it's really we just we really just haven't gone anywhere. So the way you view this is it's digestion. Um, and my note to put these things out, these little lines, this this fib retracements, um, is just just in essence to say, hey, look, we have a small tradable, this is trading, right? A tradeable range from here to here and then not but not until we're actually over 672 are we really fully in the clear because you still need to be cautious here of some kind of a pullback. But you don't really want to see this here. Now, tomorrow if we do bounce, and I'm I'm running out of time here. This would be worst case scenario like that. That would be tomorrow to have a green open tomorrow. Having a green open and a red close would would probably be worst case scenario intraday, very short term um for active traders. But even in that case, you're still gonna maybe retest these lows, which again, if this locks in a higher low, higher than this aftermarket low, that's probably going to be a viable possibly going to be a viable dip. Anyways, that lines up somewhere around this prior retest here, but that's spy for now.
>> Okay. Uh, hoodie, what are we thinking about that?
>> Hoodie. So hoodie's in uh a very similar position where like this is from that last breakout of 123. This is where everybody really started fumbling over themselves on where do where do we reprice Robin Hood after these uh event contracts measuring from this breakout point to the actual tops here. This this area is that kind of like right in between we call this a golden retracement. Um the very bottom of that is about 132. You you generally want it to hold 132. If for whatever reason it doesn't, then 122s would be that full-blown retest of this kind of block right here. And at the at that point in time, maybe the 50-day um is is sitting around that same general area. Robin Hood can get a little whipsy from time to time, but from a textbook perspective, assuming no news flow, actually right here is um is a pickup spot, assuming that the trend is intact and it doesn't really lose the 20-day simple moving average. So, here now, uh technically, this this general area is a is a pretty decent riskreward. I can pull this back. for a for a short term. I mean short term. So when I talk about trading, side note, um time horizon, which means how long you intend to hold things is paramount. So when I'm prefacing these things, I'm I'm mostly thinking week to week because I'll see you guys most likely in about a week depending on how many earnings are coming up. Um, but usually you're looking for a general bounce like this back up into this range, which would really put you back into this 150 area.
>> If someone wanted a dip by 135, do you think it's not crazy to take a shot at it at that level?
>> It's not It's not crazy to take a shot at it.
>> Why did you buy it?
>> No, I'm just asking because there's a lot of people that have been asking, you know, when do I get when do I get in? It's not
>> technically.
>> Yeah, technically from this like this most recent kind of trajectory, this is this is a spot. Is it the spot? It's not like the spot. Um it's a it's an okay discount. It's like Tesla at 415 that we've been kind of highlighting from April. This is like $40. This is your broader channel. And so this is kind of like that center line. And I'll just uh since I got a couple minutes right here, this is the entire channel. So we've just really kind of lost that center line of the channel. The low end, so deep discounts would be in that 120 kind of area, which which is a full-blown retest of really the 50-day and that initial breakout area right over here. So that's your deeper discount in the 120s right here is a is an okay it's a it's a good discount discount as in it's not you're not buying it at the very top of the channel. So trade location matters. This is about 50% of the range. This is your steepest discount with it as long as it it stays within this channel. If it doesn't stay within that channel from a technical perspective, well then it doesn't stay within the channel and then it needs to change it needs to change the trajectory. But with everything else, assuming that everything else stays the same, this is the trajectory as it is and it's not it's not broken. It's still in a it's still in a solid uptrend. The only difference is that it's it's moving towards the bottom of the channel versus staying in the top of the channel.
>> Okay. Amazon. What are you thinking?
>> I bought that today.
>> Okay. Both.
>> Oh, did you? But I didn't know that Bezos sold anything. He said,
>> well, I mean, he had like nine point. He didn't sell anything today, but I guess he just reported how much he totally he overall has. So, my thing was like when we talked last Tuesday, I was talking about the bears kind of being pretty weak here at this 215. And in my mind, I'm looking at this and I'm like, I don't need to wait for this chart to tell me that we're going to get to at least 225. And assuming that we get to 225, we hold. We did get to 225 pretty much straight away, but it did not hold. And this whole time my other deeper discount area was chat probably knows or remembers 210. And so this this morning at 211 to me good enough for government work. Uh I actually bought straight up equity which is a rarity. Um and I also have a smaller hish. Anyways I I bought the stock um
>> what 215 you bought it 213.
>> 213. Yeah, it it was like a a morning pickup um just under this 200 this 200 day simple. So, one little trick since I got a little bit it doesn't I don't know that the 200 day simple moving average which is this red line here actually saves it. Um, a lot of times what you're looking for is a it's possible that it loses the 200 day simple moving average, which is why I actually went with equity here cuz at this level, I don't mind actually starting a net new equity position as a position trader. That's just me. But when a stock loses the 200 day, simple, it can get a little funky. And usually what you're looking for is a situation like this or a situation like this or something hereabouts, right? And so one easy way to do this is to go on a daily chart. So this is a one-day chart. And what you're looking for is um you're looking for a higher daily low. So this is one kind of wick which lined up to my my general loading zone right here. Longer term, this is actually not a bad retest right over here. I'm okay with this. Having tested this area, I think this is more of what we ran into. So, testing this whole breakout over here, I'm okay with this. Is it possible that news flow happens and this loses this area? It it is. I'm not going to jump in front of this, but what I will be doing is I'll be watching for uh basically a a a daily higher low. So, I'm going to be looking for some kind of structure like this where I have a it's coming down. I have a candle like this and um and then I break a high and then I will pick up on the higher low. So, this is a low and then we'll have a higher low. A higher low like this.
>> The the equity you picked up, would you be willing to hold that equity for like five years or how are you thinking of the equity that you bought?
>> Usually, uh if I'm buying equity, I don't want to have short-term gains. So, more than 12 months.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> makes sense. is is if I'm buying equity, I'm not I'm not usually looking for um short-term cap gains, which means that and and I don't do it all at once. So if I do do it, okay, here's my here's a spot there's pos like it would be, you know, maybe a little bit wherever it lands. If it loses the 200 day, it could just become all right, well now I'm sitting in a falling knife and I don't want to just average down because I'm red. Like I don't want to do that. I got to wait till it actually fills or like till it stops and starts to go sideways. But the best way to do that is to either look for something like this, but use that little trick. If you have a low, then even a higher low, daily higher low, something like that that is below the 200 day simple, usually your a second like daily higher low when the stock is actually below the 200 day simple moving average ends up being a pretty good buy. Nine out of 10 times. Don't quote me on that stat, but a lot of the time just waiting for a small structural break or reversal when the stock is actually below the 200 day. Most people say, "Oh, get out because it's under the 200 day." I actually like to buy be below the 200 day. That's just me. So, um, as close to maybe even below, I'll be happy with it.
>> BMNR.
>> BMR. We talked about this a little bit last night, but 53 as close to 50 as you could was going to be to me kind of where we are. This was that prevailing uptrend, but net net very much in consolidation here. So, still in consolidation, still holding this general area. We're right on the cusp. Oops, did I just I didn't mean to move that. But we're right on the cusp. Um, man, yeah, you're right. This is 47. 47 was a good pickup after hours. If anybody caught that, that was a good I feel like that was a good deal.
>> That was uh that was 3,400 ETH at 47.
>> I mean, we could talk about ETH, but if anybody had those resting orders, I unfortunately did not have my resting orders out there, but on the last technical Tuesday, we talked about needing to have orders sitting out there because it's going to go so fast. This is welcome to crypto. But that that's how it works. But that that ends up being like a a really good liquidity grab to me. 53 generally speaking was what I was looking for. We are here. Um I like it. What I want to do I'm going to do one more thing and just add a little bit of a kind of a parallel channel. So, we're just barely at the bottom of this. So, I don't really want to see this get lost. Like, I don't want to see this go much lower. So, holding this is constructive. This a bullish hold. When you look at Ethereum compared to Bitcoin right here, right now, last week, I also said I think that Ethereum will start to outperform Bitcoin. I believe in fact that it has begun to outperform Bitcoin. So, that would be bullish as well. um basing and then I mean this is this should be it. I'm just going to say this should be where we actually start to go. We could have some more chop, but as see how you get really close to this the peak of this consolidation, that's when you get ready to go. Um and then just as an aside, it's even even at the very peak of this consolidation, it can still look really bullish. It's still going to be 65. So, it's still got to break through 65 before this is really ready to rock and roll. It's It's always possible when you're in these kind of areas that stocks just go sideways and and nowhere.
>> Someone says, "Did BMR break the wedge support?"
>> It's sitting at the bottom of it.
>> Okay.
>> It's sitting at the very bottom of it. the wick down technically broke it but quickly right back up. So again, support resistance. It's not hard lines in the sand. They're kind of like those those trampoline levels. This is uh quickly like the canvas on the trampoline kind of broke. Uh looks like there was a quick repair overnight. So we'll have to see how how strong the repair job was cuz it's still holding here. And then you would you would really just kind of want to see that beach ball bounce, which I don't think is going to be that big of a bounce because we're still in that consolidation. And again, remember, we have that 59 um pivot above us that we still have to deal with. So, I would expect that to get tested again and then continue on with in this trajectory. And it could just it could just hold this and then eventually again not till it's over 65 really start to get some legs over it. What we don't what you don't want to see is you don't want to see this and then this kind of trajectory start to happen. That's not going to be fun. Um that would be a broken chart in this instance. Not a broken chart, but that would be a short signal. Uh, and again, just to be fair, you know, I want to be bullish, but if I'm going to be bullish, I need to know what a bearish setup looks like just in case. But that's that's what it would look like. And that's going to be below below that 48 right here. That's going to be no fun. Sofi
>> Sophie um held but not extending. So of this pullback, this is our chart from the last couple weeks that we've been kind of monitoring from here. this 308189 to that recent low of 24 and a2 2480 where kind of like that fundamental pivot happens that bearish retracement is here but this still looks stuck. Did you buy back your short puts?
>> Yeah. Well, they expired worthless on Friday.
>> Okay. Do you do do you think buyers keep showing up at 26 in a way that makes it feel like that's becoming a real strength of support?
>> No, it's not real. It's not it's not massive. It's just the bottom end of the same channel. This is like where Hood is. So like Hood can get this kind of situation right now. Very similar. That's And so this blue line, that's the 50-day simple. So again, kind of like I'll make that like a I don't know, brighter blue.
>> I feel like 2550 is when it it bounces usually when it hits that level.
>> Well, if you below 25 for the past like month.
>> Yeah. So like if you zoom it across, it's right here. So this is to your point. So you're you're mentally remembering the prior resistance, resistance and support level and that's now becoming support again,
>> right?
>> Which was which is essentially a retest. So this is all good, all well and good here. It's also retesting kind of like the bottom of this channel and you have more confluence off the 50-day simple moving average. The only thing that's holding it back is the the center line of this existing channel, if you will, and and that's sitting currently around 29 and a half. As this continues, that center line can also like grind higher. Um, but this is that this is that same kind of setup that we've seen. I you put these bear zones in because we want to know where the overhead resistance is. So if you get up and over 2875, all right, well then you're going to make a shot into the 30 into that 30 level. And if it can continue through 30, well then the top of the channel is still 3450. So this area here 2875 is is your is your new pivot. And if you're a trader, again, thinking like month to month, week to week, that kind of trade looks like this, that's a trade box. Your stop would be 27.85 going long here with a target at 34.85 with uh it's a risking one to make six kind of trade. But your profit taking needs to happen is that that's where that would then
>> from a from a fundamental from a fun fundamental perspective the banks crushed today. So if SoFi gives us a really good quarter uh as a growth company in the banking space maybe that also push it back above 30.
>> Yeah. It would just basically look like this from and that that would still be that same same kind of channel and then you could go sideways do it again kind of thing. Yeah. Um, Tessy, what do we got going on?
>> Tessy's struggle bus right now. Um, I think, you know, Tesla likes to uh Tesla likes to be the center of attention. So, I wasn't expecting much out of Tesla today. Uh, she's like got one of those personalities where like if she's going to go, then she doesn't like it when anybody else goes. So she wants to be like just everybody look at me and everything else can go down and Tesla's going to go up. So on a day like that, that's when Tesla's rip like next move is really going to start. We did talk about this 415 level and I think that was absolutely critical. We got that flush on Friday, freaky Friday. This this stays um it's still absolutely crucial. I was so close to taking this net new long on Friday's close, but I was waiting for any signs of life, and I mean any signs of life into this close, and they're just like I'm like, "Where where are the buyers? Where are the buyers?" And they didn't show up all the way down to the close. I'm like, "What what's going on?" Um, but eventually, I mean, I guess I should have just I should have just gone with my gut because it closed right there and I'm like, it's too close to call. And I was I felt good after after hours cuz I'm, you know, I'm watching it cuz I'm like, I don't really want to I don't want to go along here because if it it's such a critical spot. If it if it dumps, then it's gonna be it's gonna be ugly, right? Um, but sure enough, Sunday come or, you know, Sunday comes around, we get the tweet and then Monday, you know, right back to the 20-day and these 20-day simple moving averages, these were the critical technical pivots that a lot of large fund managers watch. So, that's this white line. So, whenever anything is is chopping around a 20-day simple moving average, that's the primary trend that a large fund manager is going to be watching. Um and again where Tesla, SPY, QQQ, all the above kind of hit their heads up on resistance today. Um to see that that pullback which also happened to align with the a tweet not surprising. Now, what I'll say from here is that I'm going to be looking for a higher low, which means that if we can if we can get a higher low somewhere still along that 415 area, I I think I just got to go for it. This does not look super bullish. Um, so the the stuff that I had before, that's coming down right now just in case. Um, but if I, this would be a net new trigger, meaning a net new trade would have to come would be able to come online if I do get this type of setup. So, a brand new long for a trade cuz I think not I think because mostly this this primary trade has more or less played out and if I stay too long and overstay my welcome, well, I do risk this. So, this initial is being unwound as we speak. But I can put this right back on if I get this kind of this kind of setup. So, that's that's what I'm watching for right now. Um, if it continues through, it's going to be that 435 pivot to get a real confirmation. Sorry, I'm scooting around between uh charts right now. Also, you guys, just cuz I'm moving around time frames a lot cuz it matters. But again, if we lose,
>> I'm not excited about Tesla right here.
>> Well, it needs a catalyst. And I think there the only catalyst is earnings, which Tesla quite frankly does not move a lot on earnings. So, I'm kind of thinking that it might be after earnings kind of thing. So, it could just go sideways. And then if I get a dip to buy post earnings, um, you know, that would be possibly ideal. But I like it. It I I do like it. It's just not the same discount that it was before. Plus, I have, you know, other Pokemon cards that I'm more interested in at the moment than Tesla,
>> Nvidia,
>> Nvidita. Shoot.
>> It It lost 185, right?
>> I missed this. No, no, no. We just outlined this. This is our lines from last Tuesday.
>> Oh, yeah. You're right. Well, that's Friday or that's today. No, that's today.
>> That's today. Did anybody buy this? This is like today. Like right now live.
>> It's at Is it 180 after hours or below that?
>> That was the buy. Yeah, that was quick.
>> It just closed there.
>> Well, it's 180.
>> It closed at 180.3.
>> There's a couple people in the chat saying they bought it. Yeah,
>> I know. I might need to buy this right now, too. Um I mean, I have I'm okay. I'm okay. I I actually it looks like I bought it this day. I bought the dip already. Okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. is I bought I bought I guess I bought this one. Um I don't need to buy anymore. I don't have a a which is that's a longer hold for me, but um it's not big. I I I like this. So I like this as a retest of this. I like this as a pullback from that prior um attempted breakout. Currently it's a look above and fail, right? Meaning like it looked above that breakout. Well, what I don't want to see is I don't want to see this lose um 175. So, if it loses 175, okay, cool. That's this this gray box right here. But in terms of riskreward, that's it. It's here now. Uh so, TA says uh take your shot. I mean, by the way, I feel like
>> I feel like the fundamentals supported as well. There's been a lot of news since Nvidia was trading at 175 180. That's why it got to 195. So, the fact that it's retesting it technically and fundamentally, I agree with you.
>> Okay.
>> And you have TSM on Thursday, which could validate
>> as so ASML is like kind of like this canary in the coal mine for me, which reports tomorrow morning, and they they are really hot right now. Like the stock price is very high. um concerningly high to me. Uh so this is this is this white line. Uh I'm just going to make this entry is as close to this as you can. That is um 17829. So it's not quite there, but that's the level. So we can come down a couple more dollars and that's retesting like all of this right here. But just just to note you guys um I'm going to say this sentiment is uh meaning like tweets and stuff like that that's as important as fundamentals which both sentiment and fundamentals do trump no pun intended technicals. So in the midst of a sentiment change we can see what we call kill candles sometimes that that just like blow through support or blow through resistance. Conversely, and uh in the moment, those those moments the TA might have told you, hey, something's possibly happening, but like in the moment, anything anything goes, right? So, while while things are happening, just know it can continue to keep going, you ideally do want to wait for dust to somewhat settle because yeah, it might hit this 178 level, but it could blow through it also. And you know, depending on whatever news is happening, it could it could go all the way down to 170 and then open up in the morning at 180. And and in even in that event, sure 178 would have been the level to get to, but because maybe some kind of sentiment, maybe some kind of fundamental catalyst happened, you know, there could have been a wick that that takes you down like that in the moment. So, just as just to keep that in mind, these aren't like as close to or below uh as close to high 170s as you can. I like this. I'm a little I'm I I think I need to take a closer look at this from my group.
>> Okay. Palanteer,
>> what do you think? Uh Palunteer,
>> I I like it too though. I like Nvidia. Well, I was going to ask about uh AMD stuff
>> because I think that's kind of holding it back as if it's like a zero sum game for and because it kind of is, but like AMD is getting a lot of love in the news news flow right now. Um so, Palunteer, all I just did is I took this low and this low. I guess I should probably take these two lows. Yeah. So, let me just make this a straight across line. So this low, this low slightly breached here actually another another little double bottom off the 50-day interestingly enough. Um this is the box and uh this is that bullish retracement that Palanteer broke through. So, from the last time there was a live trade on Palunteer coming up this way here, making it right into this what we call fair value. Sorry, I'm using a mouse. Uh fair value gap. This trade is complete. Check the box. But what's bullish about this is that it's still holding that major support level. So, this prior resistance is now acting as support. And as long as this continues to act as support at 172 and a half close to 173 that is a new cohort of traders or investors that are accumulating here. So this will become this is becoming that sport and it's actually still holding this channel this general channel right now. And if I zoom out yeah I had a feeling that might get me some confluence. It looks like it. Let me see. It's still even from over here. Oh, yeah. It's still well in this giant. Well, it might. So, I have two 15s. If it can get up and through.
>> They got upgraded to 200 today.
>> This is a very large channel, but those center lines are important to note. So, this is the center line of that larger channel, which was my suspicion. Uh, and then if it can hold over that with the white line here is the 20-day simple moving average. I'm telling you guys, these are going to be pretty important um trend indicators for large funds. They're going to price chops around those quite a bit. Um, and it's stuck for now in between the 20 and 50day simple moving average. So just be cautiously optimistic because what you don't want to see is that you don't want to see that. That's very possible here. But um I know as I see it I see one two three and this would be four. If this is the fourth attempt, I mean it's kind of like one of my staples. Like if this is if this whole thing is part of the fourth attempt to break through, I think we're just in the same trade having taken a little bit of a breather here, which takes which would take you to this still. Uh, let me just let me just get a little
>> I think, bro, if we get a 50% revenue quarter, I'm not saying it's going to 200, but I feel like it's getting close.
>> Well, I don't think you that's not for like a month. So, usually this kind of stuff is front running earnings. So, you might get a really bad tech you might get a bad technical setup into earnings if if the market front runs that. Yeah.
>> So meaning like if you get that move before earnings like that, you might there you might be there before earnings which would kind of suck um technically but I'm seeing that as a possibility cuz earnings is not until well I guess it's not until early november
>> November 3rd. you know.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Um, let's do INE. What are you thinking about that one? Had a monster day.
>> Another upgrade. Um, yeah. I not going to lie, I bought the stock
>> today
>> for a trade because I looked at options and like I don't think the options were a good riskreward because they were so juiced. But from a technical perspective, we had actually outlined this exact this is last week's trade. We said we said last week that IRA would come back to 50 as a basic retest. I don't know if you can see that little wick, but this is last week's chart. There it is. Um that is after hours. And then today, this is the breakout over here with a a fundamental kind of up like with another upgrade which was to $100, but $100 is on the chart as stated. Um, so it's still in the same exact trajectory that we outlined last week. Nothing has changed on this chart from last week. It's literally doing exactly what it's been doing this entire ride. So, to me, yeah, it's scary up here, but like I said last week, as long as it's acting right, um, then it's still acting right. And for right now, it's still acting right. And that means that this is 75 next. Um, and then if that breaks through, then it's it's it's into the '9s as a full extension, which kind of aligns with that upgrade. Um, and and again, you look back at the charts, you got the $50 pullback, the in all its glory right there, as as shortlived as it might have been, there it is. But this is why I have my after hours market data on all the time because like I want to know if this trades here if it trades there it trades there and it counts and you know
>> what is your are you looking for 100 like what are you looking
>> Yeah I think I think I think it could do 100 if of all of them I was the first one to make the shift so like I'm not so sure I really I think we talked about it last night I I think that so I would pause this and we would time stamp this as the data center conversion play of the miners, but like I I I think the data center conversion play for the miners has has been a lifeline for the industry as a whole. Um and so why why we're seeing a lot of them Mara whoever catch Clean Spark catch a really nice bid off the lows. Maybe they don't have to um uh raise as much as they used to because they were in a a tight spot and maybe maybe some shorts have to cover and you start to see some kind of short squeezes across the market. But Iran, I think, is the is is primarily the the driver here of all of them. Um so if I'm going to believe one, I would I would I would default to believing I ran over the rest of them just personally. Um, and it's got the most Momo anyways and it's following the technicals like beautifully. So,
>> and I think they have the most GPUs to me.
>> That's Yeah. So, the other ones the other ones I don't know that I we talked about it briefly last night, but I was like I the A6 they'll get depreciated to me, but um but are they really going to go out and buy GPUs? The only one that I think that went out and started this whole trend was Iran. And so if anybody was going to do that, I would probably just default to believing Iran.
>> Yeah. No, I agree. I agree. Um AMD, what are we thinking here after the opening?
>> I mean, it's a bullish hold. We had 240 as the extension even off this.
>> Oh, we got
>> Yeah, there it is. That's from our This is last week. Um,
>> we got a reset timer.
>> I thought you wanted to go extra on AMD. No. Okay. Um, but it's still holding 210. Uh, this is a this is a situation where like you do want it to continue to hold, but but after a move like this, I think expecting it to go sideways is perfectly fine. uh which which means that 205 is is really like where you'd want it to hold. If it loses 205, you have a couple different spots. One's 195. And to me, the big the big mac daddy dip would be in that 185s, but I don't know that you're necessarily going to see it. Um, for now, this is your general trajectory. And I think you're probably going to start to see some kind of consolidation, which looks something like that. But, but even then, just know when when AMD does go into consolidation, it can be for a while. So, it might go into something like this. Um, I might use like a fractal or something. Um, oops. But I might I might just like say it does exactly this. And uh, dude, I don't I don't use this tool anymore. I They must have moved their tools. Where is the tool? We did BMR guys. You can read
>> the tool's gone that I used to use
>> the 185 level they were talking about. I don't think we get that either. I mean, if we get that, that's giving up a lot of the gains from the opening ideal.
>> So, low 200s is the dip people are looking for probably if it gets
>> Let me um So, that's what this is. So here 195 to 188 that's from this move to that top. If I adjust this to the full 240 it's still 203 to 1901. 203 to 191 which is going to be good enough. Quite frankly, it's kind of bothering me that I don't have that. Um, I don't know where they move that tool. It's called ghost feed. Oh, well, but that that could be like an extended. It would basically be like this kind of a similar move where you get in and it does this and you get out and then and then it goes sideways for a while extended while and then it just kind of like chops around.
>> So you think it's it's stuck within 200 to 220 for the time being?
>> 240
>> 240
>> which is quite frankly it's a really large range. Yeah, it is a very large range, you know. Okay, cool. Um, let's do this one. Let's get this out of the way. Grabby Grab, what are you thinking on this one? Got a couple upgrades to seven bucks earnings in a month.
>> Yeah, I didn't look at it today.
>> Basically under six ever since
>> 570. Oh, was that an after hours?
>> No, I got there today. in the like at 9:30, 9:40. I think
>> dude, all a lot of these a lot of these discounts were after hours. I waited to the actual bell for a lot of the stuff. I'm just going to I don't know if I get too greedy waiting for after hours. I don't I don't know. How do you guys pick this up? Are you getting this after hours?
>> 550.
>> That was on Friday. Yeah, that was Friday. But 570 was this morning. So, you know, it's not
>> not great.
>> No, it looks good. That's off the 50-day right here. That's a beautiful retest. So, I mean 540 is still like the deepest retest that it could do, but um it didn't hold the 623. So, we we know that that's going to have to kind of consolidate a bit. Let's do this. Yeah, we'll we'll do Bitcoin and MSTR as well. We did BMR already.
>> So, I'm not going to use this. I don't know what happened here, but this looks like it was just out of trend. Whatever that blip on the radar is in April looks like the fake out liquidity grab. But the general the general trend if I have the most confluence here is still like all of this here here push through here push through here all of this which which means that this could still be some serious consolidation. And if you do have a really big dip, what is that? Fives. Sorry, dude. But that that's what it looks like.
>> I wouldn't mind fives. I mean, I would be a very big buyer if we got
>> So, yeah. So, it's this is trade location. So, what I just did was I took this prevailing uptrend cuz just to be crystal clear here, the trend is up. The trend is up. It's almost like a Tesla. So, this has done what I would be concerned about for Tesla. It's made such a big giant move and and me taking some down here, but looking for possible like retest into this retesting this prevailing uptrend would be your significant discounts. Five and a quarter Yeah. I mean, if we get five and a quarter, I would not be that upset.
>> Five and a quarter. Good to cancel. Extended hours. Limit order sent for a thousand. I'll be in with you working.
>> All right. If it gets there, there you go.
>> Okay, cool. So, that's grab. Um,
>> that's grab. If it otherwise, if it's back over six and a quarter, we're on a Kraken.
>> Yeah. Uh, let's do ETH because we did BMR, so we might as well do ETH. But thoughts on that one.
>> So, I'm just It wasn't ETH. Ethereum is like, okay, cool. That's that was the that was my first level that I thought we could get to here.
>> Honestly, the the best the best discounts were on the other alts. I mean, those were just epically discounted. Um, the reason I was a little concerned over here, and I don't even know if I said it. I might have said something last week, but it was that we need to crack this area here or we are kind of still at risk of continuing on that Bart Simpson trajectory. And um you know, as bullish as people can be on Ethereum, I'll just tell you right now, 38 $3,500, it's not that big of a discount on ETH. It's really not. Not for not for the it's it's not a it's not a big discount. It's a it's like a pint-siz discount. If you want a big discount, we're talking 25 we're talking 28s maybe, right? That's your discount. Um and so oddly enough, this is Tes Teslaesque. This is Graesque where it's here. These are decent discounts, but again, where is our broader trend? Our broader trend is up for sure, right? But we're very far away from the prevailing uptrend, which means that if we do if we do fail and this Bart Simpson does continue to Iumba, this is landing me right now. This is landing me at 32, which 32 is a 50% retracement from the alltime, not the alltime, from the most recent 1,200 or whatever it was, 13 to this all-time high, 49. 3175 is actually a 50% retracement. I would expect a little bit of a bounce um there. 32. It's an okay discount. It's a good discount. I don't I don't The thing is if the if it gets there now, I'm not so sure that that's actually going to hold because if this dip is not enough to get people really interested to push this higher, I don't think that this is going to be enough either. I will say that. And and in that case, I would I would expect this general area, which is from over here, to possibly be in flash clash crash territory. Um, which would really kind of complete that I corumba. And then we have an inverse Iumba.
>> Would be quick too if that happens. Super quick.
>> Oh yeah, it would be quick. just like just like this was quick, right? This was quick. They're all quick. And then um these are always good for like these are good pickups like this for both short and long term. It's weird. So So this is a good these are good pickups when when I look at this is just my this is not financial advice. This is just how I view it. If I had a resting order at say 3500, which fortunately my order was not working. Hopefully you guys had some orders working. I mean, two things. Roy was talking about the gas fees. That's the one biggest cause for concern that I have about Ethereum in general because when the traffic gets heavy, it's not efficient. It's not efficient anyway you slice it. Which is why I'm AVAC maxi. Um uh but but these here um these can be really good building blocks to accumulate on and in the near term yeah you can get this a huge bounce like that is a giant bounce. Uh that is a 21% bounce. But you still need to be somewhat cautious cuz we don't know that this is the absolute lows, which is why I use the the the phrase building blocks because it's a good dip by you still have the potential of getting another one or two in the in in the future. So it's it's like, okay, cool. We've come back up to resistance level at 4200 and that 20-day simple. I think you could trim this a little bit if you did catch either one of these. I think you I think you could trim this if you caught this 30 35. Okay. This just me. But, you know, have something I I think just not don't blow your load yet. Is this possible that there's another It's possible that there's another dip to come. If you don't have enough and you just need to continue to accumulate, just continue to accumulate and just know that somewhere below 32 down to 25 is a better loading zone is your next not better is your next kind of loading zone. And that would be my take close to 28. 32 and 28. So one one two obviously size being larger down here.
>> Okay. Uh I mean we might as well do Bitcoin after that. So what do you think
>> Biddy the Biddy? So Biddy not as strong. Decent Biddy just tagged it right there. um more resilient holding 109. Not as not as uh not as big of a bounce, but not as big of a sell-off either. Play tick tick tick tick tick. Um holding what is this prior alltime highs? So this is your pivot 109 505 is it is a retest. We weren't really interested in buying the biddy dip, but
>> I mean, dude, it got to 106 on Friday. Haven't seen that since.
>> So, that's important to hold. If you lose 102, then it goes to 96. That's a for sure.
>> This would be, bro, Bitcoin under a 100 into Q.
>> No, that's a for sure. Like, if you lose the 102, I say for sure as in like tech. So in in crypto in in the cryptoverse they don't have the same kind of fundamentals. So what people should understand is that if the in is that crypto relies very heavily on technical analysis. So if there was a there was a land of self-fulfilling prophecies for crypto it's it's here. Um I will say that upside has has been achieved. So that can go away. Um, and I think yeah, this is let's do this. This is from here to here. Let's not measure that one. What we need to measure is from here to here. And that is in fact still giving me the same kind of level. This is an extension of this large draw down. So meaning that yep if I have multiple confluences that if 102 5 fails we should see around 96 possibly 92s for the next level. And that would hopefully set you up for a bigger launch like that. into the eating season, which by the way is is just around the corner. Happy birthday, by the way.
>> It's not my birthday, but I appreciate it.
>> Will be two weeks.
>> Very close.
>> It's not It's barely two weeks, man. It's less than two weeks away.
>> That's true. It's It's 13 days.
>> He's gonna be 40, you guys. It's crazy. life is coming. I'm always so this is a good it's a good hold right here but um and it is a higher high but we have this is important sorry we have we have entered price discovery uh oh we've entered price discovery man I just uh oh I just realized that we have we have indeed entered price discovery mode on the biddy
>> to the downside
>> no broadening formation you know this megaphone. Um so again confluence is down here towards the lows of this um which then sets this trajectory still in play but this is this is this is price discovery what that looks like. So a price discovery is a series of higher highs and a series of higher lows. So uh different than consolidation where consolidation is higher highs or consolidation is lower highs and higher lows where the range is getting smaller. Price discovery is the opposite where you have both higher higher high but you have a low lower low and lower low. So the range itself is getting wider. This is actually not the it's not a bad setup. just means more volatility. Um, but also bigger range. Well, more volatility. This is kind of exciting. This is fun times for crypto, not going to lie.
>> Okay,
>> this is this is where it can get wild. I just just to circle back on you. Do we have that? We kind of have that.
>> I mean, dude, the thing about this that I think is confusing people is you got the big names saying 200k Bitcoin, 10,000 ETH, and they're they're so far away and there's and they keep they're pretty even Arthur Hayes, who's a crypto OG, he said by end of year, we will see 200 Bitcoin and 10,000 Ethereum. We got two months left until the end of the year. So, that would have to be an explosive move if that actually plays out. Um, yeah. I mean, it could be, but it's predicated on a lot of stuff happening. Here's the current channel. I don't know if this is expansion on Ethereum. This looks I mean, honestly, I don't see a reason I What I don't see is I don't see So, we're going a little bit over time, but I do not see a reason to sell any Ethereum or Bitcoin. Both of these are just me looking like how big of a how big of a giant discount can I possibly get? Um how greedy do I want to be? And you know, in in certain situations, like I I might I might want to be greedy, but um but this is that kind of consolidation triangle in here that I had more or less highlighted earlier that like, okay, if you get these crazy wicks, I would expect it to bounce back into even if you got a wick down to here, I would expect it to bounce back up into you. and 35 to be for sure general support if this doesn't just completely start to face rip now. But all of this all of it to me is you want to posture slowly by slowly I say slowly by slow slowly but slowly just nibble at little tidbits building building blocks. So I would use these up as opportunistic building blocks, these flash crashes.
>> All right.
>> The lab of rockets. Electron. Neutron.
>> Dude, it broke 73 last week.
>> Dude, it's right there. Like what what are you going to do with this thing? This thing is like to the moon. M
>> I I am I am not selling, but I'm not buying here.
>> I'm not selling.
>> But I feel like that that's you too, right? Are you are you buying?
>> No, that's all a sizing thing cuz it's cuz we're not like over we're not like size to the hilts either. Um, so I wow. This is momentum. I mean, bro, it's Yeah, there's definitely some momentum here. I mean, like 70 B. That is massive for Rocket Life. That is
>> I'm just looking at this. Should I should I have bought more? I don't have a problem buying more is my other thing cuz I I don't mind it when something goes into real price discovery like from a fundamental price discovery perspective which is what Rocket Lab is in cuz you know things can just get weird sometimes. And uh low float I don't I don't I don't mind getting
>> Let me check it short float. How much is it still? was a low float is for sure. Um is still shorted 14%.
>> Dude, that's enough for a squeeze if it really gets there. That could happen.
>> It is near 80 at least. Just that's not even a near 80 is not even a squeeze. So this is our measurement from this last consolidation area here. And it's on trajectory. It was on trajectory first stop 63. And you know when we do this we always say look it's got to hold these levels and those those prior resistance levels they need to act as support. That's exact they need to act as support and as long as the stock acts right it can go on to the next rung here. And good lord this stock is acting right cuz that is exactly what you want to see. And so that means that over 6865, this little area right here on the same path, trajectory path, what has been outlined and where we still are, the next stop 7850 um probably single day session.
>> That'd be pretty incredible. So that's a 13% day incoming for the Alava rockets. I don't know what the catalyst is. Um and then possibly 8380, but the 8380 is is uh is all I have here. Let me see if I can get some confluence. Um this is getting a bit wild. Yeah, I do have confluence. I mean, Jesus, that's right there just on this one kill candle of a day. It's it's it's doubling. That's that's extra added confluence. I have I have momentum increasing here. Oh, goodness.
>> We're going to make Jason buy.
>> Oh, dude. This is gross. Daily squeeze. All right. Daily is kind of coming kind of a little weak, but weekly squeeze, technical squeeze.
>> What? What do you mean?
>> Technical squeeze on a oscillator oscillator perspective. So like it's Oops. That's this like it's in an active uh this green bar. It should not have necessarily gone green right away because it went red green like boom boom um over the this is it just that's that's uh that's what that means. It's just it's just uh momentum continuing to the upside. If this was an RSI, I got 40 seconds. See if I can do this. If this was an RSI, there it is. What that would be is essentially something getting back over the 70 on a daily, probably also weekly. Yep. Is right here. So, it's this moment when you get into overbought and you become even more overbought. That's that's that kind of momentum squeeze when you're already overbought, but you come you become more overbought. I made it in time. Look at that. All right. Next. Someone also says, "If Rocket Lab gets the next transfer of their contract, it would be 75% of their current revenue. The government shutdown is stopping that announcement, which could be a catalyst." Okay, there you go. It makes sense.
>> 70% of your revenue.
>> So they do 500 million in revenue. Call it give or take 50 million.
>> Yeah. But it's a 32 billion market cap. Now we were supposed to do this. This was supposed to be the 10bagger. Ribbon was supposed to hold it hold its own which it's not.
>> Rock lab destroyed Rivian. That's
>> dude. It's no contest. All right. We are over time but um but dude this is what a huge winner. This is one where it's like, listen, you you you let your winners run. Sometimes you even press your bets on the winners. It's uh this is a this is a winner. It's sometimes not uh you know, it is what it is.
>> Yeah.
>> Until something changes, but right now it's acting right.
>> Uh by the way, Hercules Jack, thank you for the 788 Hong Kong dollars. I think that's about 100 US. So, thank you for that super chat. How do you do that math?
>> Dude, there's something called Gemini. It's actually really useful.
>> Uh, Navius, what are we thinking there?
>> I thought 8.88 was the lucky number.
>> Um, should asked for a $700 refund, so you just give him the 88 because that's also good, Nebius, dude. Okay, so that was the that was a buy. So restart timer. So this is I mean definitively what we've been talking about is it's Nebius, right?
>> I call it Nebius, but
>> I know but Jensen called it nebius.
>> Did he? Okay. Well, maybe maybe it's Nebius.
>> Nebvious. Um, so we in a little bit of a pullback. I mean, dude, it's uh I think again again again this. I still have this 147 intact. We already hit the 120 pullback.
>> It hit 107 I think on Friday.
>> Well, yeah. And last Tuesday, technical Tuesday, last technical Tuesday, it was sitting right here. And I was like, this is a buy in terms of accumulation here on this technical day. I'll just circle it and I'll put another green arrow and I'll say it again. I think it's a buy technically speaking as long as it's traversing this and it's going to 145. It's a little choppy up here, but it's it's actually acting right. So, I mean, that's that's kind of where I'm at. Like, as long as it's acting right, then I don't have a reason to to change anything. It could get to 125, but it is for all intents and purposes right there in that kind of golden zone. Let's see just from this one spot where it would Yeah, I I have it again. It's right in that 145. This is saying 150. That's a little aggressive. It's still saying 150. It's still saying 150. It's got to deal with 150. Dude,
>> I mean, they basically quintupled their revenues after the Microsoft deal. So,
>> yeah. The only thing you don't want to see this do is lose 120. At this point, if it loses 120, then this has been such a staircase clean trend up, then you will get a bit of a pullback heavy probably. And in that case, you're probably going to see that full retest into those um 105s. Okay. Um, going back to space ESTs, this one broke alltime highs today. Any thoughts on this one? The thoughts of the space crew, man. It's just like I don't know where these moon missions are coming from, but this is this is the same thing. Look, look, look, look, look. Okay, a lot of lines on this chart. I know, but um I'm I'm all getting excited about this stuff, man. But this is this is this is what I mean by when it's acting right. And I think last Tuesday, this little green line was from last Tuesday. It wasn't even here last Tuesday, but it was your target acquired here. If it hits it, it it hits I mean people should just be screenshotting our charts at this point. This is crazy. No, but this one fell to 36 three weeks ago, too.
>> I'm still I'm just using the same uh charts, by the way. So, I've saved this kind of layout, but um pulls back and then boom, target acquired. So, acting right, which you know that puts this at like just under 110 at this point. I don't know why we're not just saying this is a this is a ginormous extension from way down here though is what I'm still using. That's what this extension is. This retest never showed up. Um I don't think it's going to show up. And if I just do a quickie here, same thing. I mean, dude, if it's acting right. So, this looks like it looks like this. And then target you know, and at that point it could come down again and do another little thing. But like that,
>> by the way, you know how much revenue these guys do?
>> I don't know. $100.
>> Less. less than 100,
>> dude. I mean, again, obviously that there's a lot of potential. What I what I will say is like uh Rocket Lab, Redwire I I think slowed down for our company for the manufacturing facility, but at the time I don't remember if I told you this or not, but I think AS was down here or it might have been in this in this general area, but these guys showed up out of the blue and got real busy.
>> Yeah. on the man for the manufacturing company.
>> Partnership with Verizon will do that too, you know. So, I mean, it doesn't look like the space TAM is slowing down at all. So, makes sense. Um, okay. Can we can we get this one out of the way? Energy fuels. You you you do you know this one?
>> Yeah, but I don't know that you can get out of the way without talking just uranium in general.
>> Let's do it. Go for it. Um, well, I mean, so this is, uh, so again, I'm going to put this in the box of if you were around during the Biden administration and the plug power fuel cell energy rally for clean energy, this is the same thing, right? Um, you know, I think that they can just continue to be absolutely just just jaw-dropping moves. um I'll go ahead and do this. It doesn't have to make sense fundamentally. I don't think that you should think that um any of this stuff is going to happen anytime soon. It's it's not um it may not ever happen, but that's not what is moving these stocks, Oaklo and the like. It's policy uh and it's in its market sentiment. So, right now I have 32. Um you have some gaps. The the test here is 19. Yeah, dude. I think this is duh. I think this is just doing it. And this is from this prior. Yeah. Do we really need to do this? I think we need to go in here. There is a stock that I used to follow. chat, tell me if anybody knows what this stock is called AQMS that has just been on an absolute ripper the last two days. And I'm like, I I can't believe that that stock is hitting the tape right now. Does anybody know this
>> 21 stock or no?
>> Uhhuh. Well, I used to trade it and I actually know it. It's a clean energy company, but
>> it was up 200% today
>> and yesterday. Goodness, bro.
>> Both days.
>> So,
>> because of this energy theme. That's the reason.
>> Yeah.
>> Dude, it was a penny stock like literally a couple days ago. I mean, in the single digits. And I think I saw it with like a near 30 handle today.
>> Yeah.
>> I almost threw up a little bit in my mouth. I saw, oh my god. Um, yeah, it's quite disgusting. So, this looks this is holding to me. This looks like possibly 24 pullbacks. And yeah, and everything's showing me 30s on UU. If you want to be um, you know, my Talon, my Talon Energies is a is a smaller midcap. Now, this has a nuclear reactor in their portfolio. It's it's slower, steadier. It's got a lot of nat gas and some coal in there. Um, N& is the is the one that has I I don't believe they they have a facility that's they just I don't know if they flipped a switch on this. Um, sorry I'm still using this time slot for yuyu. But NE is another one that they just I think they have a nuclear facility that they simply just need to flip the switch on to turn on. I don't know if they have or have not, but you'd have to look into that and their on their website. Oh. Oh no, dude.
>> Did you not pay your Trading View bills? Let's just get a Let's just get a uh a paint application. You can just draw your lines.
>> Paint location.
>> So, you think the nuclear names are still in an uptrend and they're not?
>> I don't think. I mean, you can't argue that they're still in an uptrend. There's no argument to be had there. Fundamentally, what I will say is that they're they're they're they're multi-deades out from actually being very real. And when you look at it, they're not they're they're barely they're more efficient, but they're not that more effic they're not like but the the truth of the matter is that nat gas facilities are the most efficient um and the most abundant. But people just don't like that. But that's the truth about energy. Like it or not, that's that's actually what's true. So this I have 67. Uu was the question that um uh I think is in the 30s possibly slightly higher. This one has momentum. What's the other one? SMR
>> new scaler.
>> Uh SMR is if it's too real, you're not going to get the love. Oaklo um is more um
>> would you would you buy Oaklo here?
>> I mean you could trade it but yeah sure why not like if you got to be in the fantasy land because it's not duted
>> but would you buy it as an investment here?
>> No. Um but so if you if you
>> like a trade up to 200 would you you would take that trade
>> positional trade? Yes,
>> I would. So investment if we if we if we categorize investment in terms of time horizon thinking 3 to 5 years minimum no but less than 3 years yes could that be two years? Yes. I would say with during the full administration, I think it could continue to have legs, but if Democrats come in, you probably got an exit stage left.
>> That's fair.
>> I think it's uh so so investment in terms of does it qualify for short-term games? Maybe, maybe not. But it this is a policy and a posture thing. We call this a positional trade. So it's I want to have this type of position um which may last more than a year uh in this in this type of thing knowing full well that it's a bit of fantasy land um because it it is very much about policy and position.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. It makes a lot of sense. But but the term investing in terms of is it a money seed that I'm going to plant to grow a money tree that's going to provide money bearing fruit for the rest of my life? No, not necessarily. But for can it grow really tall, really fast, um, and provide a couple seasons of like some really killer fruit. Yeah, maybe.
>> Google gigs, how are we on the shot clock?
>> Doing good. Put I mean, put a W in the chat if you like the flow. I think the flow is working really well. So, not too bad.
>> Faster, shorter.
>> I think I think five minutes is perfect. I think it's perfect.
>> I'm just seeing more. Um Oh, I got to You got to use Oh, W's. Okay. Cannot use Streamyard. It's got to be on this. So, googs less less 245 is still a bullish hold, my guy. Um it's testing though. This what to do with the googs. This is a tough call right here and now
>> is it? I feel like you just you hold till the end of the year. You don't really stress that much about it.
>> They're they're going to have a good earnings. Search is not dead. It's holding 240s really well,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. But so uh so different hats, right? trading, investing, swing trading, position trading, different time horizons. Um, the question is, do you get another dip? I think at the end of the day, that's the only question. That's the only question in mind. Do you get another one? And is it a good enough dip to actually go after it? I don't know that it's it would have to be an opportunistic dip. Like, if I saw it, it'd have to be real nice. And I mean like real nice because we might have gotten it because it's 225 based on my calculations. But here now it's it's at the pivot. 245 is the pivot. We have a bit of a liquidity grab. So we we do what I say hard call hard call. Not from a fundamental perspective. is not a hard call, but we do have a couple lower lows, lower highs, and we do in fact have a couple lower lows. So, it's losing some steam now. Can it go up and out right here, right now? This right there becomes a net new trade that maybe your boy can partake in. I would like that. I would like that very much because we still have 265s on deck still from our our other ones, but we're not out of the woods yet. In the meantime, since we're at the tippy top of this range, do I also have an opportunity to get a better entry? See what I'm saying? And do I get this um 225 type entry at the bottom of the current channel right here? So, I think that's all I'm trying to say is that there's a possibility of a if a day trade. This is just a day trade. This is not anything. Um, which is losing that 240. I would say 242 and a half in strength. Um, that's like a one and done kind of like whoopsy daisy slipped, but then looking for a base somewhere between 230 and 225. I I really like that for a discounted entry. Although I will say when we talk about Amazon, there's this other thing since I got a minute and a half. There's this other thing that happens uh that's even more kind of exciting for me about like the the Amazon thing is whenever Google historically is more expensive than Amazon, you usually buy Amazon and that's a good trade long term just just from a numbers thing. Like if you look back and it's like, oh yeah, whenever it was like you kind of just like flip it. So like this this could be a good setup. This could be a a this is a better for if something weird happens, some shenanigans for whatever reason, something just odd happens. I'm This is a very interesting spot for me, especially after a long kind of like exhaustion. If people get tired trying to press short-term bets and they get just fed up, you might see a exhaustion which is which might be exactly what could be needed near term. Um, but if it doesn't, we'll know and it's going to look exactly like this. So, all this said, something is brewing on Google. I think a trade is coming. which direction is hard to say just yet. Um but this is now going to go on a closer um magnifying glass for me after a 30-day sideways price action. I think this is this has got a this has got a trade brewing. It's coming up nearing.
>> Okay, Meta.
>> Well, we we warned of it. Um it's 7:30. I did take one short on Friday. This was it though. But it was just a one. It's a day trade. One and done. Um but it hit that 7:30 5 area right here. And in fact, we did see those prior buyers turn into sellers at least for the day. It does happen to to align with for whatever reason. And I don't know why TA and and newsflow tend to align with each other, but this was the concern that we had outlined last week of even buying down here that you get this that looks really good for a couple days and you run into basically resistance. And for for the non-technical folk, all that resistance is is that where people that bought in the past, specifically here, and who are stuck in these longer long positions, have an opportunity to exit for basically break even. Especially if the chart has turned on them, which it had, it's likely that they turn into sellers. those old buyers turn into sellers at the at the moment that they have an opportunity to exit stage left for a near zero loss. And that's uh I think that's what that's all that we saw on Friday. It just happened to coincide with with whatever. Um at this point though, it's it's basically kind of unchanged. still holding here, but not um here as in sevens. I think you let this base out a little bit. I would say below seven and then another little pullback. So, we still I still want to see this come down. Uh what I'm going to do now is probably the first time I'm going to do this on the show is I'm actually going to do a bearish extension because the the chart is just bearish. It's the same thing that we do on the upside but on the downside for the bears. And that is going to take me just underneath the 200 day to 660 fives right in here.
>> Which which I think you would love to buy 660.
>> It's the 200 day. So it's a it's a I I would still what I would like to buy. I would probably wait on this one too because it's meta. It's got a much higher beta than the rest. Um, I'm still thinking 620s to be completely fair, but I I think that's a greedy idea. It's probably not going to happen. So, you're probably right. I'll probably grab um I mean, I have Meta and I'm not selling I'm not selling Meta. Um the question is do I want to buy do I want is Meta do I want to make Meta a core position for this uh Q4 launch for the Santa Claus rally? All of this by the way any selloff to me in my mind just me uh is like positioning for the Santa Claus rally now even though it's only it's not even Amit's birthday supposedly. Um, but by Amit's birthday, we should be in full swing preparation. This is all this is all preparation for the big show. So, do of of the Santa Claus rally. And do I want to do I want to have Meta be a core component of that rally? Do I think that that happens? I don't know this. You know what? Let's do this. Uh, I have a minute. I think if this whole thing breaks down here, you're right. 625. 640. 640. There it is. Okay. It's 640. That's where I'll do it. Final answer. No phone a friend. I mean meta right now forward earnings is 25 times. So 640 you would get down to that 22 23 which is not that scary to be honest.
>> Yeah. So and that that I think would be so that is an extension of this. So since we do have a potential bearish break here that's basically this doubled Let me see. Hang on. So this here to here. Am I being greedy? I could be being greedy, dude. Okay. So this break is to 675 and the deep discount 640. I will buy at 640. Final answer. Um and is in the meantime. All right. But they're going to twist my arm at 640 if I see that for whatever reason. I'll just have to do it. Close my eyes, plug my nose. I don't really care. That would be a stupid discount. That would be a stupid spot. Otherwise, until then, if we get back over 735, that remains that kind of intraday pivot or intra pivot. All right, next.
>> All right, we'll do two more and then uh we'll take a little break. It does feel like we'll do two more, take a little break, and then we'll get into rapid fire. Um,
>> I guess let's do a favorite. Well, do you have a pick of the week or no?
>> Oh, baby. I mean, I don't know. I mean,
>> Home Depot. This is your pick of the week.
>> So, I went I went um Uber long the depot. So, there's the stat. My annual trade. I have a Home Depot annual trade. It's already well in underway. This is a sleeper. You guys know I I've talked about um the homebuilders for a while. I think uh that pullback where this runup was kind of like that front running into the the cuts. This pullback here happens to align perfectly to that be that bullish retracement. If I were to use this as an example of what I was talking about with waiting for a a daily higher low below the 200 day simple moving average, this is exactly that. So this is exactly that. Here's the 200 day simple moving average, right? So I have a a lower low here. I have a lower low here. I have what we call a higher high break of structure right here. All below the 200 day moving average. And then I have a higher low. Locked in here. Locked in here. All of that. Game on. Go for launch. I like this here. So, this trade to me is is a positional trade, especially after commentary today. Um, I think it got a little love. Can it can it chop around? I I think it can. But this uh is a positional trade. So, it's not it's not weeks. Uh, it's not even a couple months. It's it's maybe more than a couple months. This target is in the 450s early next year. Just started the Home Depot. Um, you know, AIT just just like completely uh bought out all of their Halloween gear. So, they're now sold out and they're already loading up the Christmas trees and all the ornaments and and and yep, they're going to sell out of all the all the Christmas trees soon enough. But there's a stat.
>> Is this also a a rate play like more people?
>> It is a rate play as well. So, it's all of the above. And there's a stat that if you buy, you know, Home Depot towards the end of the year, you know, 90 something% of the time you're green by March. by late by early Q2, late Q1. Um, just what it is. So, feel free to look that up. So, a lot of confluence both um from a technical perspective, pullback, retest a lot. Um, it's positional in terms of the rates. So, I want to be on that side of this play. Um, I was I I actually took this whole thing up. This is this is the equivalent of if Tesla had fall if Tesla fell here. Me picking Home Depot up here, which was at the 200 day, is the is the equivalent of picking Tesla back up at the 360s one more time and I'd be getting I'd be getting all bowled up here under the radar. It is what it is. You know how I feel about the home builders. I think it's a positional situation for the reaceleration of rate cuts to come. Okay.
>> So, it's not not really a shortterm thing. It's multi months.
>> All right. Last one before we take a little break. SMCI, what are you thinking about this one?
>> Oh. Oh, baby. Do you see the news?
>> Yeah, they have some new line of business around service.
>> Well, I think that's exactly what they needed to do. I obviously the the markets kind of like doesn't really care. I like it. It's a technically it's a lower high. I still like it. I think it's uh I think it's the the most ridiculous underpriced AI stock in the market. That is not going to change. I am positive that this is going to be at their absolute best quarter they ever report. I don't care what anybody has to say is just what's going to happen. Quote me on it. Um but the the what they reported today about the new like about a new um offering is important because that puts them more in line with the Dell um situation. It it just expands their margins. All right. So uh data center building block solutions. This gives them the ability to to bundle um so they say building servers. So, it bundles storage, networking, and liquid cooling all together in a single purchase and and helps streamline a lot of deployments, but it's it's this is a margin boosting quicker deployment type offer. Whether or not they sell a bunch, who knows? But, um it's just it's at least something that they're doing. Um so, yeah, I like it. It's it's the first it's the first thing that I've I've heard of them doing that's actually enterprise geared. So, it's it's more strategic and it takes them a little bit slightly out of that commodity play uh that they were before. Uh that said, this is a good spot. I like the spot today. It's my it's my largest trade um position by a mile. Um good, bad, or indifferent. Can it come down still? Yes, it can. Um, but I I love it here. I keep telling Emit because you guys are talking about Pokemon cards. Like, and someone said this in my server and it might have come from you guys. I don't know. But, um, you know, stock market is not like Pokemon. You cannot catch them all. So, I need to just focus on catching my my Charizard or whatever it is. Uh, and I think this is one of them. So, yeah, I like this a lot. I absolutely want to be positioned here for Q4. Um, if I see it close to that 20-day, as close to 50 as I can, that would be my next pickup. But positioning here, no question. Uh, and I'm not I'm not being picky about my entries like at all cuz I don't I'm on this one. It could happen any day, especially with the type of newsful that we're getting. I'm not trying to trim around anything. I'm literally just building um because some crazy news flow can happen like any moment and I don't want to like be selling out of positions and like get the get the headline middle of the night and be like, "Oh crap, I didn't have my position." So, I'm just kind of nibbling on on these pullbacks. I did nibble yesterday. Uh I did not nibble today as I'm just looking at I'm like well if it if it does pull back I could see I could see this bigger pullback right into retest uh just around 50 which would be the cleanest retest that we've seen since the breakout which is literally 4970. So just under slightly under 50 but am I waiting for that? No. Am I positioned today? Yes. Will I get bigger? Yes. Okay guys, we'll give Jason a fivem minute break. Then we'll get into rapid fire and uh we will keep going from there. So we'll let Jason use the bathroom or anything else he he needs to do.
>> Okay. What are we watching?
>> Well, no, we're not watching anything. Actually, we're watching stocks. I mean, do you have to use the bathroom or you don't have to?
>> I'm good right now.
>> We can keep going. But we will take a little second to take a look at this. I mean, you got to move after hours across the board. S&P getting a green candle. Nvidia getting a green candle. Iran green candle. Rocket green candle. I don't see a Trump tweet. Um, but I don't know. Is this Algo driven? I don't see a headline. It's not a massive green candle, but pretty much every even Robin Hood getting 1% after hours. Maybe soybeans don't matter. that much anymore. Uh yeah, I don't have anything from Trump. Is he live? I mean, he was live an hour ago. I don't think he really took questions at the event he was live at. It was a Medal of Freedom event. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. But you are getting a move after hours. S&P.14. I mean, it's a nice green candle. It's not as high as it was right before the soybean tweet, but it is a bit more green than not. I want my Chinese cooking oil. Dude, that [ __ ] really messed up the market close. Yeah, Trump's son already closes puts. I don't have a headline. If anyone has it, let me know. I don't see anything. It could just be Algo's after hours being algorithmic. I mean, Oracle, Salesforce are having a conference. I don't know if whatever they're saying, I don't know, is enough to move it. Um, again, the big the big headline of the day outside of the soybean stuff was Pal basically saying QT is over. And I mean, like, look, at the end of the day, I know we talked this morning about FOMO and kind of navigating it and how you understand it. And I think all those rules apply of um buying things that you feel comfortable owning. But at its core, if we're getting into quantitative easing, assets are moving higher. And so the question becomes which ones do you want to be positioned into while also navigating you know your own mental health of holding on to those positions but being net long I think still becomes the answer. So again, Pal signaled the central bank may stop shrinking its balance sheet, aka quantitative tending in the coming months. An important shift necessary to preserve liquidity in the overnight funding markets, which would mean more assets likely get a pump. But I still don't have a reason why we have a spike on on the S&P after hours. But you are green, so there you go. Honey and tea, huh? Dude, I need I need to start taking care of my voice as well. I don't I really don't
>> Dude, I'm really You guys need to help me out with the what tea to get here or whatever.
>> Yeah, I need to start I need to start taking care of myself.
>> And there's so much like sugar like Okay.
>> In what? In tea.
>> Honey.
>> Oh, and honey. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And honey. That's fair.
>> Dude, did you do your Halloween decorations yet? No, but my mom did. I walked into our house.
>> My my pumpkin I carved. It's pretty good, huh?
>> No, it's really good.
>> But when I when I came home, my like it was like freaking Halloween. Yo, dude, has anyone watched Halloween Town in the chat?
>> Bro, that is the all-time greatest Halloween movie of all time.
>> That and Hocus Pocus. Those two banger, but Halloween Town's the best. You are um you are not 30.
>> I'm basically 30, bro. I'm 28.
>> Yeah, you're about that.
>> Dude, in 12 years I'll be 40.
>> No, you're way old for your you you uh
>> crazy.
>> You uh you don't have you have a lot of older friends, huh? You know, I've always gotten along with older, even when I was younger, like like our neighbors were much older, and I I would have full-on conversations with them every day.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you know, I was walking down uh a couple hours ago, just like down the block. I met one of my old neighbors I haven't talked to in five years. Apparently, he works in the area.
>> Yeah. Near the new place. And I And we both looked at each other. We took a second look and I was like, "Bro." And he was like, "Bro." And so it's just so crazy sometimes because we moved in 2020 and I haven't seen him since because of COVID everything.
>> Yeah,
>> it is crazy when you reconnect with people.
>> Sauce man, buy everything, sell everything. No, SMCI got so my my crew's like, "Dude, what contracts do you have? What what's your position?" I'm like, "I just need to like consolidate here because I was just like shotgunning across the board. I think I'm going to land on the 20 27s and then I kind of move those to 80s leaps though. I like the leaps and the the the the mini leaps.
>> Well, I'm with you. I'm in it.
>> We should have a pumpkin carving contest.
>> Did you actually carve that or did you buy that,
>> dude? Absolutely. Look at that. That is hot.
>> Pick it up. Bring it next to Did you actually carve That's a pretty
>> I That's a pretty good pumpkin carve.
>> It's kind of heavy.
>> When did you take the time to carve that? When did you have the time to actually?
>> I don't believe you carved that. I don't believe you carve that, bro. I think you bought that.
>> There's no way, bro. That's a precise carved pumpkin. There's no freaking way. And you set up the lights with it. That's definitely not.
>> You think it was graphics?
>> That's too good to be carved. Way too good to be carved.
>> Also, you don't have the time to carve a pump. You're a trading goal. There's no way you sat down and had the patience to carve up. There's no way.
>> I knew that I did it last night while we were on our show.
>> Yeah. Okay. All right. All right, folks. Let's get into rapid fire. It'll be two minutes a ticker. Um, and we'll try to get through as many. Is there any is there anything that you wanted to see that we didn't cover, sir?
>> Me personally, no.
>> Yeah, I usually do that. Evan joins my Monday stream. He always gets his first pick before we go into the audience request. So, do you have a first pick?
>> No, I'm I I am a man of the people. Whatever the people,
>> I am a man of the people. What do we do for uh We decided to do one minute 30 second.
>> Oh, yeah. 1:30. That's easier. 130. That's easier. All right. So, just please be patient. We will probably get through most of them.
>> Are you picking them from the audience?
>> Yes,
>> you are. Can I do a can I add one request?
>> Of course.
>> For context.
>> Of course. Um just when you guys send it and then if you can emit if they can send some kind of context in terms of time frame like what their time horizon is
>> and then if you can
>> like uh you know ticker same one line ticker expected time horizon that I'm ticker- trade ticker-invest that's it
>> what no ticker time 6 to9 months, ticker one to three years, ticker one to two weeks kind of thing. And then if you have a catalyst that you know of just in blur it,
>> put in a couple words. Okay, cool.
>> Yeah, that would be super helpful.
>> Okay, let's start off. Core weave six to 12 months.
>> Oh, see? Yeah, they're running with this. They got that. See, look at that. That's really good. CR. Is that helpful? Oh, man. Did we just Did we just hit something here?
>> Might have hit something new. That's not bad.
>> Oh, look. They They're They can run with this. And if you don't put that, we won't I mean, I would prefer this. So, core weave, how long?
>> 6 to 12 months.
>> Six. So, this is what happens immediately. I'm going to switch to a weekly, maybe even. So, because of that, that changes my entire outlook on this whole thing. So, um it's it's it's just saying it's a big deal. So here I'm just going to update. Not sure what these are. So that's one. This is two. I'm going to do this twice. So I want to have a base. So we've hit the bigger pullback on the weekly already at 123. I think this is good. You can still get a a solid potential pullback and hold. We've been looking at this core situation from this from that time horizon. It can still pull back, but as long as it's holding over 124, you're actually still on this general trajectory. It's going to be like ripe and ready over 150. The next spot you're going to go into is this 175 area that's going to kind of um that's going to be that where the bears show up right here where the last stronghold of the bears give up. And at that point, you will get here. And then if you do get through then we can look at this entire consolidation in the same time frame of a potential. You would basically look like this and then you would look like a second move consolidation. Stocks don't go sideways. Sorry. Like this over here into this kind of general trajectory. 6 to 12 months. This is screenshot it. That's what you're looking for. Um, pullbacks can still be in the 123s, but first stop 180s. That happens once you crack their 150. Next, unhel 6 to 12. All right. This is this is happily on its way. So, holding this super high and tight number. So, 6 to 12 months. I'm using a weekly cal um weekly time frame. I'm still have my SMA set to a daily time frame though. Always locked on the daily. holding the 20-day simple actually solid here. Um, this is this is still consolidating. 35251 is kind of like their break and push over. Our our next level 377 that is was has been that gap fill that we outlined last week. So, if you were here for the last show, that first target, boom, tagged it, 377 to the penny. So, that's a day trading, you know, some kind of weekly. Sorry, reset weekly tag. At this point, you expect that to happen. Then you see some consolidation. Then you want to see another follow through here. Um, that takes you to 424 in this box right here. Uh, I'll pull this back just slightly just so I can get a better view. Oops. And I'm just speeding up a little bit because you're really in that time frame looking at this and that is going to align me yep one more time to that 421 area and if for whatever reason you can get through 421 then and only then do you think about 465s that is unh.
>> Okay. Love it. Uh Oscar 6 months.
>> This is coming down to AC like ACA extensions and the government shutdown.
>> Yeah.
>> On days like today open up.
>> Huh?
>> We should have more information after the shutdown basically.
>> Yeah. Well, as it was, they were already looking good. If the ACA, if the if the extensions go through, fundamentally, you could be looking at a 30 $35 stock. 6 to 12 months, you're still looking at this giant thing here as the consolidation. If I look at it on a weekly, it's the same same thing. I'm just using a smaller time frame in that instance. This is the same chart as before. 30 to 35 is actually right here. 31 same exact block. Um, for now, this is steadily in this uptrend. So, last week we said 19s were support. Guess what this tested? Bingo. Bango. Bongo. One more time. W for TT. There it is. If you caught it, congrats. Um, this is actually sub9 on Fridays. Even this morning, I did. There it is. I I don't know what to tell you, but that's that's the spot. There it was. Um, hopefully this holds. That's ideal. We draw this across. You can see it one more time right here. That prior resistance turn support, resistance, support. One more time. Here we go. Uh, and then you're looking for even on just this basic ascension, this gets hot and heavy over 22 and a quarter, 22 and 3/4, which gives me confluence on the trajectory. Uh, 23 and 3/4 on the trajectory to 30. Good god, Oscar. Next
>> QBTS 6 months quantum.
>> Quantum six months. This can this can go all over the place, but let's just stick with the uh what do you call this? this spectacles, techicals, whatever. 6 months. So, smaller smaller stock. I need to use uh a different time frame here because of the way this moves. Six months on this guy low float. This has happened. Uh let me get one more move here. This has happened. I mean, every one of these has happened. Um, I don't So, this is not going to take six months. This is going to be significantly less than 6 months. This is going to be more like 1 to 3 months in the $50 range. And then at that point, you're looking at a you're looking at this type of trajectory. And then you're looking at So you're looking six months here, here, here. So twofold. You're looking at multi multiple waves. We call waves, but multiple iterations 6 months down the line. You don't need six months for this to get to 50. Um that would as long as this stays the course, that's going to happen way before six months. Uh stop. You don't want to see this below 38. That would be your that would be your full-blown retest. But, uh, losing 38 would mean that you do see 35s and that would be a deeper pullback here. Still somewhat on course though. All right. Next,
>> Salesforce one year.
>> Um, one year. I mean, these guys announced an OpenAI partnership and still nothing today.
>> Yeah, I don't think you need a year here either. I would probably break it up. One year is a heavy commitment on Salesforce because it's at the spot right now. Right here and now. Um, so if it if if this does turn around 7 or 240 has been kind of like that general area. So, first of all, 300 is if this does turn around, that's going to be your next general spot in here. Do we want to zoom this in? So, I'm not on a weekly now because we are at the like absolute tippy top of this consolidation here. It's been basing out. It's not on October stocks. Tomorrow's sale or Dreamforce I think they have a they have a investor day slash keynote at the same time tomorrow. This is a big pivot. Fundamentals are going to come into effect tomorrow. Um, and so fundamentals will change this this this stock story tomorrow. I think two things can happen. One, uh, if this trajectory is to happen, you'll start to see this actually begin to play like tomorrow and that would be into 260s by the end of the week. It could still go sideways legitimately. And then um and then you'd want to see this kind of continuation within that same time frame. So within that time frame here, but you still want to see this entire area become that low right over here. So it's still here and now. If you lose that 200 week, then you are looking at 210.
>> Okay. Uh Zeta one year.
>> Zeta, is this helping everybody? Is this helping me? I think this is helping a lot more. Yeah,
>> this is helping me a lot
>> with the time frame.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, okay. So, it's it's a kind of like run-of-the-mill area. This is not a This is not a great pullback. It's just a okay pullback. Great pullbacks in the 16s. That would complete great pullback in the 16s would complete if you want to be very bullish would which would complete a very strong head and shoulders. If you were to get that then you could look for this move into the 26s. It's just okay here at 18. That's within that time frame. this close to the 200 day simple and you're looking at um that would be a fill of this this low volume pocket between 11850 which we outlined last week. It is holding right now. So it's a bullish hold. But if that does fill then your your bigger discount is around 15 and 3/4 just under 16. Uh but no reason to sell here with that time frame without with that time horizon. Just know that you don't want to be fully positioned either because you could get a you could get a a real nice little discount, which is a measured pullback into a golden pocket retracement from this swing low to swing high here, which aligns with this order block right here.
>> Next,
>> bullish Jake, thanks for the super chat. He says, "My dad is up 82% on Regetti. Needs help with putting up a stop-loss in the next 3 to nine months." 3 to nine months. Uh, no stop loss here. The only thing you can do is is uh is control sizing. So, stop losses are not going to help you on a stock like Regetti. Um, especially if you actually get stopped out. I would suggest not doing that. Uh, and just control your sizing of the position as a whole. Um, too big, you get too excited, too small, you don't have enough. and and if you do get stopped out then you you're prone to FOMOing back in at the wrong time. So stay but um size appropriately. You're at the top of this channel here. So again, do you sell? No. Is it going to like fully come back like no? I think this retest is at 49s. Remember bottom of the channel is your best trade location as always. This is your channel. um you guys don't have it, you can screenshot this here. But I would take this general area right there. That's going to put you right around here. If this is uh your Yeah, I have a measure move that's completed here. And then if I have a measured pullback, I'm getting I'm getting the same pullback to 48. But this should this should be a bit exhausted in the meantime. and expect some going to pull back from 58 from from today 56s to about 49 as standard. If you lose 43 then you've lost lost trend to your legitimate actual question. Losing trend would look like this here which is below 44.
>> Okay. Um, another super chat. Unity. This one, no time frame, just
>> I actually don't hate Unity. I still like Unity. I actually started to get a bit of a pump here. It got hit right at the 50-day simple. Um, this is back to entry, if you will. So, this is um Can I Can I not start this for just a second? Yeah.
>> Just because it's a special it's a it's the it's the bony frill of what we call the the triceratops. This is a paper profit special crazy. So, uh, so just know that's what it is. This is the bony frill. It's the it's the horn. It's the first bullish sentiment. And then what you do is you you ride the bony frill up, which takes it to about 45. But you're always very cautious of the violent trajectory back down because this is very real. also. So, that's how that whole thing works. It's very real. It's not uh it's not an endangered species or pattern. It actually plays out all the time. Um but it's a bullish hold here. So, I still like it. Uh I would not stop out of this. I don't have a fundamental story behind this. So, it's not like super high conviction. Is a very good technical spot. I do like the technical spot. The technicals are not invalidated until it's below 3175. Next,
>> PayPal one year.
>> Don't hate it at all. Um, I think you could take some of these in chunks. You're going to have some kind of I mean, another little bony frill if you were to see it. Um, but you know, it's it's still toppy, right? So, earnings are coming at the end of the month. So, just know look, we got we got one um pre-earnings move was into it, hit that consolidation. You know, I wanted to believe that it continues to go, but we always say, hey, you know, the first time that these things typically break or break that that first downtrend, they tend to be a short near-term short as in short short term, which it did fail. That's all that that means. And where they fail too, they typically fail right into that prior supply or that prior buy zone which is exactly where this went um last uh today and yesterday. And actually this setup here I think is a long here and now right into this in this prior support area here. This should set you up for the for another shot at least into that same exact area. You still need to be very cautious at 74.85. Um, I think this can set up for another push into that 200 day. But that 200 week simple moving average, which is this purple line right here, remains overhead resistance remains that you have a fair value gap. This is a base that's been established over a very long period of time. If I pull this back, it's it's a very important pivot. So holding here is very good long term, but to expect it to explode here and now um you know I wouldn't be deterred based on that time horizon um with that little blip on this radar. You're looking for a much longer continuation which is going to blow past your earnings and over 81 then you can start talking about 90s and then over 90s fine we can talk about this. At this point, once you get through that, you've been beyond earnings and you would need to have some confirmation that the fundamentals of this entire company have changed. So, this will be a fundamental catalyst that confirms next
>> TEDoc 3 months buyback's coming and Nick says he thinks you're going to like this setup.
>> Nick, dude, Nick is like a deep val Nick has been listen let's let's say this about Nick. This is not the first time Nick has asked me about Teddoc. Uh, this has been on his radar for a very long time. So, I'm going to go ahead and go in the daily here. Um, he's got a pretty heavy base and I know this because it comes with the lift territory. Um, $8. Yes, this is a stock trade. I wouldn't be an options trader here. Uh, equities looks fine. Um, I'm not I don't know. I don't know. Sorry, I didn't set the timer. I don't know if I would I feel like I'm Kramer actually in the in the uh um lightning round. I'm talking so fast. I don't know that I hate this. I think you need to know a little bit more about this. This is coming up with earnings on the 22nd. So, I don't know that I have to you'd have to rush into this. Technically, this does look like it's going to try and shoot up. Um, if you're a if you're a stock trader, equity trader, this move into 1076 looks like it's possible on earnings, but does it hold? That's the question. Is this a oneandone uh but don't sleep overnight with her kind of situation? It's very possible. If that happens, you're probably looking at a pullback into the nines and then you would really uh what what Nick might be like, you know, praying for way later is in the 1350s. uh which you never know. It's probably probably not going to get there. I would say realistically somewhere in the 1240s, but very cautious at that point that you have some kind of major overhead resistance. That would be a beautiful trade. Uh but without having to, you know, I don't know. A hasn't said that he's going to Teddoc yet over the HIMS or other um other places. By the way, Costco is selling the Olympic now. I heard
>> really
>> I did hear that.
>> Next
>> Clean Spark in general. This another
>> miners in general. I think they got they got a lifeline, right? Um I think someone said that Clean Spark because I did mention like, oh, these miners are going to dilute later. I think Clean Bark said that Clean Bark Clean Spark said they're not going to dilute and maybe this is the lifeline that they that the whole cohort needed. Um but this is right through that more recent kind of area. So this has broken through. Um and I think that this lifeline is at least from a market perspective being seen in fact as a lifeline. So at this point, God, they're going to make me do it, aren't they? We're going to the way back machine. 2845 way back machine here. Let's call this a session gap with a breakdown. 2861. Good night. Fine. Fine. Fine. I didn't want to go that far, but you're twisting my arm because we are if if we do get through this is your fair value. 21. Boom. We're there. So, expect this one. So, you're here. So, let's say 1 2 3. If we get a chop chop chop pull back bigger on the fourth attempt fine 2861 there you have it. Clean spark which means that this general area of whatever that happens to be 18 is a pullback zone. It's a minor. There's a big shift. There's a sentiment. So sentiment here matters. Sentiment has changed for the miners as a whole. Does it need to pull back? No, it doesn't need to pull back. It can just do this. All right.
>> Okay. By the way, we have some news right here. Bent and Greer are going to hold a press conference on the economy. I think if that happens tomorrow, then we'll see what they both have to say. Uh, Applied Digital next three months.
>> APLD. I think this has gotten um it's gotten some more attention. Um, there's clearly a story here, but okay. Now, this has actually hit through um a pretty heavy So, first of all, congrats. I don't think you need to sell this. Um so, so this has gotten through a pretty heavy um area. I don't think you need to sell this. And um and I don't hate this either. So this whole thing is I think what people were maybe trying to like yell at us about which I wasn't really seeing near term. This is what we're looking at. So without going really deep in the weeds on the far far left, let's just go ahead and look at this here now and say if this is in fact the consolidation and breakthrough, we'll give it the benefit of the doubt. 50s. Um the uh [ __ ] me say that out loud. It's 50s, dude. Um so sentiment sentiment
>> lowat. It's a low float. I could get that.
>> It's 50s. It's what it is. Um it's 50s and that means that in the in the meantime, the pullbacks, but this is it's now got enough that I can actually tinker with this um 31s. Now it's acting proper like all right so 31s would be 3189 cool this is like a pullback here and that would put your as an extension on the way here. Oops here. And then one more sorry pullback here. And that's how you get there. One, two, three. Multi multi leg. So one, two, three, four.
>> Okay. Um, Hercules Jack, thanks for the super chat. We did Regetti, but Jason, any thoughts on a target or you think this thing is just exploding?
>> Oh, upside target. I think I did do both of that cuz cuz the So that the question was for a stop loss. The target here is just to be in this channel and if this pullback, it's going to be in 65 65 to 68s. So, I don't think it's actually going to break down. I think that that is your pullback area. here and this continues on into that 65 areas.
>> Cool. Uh, Big Bear one year.
>> Oh, I'm I'm surprised we haven't gotten hit with Sound yet. Um,
>> we got that one, too. We'll do that.
>> We did.
>> I mean, we'll do it after this.
>> Okay. So, heavy consolidation finally breaking out. Um, one year BBAI weekly, right? So, one, okay, one, two. Does it need to happen now? No. Uh, I like that 750 as a pullback on a headline. Uh, I'm assuming that just by eyeing this chart, that actually looks like I might be spot on on that 750. Um, I was really close. Seven. So, a a really nice pullback would be in the sevens. And that would actually set you up for for that followth through. And the follow through would look like right off the 50-day. Well, okay. Into 11 and change. I'm not usually super bullish like this, but this is I take this as bullish or bearish because it's like you're you're at nine something and I'm telling you that's a that's a heavy retracement, but it's a heavy retracement to go shopping. It's a 30% pull down draw down to go shopping for a bigger move that I think is going to Yep. going to line up with this. I don't know that you can fully go into this whole situation right now, but what we can do Yeah. So this is going to line me up also. So um right here 835 is that from swing high swing low that 50% retracement getting a push through 835 landing this into 1060 is exactly that bearish um that bearish retracement on that. Right. Next.
>> Um, let's do this one right here. Lemonade one year.
>> Lemonade one year. Are you guys good with this flow? Is this helping? No,
>> I think it's really good. It's really good.
>> I think we're burning through these, too. So, this is actually a monthly multi multimon. So, two month two almost three month consolidation that should be ready soon. um insurance healthcare helping. It's right in that golden kind of retracement from this 35. Yeah, that's 50% retracement. Can it come down a little bit more? Sure. That little bit more looks like 45. Does it have to? No, it doesn't. Um I would actually like to see this is Spencer. Spencer asking for this.
>> No, just someone else.
>> No. 70. Um,
>> this one's been Yeah, as you said, it's consolidated for the past couple weeks now.
>> Almost three months.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Two over two months. So, 70. I have some I have some confluence here. I mean, we're Yeah, I just If I just go here to here, I confluence again. Yeah, I have multiple levels of confluence and yeah. Um, yes, it can come down a little bit more. Um, but it's not a I wouldn't be short this. Looks like it did that on Friday. You might have missed it. It might have happened already. That was a that it hit on Friday. [ __ ] Shoot. Sorry, my language. Um, dang. It might have happened. So, this might be ready to roll. Healthcare is uh is rotating. So, all right. Put it on the watch.
>> Fine.
>> They have earnings coming. So,
>> Adobe one year.
>> 100. Is there a Z put? a zero view that bearish. Goodness.
>> Yeah. I don't I This is not um um they need a fundamental shift. So, sentiment wise, it's bad. It's worse than CRM. Way worse than CRM. Uh yikes. It is.
>> I don't think AI kills these guys, but it doesn't make them more exciting either.
>> No, but they have Figma. Don't we have Canva coming soon?
>> Yeah.
>> Those two things are what I'm talking about. Those two specific IPOs are like kind of gonna crush this um sentiment, not in reality. So, I would say if you're long, stay the course. If you're not long, you you can wait patiently below 275. below 275. You can you can you got plenty of time here. You're not going to know that this is out of the weeds until your see how tight CRM was. This one's not really even like kind of close to that that level of tightness. It's more like I'm going to bust through this last level one more time and take another leg to the downside in here. But earnings are coming. Um, the only way this this invalidates is if this does break through, which is possible. Um, and I would have to zoom in a little bit more. But again, you have a ways to go yet. It's it's closer to falling out of the having the bottom fall out than breaking through the top. Right now, it's testing one, two, three, four times going to test through that 330 level. Um, that'd be another $50 downside shot.
>> Okay.
>> They need a new storyline. They need a sentiment change.
>> RR 3 months.
>> RR.
>> It's Rich Tech Robotics.
>> Oh, we must have done this last time.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I had a pullback. Look it. We had a pullback zone that was 522 from this last area. What is this from? Oh, from actually I had measured it here, but there it was. That was from our last show. Um, and so let's say this does hold where it's going to break through is over seven. And in that instance, then you have two levels. You're kind of going to into this box right here. Oops. For that breakthrough, but that that happens over over like this general area which you're still technically fighting with. It has not broken through yet. So can it's possible that this continues and and it goes sideways and you still get this like all of that's actually still possible by the way. Um but so whether or not it's here now or or this comes down and and slowly goes back up, either one of these two paths are possible. Um, this is a tough one because it's at resistance literally right now. That's all I would say about this, but it looks constructive. You just that was the that was the pullback right here that you didn't want to see it like that was your best near-term within that time horizon risk reward. Otherwise, from here, you don't want to see um five, you still don't want to see that 515 get lost. then that trade is uh invalidated. That's a trade trade. All right, next.
>> Okay. Uh before we do the next one, real quick again guys, Jason's Twitter, I'm putting it in the chat. If you want to connect with him in his Discord, his private links, you can click on that in the description and you can get to know more about him. And then in general, I would follow him on Twitter because he drops a bunch of different charts that are very useful to see in real time.
>> Um
>> have you have you seen this chart though? Like what the hell?
>> It looks like a quantum nuclear AI.
>> It looks like a quantum leap to me. This is so irritating. $359, bro.
>> So irritating.
>> If you have rare earths or quantum or nuclear in your name, you're going
>> is clean energy. Like uh yeah, they must have gotten some news. Has nobody seen the like seen this? Am I the only one that knows that this stock is a stock?
>> I did not know this existed, but there's a lot of stocks like this. I feel like moving. Um Matt says, "I sold it for a loss in February." Damn.
>> Yeah, look at this thing. That's disgusting.
>> Uh Weeble six months out. lot of a lot of chatter that this thing is going to 20 by end of year by some of the TA people on X. I don't know if you would agree with that or not.
>> I mean, who are we talking about?
>> Jake. Jake. That guy has [ __ ] like
>> with Jastic.
>> Yeah, he has thousands.
>> I know Jake. Look, I know him, though.
>> He's not He's not bad. He hits more than he misses.
>> I Dude, I've done I've done classes with Jake. Like, like side by side.
>> 20 by end of the year. Jake is do Jake is Woff he's very old school so he's looking at this as a large WOFF um pullback retest so um what what that means is that this here and now has to hold so Jake will also know that this must actually this is pretty much exactly Um here the thing about this timing critical. So right here is what we call fair value a different kind of fair value 11:02. Let me see if that hit well it said 10 or 11. You got the downside target. So this is kind of like that meta. So downside target acquired um right into the supply. This is like um yeah so this is a spot where you buy there's no question here and this is not a spot where you expect it to explode either so you you accumulate in this you in that time frame what was it well anyways I know Jake this time frame you you you expect another similar uh 30-day consult consolidation right here and then you're looking for this kind of move to the upside. Telling paper what's up.
>> But but but you think do you think it can hit 20 end of year?
>> Well, Jake is doing the same thing that I'm doing it. But he's going to be basically that's basically what he's saying is he's saying this. Um, so the only difference here is that I'm going to be going level to level. Um, I don't think that it supports the story fundamentally, but I'll tell you how to track it, which is what he won't do. Um, cuz I would actually be I'll I'll go out and limit and say I'll be better at that than tracking tracking the trajectory and pathing. So you you can So we're going to go over time on this, but so you can afford a 30 to 45day base here. Well, this goes sideways to sloppy choppy. Um and then and then here we just did exactly what exactly the exercise that we've been doing. If if and when you get through this level here, we're going to call this a break of structure, right? This 1160 is going to be your change of character because that's the top of this channel here. So, your consolidation area legitimately, you want it here. Um, this give me a second uh second here. So if this gets through this area, so you're going to be looking for another WO off setup in here, another reaccumulation of 30 to 45 days reaccumulation in there. And then you're going to be looking at a trajectory into 1444. That's going to be your 50% pullback from swing high to from this more more recent swing high to that more recent swing low. Swing high to this swing low. that's here which is what we've this is the exercise that we've been talking about. I would I would absolutely expect this longer consolidation and then from here to here so that you're tracking your pathing from here to here. Cool. And then you would want to see some kind of move. You're going to get into a fair value here. This is how it always goes. Um, but once you once you learn this kind of schematic, if you will, it's a blueprint for the stock market. At that point, you can actually have some kind of a retracement. You have another 30 to 45day consolidation and then you do it again. That's how you get there or maybe longer consolidation. This can happen here. This can happen there. This does not have to happen here, right? This can happen here. Then you get this and then and then you can get this again. So this can be multifaceted to be fair waves like that. But that is how you would get there more or less. But this is the pathing. This is the tra trajectory. It's not a one and done. This is a This is a That's a That's an investment is what that is.
>> Okay. Uh ASML next few months.
>> This one has earnings this week as well.
>> No, this one has earnings tomorrow.
>> Oh, yeah. Tomorrow. Yeah.
>> I mean, I can't do this one really because you'll have to see what happens tomorrow.
>> Yeah, actually that that makes sense. We'll skip this because you're not going to see it. Um, let's do four. 6 months. F O U R four. Oh, what happened?
>> Call Jonah. Get him on the phone right now.
>> Is he still long this thing?
>> I have no idea. Um, did I reset this?
>> Yeah, you're good.
>> The only headline is guys might work for NASA again.
>> Oh, it leave.
>> Yeah. I mean, there was some talks that he's
>> redising. Look, trade location.
>> Oh, that's clean.
>> There's not really much more to say than put that on an image like, "All right, well, oh, sorry, daily. It can come in." No, I mean, I mean, that's trade location. If it breaks down, it breaks down. It's no bueno. But you have a higher, a lower high. This doesn't look bad. I mean, if the trade look, if this fails, then what you're looking at is a failure into the 60s. This is investment. What What was the time frame? Um, six months,
>> uh, take the shot with a very tight stop-loss. Uh, or if or flip it because you're right on the edge. 6 months, you can take the shot here. Now, if you lose um 73, flip on that and go short to 63. Okay. Um, Reddit one year it's coming in. It's getting more interesting. I think that the sellers are getting uh less and less. So, this is um 191. Well, assuming that you already whole owned it, I think that you're you're mostly done. I think you could see 190 and then if you have some covered calls, buy those back. Um, we're getting to uh earnings at the end of the month. This is I think this sets up for a little bit of a liquidity grab like this and then some more chop and you get this. So depending on where your cover calls are, I guess you don't have to buy those back, but I think you get this kind of consolidation in into earnings. So maybe that was a you get this right that like that and then right here is where earnings would show up. So I'm looking at 191 dip.
>> Okay. path six months
>> dip and then pre- earnings rip path six months path.
>> This one kind of really worked out past
>> I gotta say guys it sounds like it's really easy for them to for for for you to put this time horizon and it does it does uh it changes everything for me so
>> I think it helps you a lot too. Um, so, okay. So, it last week I said this was actually at resistance. So, it was a hard call for me. If if you took it, it broke through the resistance and it got to that upside target. So, congrats. Somebody pinged me on X and I was like I looked at it and I'm like, "Wow." Okay. So, at resistance, but it did break through. Boom. This is target acquired. Um I think what you do what you do is you kind of know for sure that like that was your upside target 1808. Um at this point you just where is my pullback in your really this is a pullback but it's a very light pullback. I would expect some kind of sideways price action over 1696. That's actually going to be 200 the 200 week SMA, which is this purple line here on my chart. 200 week SMA. Can they see that? You can see that. That's fine. That's good. This is not a daily. This is actually a weekly 200 week time frame. Um, it's different. It's significant, but I would expect some kind of consolidation and then breakthrough happens over 17 for the next one. Sorry, let me move forward. Over 17 for the next one. really. Uh, which would be in the 20s. I'm I'm getting a new mouse. Someone bought me a mouse and having it delivered. I'm very appreciative because this mouse is extremely noisy and I I'm over it. U which lines me up to this little area here. I would probably undercut that $20 level just slightly. Yeah, I pro it's going to it's going to if if it continues if you get continuation I think you get a a consolidation a little bit more and it's going to try for 20 crazy and if it fails though if it fails below 16 then it goes all the way back to 13 or maybe thereabouts.
>> Okay. Uh rub rubric one year
>> rubric 14 15 then 13. So this was this was the spot I'm like I'm I'm I'm torn on rubric. I love the company. Do I like the stock? It's a valuation thing and it's a TAM thing is security but it's it's data protection. It's a different flavor of security. Um uh so this broadening formation to an extent um is what I actually didn't catch earlier but it it actually is a bit of a broadening formation. So the lows here I was I if if you see 70 on another 200 day simple moving average flush I think that's good. But but here after holding so swing low to swing high of this one and I have some confirmation here after tagging the bottom of this broadening area and bouncing I actually sorry I didn't I actually I think you might I think you might be able to take a shot at it um was a very cautious shot cuz if it doesn't go if it loses 77 and a half then you do have what was the time frame a year uh yeah so like you could have position it's not a short but you could see something just below 70 just below as close to 70 as you can I think that's a good I think that that's more interesting to um in the near term and then uh ideally picking up around there. But I just you got to be cautious because this is still uh you you have this where where it hit its head right here. This is that major consolidation. So this was an an investor base that was trying to attempt to be like an investor base that was trying to be established. It bounced up. It hit the head. It hit its head right here and they sold right into it. So, that's a that's a that's a that's a rough sign. All right. That's strictly on valuation. I think
>> rocking.
>> Hopefully, this consolidates. I love the stock. I love the company though and tries again. Maybe you get four attempts. Rocket Mortgage. Oh, dude. I should have looked at this today. I didn't look at this. I'm so upset. Don't Don't be green. Don't be green. Don't be green. Don't be a big green stick. Okay. Okay. It's manageable.
>> It's manageable.
>> This is obviously a wake up play as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Time frame is a couple years on this.
>> Oh, yeah. That's it. That's that's by that's your spot. 16. Well, you should know. We don't know. No, but like as close to 16 as you can. That's your That's your That's your That's a spot. Um it it can go deeper which puts it towards 14 just above 14. So as close to 15 couple years as close to 15 as you can like this. So weekly couple years I'm actually going to go to monthly and you can expect this to be like one two three maybe four shots. So in between this I would expect this like that right. Um, so, so my accumulation range is going to be in this 15 to 16 area, which is why I why I said what I'm saying. Why I said what I'm saying what I've said what I why I said what I said. And we're looking for 20s on an extension in here. Cool. Soundown six months.
>> Sound down six months. Six months is uh well so this uh 6 months on a daily and you're really looking at this situation here. So, this is this is an extension of this consolidation here, which puts you right there. I'm going to do this one other way. And I'm just going to go from here to here and get my bare zones. We're well above it. So, that's probably why I didn't do that. So, at 15. So, this is a cleaner this is much cleaner chart than big bear. Um, it's still giving me 22s, which is going to be that this fair value gap right here. I mean, this is all pretty much mapped out um as it is. I think you you screenshot this and you run with this and you want to see this going kind of go level to level like that right there. You can kind of chop. You might even get a little slop. That's what you're looking for. At any point if you lose, let's say, one of these major levels, okay? Well, then you know that you go down. Or if you lose this broader um trajectory here, you're just on that. So, this can go sideways. If it does, that's fine. Just know these are all in play. So, as close to this area as you can is your prevailing uptrend wherever that happens to be.
>> Okay. Um arm six months.
>> I don't think you need six months. Um, missed this one. This one did me dirty. Well, didn't do me dirty. I just I just It just again, Pokemon can't catch them all. Is a This is a quick This is a these are quick and dirty. This is a extreme high beta. Um, yeah. Well, 150 was the major pivot. 135 I knew. I should have known. I I knew that. I'm just a little disappointed in myself here for not having this one on. This is um you know, I take this trade all the time because I know that this has been happening. So, we're one, two, three. This is Wow. I'm just so frustrated here. Whatever. Um because I trade this a lot. Oh, I'm gonna cry. All right. So, that said, it's okay. It's okay. Um, I think that this is more in this area. So, we will probably have some kind of a pullback in here. We're going to retest. I'm getting a little fancy because I'm somewhat interested here. Uh, I got a couple seconds to find this level. 159 and 155. So, 159 and 155. Kablammo Gabmo. That's where I'm looking for. This is going to be wowers. Screenshot it. Whatever. Just under two.
>> Just under 200.
>> Okay. Um
>> Oh, frustrating. So, it's the first It's the first one. Uh, by the way, so I don't know that it's like you have to chase this if if this doesn't hold right here. Like, just know that this can come deep. But there you have it.
>> TMC 6 months. TMZ.
>> TMC.
>> TSM.
>> No, no. TMC, the Metals Company. This is a Rare Earth 10X.
>> I don't know this one.
>> The Rare Earth stuff helped it a lot. I mean, I don't know. It It went parabolic. So, the question is, do you think it's legit from here?
>> Is it more legit than uh AKMS? Exactly.
>> Too legit to I mean as a target it's a full extension. Um so act right needs to look like here 12 it can and then it can do this and then it can do that. That's what acting right needs to look like. So that's 15s. Uh not acting right. Uh-huh. Looks like uh not acting right. Looks like this later, which puts you into the sevens. These are these are this is uh you know not for the faint-hearted. Okay. Uh,
>> yeah, I'm doing them though.
>> Same theme. MP for the next year.
>> Uh, MP is not I mean MP is it's a theme. It's a theme, but it's not. Dude, this is sturdy. Um, dude, whoever asked this the other day and I looked at I was like, I would have thought that it was going to be done and we looked at it on the show and I was like, but it's holding right here. And I remember looking at this and I'm like, okay. And that's interesting because that's like uh prior the breakout is acting as support. So like if it was going to break down it would have done that and it didn't. Then all of a sudden, um, so there's that story, you're there. Um, I don't even know why I'm measuring this because we know what it is. It's 125. Uh, and acting right needs to look like this, this, that. Uh, in the meantime, what could a pullback look like? I feel like if if it sees 65s again, people would get really excited.
>> What 83s remains that breakout,
>> but um but I don't know that you get 83s. Actually, I think this morning wick might have been it. It's this is the rule of like stocks that cross over 75 that go to 125. You're there. Okay. Uh, ALAB six months. This one got hit with the Oracle AMD news this morning,
>> which I don't think it's that bearish.
>> Also, Broadcom.
>> So, it got the the quadruple whammy one, two, three, triple whammy. So, uh, a lot of custom silicon stuff. Marbell's actually having a little similar stuff, um, as well. But I think they I think uh custom silicon is like this is probably end up being an opportunity. I almost bought this today. Um I need to go uh when are you coming down next?
>> San Francisco.
>> San Jose.
>> Probably next year. Early next year.
>> You want to call these guys up and see if we can swing by and meet the CEO? How how much how much pull do you think I have, bro? Just call these.
>> We're not talking about you. I'll talk I'll talk to them.
>> Okay. So, then you call them. I'm down if you're down.
>> Yeah. If I can make it happen. Um
>> I don't know that much about them, but I think 13% down because of a Oracle headline is not as reasonable.
>> We could probably just tour worst case scenario. See if I know some people. Um 150s looks good. Um, but it is broken trend. I think this is how this rolls. It's very high beta. Broken trend. But just this from that last breakout does put me like this is the spot. This is the spot. 145 gets me really interested. Um although that said I I did have this on watch as a potential um extension and it didn't get through it anyways. Right. So like this is why we do that bear that bare exercise because knowing when to press that bet. Here's that bearish retracement. I needed to see it close over 233. It didn't get there. Two or 223 22450. That's a bearish retracement. That's what that's when a bearish retracement goes bad for the bulls. But this is why we always watch for this. And um in this instance, what we want to do is we want to do that. I'm going to go extension. You're here. Yeah. So again, um I'm here. I have confluence multiways 155s to if it gets out of control 140.
>> Okay. Um, Intel one year
>> by
>> really
>> I mean yeah one year I don't I don't I mean one year one year
>> one year Yeah. Sentiment, just sentiment alone. Um
>> I mean Trump's not going to let them fail, right?
>> I mean, well, we knew it was under book at 20ome, but there was no reason to get excited. It's well above 20ome, which is fine. Um, it's not about that, though. It's about it's about the sentiment changing. So, let's go ahead and do the exercise because I haven't done this. Yeah, I might have to take it back. Um, bearish retracement slapped her. Oh, I almost spoke to him. Maybe I might have spoken too soon. 3950 was it. So, for this to act right, it has to hold. 3450. 3475, which quite frankly, it still it still kind of puts it as like if you're going to act right, this is kind of where you want to see this chop, get a little slop, then make another run. You could chop in here, make another run. But that's that's what that needs to look like. Um and then in this instance, um this is Yeah. 45s possibly. Yeah. Yeah. So, yes, I think you need to have a I need to I think you might need to broaden your time horizon, though.
>> Okay. Uh JD, same time frame, one year. Oh, bye.
>> Um,
>> dude, the amount of OP when you showed me that picture, 80,000 calls open for the 40. That's old Jake, by the way. I think Jake called that out to his subscribers. And
>> Jake, really?
>> Yeah. Jake owns like 2,000 of those contracts. The $40 call.
>> I have marches. Um, Jake is not Let me just tell you about Jake. And and you know, I'll call him if you need to, but he's not a he's not an options guy. I'm an options guy. Jake is a stock guy. Jake is not an options guy. So,
>> yeah, he likes the stock, but he does not know the Greeks. He knows them in concept. Um,
>> so you like JD for a year?
>> Yeah. And I like Jake, let's be like straight. But um but um but yeah, I I I like it's the same thing actually. So this re So this is the setup. It's like a big base. This is the PayPal setup. This is a lot of stuff. This is the Coinbase setup. how how Coinbase initially started is like you get this um this is and I think I think if you side note if you get a bounce on CRM I think that you expect exactly this to happen in the future is you get this big move and then another pullback retest it and then you start to see it kind of do this thing again. So 30, I don't think um that you have a stop on this. I just think that you you take your shot. Um this is going to be so policy driven or sentiment driven that if you stop out of this, it's all about sizing. I don't think you need to have a huge size here uh to have a good win here either. But I think this is I don't I mean it's not a it's not a thing. This is the spot. This is it. This is the This is where you want to take the shot. Uh, can it come down a little bit lower? Yes, sure. But do you want to really like hold out for exactly that? This is pretty deep into it.
>> Uh, AMKR one year. Me and me and Stock Talk are both in this one.
>> Someone asked me about this on my channel. is a manufacturer, right? Um,
>> packaging company.
>> Is it for
>> Yeah, packaging for semiconductors.
>> I thought it was a Oh, packaging testing. I Is this the outsourcing company?
>> Yeah. Yep. OSAP. I mean, look, I like it because it trades at 1.15 time sales,
>> but they're they're outsourcing. Um, okay. Sorry. Go ahead.
>> They're cheap. They're working really closely with TSM for the fab in Arizona. And if you believe in onshoring any semiconductor manufacturing in the states, it seems like Amcore is going to be a pretty is it reminds me of SMCI in 23. Like, it seems like they're going to play a big role in something that's about to happen. It's just secluded to the US. So I think it's a I think it's a double on revenues in a year. So six billion to 12 billion revenues and that gets you closer to like 4550 bucks in terms of the stock price.
>> So I don't even think TA matters that much on it, but you know
>> it does.
>> Um 26 is a good spot. This is your prevailing uptrend right here. So all of this so it's it it TA always matters in terms of like can you get a it's not going to matter in terms of the general direction to your point no it doesn't matter but but can it can it matter in terms of your when you when you learn how to trade and you can trade into an investment can you can you like mold multiply your compounded returns that you would have to normally just wait to get for sure like from that perspective TA would matter um and it would help right so like all all I'll say is like this can come in I think this is fine but um trade location probably closer from a time perspective it can go sideways for another couple weeks maybe into earnings. Uh and if you get something closer to 20 just slightly sub 27 really whatever this order block was here retest this area right here.
>> Agreed.
>> That would be that would be good.
>> All right we'll do 10 more minutes then we got to get Jason out of here. Jason, thank you so much for being here every week. I'm putting Jason's Twitter and YouTube in the chat. Again, you can follow uh his Discord. He has a private group as well for those that want to get deeper into some of the stuff that he's doing. You can check him out. Uh VG, one year, this bad boy got hit with a BP lawsuit.
>> Um uh I I think they're in a legal battle for the next year. I I don't think there's anything.
>> That's what the TA tells me.
>> TA tells me that there's something new uh that was uh that changed the story on October 9th that might have uncovered some kind of new story. And it tells me now that this is the low um that it's retesting and it it should hold here. But if it doesn't, then it's possible that this goes lower. But I think the question is like where uh five. So there's a couple like the trajectory to get there. I don't know what's going on with the stock, but it's just telling me that well, we're need to price you back into March of 2025. So, whatever is happening today is putting this in the time machine back to whatever was happening with the stock in early 20 early 2025. Um, so whatever the stock was dealing with in 2025, is it better or worse is the question. That's really it. And so 780s is really like where you could kind of go to next assuming that there's no what did you say it was?
>> A BP something.
>> BP lawsuit. Arbitration case. Yeah.
>> Arbitration case. So um only being somewhat familiar with it. You just need to know like what are the other arbitration risks? Are there other similar lawsuits? And I think that to the extent of that, if there are, that's the only thing that would keep a a cap on the stock. Um, and then see this right here where this this prior breakout was and this breakdown area and this little blip on the radar here. So, that's 10. I'm going to zoom in just a little bit. And I know I'm a little over on this one, but this is going to be 10:45. 861 puts you right here. That's a critical spot and puts you back into this heavy volume like cons like investor base. So, whoever is buying here, maybe they took some profit, but now they're getting their initial cost back. So, they have a chance to take the shot one more time. Do they double dip here and now? Or do they say the story has changed? That's the question. Um, from here, this will say that the story has changed if if it's over that 1040. Um, and I'm just going to go a little bit deeper. So, maybe not even 1040. 1050. So, right here. So, this is your secondary breakdown. And I'll do one more from the actual whatever news candle it is. I don't have a higher low yet. Technically, I still have lower lows. So, we're still making daily lower lows and we're still making daily lower highs. So, you want this trend to really um go away first because you're in a like somewhat down channel. You're getting consolidated. So, that's better. Stop getting lower. You don't want this to close below 880. Um, and then at 975 over 975, this is when you're going to start to be on the mend way over here. And you could get this kind of a pullback and you might see something like that. At 975, you get to 10 1054. You might even get a big shot. There might be some kind of case something. Then you need to be cautious at around 11. You don't want to see this happen. But if you do, this is your pathing to recovery. That's it.
>> So, following up on this, quick thoughts on next, just on the chart in general, NEXD.
>> Uh, I only just cuz I I had an inkling of what was going on with VG, but not really next. Um, timers. So, what is this the same story? I don't know what's happening here, but this looks um
>> this is pre-revenue oil and gas, but does the chart
>> I I I got to tell you, I feel like oil and gas becomes a positional trade here. Anyways, um because like like if you were to talk to the milkman, I I'm sure that he will he will he will probably um tell you the same thing that in reality it's going to be that gas and oil and gas that really come to save the day, believe it or not. Right. But people don't want to hear that. So while do these are these is this a producer? I don't fully know. I think they're upstream if I'm not wrong.
>> Need to buy it position.
>> The insiders are buying like crazy. That's the one
>> I would buy it. Uh it's a 200 weeks simple moving without knowing anything with without knowing anything about this company. It looks like a buy. Um I'm not actually joking. Um th this looks like but it looks like a in an it looks like a investment buy possible positional buy breakout pullback retest into supply 200 week simple moving average. Can it go lower? Sure. Can you get to maybe five? Sure. But you know am I going to be picky? I don't know. Maybe I need to buy this right now. Um yeah. So
>> I actually agree. I do think at these levels it's probably you probably throw a couple thousand at it and just
>> Yeah. So I I I but so my point is that in reality it's going to be this sector that saves a day. Um maybe not gas. Uh but pathing needs to look like this. Then you're going to get to that bare zone which is $10 950. And then here maybe you could get a little pullback and you get the same kind of thing. That's it. Worst case scenario, you get below five and then you know, well, you took a shot and it wasn't good. And and what does not good look like? Well, I'll tell you what not good looks like. Not good for now looks like a straight shot to possibly three. Uh if there's like no, let's see. Reality four to this lower range here. In reality, if it if all hell breaks loose and you lose that, you're into four. So, what am I risking here? I don't know. I'm risking an upside of 100% or no, I'm I'm sorry. I'm risking a downside of 30%, to make an upside of 100%. That is what we call riskreward um in trading. And I think that uh that sets up as a dude, I'm just that's risk management. If my if my risk management is giving me risk one to make four, it's not bad.
>> No, I agree with you. I mean
>> statistical
>> like from a statistical perspective if I take four shots like this and I win one of them with risking one to make four plus and I have a 25% written rate I'm going to be positive in my trading account.
>> Yeah. Also I mean just look at this right here. Like if we get a little bit fundamental the insiders were buying at freaking 750. Bro, look at this [ __ ] 7:30, 714, and they're buying in bulk. 500,000 shares, 300,000 shares. This was all September 2025, bro. This was last month.
>> And I don't know that much about the industry, but at its core, a stock down two bucks below where the insiders bought, you probably take a nibble and but but then you can't look at it. You can't cry if it goes up or down. You just got to
>> let it play out.
>> No. But this is one where like you could take you could take four shots like this and and lose 75% of them and still be positive in a trading account.
>> Yeah.
>> With a longer time horizon
>> on
>> Oh, we're still going.
>> Shoot. I went over because I thought was it.
>> Okay. You want to do one more? One last one and we'll get you out of here.
>> Opportunity cost. That that has to do with sizing. Yeah. No, let me do it. Let's go.
>> Okay. Last three. ISRG one to three years
>> intuitive surgical um I mean uh yeah do we look at med medtech medronics um is uh how much do you believe in robotics I guess uh uh it's not Da Vinci is it is it Da Vinci this Da Vinci I think it is um
>> yeah no it is Da Vinci
>> he's earnings on the 21st Uh, okay. It's a spot. I didn't hit the timer. Shoot. It looks good. One year.
>> Yep. One year.
>> Nibble. Because you're you have earnings only like if it's a new position. I mean, this looks good, but if it if it breaks down, it could get uglier and you could get a deeper discount towards the 360s. So, it's it's fine. Um but under 400 could come and assuming that they are firing on all cylinders. It's all good. You want to uh you want to monitor market sentiment, healthc care first, biotech, and then medtech. This is medtech. So, you're you're late cycle here. All right.
>> Okay. Last two. TMDX one year.
>> I haven't looked at this one in a long time, to be honest. Um, stay the course, no change. Uh, this guy. Yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't go out hoping for anything crazy. This is definitely in consolidation. Uh, you you you definitely hit like I know I was shorting this for a minute and then it stopped going down. It went up, but it it it hit that bare zone. You're below that 50% mark here. This is small cap. It's possible that this loses this area right now for a a better entry, but I would be very cautious on this kind of stock. um because it can just blow past your levels. Uh 92 looks like a more supportive level, which would be like this, but then you still need to get through. And this actually would play out better to your pattern people uh in a more constructive teacup if they like that.
>> All right. Um
>> someone as I think it's gonna be similar. Sorry.
>> Oh, good.
>> Was that one? I don't know.
>> It was one of them. But go ahead.
>> Um it just it just looks uh I if you have to go, we have to go. Just let me know. Um
>> I I can stay. It's up to you.
>> Yeah, I I think this was like a three to six month also. Something about flow. It's It's bottom of the channel. Um it's actually just channel up. This is This is one of your stocks, isn't it?
>> It's Pelosi stocks, not mine. Oh, I thought you were doing the copy policy portfolio.
>> Copied Google, but
>> do you still have it?
>> Google? Yes,
>> you do. Huh?
>> Tempest. No.
>> What are you eating?
>> I'm not eating anything, bro.
>> Oh,
>> why do you think?
>> How's the tooth?
>> I thought you were eating something.
>> No,
>> tooth is good. I just need to use this other channel. Yeah, I mean, it's on the 20. It's not strong. I don't really like it that much to be honest. Um, but it's it's AI. It's on the 20.
>> Okay. I was going to say,
>> can we split the last minute 30 real quick between Dutch Bros, NC, and DLO?
>> Okay. Yeah. Um, I got this uh I got it on Tempest. It's closer to 80 450 bottom of the channel. Boom. Right there. Dutch Bros. Um, apparently they're coming up with a new there's a new Dutch Bros coming to town, which is kind of cool.
>> Oh, in California.
>> Yeah, they don't they don't exist in California. There's a big old Dubé bottom that um a mate text me about the other day. He's like, "Is this just a screaming by?" And I was like, "Dude, I don't know, man." Um, don't hate it. Don't hate it at all. Saved it. We need to go over here and say this can this can make this can make its way at least to 57 for now. pre- earnings. Uh yeah, especially if this gets a little pullback right now. I do like this here. So like especially if I get a little slap at the 20-day and then if I get a pullback literally right now and then I get a higher daily low, I will be in this bad boy for this kind of a ride and likely to the 200 day simple. Yep. To 65s, which I would love that.
>> That's a tradable trade.
>> Um, but you have to assume 47 holds.
>> Your last two are NCL and DLO.
>> NCLH I' I've right off the 200 right here. So, it's it's okay. Um, but that's not like this is not like the best spot. So, like around two I don't like trading a whole lot around 200 day SMA. So, I think this can get to 240, 2480, but then you you really got to be careful cuz this can get shellacking um into the 20s, which I think would be a better retest of this general area cuz at the end of the day, this was like a high and this this whole thing is a lower high. Um and this was the last low and this is a Oops, I might have misspoke. Is this a higher low? No, it is a lower low. So, uh, lower low. So, lower high, lower low. Yeah, I would be really kind of cautious here. Um, it's not really cruise season, I don't think, unless you're going to Alaska. Um, so what's the time frame on this? Is a long time frame. Confluence is a long time frame. Yeah, this is basically a year, year or two years.
>> Year or two years, I don't know. Uh, three to five years. I'm I would say like more like that $20 level is still going to be better. I'm getting this like all kinds of different ways in terms of like looking at this, but you're still in this broader thing. The only way that this breaks is that if this gets over, which would be the same thing here. All right. What was the other one? DLO like D local.
>> Yeah, this one got an upgrade a little bit of a breakout Latin America payments one-year time frame almost. Oh, that that that does not look bad at all. It's probably one of the better looking charts I've seen in a long time, dude.
>> I think upgrade was to 19 today that I got.
>> I think their management is actually pretty strong. I'm looking deeper into this company, but I don't think it's too crazy to think they get a good earnings get rerated. Uh I have exactly that to 20s. Um from so so weird charts 2095. Uh I got a 1774 session gap. Um yeah. So I mean and then let me see if I have this extension. I mean I have uh this all lines up. It 18. Yeah. I mean, this lines up all kinds of different ways to that same just under 19. Can this pull back? It can. So, a pullback here would be into 14s and then you look for that to kind of start to to grind higher. You don't want to see it lose 1350. Like if I were to go fully across here is a pretty heavy pivots and that like you can but um it means that if you do it means that you're going to go to 1250.
>> Okay, there you go. All right, that was a long day.
>> I feel like we had Okay,
>> we've done basically 50 tickers, which is a decent amount.
>> Really?
>> Yeah, that is a good amount.
>> That is a good amount. Oh, dude. The end of the day,
>> dude. We just got Dude, he did it again. I just looked at the It's
>> the soybeans, bro. It's the soybeans. Soybeans. Dude, it would have been a really nice green reversal and those soybeans 350 came out 35.
>> Is crypto flying right now after hours? I'm getting all kinds of alerts literally right now.
>> I don't think so.
>> Yeah, I don't want to see too big of a green open. If we get too heavy green open, that's that's not going to be ideal. All right. Well, there's Jason. You can follow him on X if you want to join his Discord, his memberships, all that stuff is in papergames.comlinks. Uh earning season is next week, so
>> I Well, Tesla's Tuesday, so we're probably not doing TT on Tuesday. We got to find a time to reschedule it.
>> Yeah, let's let's uh let's coordinate. I don't mind doing some things after hours. I also if you guys um I don't know I I was we're so I'm probably going to change my schedule a little bit too. Um I don't mind is I'm not going to be day trading as much but I don't mind coming in because of that. I don't mind coming in for a day like intraday segment.
>> Yeah. Um or
>> the thing is the thing is
>> yeah we might we might just have to wait until earnings are done which is two weeks because a lot of this stuff you're going to be like you can give some insight but you know if earnings for meta are tomorrow what do you say right
>> that's true yeah so like
>> earning season typically just for everybody who's not familiar fundamentals supersede technicals sentiment supersedes technicals um Yeah, it when we come down to earning season, what happens is that the fundamental stories, you know, think back to when I was talking about PayPal. If we look at the time stamp when I said like something fundamentally will change on for the company, this is a moment in the market where we can see the fundamental stories start to shift. So, technicals will get swapped around a little bit. So it's more it's almost like a quarterly reset um from a technical perspective especially for mega caps and things like that. But what I will say to you is that we go sector by sector when we talk about earnings. So it's financials first. We didn't have a lot of financials come in this week but after after financials report we can start looking at financials. But every week there's a there's a different cohort that tend to report together. It's just that one sector for that one week that we won't really be able to look at. Um but so about a third of the tickers we'd have to be like ah you know today it was ASML. If they report tonight, tomorrow morning it's not something that it's going to make a lot of sense to look at the chart on.
>> Okay. So we'll figure it out. We'll see what we got to do.
>> Um all right, good. I think your idea of the time frame for rapid fire really made sense. like that helps.
>> It just it just helps me understand like what the logic is too. But um beans supersedes soy beans supersede QT apparently. But um but yeah,
>> there you go. All right, Jason, thank you so much. Again, there's Twitter and
>> we will see you next week.
>> Always fun. Adios.
>> Later. All right, that is it from me. Thank everybody for joining. Daily recap will be out in about 20 minutes. So, if you if you have not had enough of me yet, you will get the daily recap. Dude, I am getting tagged in this freaking Grinder story, all across Twitter. Shout out to Evan for literally tagging me in this. I got it, guys. I got it. Everyone thinks I'm the one who bought out Grinder. Everyone thinks I'm the one. I get it. But uh, no, I did not buy them out, but it is hilarious. It It is hilarious. All right, so daily recap will be out in a bit. Now, I recorded the daily recap before this soybean thing came out. So, I mean, I think all the information there is still pretty important and analyzes what's happened, but obviously the soybean thing kind of changed towards the end of the day. Now, again, it didn't really tank the market. It just stopped like a really green close tomorrow. I think we'll see how much the market cares about the soybean stuff, how much it escalates. But hopefully, it's just Trump saying something before the meeting so he can negotiate versus it being a massive escalation. Is Steve live? Is Steve still live? Let me see. Yeah, we can we can spam Steve stream. If he's been live for a while, he might be close to ending it, but we can spam it near the end. Um, let me see right here. Steve is is he live? I mean, I know he's live. I don't know if he's still live. He is. No, he just finished. Oh, no. He's live. He's live. He's live. Okay, cool. All right. What do we do? Do we do We could do CRN or We did CRN last time. What do we do, bro? Look at this guy. He's talking about cookies. Of course he is. He's getting a question about cookies. Look at Look at that. Layer rainbow. Yo, this is perfect. Look at layer rainbow rainbow cookie or canoli. And that's Steve's face. Look at that. Of course, he's looking to the sky trying to get inspiration on how to answer this question. This is hilarious. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Um, he's thinking so hard.
>> That's a hard one. That's a really hard one because I mean,
>> bro,
>> rainbow cookies are amazing. Can oli are amazing. Canoli are a little better when you have coffee with it. Why do I have to choose? Why can't I just have both? Why can't I just have both? I don't want to choose. Not choose.
>> Bro, he took it so seriously. Look at this.
>> Wow.
>> He couldn't believe the question.
>> Oh wow. Oh wow. Um,
>> did he closed his eyes? He's like
>> That's a hard one.
>> He looked to the sky.
>> That's a really hard one because I mean that's hilarious. Okay, what do we spam? What do we spam into the chat? Someone's got to clip that. That this man was thinking about that question. Let's spam Oreo. Spam Oreo. He He likes chocolate chips over Oreos. Just spam Oreo. There it is. I'll be in the chat as well. Oreo, that's what we're doing. All right, thank you everybody for being here. I'll see you in Steve's chat. Daily recap will be out in like 20, 30 minutes. And let's go spam Oreo and Mr. C. Let me put the link right here for those that don't have it. Dude, he really spent his energy to answer that freaking question. That is hilarious. He looked to the sky to answer that question. All right, I'm out. We'll spam Oreo in Steve's chat. Thank you everybody. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Bye everyone.