美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者一年前投资界失去了一位真正的居家一位拥有最锋利思想的智者查理芒格作为几十年的老搭档巴菲特在悼念芒格时说道没有查理的灵感智慧与参与伯克希尔哈萨维不可能有今天的成就 Many people may think that Mangue is always behind Buffett But in fact, if you really know Buffett and Mangue, you will know that Mangue is the real thinker of Buffett's value investment system Buffett once said that he was most favored by two people in his life One is Graham, and the other is Mangue Graham told Buffett what value investment is And the one who really made Buffett grow his value investment was Mangue Without Mange, Buffett would not have achieved what he has today Even Bill Gates is surprised Mange is the most innocent thinker he has ever met in his life However, he is such a master with a top-level thinking His ideas are rarely mentioned by ordinary investors The laughers are more insignificant This is not because his theory is not good But because his theory is really hard to grasp Many theories have been misunderstood to this day In today's video, Mito Jun will challenge the difficulty I will put this investment world's most top-notch and most difficult-to-understand thinking into my best to tell you If you are naturally a person who has a pursuit for investment Then you must not miss this video The most famous theory of Mungo is also the basis of his investment thinking. It is his "cross-scientific" thinking model. Mungo has such a famous saying, "The one holding the hammer looks like a nail."手里拿着锤子的人看什么都像钉子 Yes, Munger is such a very sharp-tongued person. What he wants to express is actually a typical thought defect. Munger believes that if a person is only focused on one field, then when he thinks about the problem, he will usually only start from the field. The result he gets in the end is usually very narrow. This is very common in investment I have a lot of friends who do IT When they invest, they don't look at the business logic and financial data Just open a company, the technology is not good As long as the technology is good, they will invest These people may indeed know technology But it's not good to invest only from the technical point of view 反过来还有一些人走向了另外一个极端他们纯粹只看财务和估值却忽略了技术逻辑管理层这些软性指标很多金融背景的人甚至华尔街机构都有这个毛病越是专业的人就越容易被专业性蒙蔽双眼 In fact, that was the case with Buffett in the early years He was very passionate about investing in the so-called "money-making" It's just to buy companies that are cheap in the market But such companies often have their own problems Otherwise, it won't be so cheap Fortunately, Buffett met Mang at the most critical stage of his investment career In 1969, Buffett was 40 years old His investment career was greatly changed Buffett shut down his investment company Almost sold all his stocks Almost turned down Why? Because the Yendi shares that Buffett was pursuing Almost out of stock in the market at that time In other words, Buffett's investment strategy In the market at that time I can't find any chance I once in a video Buffett's history of selling in detail I have analyzed It is obvious that Buffett was also lost in his career. At this time, Munger's appearance completely changed Buffett. Munger told Buffett that to understand a company, you can't just look at its asset debt. You have to think about a company from multiple dimensions and even from multiple fields of study. Only in this way can you find any other factors other than numbers. This statement completely shaped Buffett Also became a turning point in Buffett's investment philosophy And the milestone that marks this transformation It was the acquisition of the "Chi Shi Tang Gu" in 1972, three years after Buffett's death At that time, the net value of the "Chi Shi Tang Gu" account was only 8 million US dollars But it was 30 million This is too expensive for Buffett According to Buffett's traditional investment standards This kind of investment can't fit his speech 然而,芒格却有完全不同的看法芒格认为,喜时堂果虽然资产不多但却拥有一个极其强大的品牌和无与伦比的客户忠诚度这些是无法从财务数据上直接体现出来的有了品牌和客户忠诚度,企业就能有极高的定价权未来他们随时可以通过涨价来充盈他们的资产负债表 真正值钱的是喜食糖果的这个能力而并非公司已经体现在报表上的那些数字于是芒格极力说服巴菲特最终以2500万美元的价格收购了喜食糖果这次投资后来取得了巨大的成功2500万的投资最终换回了超过20亿美元的汇报也正是这次芒格立驻下的投资彻底改变了巴菲特的投资理念 自那以后巴菲特不再执着于寻找烟蒂谷而是开始寻找真正值得长期持有的好生意后来巴菲特之所以能够把握住可口可乐苹果等优质投资蒙格所带来的这次变化功不可没后来巴菲特常说以一个合理的价格买入一家伟大的公司要远比以一个便宜的价格买入一家平庸的公司要好很多自此之后完整版的巴菲特价值投资理念才算正式形成了 The question is, why does Munger see these things that even Buffett will ignore? The answer is in the cross-scientific thinking model that Munger has been working on for his whole life. Munger believes that whether it is investment or life, they are all extremely complex systems. If you only use one kind of thinking to look at this complicated world, you are destined to be narrow-minded. So we need a cross-sciences thinking model, because each science has its own unique bottom-level thinking, and some more ancient principles. These principles are accurate in all directions, and you can use this kind of multi-sciences and multi-dimensional thinking to cross-check the EBT. Of course, this multi-science class is not all about learning, but some basic subjects The more typical ones are math, physics, biology, psychology, engineering, philosophy, etc. Among these basic subjects, there are rules that say that everything in the world does not change Pack these rules into a toolbox When faced with problems, you are no longer the intuition of a single subject Instead, you can use multiple chopsticks to intersect and measure To reduce prejudice and improve your decision-making quality I know that this theory sounds a bit false. You might think that this theory sounds very reasonable, but can ordinary people really use it? Do you really have to learn all these basic knowledge to make a good investment? In fact, this is a misunderstanding for many people about the cross-study model of the blind. The quantum thinking model is actually a process of thinking Not a result that must be achieved This process is something that every ordinary person can start to practice now And once it starts, it will immediately have the effect of getting rid of the shadow Next, I'll talk about my personal understanding to give you a reference The cross-sciences model includes three dimensions of the process. The first layer is also the most obvious layer, which is to think in multiple dimensions. In investment, you think about the technology and force yourself to think about the business model and the management layer. Some things don't really need to be repaired to understand, they are just some common rules. You can find it as long as you think about it. Our problem is not that we don't know these rules, but that we have neglected the thinking of multiple dimensions at the beginning. The second level is the thinking of the cross-study subjects. There are not enough common rules, we do need to learn some knowledge about cross-study subjects. But this is not to accumulate knowledge and methods, but to find the more ancient and unchanging rules in different subjects, and thus train our own thinking methods. For example, I like a definition in physics, all objects have a trend of moving in the direction of the smallest. This is a more ancient and unchanging principle. It can not only apply to objects, but also to investment. It means that the management layer will be easier to choose those short-term and immediate operations, investors will be more inclined to those risk avoidance transactions, and funds will be easier to flow to those concepts that have been verified. With this rule, our understanding of investment can also be deepened. We are going to practice a kind of thinking that starts from the basic principle in basic science, and not like the way we learn in college. The third layer is the complex system of the chicken skewer. In fact, the thinking of cross-science can not only be used in investment, but also in our lives. Whether it's investment or life, it's a very complex system, which is full of various unpredictable and related variables. If you analyze all these variables one by one, I'm afraid you won't understand even if you give you 100 brains So what we have to do is to control the more ancient and unchanging rules in all kinds of basic science And then in the constantly changing complex world, we find a little bit of certainty The more you master these basic rules, the more you will find that a lot of things in the world are actually inevitable And not random choices And if you are able to discover things that will happen, you can naturally break through this complex system and make the most possible and successful decision Have you noticed that the top investors like Buffett, Mang, Dario, Duan Youping are all very conservative and cross-scientific thinkers In my opinion, this is the result of investing in this complex system and naturally screening People who are able to use this complex system are destined to have this cross-scientific thinking of the complex system Although I have not yet reached the level of these three levels, I can indeed feel the growth of my investment in the process of participating in this thinking economy. In the years of being a financial blogger, I spent a lot of time studying history and AI technology, and I also read a lot of psychology and management books. I also run a startup company with more than 20 employees. Many of these are irrelevant to investment, but each period of experience and each piece of knowledge can greatly improve my investment. These experiences are what I can't explain in one sentence, but I can actually feel them. If you like it, I'll find a chance to share it with you in the future. I believe many people have heard of the word "能理圈", which is a concept often mentioned by Buffett. But in fact, the real person who introduced it and made it the ultimate is Munger. 能力圈指的是每个人都会对自己熟悉的特定领域有深入的理解但对其他领域天然就会认知有限这是不可避免的事情在蒙格看来能力圈的重点不是能力而是圈他认为作为一名投资者你一定要清醒的认识到自己的能力边界在哪里并且要坚决不能做能力之外的事情他很喜欢孔子的那句名言知之为知之不知为不知是之也 In the market, you can often see many retail investors like to copy homework with the big boss Others say what to buy, he will buy Or what is popular, what do they buy Stabilization currency is popular, buy stability currency The IPO is popular, line up to buy the IPO There are also people who are particularly interested in those complicated strategies I don't even understand the basic principles of怎么亏回钱 I've been doing this for so many years It's a lot of work to see this case Basically, it's because they don't know where their own power circle is The blind do things outside the power circle Meng has a very good word He said that a person with 160 IQ But he thinks he's only 150 To have 160 IQ But he thinks he's 200 Much better The latter will kill himself Because he doesn't know where his limits are And think he knows everything Mengge himself has been working in his own energy circle for years. He will classify all investment opportunities into three files. One is called "can invest", one is called "can't invest", and one is called "too difficult". The first two are actually things within the energy circle. In Mengge's energy circle, he has the ability to judge whether he is good or bad. And the third "too difficult" is something outside the energy circle. The company in this is actually the most. Meng thinks you need to face your ignorance sincerely Don't lie to yourself to avoid the traps in the investment Of course, the energy circle is not always the same You can't say that I understand the energy circle I'm lying down, I don't do anything outside the circle That's not good You have to keep improving your own energy circle I believe if you open this video And you've seen it all That must be someone who is pursuing investment But Meng said It's the people like you who are the easiest to fall into another energy circle trap The more people who are interested in investing, the more willing to learn a lot of knowledge, and try to expand their own circle of ability as much as possible. In addition, the concept of "divide and divide" in investment has become a deep-rooted concept. So many investors who are interested will try to learn knowledge in various unrelated fields, and try to understand more fields at the same time to make their investment more diverse. However, in the eyes of the blind, this is a very stupid practice. He said, "If you take the most successful investment in the Bafit investment industry, his investment is a joke." What does that mean? In other words, there are usually only a few investments that can make you successful. It is impossible for Bafit to succeed in all fields, let alone to embrace the fantasy. And Mange himself has put this idea to the extreme. All his investments are highly concentrated on two companies. One is Berkshire Hathaway, the other is Costco. In the eyes of Mungo, the depth of the expansion of the power circle is more important than the breadth. In your original power circle, you may be the most talented, and you may be better than others. Then you should increase the depth of this power circle as much as possible to strengthen your advantage and win in the competition. And in the investment, you only have to win a few times, just like Buffett. But if you blindly increase the breadth and play a game that others are more talented than you, you will definitely lose. I have a deep feeling about this I like to study opportunities in different fields in the early stages of investment The newer the field, the more I am fascinated But after a long time, I found that these fields with a lot of potential It's not because I don't know enough about the loss It's because I don't dare to put too much money Even if I make money, I'm also sad These companies have been the ones that have really made me make a lot of money I make money on them not because of how amazing these companies are But because I know enough about these companies So I dare to bet heavily I also know how to adjust if there are changes This can make me avoid more risks and gain more profit I don't know if you've noticed it, but there seems to be some contradiction behind the two major theories of the Mangas. The thinking of the chemistry department tells us to try our best to understand more knowledge of the sciences and to keep asking for external information. And the thinking of the energy circle tells us to stick to our position and not to blindly explore things outside the energy circle. So are these two conflicted?那么这两者是否冲突呢? In fact, this is the exquisite place for blind thinking. The two points that seem to be contradicting are actually complementary and perfect. When we invest, the purpose of our practice of cross-scientific thinking is not to expand the breadth of our energy circle. On the contrary, it is done to enter the depth of our energy circle. For example, as investors, we study biology not to invest in those biotech companies, but to understand the basic principles behind biology. We study the rules of operation of things that are used to abolish the advantageous and inferiorities in biology. With these rules, you can better understand that in the business world, there are also cruel rules that are born of the poor, and there are also to a depth far beyond the ordinary, and further enhance your already existing advantages. And when your ability circle keeps expanding, you will become an absolute expert in your field of expertise. The depth of thought behind this can make you outspoken and be able to be considerate of many other fields of expansion. In this way, a clever cognitive block is formed. You have increased the depth of the ability circle in the process of looking outside, and the depth of the ability circle has been reversed to promote your search outside. I believe that you can understand why the idea of Mang's is the top investment thinking. I have to say that Mang's investment theory is not so easy to understand. I also felt his dissatisfaction when I was preparing this article. This may be why Mang's ideas are not as well known as Bafet's. Because what Bafet taught us was the rules of the mathematical and clear methodological theory. And the blind grid has more, and it's the Tao that spreads it. It's not that easy to understand, and we can only keep understanding it with our own experience. But it's also because it's Tao that it may bring us a greater value. The Tao of the blind grid is destined not to be limited to investment. Any complex system should be able to apply this law. The most complicated problems in this world are often solved in the same way As for how to apply it in other aspects This question is left to us to think about Here, the path of the blind is shared with you If you like this sharing of the concept of investment master Welcome to follow this channel I often share with you some master thoughts that I have learned on the channel I have also put some related video links that I have done in the past in the video summary area Thank you for watching and welcome to self-study And if you want a more systematic learning investment, welcome to my Metapro. Metapro is a US-based research platform that I have created specifically for Chinese investors. In Metapro, I will do a comprehensive basic analysis of each stock and track down changes in the basic side. In addition, I will share stock opportunities regularly, share the macro report every month, and share the news summary every day. For novice investors, I will also provide a whole set of systematic investment teaching. In addition to watching content, you can also share investment ideas and investment experiences with thousands of members. Thanks for watching, welcome to subscribe to the new user's first seven days of free use of the US Pro. If you like the video of the US Pro, don't forget to like it, follow and forward it. Thank you.