[music] Why should people care about this ice cream scoop? Well, do you eat ice cream? That's one. You know, I think they've been a pick since 2016, so around 10 years.
>> I don't think I would change anything about this tool.
>> I mean, I can still give you the model number in my sleep.
>> I'm Christine Sirette and you're listening to the Wire Cutter Show.
>> [music] [music]
>> I've worked at Wire Cutter for over a decade and in that time I've tested everything from slow cookers to linen sheets. I own or I've used literally hundreds of Wire Cutters recommendations. When our journalists begin working on one of our reviews, they start with a long list of models and brands that they're interested in testing. They wade through the internet reviews. They interview experts. And then they get their hands on the products and test them. Does this mattress have the right edge support? Do these noiseancelling headphones actually effectively reduce noise? Did this blender in fact blend this nut butter? They're always asking themselves these very specific questions as they're testing.
>> [music]
>> It takes a truly wonderful item to make it to the top of the list to become [music] what we call a pick. And we've found over the years that some items continue to [music] impress us year after year of testing them. They're better than their competitors. They're more durable and more pleasant to use. [music] And often we find that they've become indispensable in our personal lives. We just introduced a new award for these [music] products that have been picked for at least 6 years, which we're calling the Hall of Fame. [music] The products for our first ever Hall of Fame were chosen by the journalists in [music] our newsroom. It took weeks of passionate debate to pick just 50. In today's episode, I'm interviewing four writers about some of these items. The best ice cream scoop you'll ever use, a toilet plunger that puts the rest to shame, our all-time favorite air purifier, plus several more. [music] If you're curious about what else made the list, we'll drop a link in the show notes. And don't forget, right now you can access the New York Times app for a whole month for free if you create your very first account. [music] That means you can read articles, listen to podcasts, and so much more with no payw wall. [music] After the break, I'll be back with some of our OG writers. Stick around. [music]
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. The first person I'm going to talk with today about a Hall of Fame pick is a longtime senior staff writer on our home improvement team, Doug Mahoney. If you listen to the show, you may have heard episodes we have done with Doug before. He tests everything from tools to bedayets and he is often testing things on his hobby farm in New Hampshire. Today he's going to tell us about an item that could get you out of a jam, but also maybe one that you'd like on your holiday gift list. Doug, welcome back to the show.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I love having you on the show. We've had you several times to talk about tools and to talk about killing rodents and all sorts of handy things. Today we are talking about a tool that you have tested and recommended for many years, the Leatherman Skele CX.
>> Yeah. So, it's a multi-tool. So, you want to just think of it, it's kind of like a Swiss Army knife. It's a little pocket-sized item and it has a little bunch of tools that sort of fold in and out of it.
>> Why do you like it so much? Why is it better than other multi-tools that people could buy?
>> There's a lot to like about the Skeletal CX. So, first, it's uh it's actually not like a Swiss Army knife. It's actually based around a set of pliers. So, you unfold the handles, some plier jaws are revealed, and they have this little u little wire cutter. But the real thing that's so great about the Skele is how it's just completely stripped down. It's really only the most essential tools. A lot of multi-tools are bulky and heavy. They have items like saws in them or files, and those are things they they add weight and bulk. The average person is probably not going to use them too much. So Doug, what does this tool have in it? What are the the multi-tools?
>> So it only has it's got the pliers, and the pliers have the little wire cutter jaws. It's got the knife. It's got a screwdriver, and the screwdriver comes there's two little doublesided driver bits which are stored on the tool. So there's sort of four screwdrivers that you really get, but then it also has this carabiner clip on the end of it. It offers like a nice way to sort of securely store the tool. It can be hooked onto a belt loop or a backpack or even like a bicycle. Uh, and it also doubles as a bottle opener. So, those are really, as far as multi-tools go, those are sort of the absolute bare essentials. Like, it doesn't have a saw, doesn't have a file, doesn't have a can opener. Um, it really just has the tools that you're going to probably use on a regular basis. I'm curious who you would recommend get this tool or or who would you if you were thinking about gifting season, who would you give this to?
>> I think it would be really a useful tool in a pocket of [snorts] just about anybody, especially if it's somebody who has sort of this more of a hands-on attitude towards things if you have that kind of DIY mindset. You know, as an example, the other day I was walking to my front door and the the handle was just a little loose. So, I was just able to use my multi-tool and just tighten it up right then. I didn't have to go to the basement to get a screwdriver and come back and then go back to the basement to drop off the screwdriver. I didn't have to get involved in a to-do list. I just I just took care of it right there. The Skeletal CX does have a knife and that's really helpful just for opening like a bag of cat litter or dog food or just opening packages.
>> I have heard the brand name Leatherman since I feel like since I was a kid. I feel like this has been around a long time. Am I making that up? Is it kind of a heritage brand? Is it um is it something that's made in the US?
>> Yeah, they are. They're based in Portland, Oregon. Everything is designed and manufactured there. Everything is made in the US. What's actually funny is they were actually they were founded by a man named Tim Leatherman,
>> which I think a lot of people assume Leatherman is sort of this like macho Marorrow man kind of name. Yes.
>> But um it's it's it's just the guy's last name. And they've been around since the early 80s and they're definitely
>> the big leader in multi-tools. They have all different kinds of models available at different prices and different tool configurations. They put a 25-year warranty on all their multi-tools, which is really generous. And it's a long warranty for something that could be worked as hard as a multi-tool.
>> 25 years is a lot. Yeah. Okay. I got to know. What is the weirdest thing that you have done to test the Leatherman? Like, has it ever helped you maggyver your way out of a tough situation?
>> Yeah, this is actually a really easy answer. I used a Leatherman. I used a skeletal CX actually to cut the umbilical cord from a lamb.
>> Whoa.
>> Yeah. You know, as you know, I I raised sheep. A a lamb had just been born and I have my little vet kit I keep out there and I have a pair of scissors just for that task, but the scissors were missing from the vet kit. I wanted to just take care of the problem. So, I had my Leatherman on me and so I sanitized the blade and cut the cord. It's pretty extreme example, but it also it it it sort of symbolizes what a Leatherman can do cuz I didn't want to have to leave and then come back and maybe disrupt the bonding between the lamb and the mother. So again, it just sort of helps you take care of problems just right on the spot.
>> Yeah, it's a tool for every every job apparently. And for listeners who want to see some of these baby cute lambs, we do feature them on our Instagram sometimes. So go scour the the wire cutter Instagram for those.
>> We always are trying when we review things to not just be like, "Oh, this thing is so amazing." We like to be be real and tell people if there are things we don't actually like about something that we've reviewed and recommend. Is there anything about the Skele tool that you don't love?
>> I don't think I would I would change any anything about this tool, but it's worth noting that there are people out there who would find it sort of small and kind of insufficient for their needs. Like if somebody's a working carpenter or if they're a hardcore outdoors person, I wouldn't alter this tool. But it's worth acknowledging that there are, you know, some people might just have different needs.
>> Okay, Doug, before we go, I I have to know, are there any other items on our Hall of Fame list that you think are worth calling out?
>> There are definitely this is probably a really unusual one, but it's it's kind of an essential tool is the the Corki toilet plunger.
>> Oo, tell me more.
>> It's way better than others. It's really wild. So, the Corki plunger, there's a couple things that separate it from all of the other plungers we tested. The main thing is that the plunger bulb is it's gigantic. Like, it can hold I think about seven cups of water, whereas other plungers can only hold like three cups of water. [snorts] The second thing that makes it interesting is that the top half, the plunger bulb, it looks like a big beehive, like sort of your classic almost like a cartoon beehive. And so the upper half of it is sort of this rigid rubber and the lower half of it is this really pliable rubber. So I don't know if you've have much experience, you know, staring in the toilets, but the outlet of a toilet bowl, there's a huge variety of them. There's ones that look like keyholes, there's ones that are round, there's rectangular ones. And so the corkies, the lower half, which is really pliable, that allows the plunger to make like a nice seal on a lot of different shapes. Huh. That's so fascinating. I think it's also worth for some people might not know this, but you do need when you're plunging a toilet, you do need a specific type of plunger, a toilet plunger. There are the kinds of plungers that are sink plungers, and those are actually just kind of like the half like a bowl looking plunger. It looks like a little bowl, an inverted bowl. But these, what you're talking about, they are bulbous with a smaller bottom, right?
>> Yeah. A sink plunger is the classic kind that like Sylvester the cat gets stuck on his face, you know? Yeah. And all toilet plungers do have that lower half. Some of them it's like it's tiered, but just the overall design of the Corki just makes it really successful. And the reason why it's so important that it's it's so large and holds so much water is that the way that you're technically supposed to plunge is that you put the plunger bulb in the bowl and you sort of tip it back and try to fill it with as much water as possible and then you do a very very slow gentle plunge to empty all of the air out of the plunger bulb. And then when you release it, it sort of the vacuum pulls water into the bulb. So you don't want any air in your plunge. You really want to just be moving water through the drain of the toilet. So with the Corki, there's so much water that you could just have these really long sustained pushes or these long pulls.
>> It almost sounds like a hobby. [laughter]
>> It's It's fascinating. It's fascinating. I I had no idea. I had no idea before I started researching.
>> Well, now everybody else knows, too.
>> Yeah.
>> Doug, it is always a pleasure to have you on. Thank you for joining us.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. Our [music] next Hall of Fame interview is with senior kitchen staff writer Leslie Stockton. Leslie has covered just about every piece of kitchen gear you can imagine and led taste test for many essentials. Listeners may remember her solid instructions on butter and for cleaning a grill. She's here to talk about a small but mighty item that we at Wire Cutter have loved for a very, very long time.
>> Leslie, welcome back to the show. Thanks for having me.
>> I always love having you here. We've had you many times. You have come and talked to us all about everything from like the best butters to how to prep for Thanksgiving to so many things. So, you and I started working at the site back in 2013 before it was part of the times, right? And we were both on the kitchen team.
>> And um I don't think the thing that we're going to talk about today may not have been a pick quite yet at that point, but it has been something that we have recommended for many, many years. And I will say that before I reveal what it is, I will say that this is one of the pieces of kitchen gear that when I started using it, my brain exploded. I was like, why have I been settling for such subtier, subpar tools up until this point? And so, drum roll. What I am talking about is the Z-roll original ice cream scoop. I want you to tell me, why should people care about this ice cream scoop?
>> Well, do you eat ice cream? That's one. You know, if you don't, this might not be for you. But why should you care about an ice cream scoop? Because ice cream is one of those things that when it's really well frozen, it's so difficult to scoop it out with a spoon with I mean, I think I've taken a butter knife to a really particularly hard pint of ice cream before I owned an ice cream scoop. So, if you eat ice cream and you like to eat it out of a bowl and not straight from the
>> tub,
>> from the tub, which also no shade, then yeah, care about an ice cream scoop because like it'll save your wrists if you know you have any hand mobility if you want something to just like make it a little easier to do.
>> Okay. So, tell me I you handily I'm going to just like for the listeners out there, I've got two of these in my hand that you brought in. Tell me why these are different. Like I think a lot of people think of an ice cream scoop and sometimes there's almost like the cookie scoop kind where it has like a little
>> spring on it or whatever. I think the common problem I found with an ice cream scoop is you like go to scoop and it's just rock hard and you not you're not getting anywhere. But the Z-roll, it magically kind of like allows you to just cut into even really frozen ice cream and make a beautiful scoop. How is it doing that? Why does this work so well? Okay, so there are a few factors going on here. The scoop itself is made from one piece of aluminum. Aluminum conducts heat very well. And speaking of conducting heat, the inside is hollow and it's filled with a heat transferring fluid that basically transfers the heat from your hand into the scoop so that it never gets so cold that it will stop doing its thing. It's also like if you look at the very top front tip of that on the inside. Yeah. It there's a bevel there.
>> Yeah. I mean it's not as sharp as a knife, but it's definitely like a dull knife.
>> Yeah. [laughter] Exactly. And that helps like that little bevel there really helps you just slice into it. That initial cut into the ice cream. And that also helps. These are traditionally these Z-roll in particular are traditionally used in ice cream parlors, right? Like you find them. Yeah. They are they are the favorite.
>> I would imagine for those folks who are, you know, literally scooping hundreds of scoops of ice cream a day, that can get really tiring on your wrists. Tell me, how have we tested these? I think we even originally, for the first version of our guide, tested them in an ice cream parlor. I'm not sure if you were in on that testing.
>> I was not in on that testing. that that was the very first author of the guide, but I tested it on just like tons of different ice creams, like cheaper ice creams that have a lot of overrun. Um,
>> and overrun, remind us for
>> overrun is the amount of air whipped into the ice cream. Okay.
>> All right. There's like more air in it and
>> and that scoops differently than a denser ice cream.
>> Yes. and it scoops very differently than a denser ice cream in theory because a lot of overrun doesn't necessarily translate to a fluffier ice cream. That's when you get into stabilizers and gums and the quality of the spin, you know,
>> which is a totally different
>> That's a whole other episode. I'm so sorry. I love getting into the weeds. [laughter] [gasps]
>> So, okay. So, you tested them on all types of ice creams.
>> What do you need to know about this? Like I feel like there's something about not putting these in the dishwasher.
>> You cannot put that thing in the dishwasher.
>> Yeah. Tell me more. Why?
>> So, see the little cap? There's a little cap at the end, and that's holding the fluid inside the scoop. A dishwasher can be very hard on all dishes, especially aluminum. So, just wash it by hand. You know, like there's nothing caked on it. It's just ice cream.
>> Yeah. So, for listeners who aren't familiar with what this looks like, like you said, Leslie, it's just one solid piece. It's aluminum. It's kind of like a dull looking aluminum, too. You have two versions here. You have one that's like branded from Jenny's, the ice cream brand Jenny's, but then I'm I'm holding the one that's really traditional. It looks to me like it's been around forever. Do you know if this is this like a heritage brand?
>> I think the original patent was or the patent on it was filed in 1935.
>> Whoa. Yeah. Yeah. If it's not in the mom, it should be.
>> Yeah. I want to know, is there anything about this scoop that you don't like?
>> Um, not really. [laughter]
>> I I will say that I like everything about this scoop, too. And when I go to people's homes and scoop ice cream, when I don't like their ice cream scoop, it's the one thing that I'm like, should I get them a Zero? Should I get them one of these as just like a little like, hey, thought you would enjoy this. But then I also think that that could be sort of construed as like a
>> you can also be like I love
>> move you know.
>> No I listen when I give somebody something that I love. I just frame it as I have this thing and I absolutely love it and I know you're going to love it too.
>> I love that. Okay. So you've got your hostess gift, your birthday gift for ice cream lovers. I think this one is really great. I will never give up my roll. I love it so much.
>> Can I just mention also the shape of the bowl?
>> Yes. Tell us more. It makes the perfect round scoop of I can say ball ball. It makes perfect balls. [laughter]
>> Sorry. It's really welld designed. I just can't I I really don't find any fault in it. Leslie, while I have you, not to interrupt our our intense ice cream discussion, but we also have something in our Hall of Fame recommendations that I know you personally love. It's the Baratza Encore coffee grinder. It's a burr grinder. I want to know why do you love this coffee grinder? What is so great about it?
>> Okay, so coffee is probably the thing I do every single day in my kitchen. That grinder is the first thing I touch in the morning.
>> Yeah.
>> I love it because it is consistent. It grinds very consistently from super fine to super coarse. It is easy to maintain. I have made multiple repairs on mine. And
>> itself you you've made myself. Yeah. It's made to be repaired.
>> Oh, that's awesome.
>> And the parts are really easy to get. And so I have replaced the little switch on the side that turns it on and off. I've replaced the gasket many times cuz that's a consumable part of it. The upper burr housing, replaced that twice. And it's just so easy. And the parts are really affordable. And I think I've had that thing in my kitchen since maybe 2013. And for people who are not familiar with what a burr grinder is, can you tell us why a burr grinder is better than like a little blade grinder? People might think of like a little Mr. Coffee blade grinder. What is a burr grinder and why is it better for coffee? So, a burr grinder, as the name suggests, grinds the beans in between two burrs. The beans get pulled down, the beans are pulverized in between these burrs, and it gives you a much more even grind than you would get from a blade grinder. Cuz if you grind beans in a blade grinder, you know that you have your you have super fine grind on the bottom and then as it goes up, the grind gets coarser. How that translates to your cup of coffee is that when you have an uneven grind like that, you have very uneven extraction. So those very fine particles are going to over extract. Whereas the very coarse granules are going to under extract. And I will go so far to say if you want to greatly improve your cup of coffee. If you make coffee at home, nothing is going to improve the coffee that you make better than a burr grinder. Even if you're using a cheap coffee maker, I will stand by that.
>> All right, Leslie, it has been fantastic talking to you. I cannot wait for you to return and share more knowledge on the pod.
>> I can't wait to come back. Thank you for having me. If you're keeping track at home, so far we have covered the Leatherman Skele CX, [music] a bonus Corki Plunger, the Z-roll Ice Cream Scoop, and the Baratza Encore coffee grinder. Coming up after the break, we're going to talk about a Hall of Fame [music] pick that can reduce the pollutants in your home, and a pick for kids. Stick around. [music] Welcome back. Today we are covering some of Wire Cutters all-time favorite items now enshrined in our new hall of fame. Next up, I'll talk with senior staff writer on the audio team, Lauren Dragon. Lauren covers headphones for Wire Cutter. And if you've heard her on the show before, you know that she has tested over 2,000 pairs of headphones throughout her career. That is a lot of headphones. Today she's going to tell us about one pair in particular that's a gamecher for both kids and their adults. Lauren, it is so great to have you back on the show. Thank you. It's great to be back. I really have loved the last couple of episodes you've been on the show for. You you've been on a couple times to talk about audio equipment, specifically headphones, which is your specialty. And today we are going to talk about a wire cutter pick that has been a recommendation for quite a while. The Puro Sound Labs BT2200. I want you to tell me what are these and why are they so great? They are kids headphones and essentially what makes them so great is that they are first of all volume limiting which means that kids can't crank the volume up so loud that it will damage their hearing. Secondly, they're [snorts] super durable and really comfortable. All of the kids that we had try them on really enjoyed them. And one of the things that makes them comfortable is they have swappable ear cups. So you can have on one ear little smaller ones for kids that maybe have smaller heads or prefer that fit or the overear ones that we're kind of accustomed to seeing in bigger headphones that go around their ear and they can choose whichever works for them.
>> I actually didn't realize that they had different cups that you could buy. It's awesome because it really helps you scale from, you know, little kids to big kids. How long have these been a recommendation?
>> So, this specific model, I think, has been a pick for seven years, but if you include the earliest iteration of the Puro BT2200, I think they've been a pick since 2016. So, around 10 years.
>> Wow. That's a good chunk of time. So, you did some really groundbreaking reporting around kids headphones. What is the general problem when it comes to this category of headphones?
>> So, when we initially looked into these, there were, you know, a handful of companies that had headphones that claimed that they were volume limiting. And so, we decided, well, let's test it, right? Let's find out how loud they go. And just to be clear, it's important to have volume limiting for kids in particular because they could just crank that sound up and then be damaging their ears, right?
>> Yes. And the thing is, it's not like we're expecting them to just blast one loud sound. It's that over time, you know, you kind of make it a little louder and they make it a little louder and maybe they're competing with other things going on and they eventually it's that sort of slow increase until yes, it gets to a point in which it can be damaging for their hearing. And so that's something obviously we want to avoid. And so having volume limiting in there means that it has a set level at which it kind of tops out. And usually that's around 85ish dB
>> dB.
>> Yes. Let's just say that a lot of the headphones that said that they did all of that back then didn't. Some of them got incredibly loud. We're talking 102 104 dB. That is sort of like being near a jet engine or a jackhammer
>> and those were not performing as they were supposed to be. So that was an issue. And then some models have these limits that can be sort of overridden by the kids putting in the cable the wrong direction or there's a button that you can hold down that turns it off. Look, little kids maybe might do it by accident, but older kids could also thwart it. And so you really want to have something that can be kept at that level. And kids get accustomed to being at that level. They don't really need it to be super loud all the time. I bought these headphones. is I bought two pair for my my kids and I was actually just looking at my Amazon purchase history. I bought them in 2019 right before the pandemic hit and they have honestly been so great. My 10-year-old, she still wears them. We bought them when she was three and she's still wearing them as a 10-year-old and I will say that they have worn over the years, but they work great still and um I think that's a pretty pretty long lifespan for a pair of headphones. So, Lauren, how do these headphones compare to other kids headphones?
>> Well, they also just sound good. And I know that sounds so basic, but you would be surprised at how many pairs we have tried that just don't sound good. They're muffled sounding. And you know, kids usually have better hearing in general than adults do. So, a lot of times people are like, "Well, what do the kids care?" And it's like, they can hear it. And especially if you give them the option to listen to a couple different things in a row, they really notice the difference. And so having something that sounds good just means that they're less likely to want to borrow yours. They also, as we mentioned, have those swappable ear cups. Those types of materials, those like vinyl materials tend to break down and that happens over, you know, a period of like four or five, you know, years. And so the ability to change those ear cups out means you can replace them and then they look good as new. The other thing that they have is they have a daisy chain capability. And what that basically means is that you can connect two pairs of the Porro headphones to each other and then have one of them paired to a device. So a couple of kids can watch the same device at the same time. So you don't have to have multiple iPads going in the back seat. You're blowing my mind right now. Why did I not know about this feature? [laughter]
>> It is nice to have. And then, you know, aside from that, they're fun enough, but I noticed that a lot of times the little kids, yeah, they were fine. They liked having something that had like, you know, a unicorn horn or bat wings or something. And with something like this that has a sort of more adult type look, a lot of the kids liked it cuz it made them feel more grown up and it made them feel like it was something that made them look cool as opposed to like a air quotes. my son who gosh when I first started writing this article he was I think one and now he's 11 and the pair that he's had I mean it's you know he has access to a lot of headphones in my house and he wants his he wants his headphones cuz they are his and they feel comfortable to him in terms of the size and the shape and the fit but also because they don't have any sort of particular branding or anything to them that makes him look too young.
>> That's a great point. I I think that's also what attracted me to them in the first place because they they're overear Bluetooth headphones. They kind of have the same vibe as like an adult overear headphone. So, I think that's also something my kids have liked and that's part of the reason that my 10-year-old is still happy to wear them. Okay. I got to know, how do you test these? How have you tested them in the past? I know I've I've heard you talk about this fake ear that you test with. Tell me more.
>> Okay. what we use and we're we're actually in the process of of transitioning between two different measurement systems right now. So that's a whole other bag of chips, but essentially what we used to use was called a grass gr and is an earshake simulator. So basically what it does is it's like a silicone looking type of ear, but it has the same acoustic properties as the human ear. And so we use that has a little microphone inside of it. We put it out to specialized software that measures things. And essentially what we do is we measure both pink noise which is that like everyone kind of knows that sound that's every frequency all at the same time at once that kind of gives you a sense of what it does. And then we me measure something called LEQ which essentially is the loudest little peaks that happen in a song because as you know when somebody records a song it's not the same level all the time. It kind of goes up and down. So we measure that too to kind of see where those loudness spikes are cuz those do add up over time. So we take those two numbers and then based on that we use that information to kind of help us determine what's within the safer ranges and what's outside of those safer ranges. And so the new thing we're transitioning to is actually a full head torso simulator which is basically the ear and the head and the other ear all attached to this like crash test looking dummy thing that has microphones in it.
>> My gosh. So, actually, one of the things I didn't get to mention is when I first started testing these, my son was about oo about one year old. I just let him go to town on them. Like, stomp on them, throw them, kick them. And I remember the look on his face cuz he's just like, "Are you serious? Are you really going to like is this okay?" I'm like, "Yep, I want you to throw him. I want you to stomp on him." And he's like, "Okay." [laughter] He was so excited. I love that. [gasps] I'm curious, how long have you been testing headphones for Wire Cutter? I think you've been here longer than I have.
>> How long have I been at Wire Cutter now? I know. Yeah, I came around February of 2013. So, I've been here in 13 years and 8 months, I guess. So,
>> 13 years.
>> I started in March of 2013. [sighs and gasps] We were so close. We were so close.
>> So close. Yes. Oh my gosh, that's so funny. Yeah. So basically an age, an era of time. It's It's wild how many years we've been doing this, isn't it? It's just
>> Yeah, it's so long. Okay, I want to ask you one more question about the Pro headphones. Is there anything about these headphones that you don't love or that you would if you had a chance to redesign them that you would do something different?
>> Okay, so if I were Magic and could have everything I ever wanted, first thing I would want is a replaceable battery. And I say that about all Bluetooth headphones. I want a user replaceable battery. So, it doesn't have to be like double A's in there or something, but I'm talking like the ability to, you know, unscrew something, put in like a new lithium ion battery, and then screw it back together again would be lovely cuz that obviously would increase the lifespan. And I would love a replaceable headband as well. I think that that would be something that's pretty doable because you can replace the ear cups. So, those would be the two big things that I wish that I could have. And maybe Oracast, add OraCast to it. And Oracast,
>> what what is Oracast? I was just going to say Oriccastast is um it's a newer thing that's happening now where essentially it's like imagine Bluetooth broadcasting where you can have an infinite number of devices be it speakers or headphones or hearing aids connected to one wireless source. So you could have an entire classroom listening to the same thing. But you need both the broadcast side and the headphone side. And right now the the devices that would be broadcasting these like cell phones and things are taking their time to adopt it. So hopefully we'll get to a point where it becomes more common because a lot of hearing aid manufacturers are embracing it and uh I think it's just such a great accessibility feature and that would be the other thing I'd add.
>> I would love that. There are so many instances where I want like multiple people to be listening to headphones to the same thing in the car or whatever, but that would be lovely. All right, Lauren, thank you so much. We are looking forward to having you on the show again soon.
>> Thank you so much for having me. I love being here.
>> [music]
>> All right, our final guest today is senior staff writer Tim Hefernon, who covers air and water filtration among other things. Tim has joined us before to talk about the item we are going to focus on today. But it's such a favorite wire cutter pick, we had to get him into the studio again to talk about it. [music]
>> Tim, welcome back to the show.
>> Thank you. Good to be back. It's so nice to have you. Today we are talking about one of your most longstanding picks, the Coway air purifier. I'm going to just call it the mighty air purifier because there have been multiple models over the years that you've recommended. I want you to tell us why is this air purifier so great and how long has it been a pick for Wire Cutter?
>> Yeah, so I mean I can still give you the model number in my sleep. Yes, please. The COA AP 1512 HH Mighty is the purifier. Yeah, I believe it actually became a pick before I got to Wire Cutter. 2014 I think was the first time that guide was produced. So when I took it over in 2015, it was already there, but I began testing it and kind of living with it. And essentially, it just proved to be not only an exceptional performer, right? That's the baseline for any purifier. Does it get particles out of your air efficiently? and it does, but it's also notably easy to live with. It's very quiet. It's energy efficient. Uh the shape of it, the design makes it sort of more visually compact than the machine of its power usually is. So, it just kind of hides in your room and it's incredibly reliable. I mean, I've run them for literally years on end, 24 hours a day, and they just they don't slow down, they don't break, the purification doesn't, you know, get reduced over that time. So, it's just it's a very well-designed machine that just does what it's supposed to do and doesn't bother you.
>> I have three of these on your recommendation, and I bought them once the the pandemic hit for a variety of reasons, but uh we were all so much more aware of the air we were breathing at that point. And they have just been chugging along for the last 6 years, basically non-stop in my apartment. And I have had the same experience with them. They've been so great. How important do you think it is to have an air purifier? For people who don't have one or maybe have one that they're thinking about replacing, how important is is it today to have an air purifier?
>> I mean, it's it's a curious thing, right? Overall, the air quality in the United States has greatly improved, certainly over my lifetime. It is better than it was in 1980. It's better than it was in 2000
>> because there's less pollution in the air. less pollution. You know, things have been regulated, engines have gotten cleaner, just all these things. And this is better even though particularly, you know, our population has gone up. The amount of miles Americans drive has gone way, way up, and still in absolute terms, many of the pollutants that used to be in our air in high levels are way down. This said, since 2017, 2018, wildfires have just become more intense and more common. They're almost like a a feature of summers in North America now. And a purifier is a really big help if you're being affected by wildfire smoke. When we had our big the smoke apocalypse here in New York in 2023, I was actually able to use my equipment, go outside and measure the smoke loads in the air and then measure them in my apartment where I had the Coway running and the air inside was about a thousand times cleaner than the outside air.
>> Wow. So yeah, for I don't know temporary events like that, it's a huge help. But also if you suffer from pollen allergies or dustmite allergies, mold, it will capture all that stuff very efficiently and so it can like really help with your symptoms. If your home is affected by cigarette smoke or marijuana smoke, it will remove the particulate portion of that. So that's really good. And then longterm it will just keep the fine particulate levels in your air much lower than they would be otherwise. These fine particulates are like a long-term health risk and so it can just sort of lower that overall.
>> What's the long-term health risk there for the particulate matter?
>> I mean it's the research is kind of ongoing. Basically though it's that the very fine particulates get past your body's own defenses. They get into your lungs and from there actually into your bloodstream and seemingly can cross the bloodb brain barrier. So you have these fine particulates throughout your body. What exactly they're doing is not clear. There's multiple factors going into any sort of long-term health issue, but it seems that that they're not good.
>> How much does it matter that you're buying the quote unquote the best air purifier? I think I've talked to you before and and you've said that a lot of air purifiers are effective. They'll do the job, right? They'll get that particulate matter out of the air. So, how important it is is it when you're going to buy one that you're buying something like the COA versus something else like what what's the distinction really?
>> Right. I mean, it is true. HEPA filtration is a very old extremely well understood established technology, right? Nobody is reinventing it. And there are indeed many very good purifiers in terms of how well they get particulates out of the air. The differences in performance at, you know, once you're talking about a just sort of a group of good ones are are minimal. In my testing, most of them will get 98 99% of the particles out of the air in our test room in half an hour. What actually I think makes the difference between a well-performing purifier and a great one is the livability factors. These are essentially appliances that will be in your bedroom or be in your living room running 24 hours a day. So things like the amount of noise that they produce, whether they have bright lights that you can't shut off, you know, that might disrupt sleep, but all these livability factors really kind of make the difference. And really that's why the COA remained the top pick for so long. It just it hit all of those really well.
>> Okay. So, let's talk about how you test these, right? And how did you test them back in the day? We're talking like 10 years ago or so.
>> Yeah. No. Uh, we test them and we've actually have been testing them basically the same way the whole time. We test them by making smoke. I just buy standard wooden matches. basically more or less seal off a room, not to some sort of laboratory grade, but the way that a modern home would be sealed from the outside if you closed the windows and closed off the uh air conditioning vents. Seal up the room, burn a bunch of matches, let the smoke dissipate throughout the air, and then run the machines and then use professional particle counter basically to track how the smoke levels change as a purifier is running. Over the years, I have done other stuff. I think that my favorite one was sort of recreating wildfire conditions at the LA office by burning foot long incense sticks for
>> how LA did you also have some like crystals in the room like
>> we should have [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. some dream catchers on the windows. Uh uh and we wanted to run the purifier not just with an initial load of smoke but with ongoing smoke levels. So that's why we got these big long incense sticks so they would keep burning for about half an hour. And we just watched how the particulate levels dropped while they were burning and then tracked it as the smoke levels, you know, as the active smoke production was was going away the way that a cloud of smoke might pass by. How quickly did it get it down to to really healthy levels?
>> You talked about a particle counter. Can you tell me more about that? What kind of device is this that you're using?
>> Aerotrack 9306V4, I think. Anyway, [laughter] it is a it's a particle counter. It draws air in and then uses a sensor that directly counts the particles and it can separate them by size. I always just track the.3 micron size which is the size that is used for the HEPA standard. It's the hardest particle size to capture. Yeah, it's not a flashy looking device. It's this blue plastic thing with a handle and a little tube coming out the front. It's very widely used for like OSHA certification uh in industrial environments. So like somebody would take this into a factory or something and see if it was healthy. Okay. Okay.
>> The company bought me one after a while. We used to we used to rent
>> a wire cutter company.
>> Wire cutter bought [laughter] me one and that's
>> for your 10th anniversary. Here's a particle counter.
>> That's like my gold watch. [laughter] Um no anyway. So we always have it on hand now which has been great because I can do things like if we get a wildfire smoke event here I can do like actual real world testing.
>> Oh that's great. All right. So, you've been testing these for almost a decade? We've, you know, been recommending this this COA mighty air purifier since 2014. Have there been any developments in air purifiers over that time? Have these changed at all?
>> A lot of purifier manufacturers would like you to think so. The answer is basically no. The HEPA filtration really has not changed. Just so that people know. I mean to to be certified as what's referred to as true HEPA a filter has to remove 99.97% of these very fine particles in one pass. So essentially almost all the particles and because of the way he filters work it will remove basically 100% of particles that are both smaller and larger. So in terms of hepoiltration there is very very little room for improvement. There's really no need for improvement. Things that have changed, sensors have become cheaper. So most purifiers now can actually count the particles, can measure the air quality and respond to it. So most of them now have an auto function. Most of them now at least come in a smart version that you can monitor and control them remotely. Other than that, no. I mean, there there are constant sort of marketing efforts to say, you know, we're better at this, we're better at that, but nobody has reinvented the wheel. And are there any things that you just don't like about the cutway?
>> They took away the one thing that I didn't like recently, which is good. It it always had an ionizing function. And
>> what does ionizing do?
>> Basically, it sends either charged particles or else just directly imparts a charge to particles that are in the air that causes them to kind of clump together. So two particles become one or three particles become one. So that's sort of like sort of a fudge on it lowering the particulate load, but then these particles supposedly are easier to capture. I've measured them with ionizer on and off. It makes no real difference. The ionizers can potentially create a little bit of ozone. Anyway, the CO always had one. You could always turn it off. Most machines that have them let you turn it off, and that's what we recommend, but they just got rid of it. I do wish they made the COA in more colors.
>> It's only really in in white and black.
>> White and black. And now a a beige, which is actually like a really sort of attractive. It's like a very pale latte. Yeah, I I would like a fuchsia co.
>> Oh, nice. I can see that. Thank you so much, Tim. It was great to talk with you. It
>> was great talking with you. [music]
>> To find out about what other products made the Wire Cutter Hall of [music] Fame, check out our website. We'll also drop a link in the show notes. There are some great items on the list, many of which I own. That's it for this [music] episode. Thanks for listening. The Wire Cutter Show is executive produced by Rosie Garin and produced by Abigail Keel. [music] Engineering support from Mattie Maziello and Nick Pitman. Today's episode was mixed by [music] Katherine Anderson. Original music by Dan Powell, Marian Lozano, Rowan Nemoto, [music] Katherine Anderson, and Diane Wong. Cliff Levy is Wire Cutter's [music] deputy publisher and general manager. Ben Fman is Wire Cutters editor-inchief. I'm Christine Sirette. Thanks for listening.
>> Sure. You get a little bonus plunger.
>> We get a little bonus pl. Always love to describe to people how to properly plunge a toilet. It is our official duty to do that PSA at least once [laughter] a year.