Hi everyone, I'm Nicolola Tangan, the CEO of the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund and I'm here today with Reed Hoffman who is the co-founder of LinkedIn, partner at Greylock, board member at Microsoft and one of Silicon Valley's most influential thinkers. And today we are basically going to talk about everything that's going on, AI, uh, human potential, all the things you've been up to, uh, Reed. So wonderful to have you here.
>> It's great to be here. And um you know one of these awesome things about the modern world is you know here I am in Seattle there you are in Oslo and we can have a fully robust conversation.
>> Unbelievable.
>> Um that is not quite spanning the globe but uh maybe in top
>> absolutely now um Reed you've seen uh multiple tech cycles from uh web 10 to the current AI boom. Just how does it stack up compared to what you've seen before? Well, um, look, each new tech cycle and even if you do a bit of history and you kind of go back to printing press and other kinds of things as as early versions of this is new and impressive and builds upon the old and part of the current, you know, AI um, just, you know, massive acceleration, much bigger than much quicker, much larger, more impact than anything else is because it builds on the internet, it builds on the cloud, it builds on, you know, kind of the massive amount of data we have and the massive amount of compute we have which then makes it possible to build these amazing learning machines and so I think it's obviously the largest um now in all large things you know you know like in your industry there's discussion of you know is it is it a bubble I don't think it is um if anything like I don't think it's a bubble in the usual discussion of you know could it get to a collapse but the impact upon all of societ society is probably going to be the biggest of our lifetimes. And that's presuming that, you know, you and I have have have have at least a number of decades ahead of us. Um, and and I think that's stunning because in industry and in life and in society, I think the fact that we've now made like learning machines as part of our firmament of the humanist world, the society is is landmark. M now you see this from both sides given that you're on the Microsoft board which is like you know the incumbent and then you also invest in some of the new you know more disruptive companies. How does that shape your way of thinking?
>> Well um you know the frequent way that people put this kind of conversation is it going to more benefit startups more benefit large companies? is going you know etc etc and the answer is massively all and which one more um I don't know but I think it's important on the you know in kind of the AI uh you know kind of the the the the the revolution that we're doing that we support both startups and large companies both of them have a have a substantive role in their contribution to industry and society so for example startups can't be doing the kind of things that the frontier models are doing without at least the support of the frontier model companies. So you know like for example open AI could only got to its position because Microsoft supported it um with compute and you know similarly you know that's what's happening with anthropic and others is it requires these the hyperscalers and the massive cloud companies not only in the work they're doing themselves but in the work they're doing to support the startups on the other hand the kind of risk and innovation in the startups is the thing that will drive a lot. So like example there's a another you know not you know relatively common meme that is you know like well enterprises are trying to deploy it and they're not deploying it that well you know is that does that mean that it's overhyped and the answer is well if you look at small startups and the way they're deploying AI it's magical I mean the the the speed at which you can move with a smaller number with an initial number of employees uh the way that you're you can empower all aspects from team meetings to productivity and all the rest is already like massively in motion. And it's just a question of well, you know, those companies will grow and then the large companies will need to either adapt to that probably with some speed in the next few years or run the risk of being, you know, kind of horse and buggy companies once the automobile industry starts going. And so um so I think it's a it's a kind of an it's a all of it. The benefit of being on the Microsoft board is you see, you know, both what Microsoft's doing and and OpenAI and and you know, a whole bunch of of the different companies that partner with Microsoft, you know, Enthropic and code and and all these others. And um you know, by doing startups u myself and through Greylock and other places, we um we can also see a number of that kind of the that that the bold edge innovation. where are you uh seeing the most kind of genuine massive transformation now uh as opposed to experiments? Well, so um so the short one of the things I tell people um it's probably useful here too is if you're not finding the current frontier models to be useful in some substantive way to do that like for example useful in your work not just you know create a sonnet for your kids birthday or you know take a picture of what's in your fridge and ask for what a recipe could be which are great um but in some substantive way um that involves information analysis research um decision support etc then you're not trying hard enough and in fact you know one of the things that I think for the frontier models is if you're engaging in a um substantive medical decision and you're not using you or your doctor are not using you know chat GBT co-pilot Gemini you know etc for a second opinion then you're also making a mistake um and so there's all a whole bunch of of substantive into individual uses. I myself, you know, probably use, you know, kind of serious AI, not simple queries, not like, oh, you know, when was um, you know, when did um, you know, the follow, you know, like chart all the different when all the different cryptos started and so forth, but like you know, research like light research things, but like deep ones like um, you know, like if I'm working on a book like my book Super Agency, um, you know, what would a historian of technology give me a serious critique peak in what I'm doing or if I'm thinking about um kind of the different kinds of molecules for therapeutics in Manis AI company I co-ounded at the beginning of the year with um Sedar Mukerji you know what are the different um you know attributes of the different kind of therapeutic molecules um you know between the you know different kinds of small molecules that you use as as as drugs and pharmaceuticals and and what's the history of them been and so then you can actually get pretty deep research. Now that being said, I'd say the the probably leading adopters are a whole bunch of stuff in coding. Um because coding gives you a a engineers understand this and are natural adopters. B it gives you a it's a precision in information work. Uh that by the way is a is a kind of a foreshadowing drum to what's going to really happen in legal and medical and a bunch of other things because you know other areas of precision you know here is coding precision both coding precision will be used for legal medical educational etc but also will be the pattern by which the similar kind of precision in those areas will also be flowering and developed um so I think that's kind of where you see, you know, the kind of the most, you know, put into work and workflow um so far. But, you know, part of the reason, of course, I invested in Manis um and and and co-founded it with with Sedarta Mukerjee was because it's like, well, but there's these other areas that people aren't thinking about yet like drug discovery. What is an AI native drug discovery company look like? um that are uh you know part of the thing that I think we will also see you know simply you know amazing stunning magic on
>> uh are you surprised that we are not seeing productivity gains yet we're not really seeing it in the productivity numbers
>> uh I'm not surprised yet I mean although you know of course um what is that old line I see computers everywhere but not in the numbers um you know it's kind of like the you know kind of a like there's a bunch of different things within the within the kind of GDP side where it's a kind of an odd measurement. Um now that being said, um I definitely see it in all the startups and I think what's in part happening is companies figuring out what to do because most of the things like the classic way a company experiments with and builds technology is they go okay this this group of you know three five 10 people are all going to go do a little proof of concept and we're going to see what comes of that. Well, AI um can work in some of those areas, but you have to be selective of what the project is. So for example if your project is and this is one of the things I think you know call it within you know twoish years it could be four to five but um it could already happen now is any like basically every organization should be saying we're recording all of our meetings and we're running an AI on the on the recording of the meeting not just for the transcript but also to do all of the suggested follow-ups. It's like um hey did you you you mentioned this you should probably you should probably re uh let Nikolai know and make sure that that's the case or you know you should um uh uh make sure that you get approval from Satia on the following thing or this other group is doing this um like all of that kind of thing is a already like the technology is there to go you should already be doing it I'm doing it you know um you know workg groupoups should be doing this and yet most companies aren't that
>> there isn't a massive acceleration in terms of speed, information, risk analysis, you know, updating, communication functions, you know, and a whole stack of things which would then begin to get into the numbers in any industry. And that's the kind of thing that I think we, you know, like as opposed to a proof of concept, just start doing all the meeting stuff or both.
>> What what what do you think are the biggest hurdles that you see for large organizations trying to integrate AI effectively? Well, typically um most large organizations for with a rational basis kind of start with a um like risk first. You know, avoid downside first, gain upside second. Um, and part of the reason is because a large organization usually has a whole bunch of assets, not just brand and market position and capital and the way that's developed over the years and decades to be efficient and have a market position and so forth. And so it has a position to say, hey, don't take risks on these things or or choose these risks very selectively. But that leads to a general and that's part of the reason why you tend to do a proof of concept is a little thing on the side that leads to a like don't introduce anything until you've run all the risks to zero. And one of the things that with AI is it say well hey there's a bunch of unknown risks here like for example we're doing the meeting thing that I'm talking that I'm talking about. Well what happen if we have all these transcripts of meetings? Is that going to increase legal liability? Is that going to increase information bleed and flow? And you know, might some of this information get outside of the enterprise in a way that's concerning? And and we worry about these probabilistic machines like do the probabistic machines misconrue something and then that that that causes an error and you you can list all the different errors and you go, "Oh, we should make sure all the errors are brought to zero before we do anything." And you're like, well, um, that's a little bit like saying, you know, um, I'm going to, you know, uh, drive from Oslo to Tronheim and I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to get all of the, uh, I'm going to eliminate every risk before I get on the road. And you're like, yeah, it's not going to work. You'll never you're never going to get on the road. I
>> have to say, I'm pretty impressed by your local knowledge here. Have you actually Have you actually driven there?
>> I have not.
>> Well, you're welcome to. Uh it is on it it is on my bucket list to come to Norway, not just because of Northern Lights, but the fjords and all the rest. So So I know a little bit about uh uh Norway's geography. A friend of mine is a is a Norwegian born and has been talking to me about sailing in the fjords for at least two decades.
>> Very good. Now uh I do I do think it's interesting because it's the first time I've seen the potential for compliance officers to kill companies, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> No, exactly. And it's one of the things where you got to go look is this really a risk not could there be something or would there be a bad press article or something else but it's like is it really a risk because if it's not really a risk like deploy iterate and learn right and and so like I actually think like it's literally the real question is just when do we get to where it's considered to be weird when you're not having an AI I in the meeting helping you with the various aspects of the meeting because like you know part of what we find in the venture community at in Silicon Valley and at Greylock is that we record these meetings all the times now because it gives us uh a set of notes. It gives us easy follow-ups. It gives us something that we can run through AI to say, "Hey, can you do research on these questions, right, that we that we came up with, you know, because you know, part of what um like like if people if this is news to people, you're not using AI enough, which is one of the things we do right now is you can trade off call it minutes of compute to instant research, like very very different than what you get from a Google search and so forth." And so you go okay you know I'm really interested in um you know what is the pattern of data centers going to evolve and you know kind of energy ecosystem and and and green energy. You can very easily set, you know, the AI deep research queries on this and get some really good answers, not perfect, not ne errors, but really good answers, like beginnings of answers in like 10 minutes because it does like 10 minutes, 15 minutes of compute and does that. And by the way, part of what the the the the frontier models are developing is they're developing the capability for this to work coherently in compute for hours to get to a result. And so like for example, you know, some of what my team does um like for example, we're I have a podcast called Possible and we've released Possible in French um because um we we basically had AI, you know, kind of do all the translation and compute and like he sets it on the evening, he goes to bed, he sets it going in the morning and in the evening, goes to bed, gets up in the morning, checks it, sees which things need to be fixed, etc., etc. That this is going to become part of a a a work process. And so having compute be amplifying of our labor is like it's here now. Um it's it's um one of my favorite science fiction authors William Gibson wrote neurommancer and others. One of his quotes that I really like is the future is already here. It's just unevenly distributed.
>> Well you have a lot of uh the future where uh you know where you live and also in uh Silicon Valley. Do you think uh that dominance is under threat for for instance from um immigration policies and so on?
>> Well, for sure. I mean, look, one of the things that um uh is there's multiple things that are crazy about the current administration's uh global relations. Um, you know, one is, um, you know, the US is a country for every decade built on being the best superpower for immigration in the entire world. It's part of what's gotten the US to where it is. And Silicon Valley is a microcosm of that. I mean how much of Silicon Valley is been built by you know immigrants from all over the world um including both western and eastern Europe like a lot of very smart uh people coming to Silicon Valley in the US from there also India you know also China etc. So the immigration is one but the next of course is that part of our ability to have global industry is because we have very good global relation or have had good global relationships. um that has been, you know, kind of most catastrophically damaged in the entire history since World War II by this administration, right? I mean, they the going out and saying, you know, uh give us your lunch money or we're going to tariff you um as kind of a bully tactic on this kind of stuff is is is terrible ways to deal with partners, tra uh trade uh trading allies and other things. And so that's another area of of of significant damage. Um and so yes, I think there's there is some of the areas that we've had as historic strengths are under extreme challenge. Now that being said, part of what I want Europe to do more of is to get more into the technology game. Like one of the things I've told various you know uh you know I I take trips through uh the UK and France and Italy and other places and I say look um getting in the AI game directly is important. Let me give you a European metaphor which is I'm using the word football in the European sense not in the American sense which is if you think of a AI as a football game World Cup match between the US and China and what Europe tries to be as the referee there's two problems. One is the referee never wins and two no one really likes the referee. So you got to get on the pitch, right? You got to be doing stuff and it's really important. And they say, "Well, we're behind and we don't have the hyperscalers and computers." Well, do deals with the hyperscalers in order to get compute. So Reed, what would you do specifically?
>> Oh, well,
>> so now I give you So now I'm uh let's say now I don't know who I am, but I am somebody with a lot of power and I say, "Hey Reed, can you can you fix uh Europe and AI?" What do you do?
>> Well, um it's work. It's not easy. uh uh one is I'd say go do deals with the various uh companies that hyperscalers that can build a bunch of compute. Those deals don't necessarily require money. They could just be here we like we have facilitated a bunch of energy data center permits ability to build stuff to be able to build your business here you know and build these data centers. In return for this facilitation, we want to make sure that you are enabling um kind of European companies to be able to access that compute um either in in building new applications or inference for deploying them. And in return for that, um, we also want you to make sure that you're, you know, you that some of your AI technology that if you happen to be building it is also deployable in a kind of a a good way within the European sector. And you say, well, but that's still a bunch of US technology. Of course, you're going to have a bunch of US technology. Um not just the least of which is like the the the semiconductors the chip infrastructure because you know Nvidia obviously but then TPUs and you know other kinds of things as ways of doing this but there's a tremendous amount of value in the applications there's a tremendous amount of value in like where do we bring our you know kind of areas of competitive advantage um like for example if I was if I was being a you know European entrepreneur I'd say well um one of the benefits we have of centralized medical systems is we can use that centralized medical system to build a whole bunch of different unique medical applications and we should do that and we should we should dominate that not just within Europe but globally. I mean one of the things that you know most often is the mistake in how European governments say well we just need to have a European one you know we just we we just need to have an Austrian one and it's like no no no no uh technology industry is strongest when it's global so you want to say which are the ones that we can build that are global which are the things that are like Spotify like a genen like you know etc and how do we get those kinds of things because you know here are some and how do we have a like kind of global competitiveness with the edges that we have here Um and I think that's the kind of thing that I, you know, um basically every every uh you know uh European leader who reaches out I try to help.
>> You uh um continuing on the the topic of uh ramping and scaling you you wrote the book on on blit scaling, right? And um does that playbook work for for AI where the scarce resources are GPUs and and electricity and and not users? Um well uh it is actually centrally like I think uh if anything the AI so first back up so for those who don't know the reason I wrote this book Blit Scaling it was like kind of like what is the lessons I learned from how Silicon Valley builds the technology companies of the future and if you take the greater Silicon Valley area like like the entire metropolis area it's 7 plus million people and that's not all in the tech industry that's just you know in like everything in the Bay Area which is you know a little over twice the size of Ireland and why does more than half of the global NASDAQ come out of Silicon Valley and there's a whole set of different things immigration we mentioned before but one of them is it it's this learning about how to build the technology companies to create the platforms the networks the the the um uh the kind of the the the the global technologies of the future through these these companies and the answer is blit scaling and the two places in the world that I see demonstrate blitzcaling in really robust general ways are Silicon Valley and China which is part of the reason why the two technology hubs and so it's like look the more that we have especially in Europe but like in the rest of call it western dem democracy world of of ability to build places like Silicon Valley and to have tech center innovations I think the better off the world is the better off even Silicon Valley is so that's the reason why I wrote it Now if you look at what's happening with and the precise definition of blitzcaling is um uh taking the risk of going big in an environment of uncertainty right that is exactly what's happening with AI like if you look at you know the discussion around AI bubbles and every like well we have such conviction that largecale training is going to build such interesting learning machines that we're investing like I think it's rough ly like $60 billion to get a gigawatt of compute to do and you know we're trying to get from multiple gigawatts in multiple companies to to be able to build this stuff in a way that that we can then deploy it through other gigawatts of compute in inference because this will have such a elevating effect to everything that we're doing in um think of it as you know um work life and society um and so but yet you know it's like Well, you know, we see OpenAI making some money and we see Enthropic making some money, but like is there any of the rest of it? And that's exactly what blitz scaling is. So, that's what we're doing. Now, there are, you know, there's there's limited numbers of GPUs um that are growing as fast as they can. There's limited data centers growing as fast and there's limited energy. And um you know, interestingly, energy may end up being the the weird once again almost back to the days of oil, the geopolitical issue that really, you know, kind of puts all this stuff together. But by the way, of course, you also need data and you need talent and critically you need a loop of adoption and all of those things are part of what you know kind of makes the I revolution. So I think the if blit scaling is frankly I'm thinking about writing some of this um up in the next couple months is blit scaling is there's specifically like all of the rules in the blit scaling book are being applied and there's more that are being developed and added.
>> Another thing you talked about is the kind of the splinteret the fragmentation of the internet. Uh how are we seeing the same type of developments happening now in the AI world i.e. the race between the US and and China mainly.
>> Well, um this whole question around like it generally speaking, it's good to have kind of just like a global trading system and a global communication system, a global telecom system and a global transport system. There's good to have a lot of stuff that's global. And of course, you need to balance it out with various issues of national culture, control, sovereignty, etc. as ways of doing it. And the natural instinct that most people have given how important the internet and digital is is like and very few do it other than China is to kind of say well I have my own and it's kind of federated. And so I think that that the kind of splinteret there's still a lot of tensions heading in that direction. It's again, I think among the problems that the current administration uh is creating for the American people, American industry, because you know, I think they're if anything, they're accelerating that. Um, you know, like, you know, the tariff policy is a good way to try to um incent other people to trade with China versus the US. I think that's a that's a deep danger. Um, and uh and then similar on the kind of the internet side. So, I think that's important. Now that being said, roughly speaking, the things that are successful within global platforms are the things that get the broadest possible base. So one of the reasons why, you know, AI tends to be um most naturally trained out of English versus call it any of the other western languages is because the vast majority of the content that's in the data, everything else allows that to happen. And matter of fact, in the when I when I was on the OpenAI board and got early access to GBD4, one of the things I did as kind of an experiment is I had GBD4 write some poems in English, then write some poems in Hindi, and then write some poems in English and translate them into Hindi. And then I went to some of my poetically minded Indian friends and said, "Okay, without a kind of blind taste test, which of these poems are better?" and all of the poems that literally the top half were the one that were written in English and translated to Hindi because of the the the ability to have that language generous there. And so that's going to be one of the things that as we get to the splitter is going to say well actually in fact we're going to have to rely upon the languages you know for the inference engine else that have the vast majority of the data for the training of these things. doesn't mean that we can't ultimately get to a Norwegian system, a Swedish system, you know, um you etc., etc., but like it's it's going to be um uh you to get the high quality system, you have to start with some of the inferences. Now, in a classic European thing, you say, "Well, you don't have to just do English. You can do English and Chinese and a few others." And we can be pluralistic in how to do it in case there's any latent, you know, kind of cultural biases and so forth to try to be kind of a little bit more of a pluralist understanding, which is one of the things that I love about what Europe's been doing in, you know, kind of the postw World War II uh era. And that could be something that is um that is a a feature uh rather than a challenge uh for what's going on. But, you know, you have to kind of navigate those things. And so I think the um the tendencies the splinter net will still be there but need to be resisted substantially in at least some vectors.
>> When you look at the the amount of capital flowing into data centers and chips and energy and and the circularity uh and the new kind of debt issuance and so on. What are what are your reflections when it comes to the speed of the development here? Speed and magnitude.
>> Yeah. So it's a natural worry to say something like Nvidia invests in a company uh puts a bunch of money in a company the company then buys more Nvidia chips and then Nvidia invests in other countries that buy more Nvidia chips and this would be a classic bubble if the only use of those Nvidia chips was doing things that didn't have kind of call it were separate economic productivity like if um if you didn't have this view where like part of what I think is coming with AI is we're going to get intelligence with the scale and and and and uh 24 by7 availability of electricity. So intelligence is going to be as available as electricity. Well, that's from these compute centers. And so the fact that they're building all this compute isn't like its own little isolated bubble that's going to collapse. that actually is creating the compute infrastructure that we already see even in these very early days a tremendous amount of demand for cuz like at a company like Microsoft you know each GPU is kind of being allocated between like inference where customers want it because basically could sell everything to customers two is um in uh internal groups that want to do R&D themselves in building it and three you know it's kind of like uh groups that want to to um uh you know like deploy things in terms of their products. So you you've got you've got um you've got all all these computing competing for it and so even if you suddenly ramped down the training speed a great deal there would still be a lot of economic uh demand for the compute. Now, a little bit of how I think about this is it's kind of I don't think the AI bubble as getting to a collapse is, you know, is actually in fact a real worry. the AI bubble leading to potential pricing corrections is definitely of course possible because you go well but look look at the astronomical prices and and so and you say well but actually in fact you know like if you created a data center for call it $60 billion you know you're still going to run the data center and you can run it profitably but you may not run it profitably from a cost basis of $60 billion if all of a sudden you know like like the the the level of demand takes the premium off it, right? There could be that as a as a risk, but that's not a bubble correction. That doesn't create the kind of contagion and debt and banking and other kinds of things that people most worry about with bubbles. And that's the reason why I'm I'm I'm I'm not that uh concerned with the current worries about you know is it circular around trips or other kinds of things because what I actually see it as kind of a evolution takeoff to getting a compute infrastructure there that we have intelligence available essentially with the same scale and an always on availability that electricity has
>> related to this. What do you think the primary computing device would look like in the future?
>> Um I'm not sure. Um
>> I mean the kind of stuff that Johnny IV is working on OpenAI is working on some things. Have you have you had a look at it?
>> I haven't. Um the Johnny IV uh got purchased uh in the company after I was on the board. Um the um like it's a little bit of kind of like classically with technology is like will there be something that surprises you? The answer is absolutely yes. Um can you predict the surprise much harder and an easy way to look foolish. Um I do think that there's a real value in all the scale compute that's going on. So the fact that there is a tremendous amount happening through massively centralized data servers is I think a continuing trend. Now that being said, you know, like for example, take a little bit of what the electric vehicle revolution is. Electrical vehicle revolution is not just electric, it's a and you know green and all the rest, but it's also putting a data center with sensors on wheels. And that data sensor with data center with sensors means all kinds of things. that doesn't mean autonomous vehicles, but also means a much more real-time map for you know mobility um uh emergency management you know a bunch of other things that are all there. I mean imagine like for example if you have a whole bunch of autonomous vehicles and you need to get the emergency vehicle through currently if it's got gridlock on a highway you just kind of hose drive on the side the side of the road side streets etc etc you literally could go AVs you know clear the way and they all kind of go okay and then clear a channel and the fire trucks can get through the ambulances can get through you know etc etc and so you know this is all part of all of that part of revolution and of course that will have a lot of local compute and local compute areas. Now, I guess what I would say is I think it's too early for the whole glasses revolution being the next social thing. I mean, variety of companies are doing some pretty interesting work there. Um, uh, I don't know about these pins and other things. I mean, the classic thing tends to be is, hey, if it works pretty well with your phone, we're all pretty acculturated to the phone, right? So, um, so what does that mean exactly is kind of an interesting question. I do think that the notion of like an always on AI assistant for all of us is just a question of when and how. Um than than if um because you know the kind of um like for example I don't know if if your listeners track the fact that you know I'm one of these people who made a re a digital version of myself read AI and demoed it in various ways. And part of why I was doing that is because normally when people talk about deep fake, they they tend to say, "Oh, that's just bad. It's like it's imitation. It's gonna be used for like cyber hacking and fishing and and political misinformation." And by the way, those all legitimate issues, uh, serious ones. Um, but I was like, "Okay, let's play with it." Because there's always something we can steer towards that's good. And one of the things I realized by creating readai is that it's a small number of years where like voicemail goes away because what happens when when when someone calls Nikolai Nikolai AI answers and says hey you know and then it says oh it's Reed and oh this is really important let me see if I can interrupt him. Hold on let me get I'll get like hold on a second let me see if I can interrup like actually he's in a board meeting right now. Um can I take a message? He'll probably be able to call you back. I don't know, 7 o'clock, 8 o'clock, would that work for you? You know, that's what it's going to become, right, as part of it. And by the way, part of the kind of the the digital avatar version is it's it's the representation of you in terms of how you're doing it. And so that's, you know, part of what I think is saying and that will also be edge compute. And so you're asking what are the AI devices of the future? And it's kind of like every single device that has a has anything of compute capability will start adding AI to it. And some devices that don't currently have compute capability will have compute capability added into them um in order to do it. Like for example, you can imagine, you know, pretty easily like washing machines as part of being green and saving electricity. You kind of say, "Hey, just set it up to run when the grid has already got a, you know, has already got a surplus of energy." And so I'm being green about, you know, using energy that that is otherwise unused and not creating the spikes that cause the whole expense of the and then you'll have, you know, simple compute in your washing machine and dryer, you know, as as instances of doing this. So anyway, so like I think perhaps the answer is actually everywhere as I think about your question.
>> I think it's just so much fun to be alive. So exciting. No,
>> yes. No, no, it's it's look we we've created the most amazing technology in human history more better learning m uh device than the book etc. Now, of course, it builds on them, but it's just it's um you know, like for example, people like to talk about, and I think this is mostly just people who misunderstand like, oh, is there's going to be a huge spike in in energy because of use of AI, electricity, and is that going to be an a climate impact? And the answer is, well, uh if you're using intelligence, you can use intelligence to to to mitigate climate impact. And so as long as you're using some of this electricity, AI, electricity for um for being smart about the climate, you're going to be a net benefit. And as a tangible example, Google, which runs some of the best data centers in the world, when they applied their AI technology, figured out how to get savings of 40% in their data center. And that's not going to, you know, these old inefficient grids and all the rest of this stuff, which would be a very natural way to to really get a lot more energy efficient using intelligence.
>> Reed, uh, let's, uh, change tax area a bit. Uh, and, um, you've seen so many entrepreneurs uh, in your life. What what are the common characteristics of great entrepreneurs?
>> One good thing for many entrepreneurs is there isn't just one archetype, right? Since you know again we're talking European you know there may be multiple yian archetypes uh for this and um but you know important characteristics are to be super ambitious right um if because you don't shoot for the stars you don't even get to you can't get to the moon um as a way of doing it to be both um like like kind of believe in you know that kind of huge outside capability but also learning and adjusting It isn't believe against any data and belief but it's like it's a hey I think I can do this. Um because you know one of the definitions of entrepreneurship is your plans outstrip your current resources. Um because almost by definition that's true for all entrepreneurs every stage along their entrepreneurial journey. Um they have to be able to take risks smartly. Um frequently you know the issue is like oh just take risk. like no no no like like risks blow you up all the time but um there is no entrepreneurship without risk. It's one of the challenges with a general European framework because they say well we want to minimize risk because we really like the stability of what we have and you're like well but there is no innovation without risk and there is no innovation without making errors and so you have to allow errors and risk and you correct for them right you don't you know it doesn't mean you allow them forever but you kind of you you go out and and and you play that. So that has to be another thing they're capable of. Another one is you have to be able to learn the journey. And the learning the journey is lots of things. It's like it's do you have a do you have a product or service idea? Can you assemble talent? Can you assemble capital? Can you do the initial things to get your business together? Can you then be growing and scaling your company, which means scaling the executives and scaling yourself? um you know and doing all of that and and that kind of um we have this this phrase in American English multi-toolled athlete is really important. Now part of that for an entrepreneur whether she or he is doing this is to be kind of like okay that's not my tool but I can hire someone who has that tool because you're assembling like part of it is entrepreneurial companies and entrepreneurs launch through networks. It's one of the reasons why like I helped set up um you know kind of this program called Silicon Valley comes to UK because it was like you know bring the Silicon Valley network and learnings into the UK and we've done that occasionally in other places too Japan, France, other other places and it's the because we want more of this kind of understanding but you need that kind of not just with the founders but you'll also need it with the executives and early employees and bunch of other things in order to play that out and the the the founder needs to be, you know, kind of knowing that that's what they're looking for, that they're always trying to assemble the strongest possible network to realize this vision that is uh evolving and changing as the market changes and as scale changes. Um, and so that's the set of attributes you want. But sometimes, by the way, like, and then you get to where are the places you must have a complete edge. Well, some industries like you got to be a really good salesp person. Some industries you got to be a really good finance person. Some industries you have to be a really good engineer. Some industries you have to be a really good product person. And one of the things I look at when different uh you know companies is is this person a fit to this problem now and as it scales. And so like for example one of the the kind of um apherisms that tends to uh circulate around Silicon Valley is oh you want to invest in people who started coding before they were 12 years old. And by the way, that's a good sign for they're deeply immersed in software. They have reflexes software tech. They understand it. They understand kind of what the different patterns are and how they're evolving. But like for example, Brian Chesy, the CEO and co-founder of Airbnb is not that. He's a design person. But so, you know, classic, that's the classic apherism. There's a lot that's good to it. But I look at Brian, I go, he's perfect for Airbnb because he's approaching the marketplace, the experience of travel, the experience of staying somewhere, the experience of hosting somewhere as a design thing where he comes from Risdy and the design attribute is actually in fact the right attribute. So it's it's kind of different sets and that's part of the reason why not just different fitness functions but different kinds of ways of entrepreneurs are better at different kinds of businesses. Some are very good at at enterprise and others suck at enterprise. Some are very good at consumer and many suck at consumer. So it's kind of a different set of configurations.
>> So now you sit in your greylock office and in I come. How long time does it take for you to decide whether I'm worth backing or not?
>> Well, it depends a little bit. Um, ideally like I did with the Airbnb folks, I had reference checked them before I met with them. So I interrupted them. I think it was a few minutes into the pitch and I said, "I'm gonna make you an offer to invest. Let's you take the rest of this pitching session as a work session and let's let's work together on this stuff. So, you get to see me, I get to see you, we can see if this is a good match." And it's one of the reasons why, you know, they uh they declined a financing offer that was twice my valuation uh in order to work with me because they said, "Hey, this is like he is actually helping us solve these problems. that's actually in fact really valuable. So that you know can happen. Airbnb is an example. Um you know Zingga um uh Facebook um you know these are other companies that I you know basically made an investment decision in the first minutes in um sometimes it takes days um because sometimes you've got a sense of okay um I need to reference check afterwards. Sometimes it's okay, I wonder what the competitive landscape looks like here or are there other people developing technology like this or do I think that this technology will bear fruit at the right sequence because usually the like the ideal thing in a venture investment is for my kind of style is at day zero it looks crazy like some of my partners thought Airbnb was crazy at year two and three it looks like feasible and year five it looks five to seven it looks obvious right is kind of the is kind of and so you go okay well that's your time frame for the evolution now occasionally it's longer like one of the the grey lock investments is Roblox and that took longer you know it does happen um but it's like that's kind of a classic time frame and AI is obviously compressing this in some ways um so this is a preI kind of uh huristics and time frame
>> now you said you you said uh that it's more damaging to pass on a great investment than to back a poor one And I guess in the old day it was about protecting your downside. Then in the venture capital world it was about not missing out on the big thing. But it seems like the whole world is now moving into the VC way of thinking. We must not miss out on the next great thing. But instead of the tickets being a million dollars, they're like $500 million, right?
>> Yeah. Exactly. Um well, it's still true that on the venture world and generally speaking investing in tech, if you can get into some of the great ones, that's all that matters. and missing one of those matters a lot more. Now, that doesn't mean if you're presented with 20 investments and none of them are the great ones and you put all your money into that that it's not going to be horrific for you, right? You have to get some of the great ones. Like the correlary to that statement is if you're not getting some of the great ones, better not to play at all, right? And so and that's one of the reasons why people tend to you know a lot of capital goes towards open AI goes towards anthropic you know goes towards you know the ones that they go well these ones I think are very very likely to work um you know kind of as a direction and so um but I think so I think it's still the case that it's you know like if I think this could be one of the great ones then I tend to have to talk my way out of investing than talk my way into investing. Um, but the but the challenge of that is that you know you have to have a pretty good sharp edge about is it really possibly one of the great ones. I mean like more or less like you see all kinds of silly stuff where people talk themselves into things where you're like no like the the universe in which that's one of these great tech investments is kind of the universe in which like you know 30 volcanoes in the in the world go off the same time. It's not it's not impossible that that happens, but oh my god, it's totally different world. And so um uh and so you have to have a good sense of is it actually in fact realistically possible. Um and if so then and you know with some energy on it because the vast majority of companies obviously fail and the vast majority of comp companies do not become industry defining transforming companies
>> and the vast majority of venture capital companies don't make particularly much money but a few at the very top make a
>> a heck of a lot of it. Right.
>> Exactly.
>> Because they get because they get the first pick. I guess
>> is the main reason or what is the main reason? Well, so um the the McKenzie did a study a couple decades ago and they found that what happened is the top tier Silicon Valley venture firms they didn't deliberately they don't directly collaborate with each other but they tend to to to signal and draft off each other and that's you know one of the things we're identifying the really top companies and top tier teams. It's like a it's it's again one of the ways to analyze Silicon Valley investing is through networks. Networks of entrepreneurs, networks of of executive talent, but also networks of angel investors and networks of venture capitalists.
>> Tell us about your PayPal network.
>> Oh, right. Um well, so um uh I thank you. I usually refer to as PayPal Network, as you know, most people refer to as PayPal Mafia. It's like it's not criminal. It's a network. Um the um so one of the things that made the PayPal network so noteworthy is PayPal sold to eBay in 2002 which was kind of the you know the kind of the at the kind of the the the you know kind of the mid to kind of twothirds of the way through the internet winner um maybe midway. And so you ended up with all these people who had some money and believed in the internet and would go and create new companies. LinkedIn, my own, also YouTube, you know, Yelp, whole number of different companies got created in this time. and um and then the ability to do angel investing in a variety of these in the variety of these companies. And that was part of the reason why it was viewed to be such an awesome network because what we would do in, you know, 2003 is we'd be calling each other saying, "Hey, did you see this? Did you see this company uh this project? This looks really good. It could be one of the things that's really good." Um you know, that's part of how, you know, I reconnected with Chad and Steve at YouTube, you know, and other things. And that's part of what made um you know kind of uh so many good companies uh coming out of that uh initial group of uh founders and investors from the PayPal network. Um and I think they you know the the um you know it's one of the things that has now been because these get learned in Silicon Valley is that part of what happens is you know venture capital firms go and look at and they say hey you know will this company X you know say Roblox be a generative thing of a bunch of new people coming out and which I should I should go see which are the people who are going to come out of that and be the next generation of founders and so forth and and I should go research them and that's another of the learning loops. in Silicon Valley. So anyway, PayPal was one of the early icon ones.
>> If you were to look at um your most successful investments, PayPal, Facebook, Airbnb, and so on,
>> what was it that you saw that a lot of people didn't see? Just a general theme. Um well I'd say broadly including LinkedIn of course in this investment as an entrepreneur
>> um is I saw I saw why a number of smart people would think it was a dumb investment
>> and I saw why I thought I was right. So it's the contrarian and right thing. So um you know in the case of LinkedIn everyone thought there was no such thing as a professional network. people wouldn't put their, you know, their CVs online. There wouldn't be a utility of collaborating with people other than currently in your company, etc., etc. And so that, you know, that was a LinkedIn thing. And you couldn't never get the network to scale to do it. In the Facebook case, people said, "Oh, yeah, there's a lot of activity, but it's all college students. Um, and there'll never be money in college students." And sure, they'll there, you know, the amount of pure raw generation of time isn't important, but for college students, who's going to pay for it? The advertising market's not very good. college students aren't going to pay. Business model is bad. Um for Airbnb, it's oh, it's really strange that you know uh that you're going to rent a room or apartment or you know or a house from a stranger and what is the trust? How do you build the trust and and how does that happen? And you know part of the the theory there is actually in fact there's such demand for better more unique experiences than hotels um and at different price points and different locations and and it enables a network of entrepreneurship in the hosts for doing it that that will actually evolve to a kind of product that then becomes a brand name like Xerox or Kleenex or that kind of stuff in terms of how it operates because people now refer to as an Airbnb um as a as a way of doing it. Um, Zingga is like people actually want to play casual games with each other. Gaming is not just a not just a hardcore like people say, "Well, no, no, this is a Halo and a, you know, and the hardcore game." No, no, there's this new category of games that social networks enable um for for for how it is. And you basically go through, you know, almost all of my investments and it's that no, here's why a bunch of smart people think it doesn't work and here's what I I'm betting on that does work. Now, by the way, some of my failures are in that too because my bet was wrong, right? But but that's the but that's the thing that leads to the you know industry transforming successes.
>> Given all that and given all your experience, what is your advice to young people?
>> Uh well um the longer version of it is my very first book is called the start review. Um which came out of a commencement speech I gave to my high school. Um, so it's precisely it's it's it's take all the entrepreneurial lessons that I learned from Silicon Valley because by the way, I think we're all becoming need to be much more entrepreneurial in times of disruption. Doesn't mean you need to start a company. If it's right for you, great. But but only a small number of people should start companies. But you have to lead your career in a much more entrepreneurial way as opposed to like the oh I go apprentice at IBM then I work my way up you know you know career ladder of type X within the company and then we get a job at another company and so then that's but it's like industries are changing job tracks are changing you know what is a marketer going to look like in five and 10 years versus what a marketer looks like today given AI it's going to be totally different so you have to be entrepreneurial and learning and using the tools and so that's part of the the kind of the the startup view and entrepreneurship of which there's a lot more depth in the startup view. But the central thing of course is the like one of the things for the next years that young people should pitch firms on is I'm a native AI user. You need to be AI transformed. Here's the way that my experience with AI can come help you and your organization, right? Um, and I think that's a very important thing to do because all of these companies are going to be looking at these going, um, we need this transformation. Who is AI native? And one of the things I gave this, uh, talk in Bolognia a couple years back is, you know, you guys are generation AI, that's the thing you should be leaning into and deploying for your path to work and life success.
>> Good advice to generation AI. Yes,
>> Reed, you kind of feels like part of Generation AI as well. So, uh, it's been just tremendous to talk to you. Wow, what a what a story. What an experience. Just been so much fun.
>> I think we can you can opt to join it, which I'm trying to. I try to, you know, I try to use AI in new ways every week.
>> Absolutely. Well, I have I finish my name with AI, so I'm kind of part of it.
>> But, uh, big thanks.
>> Exactly.