All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live. It is Thursday, November 13th. This was an ugly one. There is no way to mince our words about it. This was an ugly one quite frankly based on some of the draw downs we're seeing in some uh specific sectors. Obviously technology that's been the biggest one that we've seen the pain in today. Uh this is worse for some stocks than liberation day if you look at the actual percentage draw down which is kind of crazy given liberation day was five months ago and a lot has happened in terms of earnings growth since then. But the market is worried and the market is worried for a variety of different reasons that we're going to talk about today and we're going to get into kind of what is going on. Obviously, it is a red day. It is an ugly day for everybody. I was texting a lot of different people today. Um, and it's there's nowhere to really hide. I mean, you kind of had to be in Merc and Fizer and uh, you know, maybe certain types of cyclicals or or consumer defensives to really be out of it. You might have some exposure to that like I'm sure a lot of people do but it might not be the majority of the exposure that most people have which is obviously to things that are more techreated and that's why the S&P 500 down 1.58% on the day. It did get a very small bounce on 670. We somehow maintained 670 today and that is actually a very key level to maintain. So the algos did not let it go below that but 1.5% down is ugly. Amazon down 2%, SoFi down 11%, Big Bear down 11%, IRN down 12%, D-Wave down 11, Regetti down 10, Verizon, one of the only green names that is up on the day. Oscar loses 14 based on this ACA subsidy stuff. Hims is down seven. Meta somehow Meta is holding. I mean, Meta's down a dollar on the day, which is quite incredible for a company like Meta on a day like this. Even Nebus, I expected Nebius to be below 80 bucks by now given the carnage in the data center space. The fact that is holding 89 is actually kind of constructive, but that bounced off 84. Nvidia down three. Nvidia at one point got to 184. Robin did get below 121. Uh got to like 119, now it's at 121. Still down 8% on the day. Oracle down another 5%. Palanteer down 6%. Paler did not lose 170, but got very close to losing it. EOSC down 10%. Disney had earnings this morning down 8%. Netflix down 1%. I mean, obviously it's an ugly day. It's an ugly day across the board. The NASDAQ right here down 1.94%. and everyone's portfolios who is leveraged into technology is experiencing that before we get into kind of what's going on or at least why in my opinion the market is so upset because again there was not that major headline that's out there that you can point to like a Trump tweet about soybeans. So it kind of takes a little bit more digging in terms of figuring out what the market is so concerned about. I do want to say this before we get into it. As the angel light begins to flow into the room, right as I'm about to talk, the angel light comes in. It's actually conducive with what I'm about to say. What I was about to say is nothing has really changed. I mean, the fundamentals of this market that were the same last week, two weeks ago, yesterday when we were 1% away from alltime highs, there's not been a sort of dramatic shift. Yes, there's some labor market data that's not pretty. Yes, the White House is not giving up. Like, yes, there's all those arguments and those are reasonable arguments and those arguments probably warrant a little bit of a sell-off, but in terms of going net bearish, the market was so bad, it sent me to heaven already. That in terms of going net bearish, I just don't see it. I see a lot of people on Twitter today starting to compare this to the do- bubble. And you know, when you start to see those types of comparisons, you start to realize, okay, people are really getting either, you know, uh, irrationally scared or they're starting to try to get a lot of attention because they see that attention sells and the easiest way to sell is to be negative. We are in extreme fear on the fear and greed index. But again, comparing this to the dot bubble, when you look at the earnings growth and what has happened in the dotcom bubble versus now is not necessarily the same. Obviously, the debt financing is why Oracle has been hit and a lot of these data center plays have been hit and and that deserves probably the market to take some risk off. That is not a, hey, AI is fake, the bubble is popping, everything is not real, and you know, this entire two-year run around the concept of artificial intelligence is not real. Like, that to me, I don't know. I'm not buying that. It's hard for me to easily say that that's a legit argument. And I just want to say before we get into it, like the nuances of the intraday moves in the market. By the way, we're we're we're still above where we were last Friday when we had a real draw down. So, I know today is ugly for a lot of people just because of the intensity and the velocity of the draw down, but we are not anywhere near the October 17th lows and not anywhere near last Friday's lows. And so, it just helps to put into context like, hey, if we're talking about everything's over, it's all fake. That's not what we're seeing today. Is that trend going to continue? We'll see if that plays out. But for those trying to make that macro claim and then use arguments that they've been making for the whole year, which is that AI isn't real. Again, I think on a day like this, it's easy to make that claim because obviously everyone's scared. I don't know if that claim necessarily has a lot of merit to it. What is happening today? What is going on and why is it so bad? Also, please put in the chat if anyone bought the dip on anything today and uh we'll see if people uh took advantage of this dip. Uh I think there's three things that are going on. Number one, the market did want CPI data today. The White House said it's not going to happen. So, a lack of data is causing issues. And in general, the market is scared that there's certain types of data that the White House might be afraid to show. President Trump, by the way, he had some executive order around foster care with Melania. He did not take any questions and the lack of taking questions kind of also probably is making the market think this guy really doesn't want to address the media and maybe there's a lot of reasons for that, but that in and of itself and the lack of transparency is hurting the market. Number two, for those that didn't see the headline, Verizon announced 15,000 layoffs. That's 15% of their workforce. Not bullish. Definitely an argument around the labor market weakening, which goes to my third point. It's contrary to my third point, but nonetheless, it segus into that. You had three different Fed presidents come out over the past 40 hours and say they are more concerned about inflation than the labor market. Then you have Verizon saying, "Let's do 15,000 layoffs." Meaning, maybe I think they should be more concerned about the labor market. Especially when Powell less than three weeks ago at the FMC meeting. All of us were watching it together live said, "We are more concerned about the downside risk to the labor market versus the upside risk to inflation." It's almost like in 48 hours that entire thesis has changed. And that really is the big reason for why I think the market's selling off. Yes, lack of transparency is bad. The layoffs are bad. Potential fears on AI capex spend is bad. But the real reason is that the probabilities for a rate cut have now gone to 51.6%. In the morning it was at 55. And yesterday it was at 65. A week ago it was at 75. And two weeks before that it was basically at 100. So you went from basically a guaranteed December rate cut all the way down to a cost. And you know, when you have a a 50-50 chance, it makes it almost impossible to sort of get the market to have any level of clarity on what's going to happen. And that gets the market to also be very scared. So, I think those are the culminations of of reasons for why we're seeing the type of pain that we're seeing. There's not sort of one specific reason for this draw down, but a 2% red day with no China trade policy going south, no uh Trump tweet that's triggering the market, but rather this lack of data. I think that's kind of the core reason along with the idea that we're not going to get a rate or that we potentially might not get a rate cut in December. Now, the shutdown did end last night and the thing that really whips out people including myself is wait a second on Friday we were lower than where we are today. We were at almost 6:59 on Friday and then at 2:40 p.m. Eastern on Friday I think all of us remember seeing it. Uh Politico says Democrats ready to end shutdown. Boom. We end green. We ended at 672. It was a full 2% intraday reversal. So all of us were like, "Oh, cool." So the shutdown was kind of the core reason that the market was scared. Then we actually end the shutdown and we lose everything that we've got in since then. Now granted, we are at 671, which is very close to 672, which is where we were on Friday. So we're losing what we got over the past couple days. Meaning it's really not as bad as people think, although it's obviously ugly to have a 2% down day. But the point is those headlines of the shutdown didn't actually materialize in terms of the market being more risk. With the shutdown ending, it's almost like the market got more risk off because of the lack of clarity around news dukes. And yes, I agree. Hiding the economic data is admitting it's not good, even if the government is open, which is, I think, one of the biggest fears. And then that Verizon headline coming out is obviously not exciting to the market that already doesn't have a lack of clarity around what's going on in terms of the labor market. So, it's ugly. It's ugly. Does that mean everything is over? Again, I just struggle to say that. You can make a bare case. I think you can also make a pretty stringent bull case given uh the sort of broader fundamentals around earnings have not changed. Could they change? Of course, anything can change. It's just we're not seeing that right now. I do think though we were going to get some type of selloff today as soon as the White House said like and they said this like yesterday afternoon that we're not going to get um data. I mean, as soon as they started blaming the Democrats for not getting data, yada yada, I think that's when the market was like, "Okay, the data is not good. Labor market's not good and we probably have to be a little bit riskoff." Now, is it as riskoff as what we're seeing today? Is that justified? I don't know. Does that ruin the Santa Claus rally? I don't know. But gut tells me it doesn't have to be as bad as kind of how the market is thinking. Especially because some of these names, you're having valuations compressed, but you're not seeing a full rerating of their earnings picture given a lot of their earnings have been pretty good. App right there, that's down 4%, Weeble down 7%, e Toro down five, Delta down one, United down three, Reddit down six, Taiwan semi down three. I mean very little places to highs. You had Nike today that gave you a little bit of green. Nike right there at 65. Lily, did we go green? Lily holding green on the day. That rotation into healthcare again is not the most bearish to see. Cisco actually holding up today up 4.7%. Which is not too bad. Rocket Lab wrecked down 9% on the day. I down 12%. And then you got the S&P down 1.7. And that's kind of some of the pain that I think we're seeing on right here. BMR obviously also getting hit as well as we go red on Ethereum 9%. I mean, Bitcoin fell. Are we even back above 99? Bitcoin? No, we're still at 98, but did we touch 97? We did 97.9. Bitcoin going down is not helping the bull case for risk on at the at the moment. Uh, by the way, money market funds actually not that big of a deal today. It only increased by 1.8 billion uh over the past week. Last week it was 116 billion. So you could probably imagine that a lot of people that were going to put money into money market funds did it two weeks ago and this week you didn't get that much of an increase. That's you know that one billion is probably just interest on a lot of the money market fund assets that are already there. But 7.54 trillion on the sidelines again going to that bullcase of as rates come down money is going to be waiting to get allocated into assets that are actually growing. Are the companies producing real earnings? The answer to that question is yes. Are rate cuts coming down? The answer to that question is no one knows and the Fed made it a lot more difficult to find out based on the comments over the past couple days. That's kind of what I think is happening. That is what I think is happening now. Uh we do have earnings after the bell, so we'll talk about those earnings. I think we're getting these 13Fs today, guys. Chris will be on in like 20 30 minutes and then we'll get his perspective. But we should be getting 13Fs and 13 G's if I'm not wrong today. I think we're already getting a couple that are coming in and so we'll be able to track what some of these larger funds have been doing. Um, but it is a tough day to report on earnings and New Bank and AAT will be reporting their earnings today. Meta, we got three minutes until the close. Meta somehow holding green. I mean, see, it's a weird market, dude. Like, you would expect Meta to get wrecked on a day like this, but Meta has already been wrecked over the past couple weeks. Still, you know, when the S&P goes down 2%, Meta usually takes a hit. The fact that they're actually allowing Meta to hold on, it feels bullish, but then again, how do you kind of make sense of it on a day like this? Oaklo right there down 8% and then Amazon losing 240, that's down 2%. Meta might have front ran the dip. That is also very possible. Also, in terms of SoFi, uh Tom Lee added SoFi to the Granny Shots ETF. So, SoFi is not now a Granny Shot. $98 million of SoFi he bought. So, SoFi is now an official Grannyot. Um, and that was disclosed today. 2848 on SoFi, down 11%, but Mr. Tom Lee did add. And again, like what has changed from two weeks ago when SoFi was 2650 to yesterday when SoFi was 3250. It's like in the course of a couple weeks, the fundamentals on SoFi after we got those earnings that the only thing that has changed is that they added crypto which seems to be net bullish. So, I do think there was definitely a lot of panic throughout the day. If you just scroll Twitter, the amount of people making comparisons to this is the worst day in history and this is the top and this is like how the dot combo blends. Michael Bur did shut down his fund a week ago. So, a lot of people are saying is, you know, him shutting down his fund either as the top or it could be the bottom. But, um I do think there's an intense level of fear that's out there and it probably caused a ton of selling today. probably had a ton of margin calls come in today as you know S&P down 2% sir and stocks down 5 to 10% that'll create a margin call and that likely increased the level of pain that we show off today. All right, here we go. 20 seconds until the market closes. We got a lot of stuff to analyze. It is going to be a red day. S&P tried to bounce a little bit. I mean it got a$1.90 of a bounce. Nothing much. So, it is going to end red. But it is just one of those days as we get towards the end of the second week of November. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Thursday, November 13th, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, we're done for the day. We survive another day. I know everyone is asking how much am I down. I will give you the official read right now. 184. 184. It's ugly. It's ugly. It's ugly. It's ugly. I'm sure some of you are a bit more than that. Was texting a few people today. They were down a little bit more than that as well. But it's an ugly day and it is what it If you want to put in the chat how much you're down in the day, go ahead and put in the chat and we'll read out some of these numbers. Big Bear AI down 11%, IN 12%, NQ down 10%, D-Wave down 11, Nebius down six, Nvidia down three, Hoodie down eight. Hoodie closing above 120 at least was nice, but it did go below 120. Pounder right there 172. AMD down 4% of the day. AMD still holding two. Like I know it's down 4%, but AMD you could argue would have been down a lot more. So 247 is not that crazy. Netflix down 28. And actually held on today 19%. So shout out to Andas if you're in that one. Uh definitely was a bit of safety. BMR down about 10% on the day. So down 11. Meta actually ended green. Oaklo down eight. Um and then the S&P 500 down about 1.6%. All right. Before we get into earnings, let's read off some of these numbers. Uh June down 176. Uh Humeay down 108. Um KO down 150. Timothy Kan down 6%, Nommo down 40. I'm seeing I think the average of these I'm seeing is like 50 to 70K. Nick down 106. Investing with Jeremy down 73. Brendan down 15. Uh mean down 15. Captain Crunch down 30. Chip Nabel down 30. Fawn down 17. Jeremy down 2.5. Charles down 145K. Yeah, I mean you got a decent amount of six figure losses right here. Elaine down 600. Again, the bigger the portfolio, the more uh aggressive the losses are going to be. And that's just the nature of navigating how this is playing out. Um Andy, thank you for the $5 super chat. I didn't want to send super chats on alltime highs. We still love you onward and upward. Andy, appreciate you, man. Again, look, the good days, and we've had a lot of them this year, are going to have some bad days with it. And you know, unfortunately over the past, I would say four weeks, there's been more ma bad days been good than good. But there's been way more good months than bad months throughout the course of 2025. And so what must go up must come down as well. It's just over the long term, it tends to go up if you invested in the right companies and if the broader economy continues to hold shape. But that doesn't mean you're not going to get ugly days like the day that we got on November 13th here as the S&P is down about 1.72%. I don't have the earnings yet for anything that we're looking for. Again, the three companies are New Bank, Applied Materials. Oh, I think I got Applied Materials, and the other one that we're looking for is Redcat. Applied Materials, they beat by 3% on revenue or 2% on revenue, 3% on EPS, 217 versus 210 on EPS. On Rev, 6.8 versus 6.67. Revenue is down 3%. Year-over-year EPS is down 6%. ticker symbol AMAT that's down another 1% after hours. Applied Materials, New Bank tends to be like I think at like around 5:00 p.m. So I think it's going to take some time before we get their numbers, but Applied Materials right there. That's down 1% on the day. That's a $177 billion company inside of the semiconductor space. That one was down 3% now down 1% here on the day. It's not too bad. It's actually not too bad for their earnings, although they did have a beat on the top and the bottom. Meta right there 609 SoFi bouncing a little bit. We are getting some after hour candles that tends to happen on a red day, but again, no crazy headline that happened throughout the day. I don't know if there's going to be any headline after hours, but nonetheless, it is red. Let me also say this because I was talking to a couple people about this today and I'm curious what some people think. This is just me throwing it out there, so it's, you know, take it with a grain of salt. Um, and then we got 13 FF, so we'll get into those in a second. Uh, I don't think Trump can afford to have the stock market go down for the first year of his presidency to be deemed as a success. And what I mean by that is if the tariffs get reversed by the Supreme Court, he's going to be in a battle with the Supreme Court around the tariffs. That's going to be potentially reversing a lot of the work that he did for the first year. You saw him this morning say we are going to make America affordable again. Obviously, he's starting to focus on this narrative around affordability because it looks like the Republicans are losing the debate on the perception of affordability. The fact that Trump is even thinking of lowering tariffs on coffee and bananas means that they're likely thinking that they kind of messed up on some of the food increases on price with tariffs and they need to decrease that if the stock market goes by the end of the year. Oh, and then and then not to mention the labor market which is declining right now, you know, and that that there's a variety of reasons for that. AI could be a big component which, you know, at the end of the day, Trump's inheriting a brand new economy that's fueled with AI. So, I don't know how any president would be able to deal with that, but nonetheless, you got a bad labor market, you got tariff reversals, and then you have inflation as a higher concern from the Fed, which might not lead to a rate cut. If the stock market goes, I mean, what do you have at the end of the first year? And so, from that perspective, I do think there is some level of incentive that he has to just figure out how to keep the markets up. And and you know, there could be a variety of ways to do that. I don't know exactly how he would implement it, but I do think at some point, I mean, if we were to take a four or five% correction from here at these levels with the country already so concerned about affordability, there could be an argument that he steps in and tries to kind of navigate what's going on with the broader markets. And he literally did this in April. I mean, we saw this happen multiple times and then he did this again in October. So, it's like it's not really theorizing. We've seen it happen. It's just a question of what plays out towards the end of the year with this question. All right, 13 FS. David Ter. We got David Ter. Let's see what he has. TSSI, they had earnings as well. Let me take a look at that real quick. TSSI, uh, down 8%. This is one of the suppliers for Dell. This stock is a small cap, down 8%. We'll get their numbers in a second. They were down 5% on the day. Obviously, a small cap reporting on a day like this is not really the best, but they are down 8%. They're one of the main suppliers for Dell in their Texas data center. All right, David Ter, let's see what he did. He sold 7% or sorry 9% of Baba. Sold 7% of Amazon. Added 2,000% to Whirlpool. Added 9% to Nvidia. This is all Q3. Ended September 30th. He sold 8% of his Google. Uh he added 85% to Kb long China. Added 3% to Taiwan Semi. Sold 7% of Meta. Sold 30% of Vistra. Sold 7% of Microsoft. Sold 10% of Pin Duo Duo. Sold 12% of Uber. Sold 11% of JD. Remember he's managing $7.8 8 billion. He bought AMD. Wow. He bought AMD. 950,000 shares of AMD. He bought Fiserve. That is not a good buy because Fiser's got cut in half, but he bought Ferve. He had to buy it higher than the price it is at right now because it was Q3. Uh he bought American Airlines, 9.2 million shares of American Airlines, and he added 255% to Qualcomm. Wow. Okay, we'll get back to this in a second. New Bank, I think we're getting a move right here. We got New Bank and Redcat. Let me get those numbers, then we'll get back to that. New Bank up 4%. Let me see their numbers on New Bank. Wow, he bought AMD. He's going hard into data centers. New bank beats by 7% on EPS, 16 cents versus 15 cents expected. And then revenue 4.17 versus 4.04. They beat by 3%. Revenue is up 42% year-over-year. EPS is up 45% year-over-year. It is a double beat for New Bank. That stock up 2.7%. It was down 3% on the day, so it's getting back to kind of where it was yesterday. But you do have a nice beat on New Bank. Redcap, that's up 7%. Their numbers, they missed by 60% on EPS, negative 16 cents versus negative10 cents expected. 9.64 million versus 8.18 million expected. They beat by 18% on revenue revenues, up 647% year-over-year. EPS is in line year-over-year. That stock is up 7%. So, they have a miss on the bottom line, beat on the top line. Redcat lost 9% on the day. It's up 7% after hours and that's what you have on Redcap. We'll go deeper into the new bank numbers. I mean, New Bank is an exceptional company. I'm sure they're executing well and that's why they got those double beats, but obviously it's a tough day to report. Nonetheless, the street giving them a 3% move right here after hours. Um, okay. What else did he do? He bought Truist. David Ter buys Truist. That's a regional bank. He sold 7% of Lamb Research, sold 9% of ASML. He bought Keycorp, Citizens Financial, and Comria. Uh I don't know Comrika, but the others are regional banks. Is Isn't Krika another regional bank? Is it? I feel like it is. Coma, CMA, I think it's another region, but the other two are regional banks. Co-America. Did I say Kam? Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Co America. Good. See, like you got like like, "Oh, he's trolling with the mispronunciation." Like, no, dude. You saw the level of confidence I had the way I pronounced it the first time. Like, it's not trolling. This is just how I am. What is Co America? What is this [ __ ] It's a bank, right? I think that's another bank. So, he bought a bunch of regionals. Then, he bought Owens Corning. I don't know what that is. And he bought Zions and Western Alliance. He bought all the regionals. maybe in the midst of that regional credit crisis what people thought was going on he bought like seven regional banks so he's buying regionals he's selling some of the semis he sold 30% of sold 5% of Deutsche Bank he added 67% to BY do that's uh Google's China or China's Google and then he bought AMD 950,000 shares for the first time that's not horrible what is Mohawk Industries I have no idea what's that Mohawk Industries he added to that as well And at 148% MHK, we'll do some research and see what those names are, but that's what you got. So, this is a rather bullish 13F. I mean, he's buying AI. He's trimming some of his other positions, which is reasonable. He's buying airlines, so he's betting on the consumer. He bought 9 million shares of American Airlines. You don't do that if you think the consumer is in trouble. Granted, he could have sold it since September 30th, but uh at least in Q3, he was thinking that. And then he bought a bunch of regional banks, which means he's calling BS on the whole credit crisis that people were screaming about in the regionals. And then he took some profits on Meta, Microsoft, Hindu Duo, Uber, JD. Like that's not crazy to say he's taking some profits right there. UNH. Yeah. What about that one? He sold 92% of his UNH. He took some profits on UNH. Took some profits on UNH. Yes, this is data as of September 30th. This is the best we have. This is data as of Q3. So going from October to December, we are in November now. Obviously things could have changed over the past 45 days, but this is the best we got with this type of data and so we can only judge it from what we had on Q3. Oh, Robin Hood metrics are available today. I forgot. Robin Hood, their October metrics should be out like right now. They are officially out. Okay, let's see what we have for Hood Metrics. Um, funded customers 27 million. That's up 210,000 month overmonth. Again, the the past couple months were also in the high triple digits, but they had to get rid of all the debt accounts, which is why it ended up being a net uh negative month in September and October. So, now that they got rid of all those negative accounts or those debt accounts, it's back to positive. 210,000 month overmonth. Assets 343 billion. That's up from September. Net deposits were 5.6 billion. That's pretty damn good in a month as bad as October. Uh net um uh annual growth rate 43% for overall assets. Equity volumes were 320 billion. That is 34% month overmonth. That is insanity. Options 266.7 million. That's up 22% month overmonth. And then crypto 32.5 billion. That's up 38% month overmonth. Margin 16.5 billion. That's up 500 million month overmonth. Total cashew 34.2 2 billion and security lending's revenue 60 million up 2% month overmonth. So a pretty massive October. Again, we knew a lot of these numbers. We're getting a little bit more clarity on uh some of the numbers that we didn't have. Here's the graphic of what it looks like. Again, these numbers are just pretty incredible. Obviously, November so far has not been the best. It's not the worst either. You know, we're not at alltime highs, but we're definitely not at the October lows. So, if we can have a good November to end out, then Q4 is going to be strong. But net deposits very strong. Obviously platform assets are good. 210,000 customers month over month is incredible. And then equity options and crypto volumes are higher than all of Q3 which is pretty crazy but not too bad. So that's what we have on those Robin metrics. We got a lot more 13Fs to look at. So let's pull those up. By the way, Redcat 15% down. Streets absolutely nuking that one. It's weird because And did amazing today in the drone space. So, the fact that Redcat's getting hit is not getting any love in the drone sector. New bank still up 2.7%. But, uh, Redcat is down 15%. Whirlpool should be up right now because um, Terok stake in that. Up 2.84% from David Ter. And so, you got Whirlpool going green. What about UNH? UNH, he sold most of that UNH right here. That's flat. That's flat. We looked at AAT numbers already. Again, they were decent. I mean, they're not horrible, not amazing. Down 2.54%. Nothing that would kind of reverse some of the trend based on the ugliness that we saw today. It wasn't a blowout beat, but AAP right there down 2.5%. Jim Simons 13F is out. Yes. So, Renaissance Technologies, let me pull that up in a second. Let's take a look at that. Um, and then I think we should be getting a lot more earnings if we got teer already as well. Real quick, let's just uh go to applied materials earnings. And then let's pull up some of these other 13Fs
>> the quarter. This is Q4 on already lowered estimates. I have to point that out. Analysts did cut their estimates after last quarter. So, $2.17 adjusted uh slightly higher than the 209 that was expected and uh $6.8 8 billion for revenue in the quarter. In regards to Q1 guide, $218, five cents higher than what the street anticipated on revenues of 6.85 billion. Gross margins though for Q4 non-GAAP gross margins came in line with expectations, 48.1. Uh there was a line that stood out in the press release to me that uh this is coming from the CFO. quote, "We are preparing applied operations and service organizations to be ready to support higher demand beginning in the second half of calendar 2026." So perhaps that has something to do with it, but shares are down about one and a half%. It seems to be a trend with this company over the last six quarters.
>> Not too bad for Applied Materials, but again, them talking about demand coming back in the second half of 2026, that's probably why the stock is getting hit. Uh geopolitical headlines. We're seeing a bunch of them before we get into the uh 13Fs. White House Ecuador has committed to reduce or eliminate tariffs on sectors including machinery, health products, ICT goods, chemicals, motor vehicles, and certain agricultural products. Okay. The other headline we have right here is White House says Argentina has dismantled many non-tariff barriers that restricted access to its market. White House says Argentina with this agreement has committed to not require consularor formalities for US exports. White House says Argentina will also phase out the statistical tax for US goods. Okay, so good stuff in the context of uh uh Argentina. US military to intensify exercises in Trinidad and Tobago. That's from the Financial Times. That's not from the White House. Uh but that is another geopolitical headline after hours. Not fully sure if that is uh contributing to any level of intensity from a geopolitical perspective, but the Argentina headlines seem relatively decent. White House also says Argentina will provide preferential market access for US goods, exports, including certain medicines, chemicals, machinery, information, technology products, and motor vehicles. White House says Guatemala has committed to address and prevent barriers to US agricultural products in its market. All right, so it seems like Argentina and Guatemala potenti. I mean, you got the S&P actually moving after hours. 673 up 2%. Not a crazy move, but you do have a little bit of a move potentially on those headlines of tariffs and the access to goods being a bit better than expected. TSSI is it down 35% actually. Oh my goodness, dude. It's down 35. These are small caps. I mean, you take a chance with going with some of these names. This was a Dell supplier in the data center space. Did they dilute or something? 35% is ugly. I'll try to see if I can get their numbers. I mean, the the thing about TSSI is I know they're a small supplier, but if they are saying anything about the broader AI demand cycle, that could be a bit of an issue. Revenue was down 40% year-over-year, 41 million. Uh net loss was 1.5 million worse than expected, negative 6 cents. Now again they are a very small supplier so I I doubt they have an impact on the broader AI trend but definitely a big revenue miss and that's why that stock is down 35%. Hims right here is up a little bit after hours don't see any headline but that's up 1.19% unh a little bit as well as that one is slightly green. Okay 13FS uh Renaissance Technologies let me see if I can pull that up right here. Um, I do think from what I'm looking at on my screen, they sold out of their Robin Hood and I think they're out of this. Uh, yep. Let me see it. Okay, I think I have it. Let's pull this up. These guys had Pound Tren Hood as their top two positions basically for the past two years. Uh, let's do closed out first. Uh, first, let's see. Hood. They have a lot of positions, but it looks like Hood is closed. Um, let's see. Okay, I'm not seeing it on this page, but you're seeing right here that they did sell a decent Let's go to what they added first, and then we'll get to what they closed. Uh, new positions. Um, let's see if there's any names we recognize here. TSSI still getting slammed. That's correct. We looked at the Robin metrics already. Those were strong. Not any crazy names that Let's These are all new names. This is all reported as of today. A lot of these names a little bit different. They added Eidzilla. That's one of the names that I recognize. They added Black Sky. Uh they added ROBN. Really? They added double leverage Robin Hood. They added ARG. They added RK. These are all new positions as of Q3. They added Eidzilla. Huh. Let me see. Uh let me see if I can pull something else up. It does look like based on what I'm looking at in a different source that they sold their they sold a billion bucks worth of hood. A billion bucks worth of hood. Palunteer they sold 4 million shares. Nvidia 1.7 app loving 400,000. Microsoft they added 940,000 shares. Roblox they added 781,000. Palier and Vidia are now one and two. They have 8 million of Palenteer. Again they've been investing in Palare for the past couple years. Nvidia they have 5.6 million. And Apploven they sold about 400,000 shares. So that's what you have from Renaissance. So, I'm going to try to get a more decent read on the numbers. They did not add BMR, not from what I'm seeing on this one, but they did sell. I'm trying to get the confirmation on Hood to see this one. They definitely did sell it. Hood used to be like a top top holding in the portfolio. So, the fact that it's not there anymore means they definitely sold. We we looked at New Bank earnings already. Again, New Bank's green. It was up. Looks like a relatively strong quarter on New Bank. Uh making a 4% move. Again, New Bank was at this level like three days ago. So it it has seen the 1630s before. I think alltime high is 1655. 1615 after hours. That's up 4% after a beat on the top and bottom. I don't know why HIMS is up. I think you know a lot of these stocks some of them might be moving just based on 13 apps that are adding them. So if someone influential like bought him, for example, that could be causing a boom. What the big news on him today was that they launched a $199 per year subscription uh called lab testing. And uh essentially the idea is that you can submit your blood and it gives you a bunch of biomarkers and it tells you different stuff about yourself. And the CEO thinks this can be a billion dollar business for them. So that's bullish. But that was news that came out earlier in the day. Hims right there up a little bit after hours. Hims was down 7% on the day. So, that is what you have there. See if we have anything else disclosed on this. Again, Renaissance has 2,000 positions. So, it's and they're not even showing all the positions. So, that's why I'm trying to get a summary of it. Let's um pull another website up so I can see this here. Um, okay. Their top buys were Meta, Microsoft, Roblox, and Google. That is what we are looking at here in terms of the main ones. Again, all this is updated literally as of today. They do have a lot of positions right here, but those were the main ones. Let me pull up another one and see what we're looking at. TSSI really getting hit. We'll go to their website in a second and see what else is going on. Bridgewater, did they update their 13F? Not yet. We don't have Bridgewwater yet. Let's check um let's check Howard Marks and Oak Tree. They are not it yet. Not yet out either. All right. So, we only have Renaissance and the other one which was ter. That's it. Yeah, we went over the hood metrics. So, it was good. Chris will be on in a bit. I sent him the link, so he'll hop on in a second. And we'll get to talk to him for his ideas, unless he fell asleep, which he works during the night, so there is a chance he fell asleep, but he should be here. Um, okay. TSSI, let's try to get deeper on what they said. Let's go to their website. We'll keep an eye on these on these uh 13Fs that are coming out. Again, we should be getting most of them today. financials reports. Dude, these companies do not make it easy to find their freaking their freaking data. Like goodness. Like like what what are they doing? They said they they say go to a link to click on a link to then find the access to the data. Okay, TSSI. Let's pull this up right here. Redcat is dumping hard. We'll go through their numbers in a second as well. Um, our year-to- date revenue growth of 88% adjusted even improvement of 59% underscore the strength and momentum of our business. This quarter's procurement revenues reflected comparison against last year's exception strong Q3 results. Basically saying we had tough comps and that's why it's hard to beat it. Revenues of 41 million down 40%, procurement revenues of 31 million down 50%. System in integrations was up 20%. Facilities management down 19%. Gross profit down 41%. Yeah, I mean, when you're if you're in the semiconductor space and you're down any percent year-over-year, much less 40% given the AI boom that we're having, Street's not going to like it. Street is not going to like it. So, that's why you're seeing TSSI get hit at the level that is Yeah, it was at 15 bucks. It was at 15. Uh Nike is up again. There's a little bit of safety right there in Nike. That's green after hours. Um, Eleven's Health is also up on the day. That one held on. Oscar obviously got hit from those subsidies, down another 7%. And then UNH kind of holding on today, only down 2%. We talked about the October metrics for Hood already. They were good. Again, we already knew most of them. Um, as for the earnings, I mean, they pretty much disclosed them already. So, there's nothing that new that we're getting from the metrics. But look, the metrics are phenomenal. I mean there's like again they did 320 billion of equity volumes in one month that is surpassing a good chunk of what they did in Q3. So again why was Hood down 10% of that? Well the entire market got hit. So the high beta velocity of a name like a Hood or a Reddit etc is going to take it down. But these results are not something I think the street is upset about. It's just more so a question of its positioning in the market. Total platform assets again 343 billion then funded customers up 210,000 month overmonth. Did Figure have earnings today? FIGR. I know this is a uh crypto-based lending company, right? That's up 7%. They did have earnings. FIGR. This was an IPO this year. Actually, I think uh Roy is a fan of these guys. I don't know if he owns them, but he has been covering them. Uh revenue 156 versus 119 million. That's a 40 million beat. Not bad. Adjusted EBA 86 versus 54 million. EPS uh 34 cents versus 16 cents. Wow, that's a beat on revenue, beat on IBIDA, beat on EPS. Loan marketplace volume 2.5 billion. That's up 70% year-over-year. And it looks like they increased guidance figure technology solutions that's up 7% $7.32 billion company as that is green. All right, so you did have some companies with some decent earnings. Obviously, some of the others got hit like a new bank or a Redcat. Uh we got another 13F. This is Chuck Akre. He manages Acre Capital Management, $10 billion. We should be getting a lot more throughout the course of the night. Let's see what he did. He sold 4% of Mastercard, sold 1% of KKR, sold 6% of Visa, sold 8% of Moody's, 8% of O'Reilly, 19% of Roper Technologies. He added 2,000% to FICO. So he obviously took advantage of the FICO dip added 10% to CCC intelligence solutions reduced 4% of Verisk Analytics and reduced 51% of American Tower. Nothing too crazy, but that is another one of those 13Fs that are out. TSSI, yes, down 40% again. Horrible earnings on the top and the bottom for these guys. They also diluted like three months ago. Again, when you're messing with small caps that like really have one customer they rely on, like Adele, I mean, you know, they could be relying on Adele, but then the earnings picture might not say hello to them. It might say goodbye instead. So, TSSI right there down 42% and down 5% during the day as well. Redcat down 11% as that one is also getting hit. Let's try to go to Redcat's page and see what they had. Dude, I think Chris fell asleep. I'm pretty sure Chris fell asleep. He was probably because he was texting me like three hours ago. He probably didn't sleep all night, dude. He was probably up looking at the markets and he's probably knocked out right now. Um, okay. So, this was Redcat Q3. This is Redcat Q3. Uh revenue growth 646% year-over-year. Uh in Q3 guiding Q4 revenue of a,045%. Again, they had a good earnings on the top and the bottom. There's just something the street must be upset about. Jeff Thompson, our record-breaking third quarter revenue, the expansion of our contract with US Army clearly demonstrates the accelerating adoption of our specialized solutions. We are seeing significant returns on our focus strategy with our products being validated by major government agencies and NATO allies. Our financial performance this quarter demonstrates the operational leverage and discipline we have is effectively scaling to meet surging demand. I mean, I'm not sure exactly what the street was looking for, but obviously the street's upset about something. That's down 10.72% right here on Redcat guidance. Uh I mean they're guiding for 124% revenue growth in Q4. They have 212 million in cash. They they actually increased their guidance to 37.5 million for fiscal year 2025. There's got to be something else the street does not like. But that stock is getting hit. That stock is getting hit. And that's what we got. Let's call Chris. Let's see if he's awake. I doubt he's awake, bro. He's got to be knocked out. He was excited for Macro Thursday, too, because we haven't done it in a couple weeks. So, he was excited for it. He probably saw the market today. He's like, "Dude, screw this. I'm going to bed." Like, I can't even blame him, dude. I can't even blame him because he does work during the night. So, he usually sleeps early in in the daytime and then wakes up by now. But
>> yeah, he's not picking up, folks.
>> You've reached Chris Patel.
>> He's knocked out. Knocked out. Oscar right there up a little bit after hours. And then the S&P getting a little bit of a boost. Let's see if I can get more of these 13Fs coming out. We should be getting a lot more. I'll be live with Steve tonight. Steve's not available right now, guys, because he's at work. But I'll be live with him tonight at 9:30 as always on Thursdays. Um, and so we'll obviously talk about everything going on tonight as well. Okay, let's get back to Renaissance. They do have a lot of positions, but we can at least go through them. Isn't is is Tanner live for New Bank? Tanner's probably he's not live yet. Okay, Tanner, I think, is going to be streaming New Bank. Let's go back to Renaissance. See if we can get anything out of this. Um, this is all disclosed as of today, November 13th. Let's go to closed out. Let's see if we can see anything. Oh, they sold all of their BABA. Okay, they're out of Baba. Um, trying to see tickers that we know about. They sold older Baba. They sold again. They own a lot of stuff. They So, Centric Energy, they got rid of all that. 122,000 shares. Leu. Okay. Um, I'm pretty sure we'll see Hood if not completely sold, but some of it. They sold CLT 45,000 shares. I bought Zeta yesterday. Yeah, I bought a little bit of Zeta yesterday. Not today. Um, RGT they sold out of entirely. FICO, they sold out of that entirely, 18,000 shares. Um, IVV value fund for S&P they sold out of completely. Japan, they sold out of completely. EWJ, nothing that notable outside of Hood. Well, we'll take a look at that. Yeah, those are your main ones. Those are your main ones. Again, they do have a lot of positions. So, their positions fluctuate a ton. Bridgewwater and Oak Tree and then Aman are the main ones we're looking for as well, but those are not out yet. All right, so that's what we got. We'll keep an eye on them. But earnings right here again, Redcat down 10%, TSSI ugly down 41. Figure Technology that's up 9%. And then then the S&P up 0.09%. Yeah, guys, Chris is definitely asleep. He would have picked up. I know. Chris is definitely asleep. Ugly day, but nonetheless, it is indeed a day that we have to go through. All right, so put in the chat, what are we thinking about the overall state of the markets right now? I saw some of the dip eyes. We saw the amount that people were down on the day. I mean, put in the chat if you had to summarize in a sentence kind of how you're feeling about the state of this market right now as I try to pull up some other 13Fs. What are we thinking? Again, these companies outside of, you know, TSSI, which is relative not as important given the small cap, new banks putting up good earnings, applied materials putting up good earnings. The earnings picture has not seemed to change and based on the companies that have reported so far, it's still not seeming like it's changed today. But the market's uh interpretation of a lot of this stuff potentially has at least in the short term. Buy the dip. Someone says bubble popping, the other person says buy the dip. That's what makes a market. That's what makes a market. Let's listen to uh Everor is Julian Emanuel. He is pretty bullish on the state of this market. And so let's get his thoughts on kind of how he's thinking of this rate cut or where it's going. But I think most analysts institutionally are also still saying it is a buy the dip even if you're seeing a rotation which I mean that's pretty normal at the end of the day. Um new bank did beat on earnings. That's correct. See a lot of dip buys. BMR dip buying today. Some people saying they're still short. Is this the start of a 2026 crash? I think that's a good question. I don't know. I think it really does depend on that rate cut to be honest, but we're going to have to see if we actually get it. Again, look, here's my thing. For a 2026 crash to happen, you would have to have macro go the wrong way and then the whole AI picture go the wrong way. Uh macro so far, labor market's not the best. Rate cut is in question. So, it's yet to see if that goes the wrong way. And then AI, I don't think that's going the wrong way. Even if people are afraid of Oracle, you know, putting out a ton of debt. Even what Jose talked about today, the reason Cororeweave is getting crushed, even though they doubled their backlog to 55 billion, which is just shows you how insatiable the demand is. As per what Lisa Sue was saying, the debt story is not what the street likes. It's like, okay, you don't have to like the debt story. That doesn't mean the AI narrative is gone. And that is really what's been powering the market. So, I think those two things need to collapse. I don't see that easily happening right now. Now on a day like today which is still you know well within the ranges from a couple weeks ago it feels ugly but I think that is the broader concern that the market's having right now. And then we have Nvidia next week which is also going to be a big catalyst
>> to reopen the government last night. uh we we peaked uh and frankly when you think about it the expectation was that you would have uncertainty resolved and lo and behold if anything uncertainty has intensified a bit more given the fact that there's an opaque aspect to whether or not we're going to get October economic data how we're going to get it what form we're going to get it uh and the net effect of all of that is it's actually made it uh basically a coin toss us whether the Fed is going to cut rates in December. And given the run that we've had in high multiple stocks, that's a headwind in the near term.
>> Well, should investors care if the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates in December or cuts rates in January?
>> Well, look, you for for the bullish case, you would certainly prefer uh that they cut in December. Uh it's also a function of the messaging if the data is either not produced or not terribly clear and it calls into question whether there's going to be a cut in January if there isn't in December and for the record aisi does believe that they do cut in December. It's just another lay layer of uncertainty that with a market trading at 26 times, uncertainty is definitely one of those things.
>> Notice what he's saying, which is what I agree with. The problem here is not the fundamentals of the reasons to be bullish. He's saying there's just more uncertainty. And we all are old enough to understand that the market hates uncertainty and this shutdown that's going to start again on January 30th is only creating more uncertainty. uh the lack of CPI jobs data, more uncertainty, and then what's going to go on with the Supreme Court tariff case, more uncertainty. So, I I based on what I've been reading today as well from a variety of different analysts, it's it's not about cracks in the broader thesis for why they were bullish in the first place all year. It's this uncertainty angle. The fun thing about that is that can change real quick and you can get some certainty. Even if it's bad news, you can get some certainty there. But the lack of that transparency is what I think is really just freaking out markets. that is more difficult uh for stocks to digest here.
>> So give us the bull case. Take us Julian to 7750 next year.
>> Sure. The bull case really rests on this idea that structural bull markets like the one we've been in since the low in October 2022 driven by the AI theme don't tend to end on valuation alone. What the the things that we'd be looking for recession. There are few if any signs of recession. Uh the second sort of element would be an adverse interest rate setup. Uh from the perspective of the Fed, you may not get as many cuts as the market is pricing in right now. But the one thing we know you won't get uh which was what killed the internet uh rally in 1999 was a Fed that was hiking. They actually hiked six times in the second half of 1999 to pop what they perceived to be a bubble. That is not going to happen uh in our view till at least the midterms. uh next year there will be no hikes on regardless of how the data sorts itself out. 10-year yields remain very rangebound. Uh and for us, if you look at past bull markets going back 25 years, they've all had late stage capital market surges and we've certainly seen a pickup in deal activity in recent weeks and months. But frankly, compared to the prior peaks in 2021, 2007, and 1999, we think there's lots more to go that are is the prop against a a Washington that will likely continue to be providing liquidity, monetary and fiscal. Uh those are the elements that get you to 77. I
>> I mean, look, I agree.
>> I agree with pretty much everything he's saying right there. At the end of the day, from a historical perspective, he's right about that. It's very hard for a bull market structurally like we are in and you can define structural in a variety of ways, but one of the ways is a new technology that is underpinning the foundation of why there is optimism and excitement around earnings growth, margin efficiencies, etc. Uh it doesn't end when we're cutting rates. 2021 we raised rates. 2000 Fed was raising rates. I mean, unless we're going to hike rates in 26. I know we're struggling to cut them in December, but I don't think we're hiking them. So, you don't have to have some blowout crazy bull market by end of year, but you definitely don't need to have some disgusting cataclysmic bare market like we had in 22 or in 2002 if um if if you're hiking because we're not going to be hiking and the you know, the labor market data does not support any level of a hike. So that's why I think structurally there's a little bit of a different concern right here. And then again, you know, I hate to say it, but when you zoom out on a lot of these names, even a Nebius, which I know has been getting crushed, or a core, etc., Nebar to date is up 190%. Like Hood is up 205%. So a lot of these names losing some of their premium is not indicative of a bare market because you would imagine that I mean in 2022 again, those names were down 70 at least. hood was down 70%. Like for a full-on selloff, people just are straight like, "Hey, I'm out. I'm done." I think you need to have something a bit more intense. And I don't think we have that right now. Bitcoin right here, are we holding on to 98? 98.7 on Biddy. Uh and then Ethereum right here is at 3178. If Pal raises rates, Trump's going to go ballistic. I agree. Again, I here's the thing. Like there is plenty of data to indicate that the labor market is weakening. That is not like something that's questioning. The Verizon headline today was similar to that. Does that mean you get out of the markets or does that mean you say, "Hey, wait a second. If rates are going to come down presumably in a more aggressive manner because of all that labor market data, then that would be enough to justify maybe not going crazy buying the dip, but definitely not ruining uh an entry price. I mean, if you got into Nvidia at $95 in April, do you sell at 180 because you're concerned about the labor market or do you look past that, especially in a lowering rate environment for what's going on with Nvidia and the broader AI trade? Now, the the bare case to why you get to sell Nvidia at these levels if you were to steal that argument is uh labor market collapses, earnings go down, big tech stops spending on capex because they're so afraid of their overall business getting hurt. They capitulate to the street saying that hey, you have to stop spending on capex. But so far the street has really rewarded them spending on capex outside of meta. Um and then Nvidia gets hit. That's very possible. The question then becomes do we think the labor market or the broader economy gets to that point where Google says we are not going to spend hundred billion dollars on capex because we are and and invest so deeply in this opportunity that we think is once in a lifetime. Same thing we were listening to Nadella say this morning about why you know they have to keep spending on capex. Do we think they're not going to do that because do we think the economy gets so bad to the point where they're not going to do that or do we think that they have the ability to navigate even if it's not in the best manner aka a little bit of debt financing or they um take away from their cash reserves to be able to finance the overall data center buildout. If that continues in the face of a weakening labor market as rates come down, which actually makes the debt even more attractive to finance, that doesn't hurt the AI trade. In fact, if the AI trade increases the productivity and margins, the one thing they would do before they potentially cut their capex is cut more jobs, which again, this is the internal nuance of of this economy. It's like, okay, cutting those jobs are bad because that hurts the labor market, but their margins are going up. And at the end of the day, if rates are low, you have to allocate capital somewhere, right? You're not going to settle for just two or 3%. And so, it might end up going into an Amazon or a Google that cuts jobs, which is not good for the economy, but it is technically good for the stock prices. That's why we saw Verizon was up today by 1% even though they cut uh cut 15,000 jobs. So my point is I don't think it's as black and white as people think it is. Like if you're full-on bearish and you're just like, "Hey, this is why I'm bearish." Like that's fine, but I think there's a lot of nuance. Same thing if you're super bullish. Obviously, I think there's a little bit more ammo for the bulls to be going forward just because the earnings growth has been so good. But I think there is a gray area of nuance that's important to navigate. Why do you think they are hiding the inflation numbers? I think inflation is up obviously. I mean, we we were looking at some data today from alternative sources, um, even trueflation that says grocery prices, food prices are up year-over-year. And obviously, the White House doesn't want to admit it. At some point, they're going to have to admit it. Like, it's inevitable. They don't want to. I get why they don't want to. It looks bad. That's why they keep focusing on this whole affordability thing. But yes, inflation is up. Even with inflation up, my argument is if the downside risks to the labor market are higher than the upside risks to inflation, which is not me saying that. That is Mr. Jerome Pal saying that as of three weeks ago, then you still cut rates. And in the midst of still cutting rates, that could be a backs stop to an extent to support equity prices. But 1,000% I agree with the people saying, "Hey, hiding the data is not bullish." Yes, it's not. And could the market keep selling off because of that? 100% it could. I mean, tomorrow could be uglier than today simply based on the fact that it's a Friday, number one. And then number two, there's no headline to kind of pivot and save the market. I mean, on Friday, last week, the headline was the Democrats are ready to end the shutdown. Boom, market reverses. Everything's cool. That headline's gone. I don't know what new headline, you know, potentially Trump could come up with to kind of uh be a backs stop, but if it's lack of transparency and that continues to crack the markets in the short term, then yeah, that could happen. And I think that's something everyone has to be prepared for. Obviously, I would hope that that is not the case, but it could indeed happen. Do we have any more? Oh, Chris said he was in a meeting. Oh, I think Chris might make it. He was in a meeting. Wow. This man was working. He wasn't sleeping. He was working. Oh, no. He said he can't do it. He said he'll be on tonight. Okay. So, we'll be on tonight at on Steve's channel, Me, Steve, and Chris at 9:30. Unfortunately, he can't make it right now. Or is he lying to me? Was he lying that he was in a meeting, but in reality, he was sleeping? You guys think he was lying? He's He's trying to cover himself or he legit was in a meeting. Okay, we have a 13F uh from who's this guy? Dennis Hong manages 672 million. He added 70 60% to Shift 4. Tanner will be happy about that. Added 4% to Octa. Bought Liberty Media. That's the same name that Buffett owns. Added 50% to Vertex. Added 10% to Blend Labs. added 33% to monday.com. Shift four, I think, is the one that's the most notable from what I'm seeing there. Um, I don't have any else, guys. I don't have any else. I'm looking for Bridgewwater. Don't have it. Birkshshire don't have it yet. Bill Aman don't have it. The other ones like like Black Rockck are not worth looking at. Again, when you see Black Rockck or Goldman bought, it's they buy and sell everything. So, I'm looking for opinionated investors that have been doing this for a long time and seeing where they're allocating capital, but not seeing those disclosed yet. So, we're going to have to see until that officially comes out. Invesco is similar to uh Black Rockck and the JP Morgan. So them adding 15 million shares of grab again, it's just not really a headline to me. Like seeing Howard Marks add to his grab position, which I'm curious about, that's going to be a headline. But seeing a big fund that manages a lot of money and again has to make markets, it's it's not really bullish. It's not even that bullish. It just doesn't tell you anything. There's not really anything to infer from that. 672 on the S&P. That's down 1.6. Bridgewwater's not out yet. Let me check again, but I don't see Bridgewwater. They do have 10 million shares of grab. I think they added Hood last time as well. Brad Gersonner, I will check if it's out. Oh, is it out? Bridgewwater. Okay, it's out. Here we go. All right, Bridgewwater. We are out. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see what we got. Bridgewater. Let's do additive first. Um, and let's see what they added to on Bridgewwater. Um, let's look at a couple of different things. They have 325 positions. Okay, so uh Walmart, they added 30,000 shares. Uh, Zion Bank, they added 371,000 with the regionals. Wingstop, they added 126 shares. Not a lot. Yelp, they added 56,000. AMD, they added AMD. I don't see it yet, but it seems like they did. Mardo Libre, they added 24,000 shares. Snowflake, they added 22,000 shares. PNC, they added 40,000 shares. Um, Visa, they added 31,000 shares. Netflix, they added 23,000. Micro Strategy, they added 2,000. Uh, Grab, wow, they added, is this correct? 4.5 million. Yeah. Wow. 15.1 million shares now for Grab. 4.5 million Bridgewater ads. In Q3, they added 4 million last time, 6 million the time before that. 4.5 million on Grab. So, they did add a pretty big amount right there on Grab. Let's go to the ones that are brand new. This is as of today. New positions. They added CleanSpark 64,000. Uh Cloudflare 15,000. Um, Delta 90,000, Dolingo 50,000, Nphase 209,000, FNB 1.2 million. Uh, those seem to be the main ones. Let's see what else they have. They have a couple more. Um, Monday they added 199,000. That's a new position. Kinder Morgan, that's 114,000. Those are the pipelines. Joby 15,000. Again, they had a lot of positions. Trying to see the most recognizable names. Loheed Martin 45,000. That's a brand new position as well. And then Micron 280,000. This is Whale Wisdom. This is Whale Wisdom is the name of the website. Serve Robotics 12,000 shares. Rocket Lab. Wow. 177,000. That's new for them as of Q3. Looks like their average, Will Wisdom is saying, is 41. That could be potentially inaccurate, but 177,000. Robin Hood. Oh, wow. 87,000. Really? They added Robin Hood, too? Okay, they added Robin Hood. Bridgewater adds 87,000 of Robin Hood. 115 million of Hood. They added 177,000 of Rocket Lab. and then 89,000 of Roblox. Uh so you got those three names. Palunteer, they added 107,000 of Palunteer. Wow. Again, you hear from a lot of people that Palunteer is too expensive for the institutions. I mean, if they added in Q2, the lowest price they could have possibly got was $140. They probably got around that 150 170 range. 107,000 shares of pounder. And 76,000 shares of Andos. Uh, Novo 138,000 shares. Irene, I don't see Irene on their list. We'll go to the ones they sold in a second, but you do have Robin Hood, Rocket Lab, Palunteer as some ads on the list. Upstart, they added 61,000 shares. I don't see SoFi on the list. Uh, again, still don't see IEN TMDX organ transplant company, they had a 30,000 shares. Wendy's 97,000 shares. Zcaler, 26,000 shares. They definitely watch the stream. Uh, Falling Knife, thank you for the $200 super chat, man. Appreciate you. Thank you for being here and thank you for that super chat. That is very kind of you on a day like today. So, thank you for the super chat. I don't see on this list, guys. Some of you guys are saying I don't see it. They they did add Carvana 14,000 shares. That's a new one as well. I ran. It's It's alphabetical, so it should be on this list right here. It's not Maybe it's on the third one. I Oh, no. It's there. It's there. I 77,000 shares. 77,000 shares on Iran. There you go. 77,000 new shares of Ibran. Okay. What do they sell? What do they close out? What did Bridgewater get rid of? Um, it's not showing me. Weird. It's not showing me what they closed. Oh, no. There it is. There it is. Okay. Okay, so they sold Shopify, sold uh Fizer million shares, sold Lyft, 2.4 million shares. Tempest, they sold Tempest AI, Spotify, they got out of Stein, they got out of gold, they had gold ETF, GLD, they sold a million shares that United Airlines, they got out of as well. So they got Ter buying American Airlines, but Bridgewwater selling United Airlines. Tesla, they got rid of their Tesla 19,000 out of that. Uh Ally 52,000. That's a bank. They sold that. Coinbase 5,000. They sold that. What about Nvidia? They have Nvidia. Uh they didn't sell out of the position completely. Those are all the positions that were closed. 64 positions. Let's go to reduced. Maybe we'll see a reduction for Nvidia. Um, JPM as well. Yep, JPM as well. They sold some of that. Leu, we talked about that one already. Uh, Google, 2.9 million shares. They sold. Again, they've held some of these names for a long time, so it's not that crazy that they're selling some of them. Alab, 62,000 shares. BP25,000. AV 337,000. They sold some shares. I do not see Nvidia on the list. Is Nvidia there? Let's see. Let's see. Up four million shares of Nvidia. 4.7. That's not a That's a 65% reduction. So, they still have um 2.3 million shares. 2.5. And Meta, they sold 390,000. So, they have 400,000 shares of Meta left and 2.5 million shares of Nvidia. But that is a decent chunk. 48% Meta stake they sold and then 65% Nvidia stake that they sold. Yes, this is Ray Dalio's fund. I don't think he actively manages it anymore, but Bridgewwater is associated with Ray Dalio. So, the biggest sells right there, Nvidia and Meta. PayPal, they sold 30% 232,000 shares. The S&P they sold 45,000 shares of that. Shift 4, they sold about 2,000 shares. Nvidian Meta being the big ones. Uber, they sold 129,000. And then Ulta, they sold 58,000. Yes, Q3. This was in Q3. Uh, Amazon, did they sell off some of their Amazon? Let's see. They did. They sold 10% of their Amazon. 118,000 shares. 118,000 shares of Amazon. Okay. So, they added four and a half million shares of Grab Rocket Lab. They added Hood. They added Palunteer. They added Amazon Meta. Nvidia, they sold off a bit more. Again, they again, they've been in those names for the past couple years, so it's not crazy to imagine them selling. Hims, they also sold 80% of the position, 472,000 shares on HIMS. They got out AMD. Uh I Let's see if they added to AMD. They did add to AMD 39,000 shares.11% addition to their AMD. They have um 1.7 million shares of AMD. Okay, so that was one of the biggest 13Fs. Let me see if we got Brad Gersonner. Uh that would be also important to see. Do we have that one out yet? We do not have Brad Gersonner out yet. Oak Tree, do we have them out? We do not have Oak Tree out yet either. And then Birkshire, we don't have as well. All right, those are the names. Those are the names so far. We looked at a couple in the morning. David Ter was another big one we looked at. Those are the 13Fs so far. FDIC chair, the agency is developing guidance on tokenized deposit insurance to provide clear regulatory parameters or parameters for financial institutions looking to expand into digital assets. So that is consistent with what the uh CDIC has also been talking about in terms of new policies around tokenization. This administration is pretty friendly around creating frameworks for tokenization. So the FDIC coming out with that is not crazy to see. So, let's get an update right here on crypto versus gold and kind of what's been going on and then we'll keep going from there. Bitcoin's performance over that period of time. You see, it's been pretty stark too over the last month or so with it acceleration higher in gold and Bitcoin has hit some hard times. Fell below 100,000 today. It's been some sloppy action in the last month. There was that liquidation event, that one day selloff October 10th, 11th, and the Bitcoin has not really been able to kind of pick itself up from that in a sustainable way. However, take a look at this analysis by JP Morgan, which compares Bitcoin's price to the cost to produce a single Bitcoin, which is also rising by design. Keep in mind the way you produce a bitcoin, the way you mine it is these computers do these increasingly difficult calculations to win the right to have earned a uh a single bitcoin. Now what the JP Morgan is trying to portray here is it's it usually gets support when it gets down toward its cost of production which is around $94,000 right now. So we'll see if this holds up. a lot of commodities, they will actually get support at their cost of production because people just stop producing it and therefore the supply just goes away. Well, that's not really going to happen here. They're still going to uh supply Bitcoin. At least probably the network's still going to function. But worth noting right here as a lot of other things seem to work against crypto at the moment.
>> I wonder if that chart though, Mike, that you're showing right now is a little of that don't think about the stay puff marshmallow man. I mean, is it is it a a suggestion or is it a rule? people think it can't fall below the price of production. Does that lock them in potentially to a trade that that makes it happen?
>> Well, first of all, it absolutely could because my view for for Bitcoin in general is there's nothing really that it's about, right? Except for people's collective decision that it's a store of value of some kind. I've never thought there was a right or wrong price for it. But there are trading dynamics and patterns that people do try to pin some some meaning to. So, we'll see if if that holds up this time. I couldn't say for sure uh but I did find it interesting that at least someone's grasping for some fundamental input here.
>> Well, the the market stays in.
>> All right, Bitcoin continuing to show some weakness here. It broke 98 at one point trying to hold above 98. We do have another 13F. Seth Clarman who manages 4.7 billion 30% of Google. They sold 114% increase in Eleven's health. Wow. selling Google to buy healthcare. Again, that whole idea of de-risking tech to rotate into defensives continuing to be seen in the 13Fs. If this was Q2, it likely would have been adding to Google uh like we saw three months ago. Uh he bought COD, American Parts, bought Union Pacific, um added to Ferguson Enterprises, and then Elements Health. He also added to Restaurant Brands International. QSR that is a very big institutional stock. Um Restaurant Brands International, that's up 7% this year. And then Google sold 30%. And that's what you got with some of these other 13Fs. BMR estimated MNAP for Gemini is 1.118. Yeah, look, here's the thing. We need to know the amount of shares that are outstanding for BMR. I mean, it's getting kind of annoying to not know what is there so we can make these calculations. Um, but I think without that it's going to be a little tough to officially calculate this MNAV. ETH right here 3100. ETH is I mean I haven't looked at ETH too much on the day, but obviously it's broke down. It was at 36 in the morning was at 33 I think when we finished the market open now at 31. It broke below 31 for a second. 3180 and then Bitcoin trying to hold on to 98,000. Can ETH stand on its own if Bitcoin keeps going down? You know, I a lot of these crypto names trade in tandem with each other. And so, could there be a divergence in which it does hold its own? Yeah, potentially. Uh just think through its life cycle, the only one that's really held its own, even if other names dropped off, is Bitcoin. But you would have to imagine a lot of this goes together as they go up or down. Salana is down. Binance is down. XRP that's down. I think pretty much everything over the past 24 hours is getting hit. Dogecoin's down five. Chain link's down six. You know, there's a lot of people that love Chain Link and that's fine. I think Chain Link is cool, but like it is going to get hit with the rest of these cryptocurrencies every day or it'll go up with the cryptocurrencies. But nonetheless, that happens. Apple's cutting app store app fees to 15% for many apps that adopt its age range technology according to Reuters. Never heard of their age range technologies, but cutting fees could definitely be more bullish for volumes on the Apple App Store. How about Fartcoin? Well, today Fartcoin was down 9%. It's still a 200 uh 50 million market cap. There's there's still two $259 million in Fcoin, but this thing was pushing like $2 at one point. There was a cyber security issue with Anthropic. I'll pull that up right here. That headline kind of got lost in the midst of the selloff today, but apparently the Chinese tried to hack something and Anthropic stepped in. Let me get you the exact uh exact headline right here on how that played out
>> right now on the AI front and Mackenzie Seagalos is in San Francisco. What do you have, Mackenzie? Hey, Contessa. So, Anthropic says it's uncovered what may be the first documented case of an AI orchestrated cyber attack. A sign that they say of just how fast the threat landscape is shifting. Now, this goes back to September when a Chinese statebacked group used anthropics cla to automate nearly every step of a global espionage campaign. Now, in this case, hackers jailbroke claude code by posing as cyber security testers. And we know that hackers have long used AI for things like crafting fishing emails or scanning for vulnerabilities, but this was a lot more sophisticated than what we've seen before. You've got Anthropic saying that Claude was handled up to the the model itself was handling up to 90% of the the attack with humans only stepping in a few times to approve decisions. So we're talking cyber attacks with a click of a button. Claude essentially writing and deploying exploit codes, stealing credentials, exfiltrating sensitive data, and even documenting the attack to then reuse later. Roughly 30 government and corporate targets were hit. A few intrusions were successful before Anthropic shut it down and alerted authorities. And it is worth noting, Contessa, Anthropic only acknowledged this attack from two months ago after the Wall Street Journal broke this news today. Anthropic they are calling it a turning point where AI has gone from assistant to operator warning that unless defenders start using the same tools they risk falling behind. It goes to show how important cyber security is going to be in the age of AI. I mean the fact that you have Chinese actors using these models to um hack into financial institutions by deploying the models in a obviously in a way that is not I would imagine part of the ethical guidelines of a claude or a Gemini or an open AAI. It's going to bring a lot more heightened risk and scrutiny. I mean I feel like that's the part we don't talk about as much. We're trying to figure out all the ROI from AI, but obviously if AI gets into the wrong hands, then it can get pretty aggressive. That is kind of what Jensen's point is around the US versus China. But you do have more updates on that trade. So Claude right there again, they said they're going to spend 50 billion on data centers yesterday. They're guiding for 70 billion in revenue by 2028. So their metrics are still looking pretty strong, but nonetheless, the market is still worried about the debt financing on this capex trade. S&P 500 basically flat. after hours. There's a BMR 2x short ETF. What is the ticker on that? Dude, I would imagine I mean again these inverse ETFs pretty good hedges today. There's a lot of these short inverse ETFs, they're meant to kind of be bought and sold within a short time frame unless you know stocks keep going down, but all of those were a hedge today. BMZ BMNZ. All right. Up 15%. That is the inverse Tom Lee BMR ETF. BMNZ. That's what you have. I knew my perplexity app was spying on me. Yeah, AI hacking is wild. Rubric. I mean, that's another kind of bullcase for this one. Rubic right here down 4%. Dude, pretty much everything got you had to be in Verizon or like Lily or Nike to kind of avoid some of the pain today. I mean, if you were in Meta, you kind of avoided the pain, but everything else got you. I mean, you have to be in Sweet Green. Someone said in the morning, the ALOS don't care about Sweet Green, which didn't have a good earnings either, but Sweet Green right here, that was up 11%. ugly day in the capital equity markets, but nonetheless one of those days. Again, I continue to believe I do not think it is the end of the world. I really don't I know it's ugly on the portfolios, but it also is significantly higher than where we were in April. Remember, in April, we were 4,800 on the S&P. Yeah. Birkshire was up 2% as well. So, you know, when the S&P was 4,800, if someone had told you, hey, by the end of the year, the S&P will be 670. Even if they said the S&P would be 650, you'd be ecstatic, right? Because to to to bounce from those, remember, we had a 10% move when Trump tweeted it's a great time to buy. I think it was like on April 8th or something or April 12th. And um it was the largest intraday move in the history of the S&P 500. That 10% within two hours. Um it was in mid April April 10th. It was April 10th. So that erased a lot of the pain and then we started moving higher. The thing is we got to 690 two weeks ago and now we're at 672 which sucks but it is obviously much much better from the worst of it in April. Can we not do year to dates tomorrow? We got to do year to date. It's every Friday. We're going to give ourselves 24 hours to make the It's like, dude, it's like your teacher giving you an extra day to do your homework. That's what it feels like. It's like a teacher giving you your extra day to finish your homework because you missed your deadline. You have one day to submit it on time. And so, you know, tomorrow, good or bad, we're going to see. Like, Friday would have been ugly last week, but then we got the whole Democrat shutdown thing reversed. And like Friday ended up being pretty good year to date. Well, tomorrow might end might end up being ugly. Dog ate my year to date. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, we're all still green. I'm being hyperbolic here. We're all still green. It's just the year to dates might not be 140%. It might go down to like 80% or something which yeah that 60% move is dramatic on a portfolio but you would have never had 140%. If you didn't have the type of portfolio that would allow you to get that type of volatility to the upside. That is the benefit of being invested in those types of names that actually have the potential to grow. So tomorrow we're going to have to see. Warner Brothers catching a bit after hours. Is it WBD? Yeah, a little bit. These guys potentially getting bought out by a Netflix or a Comcast 3.8%. I think it makes a lot of sense because both of those entities need content. Warner Brothers does have a lot of debt though. Yeah, Misty has sucked. I mean, that's probably going to be a tax loss harvest for me. I still have some, but I likely I mean, to me, it was an experiment of like these YieldMax funds, which the other ones have done a lot better. The problem is I picked to experiment on an entity that was so correlated with Bitcoin. I just, you know, there there I picked a $10,000 experiment. There are other people that I know on Twitter that are just like balls deep into Misti because it's income for them. The problem is if the underlying doesn't do well, then you know the NAV erosion completely wrecks it. Like the Nvidia ETF has done well, the Hood ETF has done amazing. Pounder ETF has done amazing, but Bitcoin's been in the gutter. So, obviously Misti has got hit. Bitcoin right here trying to get a recovery on 99 984 to 991, but MSTR down. Oracle, yeah, I mean, absolutely destroyed from that 350 level. Like, look, I didn't think Oracle deserved to be at 350. I don't know if it deserves to be a 216, but just look at that chart. The fact that it got demolished from 350 to 216 is incredible on the downside. Would you do Palo Alto or Crowd Strike? You know, I've never actually done a super big deep dive into the uh cyber security names. PaloAlto I think is safer from a multiple perspective. Crowd Strike has more growth. Um I think hack is another way to play it. HACK that's just a cyber security ETF if you don't want to pick a name but crowd regist trading at all-time highs right so or very close to all time highs we have to ask yourself is it is it the best buy at these levels are we not getting PPI tomorrow we are not we are not getting any October data because remember the data is always one month behind so in November we're learning about what happened in October but if the white house says we're not getting October data then there's no data to look Um, again, Trump didn't take any questions today either. I'm trying to see if there's any content from the administration. Okay, we got JD Vance. Couple clips of him. Let's see what he's talking about.
>> I know there are a lot of people out there, Sean, who are saying things are expensive. And we have to remember they're expensive because we inherited this terrible inflation crisis from the Biden administration. But you've already seen signs that things are getting better. The price of eggs has gone way down. The price of energy has gone way down. The price of gasoline has gone way down. And as we know, when the price of energy goes down, that starts to filter out into the entire economy. But that all that also takes a little bit of time. There's another component of this, Sean, which to me is maybe the most important because I care so much about our young people being able to afford a good life. A lot of young people are saying housing is way too expensive. Why is that? Because we flooded the country with 30 million illegal immigrants who were taking houses that ought by right go to American citizens. And at the same time, we weren't building enough new houses to begin with, even for the population that we had. So, what we're doing is trying to make it easier to build houses, trying to make it easier to build factories and things like that so that people have good jobs. We're also getting all of those illegal aliens out of our country. And you're already seeing it start to pay some dividends. Okay, here is my question to all of you guys. Are you buying that argument? Are you This is the fourth interview in two days that we've seen from either Bent Hasset, Trump and now Vance that is talking about affordability. I mean, it is becoming an issue in front of us and the Republicans and obviously the administration is seriously trying to tackle it. I don't know if you can go the route by saying illegal immigration is why we inherited a unaffordable economy. I don't know, dude. I I really don't know. I don't know if that's going to resonate with the American people. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. The one, you know, the one argument that people will make, and again, this is not my argument. This is the argument that will go against what JD Vance is trying to say. if we were going to steel man his argument and people made this a lot during April then people forgot about this argument because you know the stock market went up and people didn't care but inflation was 2.4% when Trump took over 2.4%. And a lot of people said the influx of tariffs obviously were to have had some impact on inflation. There's still debate about that but nonetheless that is the argument. Now Trump's defense of the tariffs is that look at all the investment we're getting into the United States. So you so you have to weigh the investment we're getting from like Saudi Arabia and Europe by essentially using tariffs as like a negotiating tactic to get the investment versus the potential increase in prices. Stock market goes to the moon because you're getting all these investments which is great for all of us. But now I would say what five months later since April after liberation day is over when and Trump kind of had to backtrack all the reciprocal tariffs and kind of use them more selectively. Now you're getting an absolute uproar and I don't think that's debatable that you are getting an uproar around the crisis of affordability and the fact that Vance Trump bet and hasset are spending every single day mention I mean Trump literally said we will make America more affordable or sorry make America affordable again versus make America great again that's a very intentional word and there's a reason he's using it and if the the argument from the administration now is we inherited an economy the push back will be well you inherited 2 and a half% inflation and then you jacked up the tariffs. So the question then just becomes, you know, is that enough to resonate with the American people? I don't know. Obviously, we're going to have to see. But that is the argument. Now, here's the worst thing. If we get a bad labor market and we obviously don't get any data to define what's going on in the labor market, then you're losing Wall Street's trust. I mean, let's say Main Street doesn't trust the government and they think that the government only cares about rich people and Wall Street, okay? But then let's say Wall Street doesn't think that the government cares about them because there's no transparency on the day. I mean, you can't lose Wall Street's respect. Wall Street at the end of the day controls the flow of capital. So, like if if you lose both Main Street and Wall Street, just gets ugly. Can get very, very, very ugly. And so, we're going to have to see, you know, how this ends up playing out. You can say 2.4% might not be real inflation, but I'm just using what the CPI said. If if you think 2.4% was not real, then you can't say 3% right now is real, right? If you think the inflation was not 2.4%, if you think the inflation was 4%, well then guess what? Inflation is not 3% right now, inflation is probably 7%. So whatever number you want to use is is whatever you could I'm just saying the actual number we got from the Bureau of Labor Statistics was 2.4. It could have been 7.4. The point is if it's higher than what it was then that the delta between then and now is all that matters. Not really the actual number. It could have been 104% inflation if we're at 110% right now. Then that delta of 6% is what the American people experience. Not the actual literal number. And that's what I think you know the market might be reacting to. Now the immigration stuff is a whole another question. you know, the I would argue one of the reasons the administration won. Trump won a second term is not because of affordability. It's because of immigration. So, that is an argument that you will see them continuously talk about and it might resonate more and more with the base that voted for them because of the idea of immigration. It's just how do you weigh that against affordability? I think that is the broader question. Here's another clip by uh by Vance as well. What have you learned from President Trump? I mean, he is a force of nature. He is. I've known him 30 years. What have you learned from him?
>> You know, a few things. Number one, um, the president is amazing at compartmentalizing things. When something is going on, there's always a crisis. The very best day in the West Wing, there's at least one crisis somewhere in the world that somebody's putting your desk. The president has an incredible ability to sort of say, "Okay, focus on that for 15 minutes and then go and focus on something totally different for 15 minutes." That's not naturally how I am. If something bad is going on, I tend to want to think about that thing and solve that problem before I go on to something else. The president is incredible at that compartmentalization. I think that's one of the reasons why he can handle 10 different problems at once is because he's able to troubleshoot and then move on to the next thing. Troubleshoot and move on to the next thing. The second thing that I' I've learned from the the president, Sean, and and I've tried to absorb it as much as I can, and I think some of this is just who he is and his natural instincts is he has better instincts about human beings than anybody that I've ever met.
>> Okay, that's what you got from Vance. Even though Chris had a meeting, he is so happy that Terra bought Ferf. Chris likes Ferve, dude. Chris likes Fiserve, so he is happy Mr. David Ter bought some of this Fiserve. I don't have any other 13Fs. Nothing else I'm seeing. We didn't get the super super big ones yet. We're still waiting for Oak Tree, uh, Brad Gersonner, um, and Burkshshire. Iran still hit after hours. Yeah, you're getting a little bit of a bounce on some of these. Yeah, Brad Gersonner still not out yet. Um, Iran. Yeah. Wow. I down 2% after hours. Okay. So, is that affecting the core weaves of the world? Iran down 2% after hours. Coreweave. Corewave is actually up. Nebius is down 1%. But they are still getting hit. Oracle down and then S&P flat. BMR down 35. HIMS down 34. AS Oh, we didn't I didn't look at AS. This is over the past month. AS was down 4% today. Rock Lab down 33. Galaxy 32. Oscar 30. And then yes, Oracle down 30. Oaklo's under 100 officially. Well, it's close. 100.18. Poet was today. Poet earnings. Poet is down 1.28%. I'll see if I can get their numbers, but don't have too much. Poet. Uh oh, they missed. Revenue miss. Uh EPS miss. Street thought it would be 20 cents. They came in at 11. And the revenue was 290,000. Street thought it would be up a little bit more. It is up a decent chunk year-over-year, but it's up a very very small base. Poet is down. Poet is a semiconductor name. Yeah, Tess is at a Robin Hood event in the So Robin's having a UK event. So Tess uh who's from the UK is at that event. Tess, was it a fun event? Was it cool? Was Vlad there? Did you get to see Vlad? Did you get to like talk to the UK Robinet folks? Again, they're trying to build their presence in the UK and I think they're trying to start officially like marketing in the UK, but they did have an event there today. I haven't looked at the the Metals Company, TM TMC. Uh I know people like it, but I've not looked deep into that one. There was so much food in Champagne. Oh boy, they had champagne. Well, then you know Tess had a good time. Dude, forget the market today. They just gave you guys champagne. You didn't even have to worry about portfolios. Got to drown away everything in champagne. They had bubbles, so she was vibing. You know, I like champagne. Again, I'm not like a a big drinker, but when I do drink, I enjoy champagne. and Tess made sure I enjoyed champagne at the Miami meetup. Um, I think that's it. Not seeing any other crazy headlines. Nothing too crazy. Sparkling Shirley Temples. I could use a drink right now. Oh, let's do a poll. Let's do a poll. Let's see what people are thinking right here. Um, so simple question on this one. Uh, S&P 5007,000 end of year. It's still only 2% of away. I mean, it's not an aggressive. Well, it's about like 3%. But S&P right here, 672. What do we think? 7,000 still end of year or are we taking a breather? You look more like of a Zema guy. What the hell is Zema? Zema is a clear, light carbonated alcoholic beverage made and distributed by Kors Brewing. Citrus flavored malt. I've never seen this before. Zema had a smiroff ice. The similar smiroff ice. Have you guys had Zema before? Heard of Zema. Nvidia 13Fs. Let me see. I don't think we have it. Have you ever been to the UK? I have not. Never been across the pond. Zema is from the 90s. They still sell it though, right? I would imagine they still sell it. Uh, Nvidia's 13F not out yet. Nvidia 13F not out yet. Trying to see if we get these other ones after hours. Stanley Ducken Miller, we don't have his yet either. We looked at Ter Tiger Global, I would love to see theirs as well. And then Altimter. Don't have those yet. Yo, have you guys had soju before? Dude, there's this Korean guy on freaking um Instagram and I have absolutely fallen in love with his content. I mean, it's this 52year-old Korean guy who just goes to the freaking uh like who gets like dinner after work and he just puts up his camera and he just records himself talking while he's like eating Korean barbecue. Do you guys know this guy? He's got he's got he's got kind of viral. Um I cannot tell you how much I love watching his I don't watch a lot of reels, but when he pops up I watch his stuff. What's this guy's name, bro? I don't know his username. Korean I'm just gonna type in Korean guy drinking soju Instagram. He drinks soju. You You guys know this guy, right? Oh, I think I got it. I think I got it. Is this him? Yeah, this is him. Dude, this guy is just like I'm going to see the real that I saw a while ago. He's just like living a normal life and it's like it's the most I don't know. Like, this is the type of content that I love seeing. What's the one that that got me to watch? And dude, he's pulling in like millions of views. Like legit millions of freaking views. Uh, I'm going to go to the one that I think went super viral. is the winner of Squid Games. Okay, let's just let's just look at this one. This is an example of this guy's content.
>> Had a tough day. On my way home, I called my wife. She told me she was out with her friends. My kids were at their after school programs, so I'd be the only one at home. She told me just to heat up the kimchi stew she had prepared. I didn't like eating alone in a quiet empty house. So instead, I stopped by a local restaurant near home. I had a bowl of sundup. Eating alone at a restaurant once in a while isn't so bad. I even thought about ordering a butter of soju, but I decided to skip it for my health.
>> You got to watch more of them to understand the vibe. You got to like once you get into the videos, bro, it it becomes a vibe. like because he talks about his stories and his life and like here's another one. This has 11 million views. This one night I drank with my foreign friend. They were funny, talk loud, drink strong. We we had a good time. I laughed a lot. When I walk home, suddenly quiet. Street is empty. my heart too.
>> I don't
>> I I don't know how to explain it, bro. But when you actually like I don't know how to explain it, but that thing got 11 million views. I know it looks like what is what why is this getting 11 million views? But he has a personality in his videos where you just listen to what he has to say. So that's that's why I thought of Soju when you guys mentioned drinking. A bunch of you guys know him. Yeah, a bunch of you guys know him right here in the chat. He does make me hungry as well. I agree. He learned English on Dualingo. He might have. He might have. You know, I haven't had Korean barbecue in a long time. I think it's been like a year and he has he has he gets Korean barbecue like every week and he makes a like a reel about it. So, makes me want to do that. Uh, Meta's up a little bit after hours. Upstart's up as well. You do have an insider buy on Upstart coming in. Upstart moving up 3% after hours. Let's see how much was this insider buy. 4 million. First insider buy in over two years. 4 million bucks. 5,000 shares. Um, or no, it's 100,000 sh 100,000 shares. First insider buy in over two years. Upstart CTO bought shares. That's why that stock's up 3%. So, you're getting a bit of a move right there. Yeah, dude. He talks about his wife all the time, too. And it's hilarious cuz like it's just like a middle-aged man talking about his wife. It's like it's like it's like you know if you were with your boys at a bar and you were just talking about your marriage or something, but he just does it publicly and it's hilarious because he turns it into a story and it's funny and I don't know. Oh, Howard Marx is out. Howard Marx is out. Let's see. Let's see. Wow. It is out, folks. He added to Grab. He added 4 and a half%. I believe that's a million shares. He added to grab. There you go. He bought New Bank. Wow. Tanner's going to be happy. He bought 4.5 million shares of New Bank. Oh, Tanner is going to be ecstatic on that one. So, he added 5% to Grab another million shares, added 4.5 million shares to New Bank, uh added to gold, a gold miner. He bought Viper Energy, Telephone and Data Systems, added 124% to Talon Energy Corp. He bought Array Digital Infrastructure. He added 70% to C Limited. So, he continues to be bullish on Southeast Asia with Grab and C Limited. He bought Acres Commercial Realy Group. That's a REIT. He bought LGN. I don't know that one. He added an oil company. uh basically trims across the portfolio. Nothing crazy 13 14 15%. But the big ad he had Nokia already so that was good when Nvidia partnered. He might have sold on the pump when they partnered with Nvidia but um bought New Bank and added to Grab and then added to C Limited. All right. So Dallio and uh uh what's his name? Matt Markx adding to Grab and then New Bank's B that means he's grabb new bank and C li Limited basically means Howard Marks is looking international. He's probably saying the United States is too expensive and he wants exposure outside of the states. That's what it feels like based on that portfolio and that's what you're seeing there. Uh the site is dataroma.com. Data Roma. Put the link in the chat. Data Roma. Let me see if altimter is out yet. We should be getting more of these now. Ultim out yet. We might get the rest tomorrow. Bridgewater we looked at. Um, Renaissance. Yeah, Tiger, Alimter, and Stanley Ducken Miller. And then Bill Aman and Buffett. Those are the next five that we'd want to get. All right. So, Howard Marks adding to Grabby Grab, adding to C Limited, and initiating a position in New Bank. Okay. I mean, that's super bullish for all three. Very bullish for New Bank as Howard Barks enters in. He only needs to report the US list of stocks. He might have more other international stocks. Yeah, that's fair. He doesn't have to list the actual countries that are incorporated on different stock market exchanges, but at least for the ones in the US, he is adding more to them. All right, so that's what we got, guys. That's what we got on a day like this. I mean, you're not seeing too much movement after hours to the upside. S&P is still down, so there's no bounce. Well, here's another question. First of all, let me see the poll. What did you guys say? Um percentage on 7,000 65% think 7,000 end of year. Okay, so here's the next question. Red or green tomorrow? Red or green tomorrow? I want to say green and I want to say a little bit of a sympathy bounce, but then again, I don't think there's any headline that's easy enough to give us the bounce. Flat. I could see flat, too. The problem is again, it's just like this is this is when uh you know, Chimath had a take once on the end podcast around when the markets are falling. It's gut-wrenching because when you don't have clarity on where the markets are going, it literally feels like the bottom is just falling out and you don't know when it's going to stop. And the one thing going into tomorrow is we don't have a shutdown reversal catalyst. I mean, maybe we have a Trump tweet catalyst, but we don't have data catalyst. We don't have labor market. Like, there's no catalyst one can point to. And so, you know, it's just one of those questions of when the market decides it wants to stop falling. 51% say green. 5050. Now, Howard Marks did an ad grab at 602. That's just the reported price on data Roma. They don't have the prices correct or the averages, unfortunately. Um, I'll see if I can find another source to see what price he did add over the over the quarter. He It's very possible he added at six though because uh, you know, we were at six all of September and this is as of September 30th. So, there is a good chance he did add six. Depends on cuts. That is also true. It does depend on Peter Navaro's live on Bloomberg. Dude, when's the last time we heard from Peter Navaro? Hold on. Navaro. They sent Navaro to talk to everybody. Oh boy. All right. Let's listen.
>> Drew from CVing to all of that. And so beef prices are still high, but we are attacking that with a whole range of issues. And it's complicated by things like drought. So what we have to do, here's the punch line. That was a long explanation, but what we have to do as an administration is is first of all uh be crystal clear about the sources of the fla inflation. What we still have because of these lags is a Biden legacy inflation from everything from the over fiscal stimulus uh to the green new deal to 20 million illegal aliens coming up and driving up rents. We we still have we got to explain that. We've got to explain very carefully by category, housing, uh, health insurance, uh, transportation, energy, how we are tacking the problem and we are taking this seriously. This is issue number one for us and it will be of for the foreseeable future and that means the whole administration and we can I'll come back next week or whatever and I'll go chapter and verse about what we're doing in each of those categories. But I want everybody to understand that that we're we're after this. We're making really good progress in some areas where things are moving too slow. It's it's explained not by what we're doing, but by how long it takes.
>> All right. Well, I'm sure we'll take you up on that to continue the conversation.
>> Both. Peter Navaro, White House senior counselor for trade and manufacturing at the White House. State.
>> Same thing Vance said today. Same thing Vance said today. Um, immigration is an issue inheriting a unaffordable Biden market. Um, and illegal immigration being kind of the core argument for why we are seeing some issues. Here's Steven Miller, another part of the administration. Here's what he has to say today.
>> Uh, profits are rising beautifully. ed two people Joe Mansion and Christristen Cinema out of the party for disagreeing with them on it and that is ending the filibuster. They will end the filibuster. They will pass communist health care. They will abolish private health insurance. They will kick 140 million Americans off of their employer sponsored health care plans. They will give citizenship and amnesty to every single illegal alien in the country and millions more to come. They will pack the Supreme Court with four or five Marxist judges. They will make DC and Puerto R Puerto Rico a state. And that'll be just the beginning of what they do to cement and solidify permanent political power in this country. We all know that's coming. We all understand that's coming. And the best chance that we have to prevent that is to end the filibuster now so that we can pass the full and complete Republican agenda, make it permanent, and deliver secure elections to this country in the form of voter ID and ending once and for all non-citizen voting by requiring proof of citizenship to vote. These are basic fundamental things to having a democracy. But you asked earlier, I need to answer it. What is next for the economic plan for this president? Well, we're focusing relentlessly on affordability. So, President Trump's working to bring down the cost of living even more than he already has. So, Thanksgiving meals are going to be 25% cheaper. But, President Trump is not content with that. He is fighting to bring down the cost of every single consumer and household good. And the tax bill is going to be a huge part of this because when we make life more affordable for our companies, for domestic industry, for domestic manufacturing with 100% expensing, with the largest tax cuts in history, then prices are going to keep coming down. This also involves energy affordability. No president in history has done more, Larry. You know this so well, to make energy more affordable. President Trump is leaning into energy affordability. We are building new pipelines for the first time in the northeastern corridor of this country. You've seen that we have a major pipeline that's moving through the Nessie pipeline. More to come. And the president is also making new.
>> Okay. So again, the same talking points around how they're going to navigate affordability. We had Sailor on today. This is the first time we've heard from Sailor in a while. Here's what he's got to say about Bitcoin. actually outperform Bitcoin if you buy uh an equity that's amplified like MSTR. If you don't want to trust anybody, you want no counterparty risk, you buy Bitcoin. Bitcoin's up 50% a year over five years. No counterparty risk. It's very straightforward. If you want to have your cake and eat it, too. You could buy some convertible preferred like STRK. STRK will get the ball. Yeah, the V on MSTR is like 6070. The V on Bitcoin is 45. the SDRK would get you
>> if you're talking about getting in now or if you got in earlier this year, you wrote it down even as Bitcoin was going up. Are you concerned at all that the the crypto treasury the digital asset treasury strategy that you pioneered is losing a little bit of steam?
>> You know, over the last year, there's been a hundred companies that have added Bitcoin to their balance sheet. The derivatives market and IBIT has surged. The flows into the ETFs have surged. All the major banks have announced support. Uh the accounting has dramatically improved. the tax regime has improved. The administration support at the SEC, the CFTC, the Treasury level has improved and so and the technology has improved. You know, companies like uh like Block have rolled out support for Bitcoin on Square and Cash App. So, all the fundamentals are good. If you're going to be an equity investor, you have to think for yourself and you have to have a time horizon of four years or longer. and equity markets are either going to lead or lag and and occasionally they'll perfectly reflect reality. But generally, it's it's only a few days a year when they'll be perfectly rational. So, if you don't have that four-year time horizon and if you don't want to make decisions based on fundamentals, if you if you simply want to park your money in a stable instrument and pick up a stable yield, you should be a credit investor. You shouldn't be an equity investor. I I think the irony is is uh the fundamentals of the industry are so much better today than they were 12 months ago that uh you've now got an extraordinary riskreward opportunity. Now is a much better time to invest. You you know all the things that you wanted to happen have happened. The market's sentiment is uh negative, but that's that's an opportunity for the equity investor that makes their own decisions.
>> Michael, you're a look, you're seen as a pioneer in this industry uh charting new territory in cryptos and and Bitcoin. What do you think about the likes of Jim Chenos and others like him that are trying to profit off of you not doing so well?
>> You know, I don't really think about Jim Chenos. I think that there'll be some skeptics. They don't really appreciate what Bitcoin is doing. They don't understand digital capital. They don't understand digital credit. But at the end of the day, the big the big uh dynamic in the industry is digital capital has gone from nothing to$2.5 trillion dollars over 15 years. Digital credit didn't exist 12 months ago. Uh we've issued nearly$8 billion dollars of digital credit. Digital credit is got a tax equivalent yield of of four times higher than bank credit. You know, you can have a bank account that you know in New York City that pays you 4% and it's taxable or you could buy something like STRC that pays you 10 and a half% that's tax deferred. All right, that's what you got from Sailor. same argument that he's been consistently making, which is that you have to have a long-term time horizon if you are investing in anything that is cryptoreated. And look, this year might be a down year for Bitcoin over the four-year Kager. It would still obviously be one of the best performing assets, but you do have Bitcoin that's red on the year and obviously that's hurting Micro Strategy. Long-term, Sailor likely will continue to accumulate and have well, he would believe his thesis plays out, right? Bitcoin goes up. MSDR transit and an MNAV against it. Question ultimately comes down to what that Bitcoin price does. 99,6 on Bitcoin right there down 2.4. S&P up a little bit after hours and then Ethereum 3200. A little bit of a bounce right there as well. All right, folks. That is it for me. I'll be back tonight with Steve on the uh live stream we do on Thursdays. I don't see any other 13Fs to look at. So, we'll probably get the rest of them later today and we'll talk about them tomorrow on the market open and we'll keep going from there. But, I'll be live with Steve tonight. We'll get his thoughts on everything that's going on as well. Again, the core thing I think tomorrow that we're looking for is does the market have it in it to just basically say, "All right, we're going lower. were going back to the Friday lows based on whatever headline they may be concerned about, labor market, lack of data, etc. And does Trump step in, you know, does Trump actually issue a statement to try to get people more excited about the markets? I don't know. But tomorrow, that is going to be important. New Bank had a great earnings. They're up. I mean, Howard Marks adding four million shares. Super bullish for New Bank. Tanner's going to be happy about that one. I'll leave the link to the live stream with Steve and we'll be back tonight. Yeah, 9:30 tonight. It'll be here. From a mental health perspective, I say this all the time when we have days like this. Um, I think two things to remember. Number one, no pain, no gains. Like if you are up a lot this year, if you're healthily beating the S&P 500, you are up for a reason. And part of the reason is that you're probably inside of names that have vastly outperformed. You don't get that type of out performance, particularly in technology stocks, without the draw downs. And again, some of these names are not really drawing down, but you do have a downward move on them. And when I mean draw down, I mean, you know, you're not seeing 30, 40, 50% complete obliteration, but you are seeing 10 15% hits from the top. And you know, to get those 10 15% moves to the upside in a day, like Iran went from like what 72 to 80 in a day a week ago. Now it's back down to 50, which is still up 5x from the low. So it's like like it's the nature of how those high beta names move. And then number two is just to remember that at the end of the day, do you believe in the two structural fundamental foundations of this bull market, which is the AI trade, which is increasing margins, efficiency, capex, etc., and Fed easing. If your thesis changes on those two, you have to reassess how you navigate the portfolio. I don't think the thesis has changed on those two, no matter how much the Fed says they're not going to cut in December. Okay, maybe they don't cut in December, but you're going to be cutting aggressively next year regardless with or without Powell. And then I definitely don't think there's a crack in the AI trade. There is a crack in the narrative of debt financing, which is fine and that'll hurt all the neo clouds, but that is not destroying the entire thesis around AI. At least not in my opinion. I mean, even Curser today, dude, Curser raising $30 billion valuation, doing a billion dollar in revenues. I mean, they're the fastest growing startup to go from zero to a billion. took them less than two years. It's on the backs of AI. We're seeing more and more of that. So, if I were to pick one of the two that I would say like gun to my head, you're a bit more worried about, it's not the AI trade. It's really not. It's more the macro data stuff. A because we just don't know what the macro data is. So, it's hard to not say you're not concerned at all because obviously you don't have the data to say that. And then two, it's because if you do get the data and it's bad, at least the market will have certainty which maybe they can eventually price it in. Even if that's a lower move priced in, but it nonetheless, if it is if it is bad data, then that's something that could crack the markets. But the AI trade is the one I have the least sort of broader hesitation in for understanding just based on everything we've seen around what's going on with AI. I just do and I and I absolutely this I maybe I'll be wrong about this. do not think what we're seeing in 2025, this 2% red day on a 14% green S&P 500 year, is the beginning of a.com bubble. Maybe I'm wrong about it, and if I'm wrong, I'll be publicly wrong. A lot of people will be wrong about that. I just I really don't see that as the underlying reason. I think it was a sucky day on a week where we didn't have any jobs data where the government reopened but they reopened with a condition to shut down again in January which the market's also just like all right what are we supposed to do with this and you have headlines like Verizon's trading 15,000 people like it's trading 15,000 people well I guess they are they're trading 15,000 people for better margins they're laying off 15,000 like when you get those types of headlines on a day like this it obviously creates pain but I don't think that's enough to deny sort of the structural factors of this bull market. Uh Muna, thank you for the $10 chat. Hey Mid, do you understand the logic behind not releasing the October data? I don't think there's any logic other than the administration doesn't want to release the data because they think the numbers are bad. That's one argument. The second is they don't have an accurate description of the data because the BLS was out of service for the past 43 days. Although there are reports that some types of data were still amalgamated even if the BLS was not getting paid, but nonetheless the White House isn't releasing the data. So whatever the logic is to me is irrelevant because they're not releasing it. So the market at the end of the day, you know, a lot of times it's like ripping off the band-aid. The market wants to know what's going on. And when you don't tell, even if it's bad news, like if it's bad news, you know, the global financial markets are incredibly complex. they can digest and understand information very quickly and then figure out how to appropriately price an asset even if they're wrong in the short term. But without the data, without the that's why everything is so that's why people pay $25,000 a year for a Bloomberg license. You need the data immediately. Without the data, that's when [ __ ] hits the fan. And so the White House not releasing it obviously is just creating more pain right now, which is if I had to bet one reason why we took a hit today, it's because the lack of data. Again, the market thought we were getting CPI yesterday. We didn't and the White House confirmed we're not going to get it. So, I think that is kind of the broader reason why we're having some pain. Brad Gersonner's 13F is not out yet. I think it's going to come out later tonight. I do not see it out yet. Neither would is Stanley Ducken Miller's. So, a lot of those probably will be out later tonight. If I do get it, I I'll post it on X and we'll talk about it tomorrow on the market. We'll talk about it tonight with Steve if it is released, then we'll go through it there. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody for being here again. Deeply appreciate it. Ugly day. We go up together, we go down together. It's the nature of being an investor. Uh the other final thing I'll say, and this is the most important thing that I hope to get across every time, is the majority of people in your life are not doing what you're doing, which is taking a risk with your capital. and uh whether it's a th00and, 10,000, 100,000 or a million, it's it's it's hard-earned capital that you're putting to use based on the research that you've done to try to develop some level of financial freedom. And that's a very honorable thing to do in the face of most people on the planet not doing that. It's a risky thing to do. There's no rewards in life without a risk. Um, and number three, I I think it is one of the most important things to do because a lot of the foundation for many things that everyone wants in life, including levels of stability and happiness, is ultimately financial freedom. And to to get there, right, any entrepreneur who's built a business, you got to go through the sucky days. Any investor, any investor that's done incredibly well has gone through the sucky days, months, and years. So, this is part of the process. It's a gut-wrenching process, but it is one of the most important processes I think anyone can ever take, especially because it's not something easy, and it's not supposed to be easy, but that's also what makes it very rewarding. And at the end of the day, that's why we invest. So, that's what we got. Thank you everybody for being here. Deeply appreciate it. Just say alos. Well, that's the other thing like we are fighting with very highlevel computers which is why you you know most people say do not sell on days like this because those computers going back and forth. They are trying to make everything feel as bad as it can possibly feel. And on the good days they're trying to make it feel as euphoric as they can feel. Right? Markets are up, everyone feels rich. Markets are down. You feel like the end of the world. Neither extreme is real. It's never real. And I think the older I get, the more I realize like Robin at a 150 makes me feel good, but I definitely know it's not sustainable if there's not a macro cooperation with that. So, it is what it is. But it also doesn't hurt them when Robin goes to 120 because it's like, okay, I understand that it probably was never supposed to be a 150. So, it's just it's just the broad nature of how we navigate this and you're not going to fight and beat the computers. The best thing you can do is DCA and hold on to the companies you believe in long term and obviously position in a way that makes you comfortable personally. But getting super high or super low is not not the I would say appropriate approach from a mental health perspective to navigate. Well, that's what we got. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll be live with Steve at 9:30. We'll get his thoughts on everything going on. We'll be back on the market open tomorrow. We'll try to get some more data and then we will try to see what is the headline the street cares about. What is the catalyst the street cares about tomorrow. It is Friday, last day of the week. We are getting close to Thanksgiving as well. So, you're going to have a lot of people start to go on vacation which could lead to a little bit of low volume in the markets, but all of that stuff is going to be important as well. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys later tonight at 9:30. Bye everybody. Have a good one.