All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Sunday market futures. We are live. We are three minutes early. I was like, you know what? I'm ready to go. we might as well get started. And we are here. Thank everybody for being here. Hope everyone had a great weekend. We've got November officially starting, folks. It's kind of crazy. It really is kind of crazy. We got two months left of 2025. It is November 2nd. Uh this year has gone relatively quick. I mean, October was up and down in regards to the stock market. We had a ton of stuff to cover last week with the Fed and big tech earnings, but October is done and we're here. We are live. We got a lot to talk about. We have a bunch of different things that went viral over the weekend in regards to new interviews, particularly around Sam Alman and Satia Nadella. So, we're going to talk about that. Uh, we got Trump who's doing a CBS 60inut special interview right now. So, there's likely going to be a ton of quotes coming in uh throughout the course of this uh market future show. I mean, we're already getting quotes right now. We have a couple of clips already from the interview. So throughout the entire hour, you're probably going to get a bunch of different quotes and I will put them on the screen and we'll analyze what's going on. Trump already tweeted like five minutes ago that we will be a third world country without the tariffs going into effect. The Supreme Court will be looking at the tariffs case this week. So that's going to be really important. So we'll talk about that. Uh and then we got some updates from Buffett. He had earnings with Bergkshire Hathway. This is the last Q3 ever for Warren Buffett and Birkshshire Hathway. So we'll talk about some of the stuff they did. We have a bunch of different macro stats to look at, some charts in regards to what to expect in November. And then tomorrow, you've got Palunteer earnings. So, we're going to do a little bit of a preview on that. It is indeed happy Palunteer Eve. This is what this is the uh 4812 uh 15. This is I think the 18th quarter I've covered for Pounder. Just kind of crazy. And quite frankly, it might be the best quarter. So, we're going to talk about that. And then we got Grabby Grab as well. So, I mean, this is going to be a jam-packed week. Tomorrow is going to be absolutely insane with Palunteer and Grab, and we'll do a preview on what's going on with that. But, we have a lot a lot a lot to talk about. So, thank you everybody for being here. Before we get started, deep dives are out. Two new deep dives. We have Nebas and Grabby. Grab is a uh company that I I did a 17page deep dive on about three months ago. I I I refined the deep dive over the weekend and I officially published it on Substack. Uh, and so there's the link right there. You guys can check it out. Free to subscribe. Uh, no payw wall, anything like that. And then Nebius, a lot of people were asking for it. And I looked at Nebas and I'll talk about it more tomorrow. Maybe we can talk about at the end of the show if people have some questions. Uh, look, it is really hard to not be bullish on Nebus Nebius from the simple perspective that it is a full stack integrated approach to data centers. And I think the bulls that understood that argument back when it was $20 have been supremely rewarded for it. Uh, I obviously did not understand that thesis, nor did I really pay attention to it. And then the first half of the the Substack or I guess the first kind of like eight paragraphs of the article, I talk about why I likely missed the story. Uh, but at 130, look, I did the numbers. The numbers are in the chat or in in the in the chat in the substack. It's not that scary. It really isn't. Now, there is a large execution risk on if they can get another hyperscaler deal, but I mean at 94 it was a really good buy and unfortunately I just sold puts on it. But at 130, honestly, it's not that scary. The execution is the biggest risk. But I do think the company has a moat. And I think that's the biggest thing I've been concerned about, Neb, is like, do they have a moat or are they just another data center plate? I think they have a moat. And as a result, uh, it's exciting. So, I don't have a position yet. I talk about why I don't have a position in the article, but it is on my list for 2026, and we're going to see what goes on from there. All right, let's get started. Thank you everybody for being here. In 14 minutes, we are going to get the overnight markets to open and uh we're going to see what happens in overnight. I have not looked at IN yet. I is on the list. Reddit is on the list. I think the next two might be Ian and Reddit uh uh in like a couple weeks. So, those I am looking at deeply and we're going to see what we get. I know after Nebius I there's some weird controversy between Nebius and Iran. It's kind of turning. Guess I have to do a deep dive on Iran now because the Nebius bulls hate Iran and Iran bulls hate Nebius. But yeah, we will uh we will see what we get going and then I'll publish that as well. Um futures. First of all, for those that haven't seen it, I think we're going to open up relatively green. We are up 0.3%. Trump has confirmed there is a USChina deal and so we'll talk about what's going on with the US China deal. Microphone cutting in and out. Okay, give me one. Let me unplug for a minute and I think that'll fix it. Okay, let's put this up right here. Okay, microphone. Okay, should be good. Should be good. Let me know if it's not good, but should be good right now. Um, futures are green. Trump confirmed there should be a China deal going on. Uh I don't know if China has confirmed that there is an official China deal and that's why I think we are green, but we're going to get some details on that uh once the overnight markets open and we'll talk about that. We have some new charts on the labor market. That's also really important to look at. We've been talking a lot about the labor market over the past couple weeks. The biggest thing that we looked at was the amount of layoffs that we had last week, especially with Amazon with those 30,000 layoffs. So, we're going to talk about that and some implications on the labor market. But overall, I think the reason we're green right now overnight is because it looks like there's some some stability between Trump and China. again they met back on Thursday and that helped the markets on Friday. We did close green for the sixth month in a row in October. So we closed out October up 2.4% for the month. Um and then overall, you know, November is relatively green usually and so we had a bit of a choppy October. Bitcoin and Ethereum kind of sucked in October. Maybe that changes for November and if that does that would be bullish. Now Ethereum is getting a little bit of a boost. It was pushing 4,000. Now it's back to 38.83. Bitcoin as well pushing above 110. It was at 104 at one point last week. So, I mean, I think if there was any month for Bitcoin and Ethereum to do well, it would be November, as Bitcoin actually tends to do a little bit better in November than October. But, we're going to see how these turn out as we get into the end of the month. All right, so in about 12 minutes, we are going to have the overnight markets open and then we'll get into all the topics I've lined up after the overnight markets open. Before that, let's just take a look at this video because it has absolutely gone viral. Sam Alman was on the Brad Gersonner podcast with Satia Nadella and Brad Gersonner asked a relatively simple question which is hey I keep hearing you have 13 billion in revenue but you've committed to spend 1.4 trillion I think every day all of us question could this be a bubble that explodes if open AAI isn't able to officially spend on these commitments that they've committed to spend on and here is what Mr. Sam Alman had to say to that question.
>> How, you know, how can a company with 13 billion in revenues make 1.4 trillion of spend commitments? You know, and and and you've heard the criticism.
>> First of all, we're doing well more revenue than that. Second of all, Brad, if you want to sell your shares, I'll find you a buyer. [laughter]
>> I just enough like, you know, people are I I think there's a lot of people who would love to buy OpenAI shares. I don't I don't think you want,
>> including myself. including myself
>> who talk with a lot of like breathless concern about our comput stuff or whatever that would be thrilled to buy shares. So I think we we could sell you know your shares or anybody else's to some of the people who are making the most noise on Twitter whatever about this very quickly. We do plan for revenue to grow steeply. Revenue is growing steeply. We are taking a forward bet that it's going to continue to grow grow and that not only will chache keep growing but we will be able to become one of the important AI clouds that our consumer device business will be a significant and important thing that AI that can automate science will create huge value. So, you know, there are not many times that I want to be a public company, but one of the rare times it's appealing is when those people are writing these ridiculous open AI is about to go out of business and you know, whatever. I would love to tell them they could just short the stock and I would love to see them get burned on that. Um, but you know, I we carefully plan, we understand where the technology, where the capability is going to grow, go and and how the products we can build around that and the revenue we can generate. we might screw it up like this is the bet that we're making and we're taking a risk along with that. A certain risk is if we don't have the compute, we will not be able to generate the revenue or make the models at these at this kind of scale.
>> Exactly. And
>> let me just say one thing uh Brad as both a partner and um an investor there is not been a single business plan that I've seen from OpenAI that they have put in and not beaten it. So in some sense this is the one place where you know in terms of their growth and just even the business it's been unbelievable execution quite frankly I mean obviously openai everyone talks about all the success in the usage and what have you but even um I would say all up uh the business execution has been just pretty unbelievable. Okay, so the reason that went so viral over the weekend, we got about nine minutes till the overnight markets open and uh then we'll get into all the other topics. But the reason that went viral and when I saw it, I was quite surprised as well is number one, it's a legit question. Okay, Broadcom, Oracle, AMD, Nvidia, there was an article last week from the Wall Street Journal have gained 630 billion in market cap just from the announcements of the deals that they have uh committed to Nvidia. I mean AMD probably will be stuck at $158 a share for everyone. I know there's a big retail army in AMD. The o the literal only reason that stock is at 250 is because of this opening eye deal. That's it. And if someone else has a different reason, let me know. But that was the reason that got the stock to break out. So it is so and the reason is not to downplay the significance of that deal. It's rather to un to underwrite how important the deal is and the spending commitments that are necessary to get AMD to that $400 billion market cap or to get Oracle to that $800 billion market cap which is pledged from OpenAI. So when Brad Gersonner who by the way is one of the bigger investors from the previous two years he was early in 2023 in the private rounds of OpenAI so he knows the company very well. When your biggest supporter is asking you a very simple question he's basically giving you a layup. He's not trying to give you a gotcha question. this guy has a ton of your stock. Why would he be trying to make you look bad? He's trying to give you the opportunity to simply say this is if obviously I'm all I would be like look a lot of people think we're doing 13 billion in revenue. We are doing significantly more than that which he wouldn't be lying about. I think the estimate is closer to 25 billion in revenue. Number two, our estimates are that by 2027 we're probably going to be hitting triple digits. So about 100 billion in revenue, which Sam Alman mentions a little bit later in the podcast, but he does it in kind of like a an egotistic way, right? He makes like he he kind of says it he says it in a way that's bragging when in reality he could have just answered the question be like look we're projecting we don't know if it's going to happen but we think by 2027 we could get to 100 billion revenue which makes the 1.4 4 trillion spend, which is only about 14 times the amount of revenue they're they're bringing in. Not look as crazy as the $1 13 billion annual run rate. And then he could have said, you know, let people say whatever they want to say. We have amazing people like you, Brad, that support us. We have amazing people like Satia and Jensen and Lisa Sue that support us. And because we have all these really smart people supporting our company and our growth, we are very confident that we're going to be able to commit to the spending that we have said that we're going to commit to publicly. That's it. That's all you have to say. That's literally all he It was such a layup for him to give a compliment to all the people that are trusting that his company's going to succeed. He could give them a compliment back and say because they believe in us so much, you know, we're so excited to continue working on this journey. And that would have been the end of it. Instead, he turns into this like narcissistic, oh, I wish we were a public company so I could tell people to short the stock. He tried to pull a Karp moment and it's like there's a reason Karp is Karp. Very few people can emulate what Karp does and still be relatively charismatic. Most people that try to do that are not going to be charismatic. They're going to just seem like dicks. And uh you know that's that's what he ended up doing. So I thought it was a a weird response. I think it was overly defensive. You could tell Gersonner was taken back for it and Gersner you know publicly commented on Twitter. He was like I think Sam is getting too much flack for that. I mean look in the grand scheme of things is this going to matter? No. But like at the end of the day, if Sam is acting like that to one of his biggest supporters, aka Brad Gersonner, I wonder how he acts to other people, you know? I really do. And and it's one of those things where it really makes you think in terms of how this is playing out. So again, Gersonner tried to defend him right here, saying that people are reading it to say I'm being too feisty. We laughed about it. I'm like, sure, but in in an age where every single AI company is depending on this company, OpenAI, which is the catch 22. It's like even if you hate Sam Alman, even if that clip pissed you off so much, even if you think this guy is squirmy and you just want nothing to do with him, if you are invested in this market, you have to believe OpenAI is going to win. It is just that simple. And I would love any analysis from someone telling me that OpenAI can lose and the AI bull market can continue because I've looked at the numbers. I'm working on a Substack piece about this coming out next week and it it there is no way OpenAI essentially they're too big to fail. It's just that simple. They're too big to fail given this. And you can say, "Oh, well, what about XAI Gemini?" Sure. But the reason AMD is at a $400 billion market cap is because of OpenAI. The reason Oracle is pushing 700 800 billion is because of OpenAI. The reason Nvidia to an extent has added the level of market cap that's added is because of OpenAI. So, at the end of the day, it's like unless a company like Gemini or or uh XAI massively overtake the 800 million weekly activives that CHABT has, feels like opening eye is too big. And as a result, they kind of have to win. So you kind of have to root for their success if you're invested in the AI ecosystem. But the guy who's running it is obviously not the most charismatic in terms of how we answer that question. Yeah. Alman said we want to 100x those GPUs. And the one thing you have to commend OpenAI for is that look, if you're invested in IEN or Nebus or like all the all these data center plays need someone to contract massive amounts of GPU spend, massive amounts of compute capacity. And at the end of the day, uh, OpenAI is one of those companies that is again committed 1.4 trillion. Like I haven't heard a lot of other companies commit 1.4 trillion in the next 10 years, which honestly might be cheap. So, it's just one of those ways that the the overall structure of AI seems to be playing out. But obviously, that interview went viral because, you know, Sam kind of sounded like a dick. The one thing he did say though later in the interview and we'll listen to some other parts of it in a bit is uh that we are on track to get 100 billion of revenue by 2027 which is a big deal. Uh I think that changed a lot of estimates. If they're underounting that 100 billion and it's actually going to be like 200 billion something like that. It really makes OpenAI at 500 billion probably look undervalued. At that point it's trading at 5x sales which is cheap. And you know, if that's the case, then you're likely going to get some more momentum out of OpenAI over the coming years. So, that's what we got. All right, 3 minutes until the market opens. Thank you everybody for being here. We got a lot to talk about after these overnight markets. I think we're going to get some big moves up and down, but S&P's up.3% in the future, so there's nothing too crazy to expect. Uh, Bitcoin Ethereum tried to make a little bit of a move, but you know, they're not making too much move. So, we're going to see in the next two minutes how this market opens. Trump just finished his CBS interview, so I'll get you some quotes from the interview. I can't play any clips because CBS is like really strong on the copyright, but I'll get you some data on uh the new quotes that we have from Trump, he talked a lot about China, and so the markets could be pricing in a little bit more of geopolitical stability versus instability. In regards to China as well, honestly, the most important thing about November, it's not even really that the overnight markets are about to open. It's not Buffett's cash pile. It's not uh it's not OpenAI. It's not Nvidia. It's it's really not anything other than the fact that we have a new candle for November, folks. Almond quissant. Almond casissant. Look at that. Look at that. Almond quissant. Smells gorgeous in this room, dude. Smells absolutely gorgeous. Smells absolutely gorgeous. As we get into the overnight markets, I was I was doing the vanilla flur thing for a for a while, but it's time for some almond cissance. almond quissants as we get into the overnight market. That is how you say quasissant. That's the French way. Okay? I'm not saying it in the gringo way. I'm saying it in the way that a quissant was meant to be said. All right. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Let's see what we got going on. Tomorrow again will be the first trading day officially of November 2025. We got the overnight markets right here. And uh we are following up six green months in a row. Bitcoin just fell below 110 by the way. goodness, 110.7 down to 109. We're going to see what ends up happening with crypto going into November. But we are officially starting the overnight markets here today. All right, 5 seconds. Let's see what we got. Overnight markets for November are officially open. Here we go. By the way, sorry if I'm late for a lot of people. We had daylight savings in the United States. I know that kind of messes up the time for a bunch of people in the uh the international parts of the world, but yeah. So now we will officially be starting every Sunday at this time for you guys. S&P that's up 7% 684. We got a green S&P. SoFi is up about 74% as well. AMD that's up 1.12%. Hoodie 148 that did have a 6% move on uh on Friday which was very nice to see. Palunteer 203 that's up 1.2%. We will do a little bit of a pounder preview. we did at Pounder Weekly. For those that want to get a bit more in-depth on the numbers, you can check that out that we did on Friday. Nvidia, that's up n7%. Now, I I'm I'm happy that Nvidia is up almost 1% because Trump did say in that CBS interview that um I talked to Jensen and essentially he said that we agreed that Blackwell should not be going well, he agreed. I don't know if Jensen agreed that Blackwell should not be going to our biggest competitors. I don't know what that necessarily means for Blackwell chips and I definitely don't think we're getting China revenue anytime soon. Jensen did have another interview that will look at it. well in a little bit. But, uh, Trump did kind of signal that, you know, maybe Blackwell is not going to be going to China anytime soon. So, the fact that Nvidia is actually up and not going down on that, I think is nice to see. AMD right there 259, that's up 1%. The GooGs back at 282, that's up about 1%. Grabs up a couple cents. Reddit is down4. Amazon had a great week. It didn't get the close at 250, but 245 is better than what it was at 212 for the majority of the past month. So, nice to see that for Amazon. Meta I am doing a lot more work to understand meta is multiple it's up about 1%. I really am leaning towards this dip is going to look stupid in a year but then again there is an execution risk on this capex stuff that I keep thinking is stupid but then I keep thinking well you know maybe the market's right about it. So I'll have some updated thoughts on Meta throughout the week but I don't know I my gut says it's a buy at these and even if it goes back to 600 okay you DCA at 600 and uh you hold on for the long term. We'll talk more about Meta. PayPal right there, that's up point4%. SMCI, that's up 1%. Ethereum getting nuked right there, dude. Bitcoin and Ethereum were making a run about an hour ago and now it's getting hit. Bitcoin right there 109.6. Someone's obviously dumping right here. Ethereum 3860. The app loving that's up about 1%. Pinterest is up a little bit. NFA is up a little bit. Where is INEN? IN is up 1.3%. Not too bad. Nebas again did a deep dive on that over the weekend. I'll put the link in the chat. I know a lot of people have been waiting for the Nebius deep dive uh along with Grab that is officially posted on the substack. Nebius 132 not too bad. There you go. Nebas up 1% right here. Door Dash is flat. New bank is relatively flat. PaloAlto Networks is down a little bit. Crowd Strike had a big run last week 543. That's also flat. Micro Strategy right there 270. And then Hoodie 14870. How about Oracle? Oracle got wrecked last week at 260 back at 265. So that's up a little bit right here. Beyond Meat is up about 2%. Where is HIMS? Hims is 4654. This one got hit below 50 and really hasn't been able to recover over the past week. That's up about 2.38%. Um Jensen, okay, so Jensen did say China was opened up by the New Deal. And we're going to listen to Jensen in just a second about what he said. But then Trump said that Blackwell shouldn't be given to our competitors. So it's it's again it's I don't even know if China's officially signed on to this deal. the the Trump White House put out this big statement yesterday outlining all the terms of the agreement. Um, but I I don't know if the Chinese have officially agreed to it. So, we'll talk about the terms. I don't know if Nvidia is able to sell to China yet, but hopefully we get that clarity over the coming weeks and we're going to see what happens right there. BMR flat 4658 probably would have made a little bit of a move uh had ETH not taken a little bit of a tumble just now. VIX is relatively flat. And then Baba, that's also up a little bit. Microsoft the ICE. I mean, look, the reason Microsoft got hit last week is because they took a $4 billion impairment charge for OpenAI, which I don't know why the street is that upset about given the rest of the business was absolutely on fire, including Azure going at 40%. But you did get Microsoft fall from about 540 to 520. That one is basically flat in the in the overnight markets. Palunteer, are we at 204? We are at 203.5. We'll talk more about Pounder at the end and uh I'll give you guys my thoughts on what I'm expecting, but Pounder's tomorrow, Grabs tomorrow. I mean, it's going to be a pretty wild day. And then you got AMD on Tuesday and then on Wednesday, you got Hood. So, this is going to be a wild, wild week. Uh last week was big for big tech and this week you you don't have big tech companies, but you have a lot of companies that a lot of people care about and we'll be covering all their earnings. S&P 500 right there 68461 up about 37% in the overnight markets. All right, cool. So, let's get into it. We got a lot of headlines. Again, thank you everybody for being here. Happy Sunday. Uh, this will be the new time. It's still 7:45 Eastern for me, but because of the daylight savings times, it's going to be, I think, an hour uh late for you guys, even though we gained an hour. So, it's going to get dark uh on the Northeast pretty quick now. But, uh, that is the function of daylight savings time. Okay, cool. So, let's get into it. I think we'll start off with uh this Jensen interview because this probably frames a lot of stuff that we got to talk about. So this was Jensen. He was on Fox this morning and this is everything that he had to say about China, Trump, what's going on. We got some descent clips as well and then we'll get into a lot of deeper I found a lot of charts this weekend about some of the stuff that's going on the macro. That's definitely it makes your head turn and I'm trying to rationalize it and make sense of it. So I'll share with everybody and we'll see what you guys think. Here is Jensen this morning and then we'll keep going from there. Welcome back. A major a string all as but it has invent computing and started this complete AI platform shift and now the industry is off on a decade long buildout and so really excited really excited with the achievement.
>> Tell me about manufacturing this Blackwell chip in Arizona Jensen. How difficult was that to achieve to bring such an important chip production here to America?
>> Well, first of all, AI is a industrial revolution and this is the most important technology of our time, potentially the most important technology of all time. And when President Trump first took office, uh he wanted us to manufacture these critical technologies on shore. He wanted to re-industrialize the United States. He wants to have energy growth. He wants to make sure that United States is a leader in artificial intelligence. And in order to do in order to do so, we need to lead in energy. We need to lead in chips. We need to lead in building AI infrastructures and factories including lead in building AI models of course, but also using AI in all the different applications in various industries from healthcare to manufacturing to robotics to you know science and and industry. So uh he wanted he wanted that uh in his administration and he wanted it at the speed of light and so I told him that we would bring manufacturing back within 9 months with the partnership of TSMC which is an incredible partner for the United States Foxcon Wistron Amcor and Spill we've been able to manufacture now the most advanced AI chip in the world completely in the United States and Arizona the the the the workers worked incredibly hard the mechanical engineers, the mechanical, the electricians, the plumbers, the construction workers, they all worked around the clock. Nine months later, we're now in volume production of the most advanced AI chip in the world. I
>> Is it much more expensive to do it in the United States versus Taiwan?
>> It is. It is more more expensive to do in the United States, but we're going to get better over time. you know, reman reonshoring manufacturing and the first uh plant of its kind. It's going to cost a little bit more money, but that's okay. the the uh the national security benefits uh the supply chain resilience benefits the job creation benefits here in the United States you know we're going to manufactured chips systems and those systems are going these these AI supercomputers are going to go into what are going to be AI factories which are going to be used by every single industry in the United States and so this is going to create over time you know my guess is millions of jobs, millions of jobs and really really high quality jobs, you know, from high really skilled trade craft. And
>> so you got Jensen obviously very excited about the American manufacturing and re-industrialization part and that is what Trump wants to hear. Here's what he had to say specifically when he was asked about what this means for the China part of Nvidia's business.
>> We'll suspend the implementation of relevant export controls. What does this agreement mean for you and Nvidia with regard to selling to China? Well, what an achievement. This is a milestone meeting, a milestone deal, a historic deal. And the readouts uh from from all the news that I've read uh just the respectful uh the friendly relationship that they've built uh between the two presidents and of course between the two countries. Therefore, uh the the post from Secretary Heg Heath and uh and all the readouts from uh Secretary Bessant have have all been extraordinary. You know, this really creates the conditions I hope uh for Nvidia to be able to go back and compete in market in China. Trump 45 in the in President Trump's first administration. Uh he set the tone perfectly for America to lead in technology and make sure that America American companies have the best and first but for American technology companies to go around the world to compete and win. In the last four years, the administration really set us on a path that really backfired. the policies have really backfired from a 95% market share in in the China market which is one of the most important markets in the world when President Trump left office and video's market share in China is now 0%. And so this is really time and it's a great great opportunity for us to reset back to the Trump 45 policies for the Trump 45 policies where AI American AI companies are able to go around go to China compete for compete in the marketplace and be able to diffuse and and proliferate American technology standards around the world so that we could set global standards so that uh the world is built on American standards so that we could lead the world. And so I I think uh creates the conditions for us to do that. I hope we're able to to um revert back to the policies of the Trump 45 administration and and um get back get back into the market and compete.
>> So that was the comment by Jensen. A lot of people interpreted that as China's coming back. Obviously he did not say China's coming back. He's saying hopefully the uh implications of the Trump and Xi deal will lead to China revenue or will will lead to China market share hopefully coming back for Nvidia because right now their market share is zero. And then 20 minutes ago you had this from Trump which is why I was surprised Nvidia is actually up in the overnight markets. But this is exactly what he said about Blackwell.
>> Nvidia smoke. What about it?
>> So are you planning to meet with him? you said when you were
>> I meet with look he's one of the great geniuses of our time his chips are 10 year years ahead of anybody else's and you know I meet with him all the time he's a great it's a great American company it's now the biggest company in the world uh so what would you like to know is a is really just a brilliant company the chips are 10 years the new blackwell that just came out it's 10 years ahead of every other chip But there's nothing to meet with other than say congratulations.
>> But no, we don't give that chip to other people.
>> We don't give that ship to other people.
>> Are you meeting with the Syrian president at the White House?
>> That last sentence, we don't give that chip to other people. So, look, maybe Trump is just saying that because he wants to get a little bit more of a negotiation on what we get with China. Uh, but as you can see, he clearly said, "We don't give that chip to other people." which means the blackwell chip is likely not coming back in terms of revenue if this is the similar stance that Trump is going to have on Nvidia. So even with the praise of Nvidia, even with Jensen bringing GTC to DC, even with Jensen obviously praising the Trump administration and saying that he believes in this whole American re-industrialization, if Trump is not ready to give the Blackwell chip to China, I would imagine China wants the chip and China has already said back in the summer they don't want anything less than Blackwell because if you give them something less than Blackwell, then they might as well just build their own chip, which creates the entire problem that Jensen's been talking about for American technology not being the foundation for overall AI technology around the world. it comes down to Blackwell and you know when we create Vera Rubin when that officially goes live with Nvidia and then we give them Blackwell I'm sure the Chinese are not going to be happy about that. So I mean we don't fully have any details on what's going on with Nvidia but at least the market so far because of the $500 billion opportunity that Jensen talked about last week and uh excluding any of the guidance from China over the next five quarters. I think the market's overlooking that which is like a good thing to see rather than a bad thing to see. So that's what we have in the context of uh of China and Nvidia. Now what actually happened with the trade relations? So this came out last night. This was published on the US.gov website and this is exactly what they said. The Chinese are going to suspend new rare earth export controls. They're going to issue general licenses for exports of rare earths. They're going to take significant measures to end the flow of fentinel to the US. They're going to suspend all retaliatory tariffs since March 4th. suspend all retaliatory non-tariff measures since March 4th and purchase at least 12 million metric tonses of US soybeans. The US is going to lower tariffs by 10% from uh 57 to 47, extend the expiration of section 301 tariff exclusions until November 2026 published by the White House yesterday. So nothing in that says that China will officially get Blackwell, but I think it's giving the market a lot of ease now that there's not this massive trade war that might break out towards the end of the year. Obviously, the Chinese have to confirm this, but I think they already bought some soybeans as a sign of good faith. And, you know, given the negotiations that happened last week that we covered, it seems like everything is relatively okay and the export controls on rare earths that kind of really got everyone scared globally might not be happening and as a result, you know, that might be the good thing. Now, a lot of people are saying, "What does China get from that deal?" I mean, it's a good point because outside of the tariff reduction, I don't really know what China is getting from that deal. I mean, they get access to the US consumer, which is very important, and their economy needs that because they've been in a recession over the past couple years. Uh, but yeah, it is confusing, right? And it's been confusing for the past couple of months. Like back in June, Trump said we had a China deal. We obviously didn't. And that China deal was centered around like allowing Chinese students to be able to effectively go to Harvard, which made no sense at times. Like, how is that the basis for a deal? So, I don't think we're out of the woods yet on this USChina situation. The markets are definitely a bit more calm about it. And you know, maybe the markets would have been up a lot more last week passing through that 690 level uh if like we had some real legit concrete things that we for sure knew was going to happen with China and the US. But we have somewhat of a framework and hopefully that framework is uh is not the worst thing in the world. They get some soybeans. Yes, they they definitely get some soybeans. Meta right there taking a little bit of a dip. 652 from 655. You got the S&P 500 right there at 684. So that's the update on Nvidia. It looks like Blackwell's not going to China yet, but the overall China US tensions seem to be at ease, which is what we need to get S&P 7000. I mean, you need a big tech earnings to dominate. They did. We got Nvidia coming up. We got some of these other countries. But now, if we can get China to do well, then that would be very important. Having said that, let's talk about Basent. So, here is Bent talking about the general state of the economy right now. And the reason this is important is because a lot of stocks last week took a hit. And we're going to talk about those stocks in a second. But a lot of those stocks are more consumer oriented stocks showing maybe there's some issues on Main Street, even if not on Wall Street yet.
>> Voted to lower interest rates another quarter of a point to its lowest level in three years. However, the central bank's newest official, Steven Myron, is is warning that if the Fed doesn't continue to lower interest rates rapidly, the US could face a recession. Do you agree that the US is at risk of facing a recession? Uh I I believe that we are in a transition period here as we are seeing the Trump administration has cut back on government spending. Jake what has gone unnoticed during the shutdown is the for the fiscal year that in September 30th the government spent less than it did the year before and because the GDP grew the GDP which had been 6.4 the deficit to GDP which had been 6.4 4 6.5% deficit, the highest when we weren't at war, weren't in a recession ever. We were able to bring it down to 5.9%. So, we are bringing down government spending. And I would think that the Fed would want to assist with that because if we go back and look, MIT just published a study that said 42% of the great inflation of 2022 came from excess government spending. So if we are contracting spending then I would think inflation would be dropping. If inflation is dropping then the Fed should be cutting rates.
>> Also if the labor market is weak and people are losing jobs they're not spending as much which should also help to create a little bit more deflation which is another reason the Fed should be cutting rates.
>> But do you think that the US is at risk of a recession if the Fed does not continue to drop rates? Uh I I think that we are in good shape, but I think that there are sectors of the economy that are in recession and you know the Fed has caused a lot of distributional problems the with their policies. I you know I wrote a 7,000word essay on that. You know we've seen the the biggest hindrance for housing here that [clears throat] are are mortgage rates. So, you know, if the Fed brings down mortgage rates, then they can end this housing recession. Low-income consumers who have gotten killed under President Biden, the these high rates are hurting them because they have debt, not assets. So, I think that there are sections of the economy that could go into recession. All right.
>> Okay. Now, why is that really important to understand? Well, I'm about to show something right here and uh for those that haven't seen this aggregated data, it's actually really really important to to take a look at. So, so take a look at this right here. These are the year-to-ate returns on some very important consumer stocks. Chipotle, we all saw last week what happened with their earnings. The CEO literally said people making less than 100,000 from ages 25 to 34 are not entering the store as much. Wendy's was down 44% this year. I didn't even know that was the case. Lululemon, that's been a train wreck, down 54%. Whirlpool down 35%, although they did have good earnings. Macy's down 27%. Caesars down 38%. Under Arour down 36. I mean, it's a little ugly when you look at these consumer stocks. Here's another chart that shows even more. the Camples company, General Mills, Craft Hind, Colgate, uh, Proctor and Gamble. These have been the worst performing stocks of the entire year. So, there's two kind of nuanced points around this. Number one is has has have these companies been the best companies in the world. Probably not. I would imagine Nvidia, Microsoft, Amazon, Google, etc. are executing a lot better [snorts] than Proctor and Gamble and and Lululemon. So, that that's the first point. But second of all, the reason I think people are starting to wonder what's going on with the consumer is because these are consumer oriented companies and it's not just Chipotle. There's a lot of other fast food brands. I mean, Shake Shack, which is, you know, not really for the low end of the consumer, but uh their stock has been hit all year. And, you know, Shakes Shack tends to do relatively well uh even with middle class consumers, that's not been doing that great. So, the question is what's going on in the economy? And we've been talking about this for a long time. As Gerald says right here, people are definitely hurting. And I don't think even if we are asset holders, we can ignore the fact that obviously people are hurting in this economy. Which is why Bent was asked this question. Wait a second. If we don't cut rates and you're seeing Chipotle take a 45% draw down this year, 20% in a week, like what's going on for the low end of the consumer that likely needs to get a little bit of relief on their personal loan payment to refinance it or their auto loan payment? Auto loan delinquencies have, you know, not been the best, especially subprime. um in regards to how they're going to navigate their expenses. And obviously the answer is that at least what the Fed's disposal is going to have is lowering rates. So I think this along with what's going on with the labor market is is is not to say that the economy is in a horrible situation. It's just to say we as investors cannot ignore that there are factions of the economy that are not doing well in 2026. There's going to have to be some level of turnaround either internally with these companies if it really is just a company thing. But when you look at a chart like this, these are all consumer brands. And a lot of these consumer brands are not Louis Vuitton, you know, these are these are not brands that are trying to sell a shirt for $10,000. These are companies that are selling relatively cheap products that have not been able to get their stock to do well. Yeah, Deckers is another stock. That's an example of this. And so, as a result, I think it's something that really does matter. We cannot forget about it. It could come back to bite the stock market in the ass in regards to, you know, do we have the earnings growth to continue this momentum? And we do. That's been a big theme of Q3. Earnings growth has been really damn good. 80% of companies in the S&P 500 are beating. But then you have these consumer names that just aren't doing that well. Having said that, this leads into the conversation around the wealth effect. Here is a two to three minute clip from the compound and friends this weekend talking about this idea of the wealth effect because again that is why it looks like the economy is holding up.
>> Additional
>> I want to double click on that because like this is the hill that I like to die on every week. I'm a wealth effect truther. I think it's the number one most important factor in the economy, bar none. It decides employment. It decides whether or not people get wage increases. I think it decides capex spending projects. Nothing will halt AI capex in its tracks faster than a stock price that falls 30%. Nothing. And so, as a result, I really think we underpric the ability of the stock market to influence things that happen in the real economy. Um, more Americans than ever are in 401ks. I understand housing is a bigger asset for the middle class, blah blah blah. I get all that. The people that work for people though, those people, they care about their stock options in the companies they work for. I just I think it's a huge driver. To that point, Sean and I uh on my research team, we write this column for CNBC Pro every week, uh best stocks in the market, and we're always looking for charts that invalidate things that we believed or things other people believed. We love that more than anything. We did a spotlight on Ford and GM today. Ford and GM made 52 week highs this week.
>> Yeah. What's the story there? The story there is the wealth effect is what sends people to the dealership to buy a new F-150. Not trade war [ __ ] These companies have handled this tariff war handled this this tariff situation so well, not because they're in control of the prices of of the supplies they buy, but because the demand never let up.
>> I I and I I think this is a really important point. Ford and GM have out or GM has at least outperformed Tesla this year. Ford's basically trading at a two-year high. Why? They're able to sell more cars. Why are they able to sell more cars? Because people have more money, not just because of their paychecks, but because they're holding on to assets. Even if it's just their 401k, they feel richer. That's the whole concept of the wealth effect. And they're able to buy more cars and those cars are relatively cheaper than a Tesla. So, I mean, from that perspective, you ask yourself, how is GM going up 20% in a day like it did two weeks ago? It might be because of this wealth effect. The demand never let up because everyone's stock portfolio is at a record high. So GM is selling they GM's in a better situation than Ford. They're selling more higher margin SUVs. Ford has a lot more execution risk and it's not as good of a stock. They don't do buybacks. They do dividends. Blah blah blah. But the big picture is both of them are at 52 week highs. If I told you in March, next month, Trump is going to restart the trade war and auto parts and finished automobiles going to be like the epicenter of the trade battle with all these countries, you would not have said, "Oh, I get it. Therefore, buy Ford and GM. They're up. They're up more than Tesla this year." People don't even understand that.
>> Um, and so my point is that's the power of the stock market wealth effect.
>> And so, look, I think it's a good point. I think it's something we cannot ignore. And what's really important is another stat from the show that was that was just very intriguing to me. People in their early 30s or I think it's mid-30s, 35 years old, they their percentage of uh equities as a percentage of their net worth in this generation. So I guess millennials you can call it 23%. So if you are around 35 in that you know early 30s range, mid-30s range, 23% of your net worth on an aggregate is in equities. For the boomers when they were 35 years old, it was 7%. That is a massive difference, right? And so when you have a stock market with technology stocks that are leading the way, most people 35 and younger, right? Nvidia, Tesla, Amazon, the companies that they actually understand, the companies that they can see the technology in front of their face, those are the companies they're investing in, those are the companies that have gone up, those are the companies that have done well. So when 7% decades ago as a result of your net worth was in equities versus 23% it makes a vast difference on the level of wealth or at least the perception of wealth that people think that they have. And that is why when you look at a chart like this is all these consumer brands are down but the stock market's up and people are willing to spend even more. It's because these companies are executing at such a high level and they have so much allocation to these companies. Take a look at this. The combined revenues of the big four US tech companies, Amazon, Google, Apple, and Microsoft, hit a record 1.8 trillion over the last 12 months. Amazon at 691 billion, Apple 416, Google 386, Microsoft 294. I'm working on a Substack piece coming out in the next week about how the big tech companies might be the easiest investments of our lifetime. And when you see charts like this and then when you see that most people have allocation to these companies, not Johnson and Johnson or Proctor and Gamble or Lululemon, but rather Amazon, Apple, Google, and Microsoft. Apple hit a new all-time high last week, which is just wild given that they're not growing that much, but still the multiple gets baked in because it's Apple at the end of the day. It's just incredible to see. And so, as a result of that, uh, you know, when Bent says the Fed's probably got to keep cutting and when all of us start wondering, are we going to get this December cut? I mean, I think it was laughable and I genuinely think it was laughable last week that Bent or not Benta Powell started off the press conference by trying to stress that this December cut is not going to happen. Right now, the probability for a December cut, it's going to be December 10th is the meeting is 69.3%. That number was 90% before Powell uh went on stage and said, you know, don't expect a December cut is in the books. It's in the books. We know the labor market is weak. We know that the bottom end of the consumer is obviously struggling and they're going to need some type of relief aka rate cuts. Also, it takes 12 months for a rate cut to even have any effect on the economy. So, the idea that we're going to delay more rate cuts because we think, you know, we have all the time in the world. It's like, no. Also, I mean, I heard this the other day. I forgot where I heard it from, but I think 2% is the new 3%. Or rather, I should say 3% is the new 2%. Like, when we talk about the Fed's inflation target, we're not getting to 2% anytime soon unless we have massive deflation from like AI or, you know, the labor market really gets that bad. Um, if we stay steady at 3%, which isn't the worst thing in the world, 3% might become the new 2%. And even if the Fed doesn't explicitly acknowledge that their target has shifted, we all kind of know their target has shifted, which at that point means we're likely going to continue to get some of these rate cuts. So, that's what we got in the context of the consumer and what's going on with the broader economy outside of just Wall Street. And we're going to have to see over time how these earnings can continue to develop to make sure that the consumer stays strong and that the economy as well stay stay strong. Let's get into some charts about November. So November tends to be pretty damn good. Take a look at this. Since 1927, the S&P 500, uh the S&P 500 has ended higher 59% of November. So 59% of the time you tend to get a higher November that is actually a much higher rate than October. During these years, the index averages an average of one or returned an average of 1%. The NASDAQ 100 has seen 2.4%. The Russell 2000 2.64. In year one of a US presidential cycle, which we are in right now, 25, November has also been strong with the S&P 500 going up about 67% of the time. Uh, or it's up 67% 67% of the time. I know the 67s, I get it. I'm going to see thousands of those in a second. But, uh, ironically, the S&P rise is 67% of the time. up 067% on average in November. Since 1950, the S&P 500 has been up more than 15% year-to date. Heading into November, it's returned 2.7%. Right now, the S&P 500 is up 18%. So, historically, we could get a two and two two and a half% month going into November, which would put us well over 7,000. Tom Lee still thinks we're going to get to 7,000. He does think it's going to be a bit choppy before we get there. The first two weeks of November, he thinks the gains have to kind of settle in, which makes sense because you have Nvidia at the back half of November. So, it might take some time before we end up getting the uh earnings results from Nvidia to bake in, but if it is choppy, it likely is a buy the dip scenario like it has been all year as November tends to do well and as we're probably going to get that rate cut. So, I mean there there there's a lot of reasons to be optimistic around November and it doesn't look like November necessarily has to go bad. Gold is back below 4,000. Silver's at 48. So you got gold that fell all the way down to 39 uh60 and now it's making a move back up to 3997. So just below 4,000 but not necessarily too much below 4,000. Speaking of gold, India has been one of the largest gold importers this year. India's gold imports surged 7.8 billion over the last three months, the second largest on record. This is triple the amount recorded in the prior 3-month period. And the Reserve Bank of India, we talked a lot about these central banks uh increasing their their allocation to gold. Has increased its gold holdings by 25 tons so far in 2025, reaching 880 tons, an all-time high. So look, I I don't know if gold is going to be the ultimate hedge going into 2026. It is a bit weird that gold has been going up and the 10ear has been going up as well. I mean, the tenure was going down for a bit. Now the tenure kind of selling off, tenure down a little bit right here in the overnight markets at 4.083%. But nonetheless, it doesn't look like the move on gold is to be faded, at least yet. Uh, and if it gets a rebound back to 4,400, I think JP Morgan is 5,000 by the end of the year. You know, it doesn't seem like people are going to be too afraid of what we've got going on with gold. Uh, Bitcoin and Ethereum, then let me get to some of these Trump quotes because we got a bunch of them coming in. Bitcoin right here, 109.7 and Ethereum is at 3849. So, Bitcoin and Ethereum relatively red. I mean, they were up a bit and now they are back red. Okay, before we get into some other topics, Trump quotes, I'm getting them in right now. So, uh, let me give you guys some of these quotes. Again, we can't play these clips because CBS gets like super aggressive with copyrighting, but uh, interviewer says, "Will you pull forward a healthare plan?" Trump says no. Interviewer says, "Since 2015, you've said you fixed it." Trump said, "We almost did it." So, no plan on healthcare at least yet. uh Trump on if the Supreme Court rules against him on tariffs. He says, "I think our economy will go to hell." Um interviewer, why did you pardon Binance's CZ? Uh Trump says, "I don't know who he is." Interviewer says his crypto exchange Binance helped facilitate a $2 billion purchase of World Liberty Financial stable coin and then you pardoned him. World Liberty Financial is the Trump uh the Trump uh kids uh coin. Trump says, "Here's the thing. I know nothing about it.
>> [laughter]
>> I genuinely think Trump has no freaking clue who CZ is. He just he got told to pardon him and he was like, "All right, crypto. Cool. That's probably what we got to do." So, Pounder right there. 20406 S&P 500 at 684. Uh interviewer then says, "How big of a threat is China?" Trump says, "It's like everybody else. We're a threat to them, too. Many of the things you say we do to them, they would do to us." This is the This is the exact transcript from the interview that I'm looking at right here on Xi and Putin. Uh Trump said they're both very strong leaders. These are people not to be toyed with. You have to take them very seriously. They're not walking in saying, "Oh, isn't it a beautiful day?" These are serious people, tough leaders. On Venezuela, Trump says, uh, interviewer says, "Are we going to war against Venezuela?" Trump says, "I doubt it." They emptied their mental institutions and insane asylums into the United States. Uh, on a third term, interviewer says, "Can you set the record straight? Are you going to run for a third term?" Trump says, "I don't even think about it. I will tell you a lot of people want me to run." Trump's been more explicit about telling people he's like not really thinking about a third term. So, I know that's a rumor that's out there, but I don't think Trump is like seriously thinking of uh of making that run. All right, so we don't have any crazy quotes that it's affecting the market. Nothing Trump said that is that concerning. I don't see any Nvidia quotes here either. Uh he was asked also about Taiwan and what would happen if China invaded Taiwan and he said they're not going to do that when I'm president and Xi knows uh how serious of an issue that would be. Uh he also said that when they met in South Korea, they didn't even bring up the topic because they know how serious it would be if they even attempted to do something like that and they have a lot of respect for me as a president. So in terms of uh in terms of I guess the China Taiwan situation, Trump thinks that you're likely not going to have that much of an issue. Here is what Basant also said about rare earth stocks, which was another really important thing when it comes to China. I think it's naive for the Wall Street Journal editorial board, who I call a bunch of grumpy old men, to the think that the Chinese weren't going to roll out this these rare earth restrictions. They've been putting this plan together for 25, 30 years, and the US has been asleep at the switch. And now this administration, we're going to go at warp speed over the next 1 2 years and we're going to get out from under the you know this sword that the Chinese have over us and they have it over the whole world and this time uh we have rallied the allies and so it is going to be a all the western democracies the Asian democracies and India are also going to join us in this in trying to form our own supply chains. We don't want to decouple from China, but we need to derisk. They've shown themselves to be an unreliable partner in many areas. I think it's naive for the Wall Street Journal editorial.
>> So, Bent seems pretty confident on rare earth exports not being as bad as what, you know, the media thought it was going to be over the past couple weeks. Based on the Trump China fact sheet that was released over the weekend, it seems like China's going to be stopping the ban of their exports on rare earth controls, which is really important. Um, and overall it seems like rare earths which really kind of made the market get scared over the past couple weeks might not be that big of a deal. Nvidia right there 2044. Tessy's up a little bit. Palanteer 20412435 I think. Oh no, 2048 is the alltime high. Uh, I think we might have touched above that in the overnight markets. And then you got Robin Hood right there at 149 as well. So overnight markets green S&P 500 up about.34%. All right, I want to do one more segment and then we'll end off the show today with Pounder and Grab earnings predictions. We're going to do a Robin Hood earnings prediction tomorrow with Roy and Tanner on Tech Bros. So, I'll save my thoughts for tomorrow on that. But, we do have Pounder and Grab tomorrow. So, we'll talk about that in a second. Real quick before we get to this segment, uh a little bit more on the Sam Alman stuff. So, I played that clip in the morning of him going viral, kind of being a dick to Brad Gerson talking about the uh investment commitments that they've had. Um, then Elon said, "You stole a nonprofit because Sam Alman tweeted this picture of like his Roadster uh that he paid $50,000 for never actually coming out because the road store was never the Roadster was never delivered." And so Elon responded and said, "Hey, you stole a nonprofit." And then Sam says, "I turn I helped turn the thing you left for dead into what should be the largest nonprofit ever. You know as well as anyone a structure like what OpenAI has now is required to make that happen. You also said you wanted Tesla to take OpenAI over no nonprofit at all." and you said we had a 0% chance of success. Now you have a great AI company and so do we. Can't we all just move on? I mean, again, you got a lot of people that love Sam Alman because they hate Elon and then you got a lot of people that really despise Sam Alman because, you know, they just don't think that he is the most ethical actor. Again, he kind of started it with posting this showing his Roadster reservations never like coming to fruition. And that's when Elon commented and said, "You stole a nonprofit." And then that's when Sam clapped back. So billionaire drama for us to all take a look at. But at the end of the day, if XEI wins and OpenAI wins, that's most important for all of us, regardless of if you like the guys or not. And they kind of have to win because if they don't win, we are uh well, to be honest, we're all screwed. Like we need these companies to survive in the age of AI. Yes. says, "Cactus Jack says right there, can't we all just have fun and drink mocktails?" Also, a Cactus posted right here that soybean futures are at a 15-month high. So, shout out to the Chinese. They got the uh they got the soybeans pumping as they are now committing to buy more soybeans. All right, so let's get into this last segment, which has to do with layoffs. So, there's another chart that's been going quite viral over the weekend that I think is uh pretty important to look at. And, you know, it goes back to this argument about what's going on with the with the labor market. So, take a look at this. Uh S&P 500 in in the black and then chatbt or sorry, total job openings in the blue. Uh CHBT is in the middle right there. November 2022 when it officially launched. As you can see, the S&P 500 is going higher, and for all of us that own assets, we are getting richer. The job market is getting worse, even though employment is still below 5%, which is historically not bad. Uh, but as you can see, total job openings are going down. And as a result, it's one of those things where people are starting to wonder, wait a second, is this damn AI thing going to make shareholders rich, but going to leave everybody else poor because no one's going to have a job, which eventually will hurt shareholders at some point. And I don't know, but based on a chart like this, it seems rather obvious that this is playing out. Here's another thing right here to take a look at. So, Amazon.com employees, this is from the Wall Street Journal. As you can take a look right there, along with Microsoft is down. Amazon is down from 2021 after the recent round of layoffs, which likely some more layoffs are coming. And then Microsoft is down 6% from the peak. It seems like the total amount of jobs that the big tech companies have used to employ has reached the peak and I think it is very unlikely like I'm just you know just looking at these charts and then anecdotally looking at what's going on in the world of AI it seems very unlikely that the big tech companies are ever going to have more employees than they had back in 2021. Uh for two reasons. Number one they overhired during the pandemic. So that was one thing that contributed to that many new employees. Number two is like they just don't need that many people. They just don't need that many people. And and you know, a after these day in the life videos went viral from some of these product managers that sip their my ties at the pool of the company office and respond to two Slack messages. And I don't mean to undermine a product manager's job, but that's what some of these videos that went viral were about. And you know, you probably have Zuckerbergs looking at these videos and being like, "Huh?" First of all, they're posted on TikTok, not even Instagram. So Zuck's like, "All right, so you're posting on our competitor." Number two, Zucks is like, "Well, do we really need that person? Do we really need that?" You know, and so I don't know in the age of AI, it seems very difficult for me to imagine that we are actually going to have the amount of jobs that we've had open historically and it's going to be an interesting experiment for all of us to kind of play out. Here's another chart that exemplifies this. So, this is the ongoing share of uh US tech jobs that are located in California, which is the tech capital of the world. There are fewer tech jobs in California today in 2025 than during the 2008 great financial crisis. Now in 2008 uh the tech companies were just starting right u well not just starting I mean like a lot of them had just IPOed. Google IPOed in 2005. Meta was just you know evolving from a startup. I think it raised the series A back in 2007. So the tech companies were hiring aggressively in 2008. But you would think in 2025 the percentage of US tax jobs in California should be way higher than what it was 17 years ago. And that's not the case. And there's probably more macro arguments to explain that than just AI. But it's hard to undermine the fact that AI could be playing a role right here. And why there's just not that many tech jobs that's needed as a percentage of the overall jobs in California. It's because they're in Texas. Well, yeah, that I mean, look, that that is a fair point. A lot of uh companies did leave to Texas. A lot of these tech companies started outsourcing to um international countries, right? India being one of the biggest for I mean that's this that's what the whole H-1B controversy has been over the past couple of years. So that that's not only tied to AI, but it is a chart to kind of take into account when we think of the overall S&P 500's growth, which is the wealth of the United States of America, versus the job openings that, you know, don't seem to exist at the level that they existed just two and a half years ago when we had when we had uh Chatbat just get started. So we're going to see a lot of how this plays out, but I think the labor market is something we got to keep an eye on. I've been saying that for the past couple weeks. It's not something I'm worried about because I'm not seeing enough data to be worried about it, but it's definitely something that I think matters and it's something that hopefully we'll try to get as much more data as we can on the show every day. Okay, two more things and then we'll get into the earnings preview. Uh, first of all, a lot of people asking about BMR and Ethereum. We talked about it last week, but just a couple quick stats on Ethereum. Highest monthly total transaction count ever for the Ethereum network in October, breaking its record for six months in a row. So, that's just one chart that I would pay attention to. Again, more transactions on the network likely means the network continues to be more valuable. So, this is good for Bitine as this will be good for the Ethereum price over the long term. And then number two, if you take a look at uh this Chris posted this yesterday, stable coin volume in October absolutely exploded. We had a lot of new companies introduced their own stable coins. A lot of that being on Ethereum. I think right now it's 59% of overall stable coin supply happening on Ethereum. And so, I know Ethereum's been choppy. I know it's not been super exciting as it was back in the summer. Uh my advice last week was if you're in Bitine and you hate that the stock is flat then and you think there's better opportunities, then you got to get out of it. I mean, if you if you really don't love the opportunity that Bitine is presenting you because you just don't care anymore about Ethereum and you were in it for a trade, then there's plenty of other things that probably will outperform it if Ethereum stays flat. But if you do believe in that long-term trade uh for Ethereum in particular, then maybe just buy Ethereum. Maybe not even buy Bitmine, right? like if you're just annoyed with the digital asset treasury strategy, but if you think Ethereum is asymmetric, and this is one of the best macro trades we've seen, just given all the data around stable coins, tokenization, etc., which by the way, there's a new website that Roy showed me that is tracking all the all the tokenized assets on Robin Hood, which is really cool. If you believe in that broader trend, then I think that mine can be asymmetric. This is the website right here. I'll put it in the chat, but as you can see, there's 493 assets that are tokenized on Hood, and you can track the entire volume and the minting of those assets every single day. So, that's right there in the chat. Okay, cool. So, that's what we got on Ethereum. Let me play this one last clip. This will also give me a chance to get my charger because my computer's about to die. And then we'll talk about Palanteer and Grab. This was Nadella and Gersonner talking about what the framework will be going into 2026 for Microsoft. you know that that investment that that's now worth 130 billion I suppose could be worth a trillion someday as Sam says but it really in many ways understates the value of the partnership right so you have the value in the revshare billions per year going to Microsoft you have the profit you make off the $250 billion of the Azure compute commitment from open AI and of course you get huge sales from the exclusive distribution of the API. So talk to us how you think about the value across those domains especially how this exclusivity has brought a lot of customers who may have been on AWS to Azure.
>> Yeah. No, absolutely. I mean so to us um if I look at it um you know aside from all the uh the equity parts the real strategic thing that comes together and that remains going forward uh is that stateless API exclusivity on Azure that helps quite frankly both open AAI and us and our customers uh because when somebody in the enterprise uh is trying to build an application they want an API that's stateless they want to mix it up with uh compute storage, put a database underneath it to capture state and build a full workload and that's where uh you know Azure coming together with this API and so what we're doing with even uh Azure foundry right because in some sense you let's say you want to build an AI application but the key thing is uh how do you make sure that the eval are great so that's where you need even a full app server in Foundry that's what we've done and so therefore I feel that that is the way we will go to market in our infrastructure business. The other side of the value capture for us is going to be incorporating all this IP. Not only we have the exclusivity of the model in uh Azure but we have access to the IP. I mean having a royaltyfree let's even forgetting all the the knowhow and the knowledge side of it but having royalty-free access all the way till seven more years gives us a lot of flexibility business model wise. It's kind of like having a frontier model for free [laughter] in some sense. If you're an MSFT shareholder, that's kind of where you should start from is to think about we have a frontier model that we can then deploy whether it's in GitHub, whether it's in M365, whether it's in our consumer copilot, then add to it our own data, postrain it. Uh so that means we can have it embedded in the weights there. And so therefore we're excited about the value creation on both the Azure and the infrastructure side as well as in our highv value domains uh whether it is in health whether it's in knowledge work whether it's in coding or security
>> you've been
>> I mean hearing that makes me want to really dive deeper on Microsoft and just say you know is this company really not going to be big uh bigger than it is today and you know likely not going to rise in value as Nvidia rises in value. I mean, I I think we we don't talk enough about Microsoft because it's not one of those sexy sexy names in the Mac 7, but I think we should. And you know, we don't have a crazy dip opportunity like we have on Meta, which we'll talk a lot more about over the coming weeks. But, uh, he's right. I mean, look, they have exclusivity. They have their own open, they have their own API that they can fine-tune to their own Microsoft models. And as a result, it doesn't seem crazy to kind of really take a look at Microsoft even at this $4 trillion valuation and see, hey, how much can cloud grow and how much can this exclusivity clause with AGI along with the 250 billion that opening is going to be paying for Azure? What does that mean for the stock going forward? And so that's definitely something that I think that all of us should be looking at. All right, Palinger, let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. First of all, who's excited? Who's excited? We'll talk about Grab after, but Palanteer is tomorrow. I think this is officially the 18th quarter I'll be covering publicly on the channel. It's kind of crazy, dude. Um, but I am pretty excited for it. Now, the reason I am excited for it is because I looked at the numbers over the weekend. Again, if you haven't watched Paler Weekly, make sure to check that out. We went pretty deep onto the numbers and, you know, tried to give as much of an explanation as we can for what we think is going to happen. Seeking Alpha that I'm pulling up right here has the earnings estimates and the estimates from Wall Street is 1.09. 9 billion. Pounder basically guided for 1.09 billion. So, uh, the analysts aren't really raising the estimate from the company. They're basically betting that the company is going to come in line with guidance. And they've done this for basically the past 10 quarters. And what has Palanteer done? They've uh beat and raised to such a degree that the analysts completely got it wrong. And it's not like the analysts have really said, "Oh, well, maybe next quarter they're not going to beat and raise." continue to underestimate, which means it's totally in Palunteer's hands for if they can do the same tomorrow. And if they can, I think it's going to be an exciting quarter. Now, what's going to happen to the stock? I have no idea because the stock already made a run. I mean, I really for the past couple weeks, the reason I've been buying pounder around that 170 to 185 range is like, hey, I think when the street sees 50% growth, uh, they're going to be excited and the stock probably makes a move higher. That has already happened. So, the anticipation of the move has already taken place. The question now becomes how good is the quarter going to be to get the move to be even better than what we see right here. And if pounder drops to 185 tomorrow, like I can't be that upset about it. I know everyone's going to be upset and just like annoyed because it got all the way to 204. But nonetheless, it's like if so much was priced in and they weren't able to deliver beyond expectations, which is basically what happened two quarters ago. Remember, we ran up to like 125 and then we fell to 108 the next day. Uh that's the that's when I went on Bloomberg the day after to talk about pound earning. So, like we've h we've seen a quota like that before, but in Q2 that didn't happen because Palenter like really beat the estimates and they and they raised guidance in in a in a substantial way. I think they're going to come in to 1.2 billion. I think they're going to beat by 100 million. And I think if they beat by a hundred million and we get 1.2 billion and we get closer to 25 cents versus 17 cents, again, I I just like if they grow anywhere near 55 to 57% right now, they're got to get 50%. So they would have to have a little bit of a 7 to 8% beep. I mean, dude, like I Wall Street, I think once again, will say, "Wait a second. This is the only company that's growing as fast as they're growing. This is the only company that's actually implementing AI to make it useful." If OpenAI wants a trillion dollar valuation, I mean, I know their metrics are better from a growth perspective than from a total dollar revenue perspective, but from an impact perspective, one could say that Pounder is having more of an impact. And Pounder only has 900 customers in terms of customer count. We talked about this a lot on the weekly. This might be the first quarter where they add 100 customers. They've never added a triple digit number of customers. I think last quarter they added 77. If they add uh 100 and they have more deals of at least a million that was added. I think last quarter they have like 150. If that gets closer to like 175 and they have that topline revenue growth of 55 to 57%. I think the stock can go higher and I think the street will really like it. Now am I expecting that? No. I really want to calm people's expectations down. If the stock was at 170 180, I would be gung-ho of like, hey, I think there's going to be a move. Stock made the move already. It happens. So, the smartest people tomorrow could be the people that sell before earnings. People could sell calls before earnings. Maybe that ends up working out. I don't know if buying calls going into earnings is the best idea. The expected move is 10%. Yes, they are reporting after hours 4 p.m. So, you know, a 10% move gets you closer to 220 or 180. Um, we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see the numbers that they put up. Uh, I usually don't buy puts to hedge. Now, if you have a super super big position and you really want to protect it and you're not okay with your margin of safety via your average or your covered calls, then yes, I mean, buying puts is fine because if they go to zero, the stock probably goes up. It's always subjective for how people want to hedge against it. Uh, is and again, earnings is earnings is earnings, dude. Like, you just never know. You really never know what happens on earnings. my if the stock was closer to 170 180 I would feel a lot more comfortable saying hey I think earnings is going to be really good but the stocks made the move so the question now becomes how good of a beat can it be and over the past quarter it's not like there's not deals in Q3 that weren't substantial Arie did a good recap on Twitter showing off all the different Q3 deals and it was massive that billion dollar deal with the UK for their Ministry of Defense we had a deal with Poland that well that might be Q4 but that that could have been signed in Q3 uh you had a $100 million contract from the IRS$100 million for nextgen uh common control with Anderol 25 million in Germany 5-year expansion with Lier to globally use warp speed we have that lumen contract that might have been sat signed in Q3 even though it was announced in Q4 sampo multi-year expansion Fujitsu exp extension in in AIP in Japan Babcock which is a um United King a British defense contractor deploying warp speed I mean you have partnerships and partnerships and partnerships deote accent blue forge does all of that lead to like 60% growth I mean I don't know. Karp was pretty excited when we saw him on Fox News. I mean, you know, he smiled when he said, "We are growing very well." So, every single time we've had earnings, basically for the past year, the company has defied expectations, beat the analyst expectations, beat the retail analyst expectations. All of us, I think, are a bit smarter than the analysts and even they beat our most big most most bullish case for the earnings. And so, I think that could happen again tomorrow. But if it doesn't, it doesn't. So, I don't want to get people too excited because the stock has already made a move. But if it does happen and we bust up to 215, 220 and then we normalize in the 200s, I mean, that would be a pretty fun way to end out 2025. And yes, the Jensen Nvidia deal was very important. I there's just there there's a ton of different catalysts that have been happening. The Karp has this book that came out. I put out the interview over the weekend with uh with the with the author of that book. I mean like the overall brand of Palunteer and Karp has grown so substantially that you would imagine a lot more people are excited about the name the stock and obviously the growth rates if they can deliver the numbers that's going to be really important if adjusted operating margins get closer to 47% I think they're at 44% last quarter that's important free cash flow margins continuing to stay at 60% customer count again getting that triple digits on uh number of customers added toppling revenue growth 57% like if we can really pull up these numbers which I think we're going to get most of these numbers Maybe we don't get all of them, but if we get most of them, that's when I think the, you know, the stock could explode. But it could also be one of those things where the numbers are great like it was in Q1 and then the stock sells off, which we all experienced and, you know, fell to $108 and it it like it was a great quarter and they grew 39%, maybe Wall Street wanted 40%. Maybe now Wall Street wants 58% and they grew at 54%, right? Which 54% is not bad growth. It's just not might be enough for the streets. So, we're going to see. We're going to see how this plays out. I am very, very excited to see what happens with Palanteer. I'll be live covering it as as always. These are all the earnings that you can expect for next week. You got Palunteer, Uber, Shopify, Spotify, McDonald's, Lemonade, Robin Hood, Docusine, Unity, Celsius, D-Wave, Oscar, Sound, Airbnb. I mean, it's going to be of AMD, SMCI. It's going to be a pretty massive week for earnings. And we're going to be taking a look at everything that we have. admit you were cautious this time before earnings. Yeah, I was because look at the end of the day the stock made a move last time before earnings as well, you know. So it's like I think it's only uh responsible of myself personally as an investor when you a stock makes such a big move going into earnings that you temper down the expectations a little bit. And I think you know I think any company would agree that's like look if our stock's making a 15% move before the implied 15% move that means everything we say has already been priced in which means we've got to come out with something even better than what the analysts are expecting to get that 15% move to the upside. If not, it ends up falling flat, which is literally what happened in Q1 of 2025. And in Q1 of 2025, I wasn't that cautious, even though we ran up to 125. Last quarter, I was a bit more cautious and then we kept going higher. So, we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see. But yeah, like Meta, dude, like Meta destroyed earnings. 26% EPS growth on a $ 1.7 trillion company. That stock's down 12%. because of a tax charge and pounder is not going to have some tax issue but you just never I mean Rob you know whenever I think I get too excited about earnings I get I remember how humbled I was Q3 2024 on Robin Hood earnings because I was like there is no way in hell Robin Hood's going to miss like no freaking way in hell they missed by 20 million and I'm seeing the stock go down 29%. This was two days before Trump got elected and then you know Trump got elected and the stock went back to normal and my options were saved. But I was just like, "Oh [ __ ] I guess I got the numbers wrong." And I legit got I messed up on their um what do they call it, dude? This new accounting term. Does anyone remember the thing that they bringing the assets over to the platform? So they it was some term I'm forgetting about, but I I didn't factor that in because I forgot. And neither did any of the analysts. The analysts had 650 million. It came down to 632. because all the analysts were like, "What the hell?" But yeah, Contra Revenue. There you go. Shout out to Eddie right there. Contra. Now, I don't think Pound is going to miss. Let me make that very clear. I do not think they're going to miss. I I quite frankly think they're going to beat by a lot. I just don't know how the stock's going to react because the stock's already up so much. Now, if they beat by a number that not everyone is expecting, aka they get closer to 60%. I think we're going to a place called the moon because there's not that many software companies that are growing anywhere near 60% with the margins that Paler has. Also, here's another thing we didn't talk about. If Pal can raise their fiscal year 26 guidance. I think right now they have 45%. If they can get that number to 50%. We're also going to be very excited. So, that's what they have to do. topline revenue growth above 55 adjusted operating margins closer to 47 and then I think if they can get that fiscal year guide for 2025 closer to 50% and then maybe potentially 26 closer to that same level they're going to have a good quarter and I think it is going to be very exciting. Now, for all the people screaming about Pounder's valuation, look, uh, air made a really good point on Pounder Weekly. Pounder's valuation trades at 650 times earnings. Let's say pounder gets cut in half and it's trading at 300 times earnings. Is 300 times earnings expensive? Anyone would say, "Yeah, objectively that's expensive. So is 600. So is 400. So is 500. So is 150." At this point, I think looking at the earnings multiple is just a ridiculous way of analyzing pounder because it is even when Pounder was $20, bro. it was trading closer to like 70 times earnings because pounders has always had a wide outstanding float and so that outstanding float has always you know led to um a large uh premium on the on the priced earnings and and and because you have to cut the the the EPS the earnings by so many shares that are outstanding and so it always resulted in these like obscure metrics that looked weird to the average investor but then when you look under the hood you're like well wait a second there's these other elements of the story that are very important to understand and if we just look at price of sales and price to earnings you know it's really tough Now granted, is Paler trading at such an aggressive multiple that if they make any mistake, that multiple gets destroyed. Yes. That there is no room for them to miss earnings at all. Having said that, let's say pounder falls back to 150. You're going to have a lot of people buy that dip. You're going to have a lot of people that want to get exposure to pounder and want to be able to buy that dip. So, I think if we do get some nasty dip, you will have dip buyers. Um, and I think if you don't have that nasty dip and you have the stock go higher, you're going to have a lot more people that don't care about the valuation. They just care about the story. and the story, as long as it continues to stay intact with the growth to back up the story, that is what's going to get people excited. And so that's what I got on uh on Pounder. AMD will be on Tuesday. I mean, I'll be live with Jose and Neil for AMD. Um we'll we'll do a little bit of a preview probably Tuesday morning. I'll have Jose and the market open and we'll talk about AMD. But I mean, again, I I've already said my thoughts on AMD. Lisa Sue has got to up that revenue guidance just like Larry Ellison did by using remaining remaining performance obligations to show that OpenAI has committed to $80 billion even if they've not given the 80 billion and I think that's going to keep the stock elevated. If she doesn't do that and you get some crappy 13 14% earnings growth or not earnings growth the data center revenue growth I think the stock's not going to do well. So, I really do think she's got to up the RPO and use OpenAI as the the reason to explain it. Amid, who is that picture behind you? That is Ronaldo and Messi. The quote is victory is a state of mind. Victory is a state of mind. Until the stock drops, then victory is, you know, not a mindset. It's the stock needs to go green to be victorious. So, all right, Grabby Grab. We'll end off the show with Grabby Grab. Um, I'm excited for Grab tomorrow. I posted on my Substack, the deep dive. I disclosed on that Substack. I now have over 40,000 shares. So, your boy's walking in with a pretty heavy bag for uh for this earnings. Look, dude. The thing about Grab, and I've been thinking about this all weekend. I've been thinking about this all weekend. I don't know what's going to happen to the stock. I really don't. My gut, like like like like my gut is telling me they're going to have a great quarter. They're going to beat and raise. Ebida guidance is going to get closer to 500 million and the stock's going to go much higher than where it is today. I'm thinking around that 680 690 range. Maybe it crosses seven. seven might be psychological, but I think we get above 650, but that's what my gut tells me. [laughter] What my mind tells me is that the earnings come out at 7:30. None of the brokerages care about Grab. There's not a massive retail community. You have 7:30 to 8:00 p.m. in the overnight markets or in the after hours markets that are highly illquid for any massive move to happen up or down. Uh, and then it's a it's an international stock that's reporting earnings at 8 am Singapore time. So, like there might not be enough people in the United States that even know that the earnings is happening tomorrow. And so, I kind of think that the stock's going to be flat or it's going to be red because there's just not a lot of volume that's going to be coming in because you're going to have 30 minutes to make a move on the stock because the earnings come out at 7:30 and overnight markets close at or overnight markets open at 800 p.m., but after hours close at 8 p.m. and grabbers and trade in the overnight markets. So I I think the earnings would have to be so substantial to get the stock to really make the move above $7, which I like I look based on the numbers. If you look at that substack, I went through even more numbers over the weekend. I I really do think that move is possible. But then again, I could be wrong. And if it doesn't happen tomorrow, then it doesn't really change my thesis. It's just a question of, you know, the public perception of what's going to happen in the context of graph. So look, ultimately on the stock, this is the third name that I associated my brand with in this content creating finance game. I it's actually, you know, it's it's it's one of the coolest games ever, but it's also with its ups and its downs. The ups are you associate yourself with a name publicly. You put out a thesis out there into the world as a human being and you say, "Hey, I think this stock is undervalued. I think the stock can go higher." And the magical thing about this industry is that if the stock goes higher, a lot of people get excited about the way you can analyze a company and they start to respect your analysis and and your skills on your analysis. However, you cannot be a one-hit wonder. And so I think over the past couple years the the the most important that has happened outside of Palinger is finding that second one which is hood which really just even forget the public perception of myself the the internal perception of myself being able to say hey you know you can do it once you can do it twice maybe you can do it three times it's really important but you do put you put yourself out there on a limb right and when you're putting yourself out there it's scary because it's like what if you're wrong and by the way I'm likely going to be wrong many times in my life. Bill Aman's been wrong on a lot of things. Buffett's been wrong on a lot of things and those guys when they're wrong, they lose tens of billions of dollars. You know, you're not just talking about hundreds of thousands. So, uh, it's part of the game. It's part of the legacy and we're going to see what happens. But it's also part of the excitement because if it works, it works. And not only do you get the financial upside of it, but you also get the upside of just mentally knowing, hey, you know, if I did it once, twice, three times, maybe I can do it the fourth time. And I don't know. I don't know how this is going to play out. This is this, you know, it's also one of those things where it's like there's a lot of names that have done very well this year. Nebius, Ian, all these names. I was not paying attention to the data center names. And actually in the Nebus deep dive, which I'll link in the chat for those that want to read, I explain that I was more focused on Nvidia than any of the NeoClouds, which I quite frankly although I missed the NeoClouds, I don't have any regrets because I needed a big tech position. I needed a cornerstone in my portfolio. And while I was focused on Nvidia, I didn't have time to focus on a Nebus or an Iran. I was too focused on like, hey, am I going to be right on this? And ironically, the only reason Nebius and I are doing so well is because Nvidia is succeeding. Now, Nvidia is up 40% this year. Nebus is up 400%. So, there's more alpha in some of these other names. But, nonetheless, my attention was not on all these data center names that went to the moon or quantum names that went to the moon or nuclear names that went to the moon. My attention was on Nvidia in that overall space. And then the other names, I just look, I'm not a quantum guy. I'm not a nuclear guy. Like I like energy and I'm trying to get more into energy, but I was never going to find Oakllo because like it just it is really hard to make sense of when it was 10 billion and no revenue, 30 billion and no revenue. Still doesn't make sense to me. I found Grab. That's the one that I found. And that's the And look, it's up 25% this year. So it's beating the S&P 500. The question now for this quarter is can they really outperform the S&P? Because the S&P is at 18%. So if we end out at six this year, you know, S&P ends out at like 7,000. S&P will be up 21%. Grab will be up 26%. It's a it's a decent beat, 5%, but it's not like a substantial beat. So, that's why this quarter's got to be a good one. This quarter's got to be a good one. But again, I've gone through the numbers over and over again. I believe it's undervalued. I've looked at multiple DCFs. I think fair value is closer to 910 bucks. I've looked at the institutional volume. This thing is owned by 84% of the institutions. It does not make sense to me for why the institutions have been buying as much uh and for the stock to stay depressed. It had a billion shares of volume in September. I mean, I can go through a million different reasons, but no one's really going to care unless the stock goes up. And so, tomorrow, we get to see if the earnings are good enough for the stock to go up, which, look, here's my thing, and I'll be dead honest on Tuesday's market open on my thoughts on Gra. If the earnings suck, I will I will open the show by saying, look, I thought the earnings sucked, and I don't think the stock deserves to get a move. If the earnings don't suck and the stock still doesn't make a move, I will flat out say I own this stock long. I believe in it long. The earnings were good. The stock's not moving. I cannot do anything about that. There has to be a glaring red flag for me to see the disconnect between the stock price and the actual opportunity. So, with PayPal, one of the reasons why, you know, you got a lot of these PayPal bulls saying it's going to go to the moon, but then the stock doesn't do anything. Their defense isn't that compelling to me because if you look at the the margins on their transaction volumes, that's going down. Forget the growth on PayPal going down. The actual transaction margin percentage of of um of uh the actual margin on their transaction volumes as a percentage of the overall transactions and the average order values, those are going down. So, when that [ __ ] goes down, you're like, "Oh, there's like a structural problem in PayPal's business." not a structural problem to the point where PayPal is dead or anything like that, but it's definitely not going to get the stock to go to the moon. No open AI partnership or dividend is going to save that. They've got to do something totally different. With Grab, you have a company with 7 billion in cash growing 23% reacelerating their revenues, adjusted EBA hitting all-time highs, free cash flow, gap profitable, you know, the company's embracing media for the first time in five years. All these things coming together to me, if the stock doesn't move tomorrow and the earnings are just in line with expectations and probably beating and raising like they have for the past couple quarters, I'm not going to complain about it and I I'll take all the shots that people want to take about the stock not moving. That's fine. But I'm not going to sit here and question my thesis unless there is a reason to question it. And so far, Grab hasn't given me a reason. But we're going to see on the earnings and uh if that reason can continue. Yeah, Austin, take great. That's the word I was looking for. Thank you, Austin. Take rate is continuing to go down, which is an issue, right? Because it signals that maybe there's too many competitive problems. Maybe internally their margins aren't that good. I mean, look, the same thing with SoFi, right? Like I I mean, I Tanner sleeps like a baby at night because Tanner knows that company did the best they could. Could they have done a little bit better on Q3? Maybe. But I mean, realistically, they had a bombastic quarter. Stock was flat. What is Tanner supposed to feel bad about that? No. I mean, like, he knows the company's executing and as much [ __ ] he's going to get publicly for the stock not moving, it's not I I don't think it would make him lose sleep at night. If the stock wasn't moving because the company wasn't executing, aka there were some fundamental flaws, he would probably be, you know, losing a little bit of sleep, but that's not happening. So, it's just going to be one of those questions on, you know, how this ends up playing out. I really do want this one to work though because it would be very fun if we can end out the year at around that 750 range, which is where I think it should be trading. It would just be a fun end to the year because there's a lot of work and research that went into this one. So, yeah, this is this is this is the joy of uh the spontaneity of being an investor, especially being an investor that has a public opinion. It's like you can be dead wrong or you could be dead right. You're gonna get all the praise if you're right. You're going to get all the [ __ ] if you're wrong, but you got to put yourself out there and then ultimately see what happens. Guys, grab earnings is tomorrow. Please stop trusting your brokerage. Go to the website. Just type in the company and then irr. It takes two seconds. You'll see the earnings on the website. Do not trust the brokerages. They're usually wrong for pretty much every single company. So, no, it is not November 14th. Trust me, it is November 3rd. It is tomorrow. But with a lot of these names, you just have to go to their website and you'll you'll find the earnings as well. So that's what we got. That is what we got for Grab. Is ETH tanking? Are we actually tanking? Oh yeah, she wants to go below 3,700. Dude, this freaking thing. [laughter] This freaking thing, it is what it is. It's not moving. Everything looks like it's going in the right direction on the overall story. It's just the price is not moving. The price on ETH is not moving. But Bitcoin as well, you know, Bitcoin has not been moving like crazy. So, there we go. That's what we got tomorrow. Palanteer and Gra. It's funny because Palanteer is like, you know, Palunteer has been the stock that's the first company I've covered publicly that that that earnings is in, you know, 4 PM and that's going to have a whole range of emotions. And then in the afternoon, the next name that you're trying to, you know, put out there into the world, that is earning. So, I think it's just going to be an emotional day across the board. It's definitely going to be an anxiety producing day for me. Um, but, you know, we're going to have to ultimately let the chips fall where they do and see how it plays out. My spreads are seven and a half and 10 for Jan 2027. Seven and a half and 10. One thing I'm thinking of doing with my spreads if we do get a big pop is selling half of them because I just don't want to be heavily leveraged into into 2026 too. I really don't I don't want to have a ton of options. And quite frankly, the only options I have are grabb options. Uh so if we do get a pop, I'm thinking get rid of I have 2500 of those leaps. I would be happy getting rid of 1500 of them and keeping a thousand and just buying the stock with the with the uh the option money instead. Like there's just something about 2026, dude. I just don't want any options. I've had options for the past two years and it's been a lot of just like navigating all the emotions of having that many violent swings. And I have no idea what's going to happen in 26. So, I kind of don't want to have that much leverage. But even if we don't get a pop, I paid 34 cents for them. They're trading at 40 cents. So, even if I get it at 35 cents, I don't really care. But I I would rather just buy the stock if the the the options don't make that big of a move. if the company doesn't make that big of a move. I sold my copper options a while ago. I made like 2,000 bucks. I sold them at 64. Copex, I sold those while ago. So, no copex. So, yeah, I sold them the day gold went below 4,000. No, gold was like at 4,200 and I was like, "All right, if gold's going down, silver and copper might be falling." So, I got rid of my copper option. My uncle still has a lot of it, but he bought it way earlier. He's up like 200 grand on those. So, and he's like still heavily believing in the copper thesis, but I had like 10,000. So, yeah, I got out of those wild. That's what we got, folks. That's what we got. It's going to be an exciting exciting day tomorrow. And Sam says, "Imagine $10." Dude, if we pump to 10 bucks by the end of the year on Grab, I just I I can't find that realistic, dude. Even if like we pump to like 750, which I think is possible, but to see that actually happen would be amazing. Anything above that to me would be like aggressive unless the company, you know, puts out an earnings that warrants that level of aggression. So, it'll be exciting. It will be exciting. Is it worth getting into pounder now for tomorrow or wait till earnings? [sighs and gasps] Palenteer is at an all-time high. If you buy it here, I do think the stock can go higher if they deliver a massive earnings. However, if they deliver a massive earnings and the stock is already priced for it, it could also just be flat and or go down. So, I say this to everyone who asks, you know, should I buy a stock going into earnings? You have to be ready to DCA. You have to. You just have to because if you're right, then you sound like a genius, but if you're wrong, then, you know, you're going to feel like an idiot for bagolding. You can only blame yourself because you're buying a stock at alltime highs going. It's not like pounders is trading at a bottom. Same thing with Hood at 150 or Nebius at 132. You know, even Grab Grab's already made a 30% move this year. So, it's like, is it the best buy at 607? I think so. But if it falls to 550 and the stock is still up, you know, 22% year to date, like it's it's one of those things that you just have to be ready to handle if uh if it does take a dip.
>> So, that is my answer. It really depends on if you're ready to deal with the ramific ramifications of it. HIMS and cipher are tomorrow as well. I'm not going to be covering those two tomorrow simply because we got pound and grab. I will cover them on Tuesday. So, we'll talk about him and cipher. Cipher, I know, is is a big data center play for a lot of people. Uh him, look, I think HIMS is cheap. I just it's kind of lost a lot of momentum over the past couple months and uh with the lawsuits, the CEO, the way he's been acting. I mean like again there's just a bunch of like negative stuff in terms of sentiment and the the community on him is kind of dead on Twitter that I don't like the Hims house thing is over. The guy the founder of it left which I was very surprised by. I I I thought he built an incredible community and this is building a community is not easy. Okay. Like when [ __ ] goes south like it did for Palunteer for two and a half years if you're going to be the guy who gets a lot of the credit when [ __ ] goes to the moon. You got to be there when [ __ ] goes south. So if you just leave in the middle of it, quite frankly, what's the point of even starting it? Like what was the point of building all that if you weren't going to be there when things get rough, you know? So through thick or thin, I was very confused why the Hims guy left. Like I thought the whole point was to cover the company for a long time. And that also to me is kind of bearish, dude, because you know, you talk about these companies that have these decade long runways and they're trying to be the Netflix of health and you have these like long-term vision and then the content creators that hype it up if they're leaving not even a couple months after they start the the community. It's just kind of weird to me. And it's it's no shade against it. He probably has to do other [ __ ] in life that he's more concerned about, which is fine, but he's objectively saying he doesn't care enough about the community anymore to dedicate time to it. And so, I don't know. It is very weird to kind of see some of these communities die out. But yeah, Tuesday we're going to see if we can get some more coverage on that as well. So there we go. [sighs] That is uh what we got. That is what we got for this week. Uh I didn't watch the full Sham New York Times interview. I saw parts of it. Um, I thought it was good, but yeah, Sham did do an interview with the New York Times and, you know, he was asked some important questions about Palunteer and their relationship with data and all that stuff. So, for anyone who hasn't watched it, you can definitely check that out. I thought that was important. Uh, do we have any other crazy news? Um, we talked about all the Nvidia stuff. No, nothing too crazy. Oh, I mean, I got this chart right here. I you know, Meta is another name that I'm going to be looking at a lot more deeply this week, but look at the top tech companies in the world and their uh earnings multiples. Meta now trades at 22 times 2026 and 19.7 times 2027. I really do think it's becoming stupidly cheap, but dude, it fell to 645 on Friday. I mean, I can and you got a lot of the technical people saying, "All right, 620 is next," which maybe it is. But this narrative that Meta is spending all this capex is stupid and their stock deserves to get hit. It's quite incredible. That's the first time this narrative has really entered since 2022 after the whole metaverse stuff. So, uh, yeah, we'll cover it more, but I don't know, dude. I I I just don't think Meta keeps staying at this multiple. If it does in 26, I think you get a full year of consolidating and being able to ready to buy up a a massive Meta position similar to Google. And Google is much more diversified than Meta, but dude, Meta is going to do 200 billion in revenue this year. Yeah, they're wasting money on a bunch of other things, whatever, but like it's I know they're tapping the debt markets. I get like I get all the bearish tones around the or the new bearish ideas around the company which is creating a a net bearish tone, but I don't think you bet against Zucks over the next five years. So, we'll dive deeper into Meta and see what we got going on. And quite frankly, I'm I'm not that excited to buy right here because if it does give us, if the narrative is that bad, like Google, Google fell from 170 down to 140 like that for equivalent to meta, that would be closer to 580, 575, which I think would be a lot more attractive if we get there. I don't think I'm going to be live for Grab, guys, because Grab is happening like literally right after Paler. So, I think it's going to be hard to stream Grab's earnings in and of itself. Uh, I will see if I can try to do it because we got Palenter and then I think we have a little bit of a break and then Grab, which I don't even know if I'm going to be able to navigate through that. So, I might not be live for Grab. If I'm not, we'll obviously talk about it on Tuesday. I'll probably put some thoughts on Twitter. Uh, you know, the company, if you just go to their website, you'll get access to the earnings call, but I will see what I can do and then we will talk about all the results after after it comes up. All right, guys. That's what we got. That's what we got. Thank you everybody for being here. Hopefully, everyone had a good Sunday. We are getting into the last two months of the year, which is kind of crazy. Any expectations for Tesla November 6. I think the shareholders will vote with Elon. And I do not think Elon's going to miss out on this trillion dollar compensation package. And it's going to be very exciting to watch Elon go to work over the next 10 years and try to take Tesla literally to the moon and become one of the most valuable companies on the planet. But I think he'll get an overwhelming amount of the votes. I'm not too worried about what should be happening with uh with Tessie. All right, guys. That's it. Thank everybody. I'll be back tomorrow morning. Market open. Big day tomorrow. We got Palenteer. We got Grab. Got a lot of earnings this week. We're going to see how this ends up playing out. And yeah, it should be in a pretty exciting week and we got a lot of macro stuff to talk about as well. Hopefully this China deal goes in place and you know we get a lot more clarity on that. Again, the two deep dives on Grab and Nebus are out. BMR and Dolingo are also on the substack. If you have not read those, I'm really liking the writing. I'm really liking it. Took me a lot of time. I think the next two deep dives are going to be Reddit and Iran. So, I'm spending the next two weeks on those and hopefully those are out November 15th. But, I'm enjoying the process of it. I have a lot of other substack ideas this week that are probably gonna come out. So, I'm thinking of kind of not just deep dives on companies, but deep dives into broader issues like this whole bifrocated economy, the consumer, big tech earnings. Like, there's a lot of stuff I want to write about. So, I I think we should be getting at least one article a week and then two deep dives a month and we should keep going from there. All right. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. Love you all. I'll be back on the market open and we got an exciting week. November is officially starting. I got the almond cissant. It's going to be a great month. Almond croissant. And I will see you guys tomorrow morning. Love you all. Thank you everybody. See you guys tomorrow for the market open. Bye everyone. Have a good one.