Please subscribe to our channel. Last week's most popular event is the Chinese National Day of the Moon. I have always been against the moon You will find that none of the developed countries came I believe that many countries on this list can't be pointed out on the map and even may not be heard at all So we have to ask who are willing to join the Chinese military? In fact, it is very simple 80% of them are countries that participated in the Belt and Road Plan 一带一路是习近平在2013年启动的这也许是人类历史上最大规模的跨多国基础设施项目根据中共描绘的愿景一带一路旨在帮助沿线国家改善基础设施促进经济发展推动地区间的互联互通与共同繁荣当然习近平也希望通过这个项目巩固中国的全球影响力并试图重塑国际秩序和贸易格局 In the past 10 years, China has invested $1 trillion for the Belt and Road Initiative It is higher than the annual GDP of Poland and Switzerland It surpasses the GDP of 170 countries around the world equivalent to more than 5,000 RMB paid by every Chinese In recent years, we have heard two extreme voices 在中國防火牆內的世界大家聽到的當然是一帶一路已經大獲成功參與的國家都是感恩戴德習近平將因此千古留名但在牆外又是另一個極端說一帶一路已經全面失敗非洲遍地都是中國資助下的爛尾工程參與的國家在台搞住從巴基斯坦到厄瓜多爾人民抗議自己的政府參與一帶一路的浪潮此起彼伏 那麼墻內的官媒和粉紅以及墻外的媒體和反賊究竟誰說的更接近事實呢?前江市記者王志安對一帶一路曾經做出一句話總結他說一帶一路是經濟上的失敗但是政治上的成功那我認為他說的對不對呢?今天我們就來聊一聊這個話題 我将回答以下问题什么是一带一路习近平为什么要搞一带一路他真正的目的是什么当然还有最重要的12年后的今天一带一路究竟是成功了还是失败了呢 So let's start with the simplest language that everyone can understand What is the "One Belt One Road" China says to the poor and developed countries around the world Do you see how successful China's big infrastructure is? Our high-rise buildings, high-speed highways, high-speed rail, ports, bridges, etc. How magnificent 好消息好消息你们也能拥有我们中国的企业和工程队来帮你们建造什么你们没钱不用担心我们借钱给你借你们贷款来建设了完善的基础设施以后经济不就能够像中国一样蓬勃发展了吗经济好了就有钱还给我们了 Wow, that's great! It immediately attracted more than 100 countries around the world to sign up for the event. From small island countries that no one has heard of to super big countries like Russia, even G7 members, Italy, have participated. After a few years, China quickly became the world's largest bilateral country of interest. By 2017, China's debt to other countries exceeded the total of the World Bank and all the bilateral countries of interest. According to the A-Data Global Research Institute's prediction China's current debt to backward and developing countries is estimated at between $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion For example, China lent $120 billion to Sri Lanka $260 billion to Pakistan $3 billion to Tajikistan The total has been issued loans to more than 100 countries Most of them are backward and poor countries In theory, Belt and Road is a good idea that can bring more money Because for developing countries, infrastructure projects are usually very good investment projects Just like China 20 years ago, the construction of infrastructure has a high marginal effect While improving economic productivity and improving the livelihood It can also bring jobs and pull GDP It is also a good thing for China First of all, China is an export economy That is, it sells a lot of things to the world But it is not much compared to others So when the economy was the best ten years ago It accumulated a lot of foreign exchange in the market You can make interest by taking out the money in this way But in fact, the start of the Belt and Road There is another more important factor That is to solve China's own economic problems In 2008, when the global financial crisis happened China had hit the 40 billion dollar market So during that period Various companies related to big companies Like Yuhou, Chunshun and others emerged By 2012 The Chinese market has basically been saturated And the production capacity has begun to rise That is, the production of companies, tools and workers are too many But there is nothing to build What should we do? Since there is no more internal demand Then we will seek out So this plan is actually quite smart China uses other countries to make a few Lend them money and stipulate that they must use Chinese companies to inspect It also solves the problem of these Chinese companies being inactive But in addition, there is a more important strategic meaning on the Belt and Road That is, such a project can greatly improve China's global soft power Think about it, in a poor village there is a rich man He said, I will help you install a toilet repair the house, install air conditioning and expand your house You have no money, I lend you money Can these poor people not be grateful to this rich man? Next time the rich man has a wedding Of course, he must attend the wedding What do rich people want in the rich man's union? Do they dare not vote to support this rich man? But you might have a question at this time All rich people understand one thing That is, saving the poor is not saving the poor The person who can't lend them money is the poor Because the poor probably don't have money to return to you The country is the same as the poor Why does the CCP lend so much money to the poor? Do they want to be charity? Or are they stupid? Of course not The CCP has a deeper consideration I will talk about this later So what are the results of the Belt and Road Initiative? At the beginning, it did achieve some results The successful Belt and Road Initiative includes Uganda's new water power station Central Asia's oil and natural gas pipeline network And 750 km of railways from the capital of Ethiopia to Djibouti But gradually there are problems Many countries began to be unable to pay their debts and their projects were in ruins. The country's economy not only did not get better because of the Belt and Road, but also fell into a huge dilemma. These poor countries spent tens of billions of dollars to invest in a project. If the project is in half, it will be in ruins because it cannot pay the debt. Then this project can not only bring unexpected benefits, the debt will not disappear because of this, and interest will continue to be generated. 就像一个穷人借了高利贷一样一边是没有收入另一边是不断在膨胀的债务因为一带一路项目而陷入债务困境的国家可不只是一两个两三个斯里兰卡、加纳、赞比亚、巴基斯坦、蒙古、刚果埃塞尔比亚、老挝、柬埔寨等等等要么是已经违约坏账要么是已经进入债务重组或谈判 而一帶一路出現如此高比率壞賬的原因主要有兩個第一,中國提供的貸款比一般的國際貸款利率更高,條件更苛刻的多國際金融機構像世界銀行、亞洲開發銀行和國際貨幣基金組織IMF他們在面對低收入和中低收入國家時通常會給他們提供長期DC固定利率的貸款 但中國的貸款基本都還是採用浮動利率大家都知道浮動利率給貸款人帶來的風險是比較大的只要利率一上升就很有可能無法承受另外國際機構的貸款利率一般只有1%到3%還款期30年但中國一帶一路的貸款利率一般在3%到6%甚至可高達7%而還款期限只有10到20年 所以在这样苛刻的条件下只要这些国家的经济或者世界局势有什么波动他们就非常容易出现还款困难这是第一点但一带一路最大的问题还在我接下来要讲的第二点 就跟中國很多地方政府為了GDP業績建了一堆沒用的大基建一樣一帶一路也導致很多國家未建而建或者興建了他們根本承受不起或毫無用處的超大型項目要知道參加一帶一路計劃的國家很多都非常貧困和落後這類國家都有一個特點就是政府腐敗非常嚴重 我们都知道没有什么是比大型工程更容易让政府贪污的项目了50亿的项目报价80亿多出来的30亿我们拿15亿中国那边的负责人拿15亿所以中国你要借我钱那当然是来者不拘至于以后能不能还得上那是老百姓子孙后代的事了跟我没关系 If you go to study the Belt and Road, you will find a lot of very absurd projects. For example, the Black Mountain Republic borrowed $1 billion from China to build a 41-kilometer, useless A1 highway. The original plan of this highway is 170 kilometers, but only 41 kilometers in the first phase have almost broken the economy of Black Mountain. It is currently in ruins. This high-speed construction is extremely expensive The cost per kilometer is nearly $25 million It is three times the average level in Europe Therefore, local media, black people and the international community All question this project It should be noted that the total population of the Black Mountain Republic is only 620,000 During the Shanghai City Council, there are more people than this in a random restaurant In 2022, GDP of Black Mountain is only about $6.2 billion A country uses 16% of GDP to build a 41-kilometer highway Can you imagine? For example, the poor Sri Lanka also borrowed more than $100 billion from China There is a 350-meter-high lotus tower This is a face-to-face project that has been widely criticized as impossible to generate returns And has no help to the people Also, Ecuador also borrowed $1.1 billion from China and built a dam near Huohuoshan, where China's water power is located. But in 2018, that is, less than two years after the first production, the inspection staff found more than 7,000 cracks in the dam. Experts warn that if the situation deteriorates, it will lead to disaster. Currently, Ecuador has raised international funds for Chinese water power, demanding compensation and responsibility. 除此之外,這個大壩的實用性也受到質疑發電站所產生的收益遠遠不足以覆蓋融資成本到了2020年,厄瓜多爾因為石油收入下滑無力再償還目前已經在跟中國談判債務重組類似的例子還有很多,我就不一一列舉了 Now we are back to the question I asked before We said that rich people know the principle of saving the poor You see, banks only lend money to rich people, never lend money to poor people So does the CCP not understand this principle? Why should we lend money to these poor countries? Moreover, we have already seen the examples above Many of these loan projects are obviously not possible to generate enough returns to repay the loan Don't you think the CCP is not reviewing these projects? Some people who love the party may say You don't understand This is because our party has a sad and beautiful heart Hope to support these poor countries Help them develop their economy To achieve common prosperity 你們畢竟還too youngtoo simple啊 sometimes I live如果真的是想幫助他們呢怎麼會設置那麼高的利息和那麼短的還款期限呢就像世界銀行和IMF資助窮國的時候都是象徵性收一點點利息而已的 So, in recent years, the international community has started to suspect the CCP's real purpose of "one Belt One Road" That is, debt trap Now, some international communities have begun to think that China has used "one Belt One Road" to build a project that they know is not feasible for poor countries In order to set up a trap When these countries can't repay the debt, they take this opportunity to take over the precious resources of those countries, such as the use of mines and ports. Let's think about one thing. When the Belt and Road began, why so many poor and developing countries want to find Chinese loans to build big infrastructure? Because many of their projects can't get loans from the World Bank and IMF. 這些國際金融機構他們在貸款之前是要審核項目可行性的錢去哪兒怎麼花有沒有經濟合理性等等這樣才能盡量避免腐敗和錯誤的投資更重要的是建設這個項目究竟對你的國家是不是能夠帶來正向的經濟作用 If the audit result finds that this project is really helpful to your country and people OK, I will lend you 1% and 2% of my Dc 30 years slowly pay back But if this project is actually impossible Then I lend you money Actually, it's actually harming you 但中國不是的中國似乎根本就不考慮這個項目對你們國家是不是真的有幫助不考慮最後你是不是償還得了當你違約的時候我自然有辦法對付你我們上面說到銀行和富人都不願意借錢給窮人但有一種組織是願意借錢給窮人的大家知道是誰嗎 Yes, that is the high-end Hong Kong and Southeast Asia are called Dalong Why is Dalong put on loan to the poor? Because they know they can pay you back If you don't have money, you can use other things to pay off the debt Everyone is not suspicious of the CCP's trap of debt For example, the highway in Europe, Black Mountain Black Mountain has applied for financing from IMF and World Bank But they rejected it The reason is that the project is not feasible Many European institutions including the European Investment Bank have done feasible research on this project Basically, it shows that the project is insufficient in traffic and it is difficult to make profit and the financial situation is not sustainable 但中國還是貸款給黑山並且通過國企中國路橋公司給他們修建結果就是上面說的情況爛尾債務重組另一個例子是臭名昭著的斯里蘭卡的漢班托塔港這又是一個已經被世界銀行和亞洲開發銀行ADB拒絕了的貸款項目 世界銀行和ADB的專家評估後認為第一,項目可行性不足當時斯里蘭卡已經有一個科倫波港並且科倫波港的吞吐量尚未飽和第二,經濟回報存疑交通流量和集裝箱吞吐量的預測不足以支撐新港口投資第三,債務承受力有限斯里蘭卡的公共財政本來就很緊張不應該在這個時候增加債務 After the World Bank and ADB refused to accept the financing, President of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapakrsa immediately went to China to pay the loan. China directly paid him $1.1 billion. In 2007, he started to work. I want you to think about it. 如果你有個家庭成員說自己要創業寫了個商業計劃書要去融資但是所有的銀行和風險投資機構裡的專家看過這個商業計劃書之後都說這個項目肯定是不行的拒絕融資這個時候跑出來一個高利貸說他們不借我借給你請問這是在幫他還是害他呢 The result is obvious. After the investment of Hanban Tuotagang, the amount of goods is as bad as expected by the international financial institution. In 2017, there were only 175 ships stopped in the whole year. The average is less than one ship per day. There is no major improvement in the later stage. The financial deficit of Sri Lanka is getting worse In 2017, Sri Lanka was unable to repay the loan They handed over the 99-year-old management rights of the Hanban Tota port to the Chinese Commercial and Trade Bureau's port control company In fact, we only need to see why President Raja Paksa insisted on building this port Because his hometown is the Hanban Tuota He wants to build this port in the local area to improve his political prestige At the same time, this is also a political inheritance project that makes him a leftist This is obviously a project with political motivation and a desire to satisfy personal vanity So no international organization is willing to lend him money 这么明显的是中国能看不出来吗而这个港口的位置是中国一带一路向印度洋延伸的重要战略节点对中国而言是具有军事价值的因此中国的动机引起了部分国际社会的怀疑 In fact, Sri Lanka's economy was destroyed by the Rajapaksa family After the election of the president of the Maldives, the Sri Lankan government announced its bankruptcy The people of Sri Lanka fled to Malaysia and Singapore to avoid anger 其實,中共一帶一路的貸款在很大程度上是在協助腐敗的家族繼續控制當地政府這些不經過審核就能輕易貸到的錢能讓腐敗的當權者私下用來贏得選舉或鞏固自己的權力 從中共的角度來說他們當然希望這些聽中共話拿了中共好處的家族能夠一直掌權那麼中國就可以逐漸控制這些國家的重要資源或戰略設施或者可以要求這些國家在聯合國會議上支持中國的議程比如拿了中國的錢就必須停止承認台灣若不聽話中共就發動經濟脅迫 Sri Lanka and Bandhota are not isolated Zambia also handed over the control of the national airport to China because of the high-level After Ankara was in debt, it handed over the oil fields to China And Pakistan's China-Bahrain economic corridor project worth $60 billion Let Pakistan bear heavy debts Caused local large-scale protests 所以現在中國的一帶一路被一些國際社會稱為新殖民主義或經濟殖民主義中共也通過同樣的方式在非洲影響當地的政客並成功在惡守鴻海和印度洋之間的要道吉布提建立了軍事基地 In 2006, China announced that it would spend $200 million to help the African Union to build a building in Ethiopia The African brothers are grateful In 2018, French mainstream media Le Monde reported The African Union technicians found that the building's server has been running day and night since 5 years ago It will send all the data back to the server located in Shanghai And suspected that the building was installed with a security device when it was newly built 中方和承建方中國建築公司當然是堅決否認但這個時候非洲絕大部分國家都已經欠了中國一屁股債也只能是淡化處理悄悄的更換了所有的服務器和通信系統並交由日本來提供網絡安全支持 Of course, Belt and Road is not a good news for China In recent years, I guess the CCP didn't expect that the debt collapse of these countries will come so soon In order to keep these countries alive the CCP was forced to issue a huge amount of aid loans From 2019 to the end of 2021, in the short three years China's aid loans reached $10.4 billion It's more than the total amount issued in the previous 20 years 你可能有個疑問了剛才不是說如果國家違約了中國可以獲得一些重要資源嗎那為什麼還要發放救助貸款呢是沒錯但違約不能來得太快太猛要知道中共一帶一路發放的這些貸款是通過中國的國有銀行發放出去的所以大家要搞清楚這些救助性貸款與其說是在救助這些國家不如說是在救助自己的銀行 大家都违约了那这些银行不就倒闭了吗那可是要出大问题的但这只是其一第二点这些国家如果全面违约国家破产那么政府就有可能被推翻要知道这些政府是中共苦心经营买通了多年的友好政客要是他们下台了那这些年不就白养了吗要是上来的是反中的敌对派系那就更加糟糕 就像以前我在上海跟客户吃飯的時候有時會聽到土豪老闆哀聲嘆氣的說他奶奶的公安局或什麼車管所的某某領導被調走了我問說那怎麼了他說養了那麼多年的呀每隔幾週就得請客吃飯送煙送酒KTV桑拿一條龍不就是圖個平時幹業務方便嗎這下換個新的上來了又得從頭來過 其实这跟中共给这些落后国家的腐败政府续命是一个道理不过我们都知道一代养代这种事从来都不会有什么好结果债务雪球只会越滚越大任何国家不可能只向一个国家贷款而是有很多个不同的债主所以当一个国家即将因为债务问题破产的时候一般上是需要所有的债主坐在一起开会商讨的 This is the origin of the Paris Club The Paris Club is made up of 22 developed countries The purpose is to deal with the issue of debt distribution and reorganization China is now the world's largest bilateral debtor But the CCP has always refused to join the Paris Club They prefer to negotiate with the debtor alone Instead of following the multi-party mechanism This has led to the slow progress of many reorganization negotiations China also claimed that the World Bank and IMF should first reduce the debt of the debt country They agreed to continue to promote the resumption This is obviously unfair to IMF and the international community Because it is China's irresponsible to issue an inextricable loan Now someone else has to pay for it This is the history and the phenomenon of "One Belt One Road" Back to the core issue of this program Is "One Belt One Road" a success or a failure? As Wang Zhi'an said, it is a failure economically and a success politically Is it right? First, it is a failure economically. I think everyone will not have any opinion about this. From individual to enterprise to country, it is almost never heard of anyone who can get out of the trouble by bringing more money after falling into the debt crisis. So these poor countries who have participated in the Belt and Road, their debt will only grow bigger and bigger. The $100 billion of the relief loan is likely to be a water bill According to the current situation, the $10 billion that was borrowed There are many estimates that it will not be recovered in the end We can see that the CCP has started to eat up In recent years, the loan process has begun to slow down They no longer encourage super-large-sized construction Instead, they turn to some so-called small and beautiful projects 那政治上成功了嗎當年王志安說這句話的時候被很多人罵說他是大外宣我覺得這要看你從哪方面來看了從宏大敘事提高中共基本盤的民族自信這一點上來說你不能說他是不成功的 First of all, there are more than 140 countries in the world who participated in the Belt and Road Initiative including Italy No matter what problems we say the Belt and Road Initiative has brought to other countries and the international community Be it financial traps or economic colonialism You should know that these negative news cannot be seen in the wall 而一般老百姓能看到的是中国企业现在在给全世界建造基础设施让老外见识了中国的实力以及中国的财富这些都是事实也是更容易被看见的这也是中共需要的政治那就是民心所向培养民族主义爱国主义巩固基本盘对中共统治合法性的认可从这一点上来说一带一路当然是成功的 But politics is not only internal but also external Many countries have officially withdrawn from the Belt and Road for the past two years Or actually no longer participate For example, Italy, Panama, Turkey, the Philippines, Kenya, etc. When the Belt and Road first started It did attract a lot of African countries and low-income countries But with all the problems I mentioned above In fact, the Belt and Road instead made many countries start to question the CCP's real purpose In the end, true friendship cannot be bought with money. Moreover, you are not really giving money, but borrowing money. When the other party can't pay back the money, you have to take their things away. Therefore, if it is not based on a common sense of value, such as the Northern and Western worlds, it is based on everyone's understanding of the universal sense of value and becomes a ally. Friendship maintained by the distribution of benefits alone, I'm afraid it won't be particularly strong. Not to mention that I don't look down on poor countries. But if these countries are trying to form their own camp against the West, how much of a role can they play? In the end, these countries, in addition to being used to fill in your attendance at the moon funeral, are they actually a help or a burden to China? Such a picture will only make the gap between China and the world civilization and developed countries and the distance grow further and further I don't think it's a good thing for China So in general, I think the Belt and Road has failed economically It is successful in politics, but it is failed in foreign affairs The problem is, the basic plan of CCP is actually very stable They don't need to love the country and the party as much as the first generation So the success of the internal politics is actually a bit tired So in the end, I think the first generation is good for China It's not a successful project OK, that's all for today I'm Lao Zhou, a cold-hearted man, not a professional 我們下期再見