[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live and oh my, what a week it has been. It is freaking Wednesday and it feels like we've lived through a year over the past couple days. Nvidia is a $5 trillion market cap company. As for the pre-markets, Nvidia right here, $28. I mean, you'd think cracking 200 would be a massive deal. We are well above 200 at this point. 208 in the pre-markets up 3.4%. Uh S&P 500 trying to get to 690 at 688. You got pounds here at 191. There's a lot to recap in terms of what happened yesterday and get into all the different stuff that that uh the macro will have in terms of an implication of what happened yesterday. When I mean macro, I mean the broader AI capex theme because it doesn't seem like that's slowing down based on what Nvidia said. So, we're going to talk about that. But on top of that, you got FOMC in about five hours and JPAL hopefully giving us that cut is also going to help a lot of these equities and the broader markets risk on assets. And then you have Meta, Microsoft, and Google all reporting at the same time. This is going to be a wild day. There's I mean there's there's there's just no there's no other way to describe it other than it's going to be a crazy day. We also have earnings right now in the pre-market and some of those earnings have not been the best. Uh cough cough ferve. I I mean I know a little bit about what fiserve does, but this is a large cap company down 40%. You don't see that uh you don't see that too often, but we'll talk about that. I'll talk about the implications. Obviously, they missed on earnings, reduced their guidance, and that's why this got hit pretty bad. Uh, but Nvidia really is a story, and I think that's creating a lot of implications for a variety of different things that are going on. So, we're going to get into Nvidia. Let's talk about what happened with China last night. Trump had a lot of comments he made, which is really important. There's some breaking news in the pre-markets that Nvidia ended up, or not Nvidia, China ended up buying a ton of soybeans as a act of goodwill to the United States. And as a result, that's another reason why Nvidia is moving. I mean, there's just so many different headlines of things that are going on, whether it's China, big tech, FOMC, Nvidia, Palanter, Nvidia partnership yesterday. So, we got a lot to discuss, a lot to go on, and we're going to keep going from there. Fubo, is that up? I have not looked at that in the pre-markets. That is Wow. Green. Okay. Looks like there is some level of conclusion to the deal that they have with Disney. I don't have the exact headline on that. I'm seeing this for the first time right now, but if you are in Fubo, congrats. That one is definitely moving right here. And it looks like there should be some level of conclusion that investors have been waiting for. The merger is official. Fubo Disney Hulu Plus live TV complete business combination creating unique consumer focused new team. All right, there you go. Fubu Fubo and Disney's Hulu Plus and live TV package has officially completed a merger. 6 million subscribers in North America. This makes it the sixth largest pay TV provider in the United States. Disney now owns over 70% of the company, while Fubu shareholders retain about 30%. Both services will continue to operate separately. Fubo CEO David Gander will lead the company's operations. Their advertising sales group will now be handled by Disney's advertising team. The company expects savings on content costs and better advertising revenue. Okay, there you go. There's Fubo. Uh this is this is thing people have been waiting for for almost two years now. The uh from getting sued by Disney to getting to cooperate with Disney. I don't know where the stock ends, but you definitely got the street that's excited about it. 26% right here in the pre-markets for FUBO. All right, so uh I'm going to be here, I think, pretty much all day. I think we're doing the whole stream, the whole day. So, I'm going to try to reserve some of my energy in terms of my voice and not scream for the next two hours, which usually from like 8 to 11, that's what I do. But I'm going to try to be a little bit more calm so that we can hold up the energy. But I think I'll be here the whole I'll have a bunch of people join me throughout the day and so it should be fun. Uh but we're going to have FOMC pretty soon and and uh then we are going to see you know what happens with big tech earnings and hopefully that can continue giving momentum. All right, so let's talk about Nvidia. Let's talk about Nvidia. Is Amazon running? I try to talk about something and then something happens and then boom, I can't talk about what I was talking about. Why is Amazon running 232? By the way, I mean, I'm going to talk a lot more about Amazon later. I think there might be a headline right now. But guys, these layoffs like it's a big deal. Amazon fired 14,000 people yesterday. And I was on TikTok and I just typed in Amazon layoffs and I tried to see like like real people talking about it. It's a big deal, bro. It's a And I have some videos I want to share with everybody. I want to talk if anyone has any experience. There was a couple of Amazon engineers here in the chat that said they narrowly escaped getting fired. 14,000 people didn't. And so this layoff stuff is is getting a bit more aggressive. Now, a lot of people think it's because of AI replacing these workers. Based on the research I did yesterday, that's not true. There's actually another reason associated with AI, but it's not AI literally replacing workers. And so, we're going to talk about what's kind of going on here. Okay. The only headline I see is an anthropic headline, but this happened an hour ago. So, I don't know why Amazon's getting a bit of a juice and a bit of a run right here. But um I don't see anything else creating the move on Amazon. 23261. It is a bigger move. Amazon doesn't tend to be that volatile in the pre-markets. This anthropic headline is relatively old news. I mean most people knew that they were working together and extending their partnership. So I don't see anything right now. But oh no, I got it. Wait, no. This is also old. Amazon Wait, is this old? Uh all right. The headline, Amazon's AWS to fuel South Korea's AI hub with a new $5 billion investment. You know, Trump's in South Korea right now. So, I mean, talk about Amazon with a a timely announcement to make sure the South Koreans are happy. I mean, yeah, there you go. That's the headline. Amazon AWS plans $5 billion AI data center in South Korea. There you go. That is it. That's what's getting the market to be excited. And then the anthropic deal together, I guess, is uh helping it as well. All right. Look, we've been talking about Amazon for a while. I think for the past month, we've been talking about Amazon. Uh 213 212 versus the lows. It's it's it's going to be a company that does a trillion dollars in revenue over the next few years. It is one of the most important companies on the planet. I think even at these levels, I mean, the riskreward is not as attractive as it was at 212, but if you think it's going to 300, which I think most people agree 300 is where this thing has a date with Destiny, and maybe it's not this year, but probably closer to the end of 2026, then this is a good quality Mac 7 company to have in the portfolio. And now with this recent move, it is now up uh four plus 7% year-to date, which is, you know, not really performing on the level of even the S&P. So, I still think the riskreward long-term is not that bad. Amazon right there 233 that is green in the pre-markets. All right, so let's talk about Nvidia and let's get into Nvidia real quick. Let's just handle Fiserve and we'll talk about that. So, Fiserve missed on their earnings and they missed pretty badly. This is the first company that actually missed in a way that's like really disgusting and that's why you're seeing some pain right here. So Fiserve they lowered their guidance for the full year and they missed on EPS by 23% missed on revenues by 8% 4.9 billion versus 5.3 204 versus 265. Let me know in the chat if anyone owns Ferve or if you've been familiar with this stock. Uh this is in the payments space and as a result you got shift 4 that's getting hit in sympathy down 4% and then when we talk about payments we can't forget about PayPal which is basically lost most of its gains. gains. I mean, yesterday it was up 15%, pretty much lost all of it. It was actually red uh about 20 minutes ago. 7342, but all the payment stocks getting a little bit of a hit. Let me see if CLA is getting hit on this as well. CLA. Yeah, CLA's down. I I I mean, we're going to go deeper into the earnings later and see what exactly got the street to be this upset, but I believe it's the reduction of their fiscal year 2026 forecast on EPS by a wide margin that got the street to think this is just not going very well. And you know, the only argument I can say right here a as someone who hasn't really dug that deep into the earnings is there's a potential crypto headwind for a lot of these payment companies as more people are using other payment guard rails to be able to transact or to send money or to trade or to do a variety of different things. Fiserve now mainly serves merchants and small businesses. So it's not only, you know, just consumers trading but or or or sending money to each other. that in in and of itself maybe these companies are not really embracing that overall ecosystem especially through stable coins and that could be creating some issues. Yeah, Zel is getting ready to introduce international payments and stable coins. SoFi has stable coins. So you got a lot I mean dude, Western Union, did you guys see this at Western Union, shout out to Douggee, he was talking about this a month ago. Western Union is introducing stable coins as a payment mechanism, which makes sense because Western Union, you know, use it to send money. You might as well have stable coins be part of that. I think a lot of these companies are going to have to adapt uh in order to change their narrative and Fiser might have not might have not officially adapted to this right now. And that's what we got. Amazon again moving higher on that anthropic news, but that also the South Korea $5 billion data center investment. The anthropic news did come out an hour ago. So I think the stock is more so pumping on the South Korean news. But those two together, Anthropic tightening their relationship with Amazon and Google based on the million TPUs that they're buying. Uh and then this South Korea $5 billion data center investment. Those two are putting together a bit of a move right here on Amazon. All right, Nvidia. Let's talk about Nvidia. What the heck happened with Nvidia yesterday? Well, you had Jensen basically say that everything is going really well. And not just everything is going really well. He increased guidance by 500 billion a not increase literally by 500 billion, but he said there's a $500 billion opportunity for Nvidia over the next five quarters. Now, this really matters because the street thought there was only a $380 billion opportunity and as a result, you know, it's $120 billion more than expected. The street has to increase their earnings estimates. Originally, it was reported that it was only for six quarters and then Jensen clarified, no, it's for five quarters. And the reason he said this is because he gave an update on how many Blackwell and Ruben GPUs are to be shipped. He said 20 million will be shipped. They've already done six million. They said the Blackwell projections don't include China. And as a result, they see that $500 billion update over the next five quarters, which got the streets to think, "Wait a second, this is cheap." Like a lot of people have been saying, including Tanner and Steve, that Nvidia is cheap. If you look at their earnings projections, but what Jensen said yesterday solidified that Nvidia is cheap. And as a result, that's why you're seeing the move that we're seeing right now. By the way, AS, this one is moving as well. That's up 4%. ASTS announces signing of 10-year strategic partnership agreement to provide space-based telecom services with AS Mobile in Saudi. So AS and Saudi Telecom have partnered, that's a 10-year strategic partnership. No numbers exactly on what that deal looks like, but there you go. This is coming off of another announcement that AS made two weeks ago. That's when they gapped up to 102. Then they took a little bit of a breather, which was normal after that big of a move. But that stock up 4% now in the pre-markets on a new partnership with Saudi Arabia. There you go. AS moving, Fubo moving, and Amazon moving here in the pre-markets. Okay. So then what did Trump say last night that really got the street excited about Nvidia? Well, he said Jensen showed me the Blackwell chip in the Oval Office, number one. Uh and then he said that uh I will be talking to Xi about the black belt. So now investors last night were like wait a second not only is Nvidia giving us increased earnings updates and essentially increased guidance but now they're telling us or but now Trump's telling us that he's going to try to work out a deal essentially he's implying it with Xi about Blackwell. And the reason he's saying this is because he's kind of giving a signal to the Chinese that are probably listening to his comments of hey I am ready to talk about Nvidia. I'm ready to talk about AMD. I am ready to talk about you guys having access to all of our AI infrastructure, but you guys need to give me some cooperation on rare earth metals, soybeans, etc. And then what do we get in the pre-markets in China says, "Hey, we're buying 180,000 tons of soybeans, which again, I mean, that that to me is a pretty good show of faith given the fact that they haven't bought soybeans in 8 months. And so it just seems like everything's going in a particular direction for Nvidia that is more positive than not because of China cooperation than because of all the partnerships that they put out as well. And that's why you're getting a lot of excitement right there for Nvidia in the in the pre-markets. Uh CleanSpark also moving right here as well. Clean Spark that's up 5%. CleanSpark enters Texas with 285 megawatts of power and 271 acres of AI data center deployment. Uh, the acquisition of this land increases the company's power under contract by 28%. The Austin County site sits between Houston and Austin on a major fiber backbone. Looks like CleanSpark has acquired some more land to be able to keep building their data centers and an AI campus, 271 acres in the great state of Texas. And there you go. Clean Spark is green. Dude, the headlines are coming like crazy on a bunch of these AI names, but there you go. CleanSpark up 5% as well. on this new data center announcement. Uh some audio of what Trump said yesterday. So, let me pull this up right here. Let's get a couple of clips. First of all, this was Trump when in uh Korea and uh talking to the people of Korea as he was at the summit.
>> The Republic of Korea is a cherished American friend and a close ally. And as we can see in this beautiful city, it's truly one of the most remarkable nations anywhere on earth here in this peninsula, the people of South Korea have forged a miracle of economic development like you rarely see. An industrial and technological powerhouse and above all a free society and enduring democracy and a thriving civilization. And I want to congratulate you. Very few places like it. The entire world should be inspired by all that you have achieved and they study you and they do so much to understand what you've done but most of them don't get it and it's probably good for you. Keep it this way. The and then after that Trump tweeted for those that are asking we didn't come to South Korea to see Canada. So continuing to throw shade at the Canadians right here. uh but basically making the argument that hey South Korea is strong, the United States is strong with our partnership and we're going to continue working on that partnership. So you had a lot of other formalities done in South Korea. They presented him with a bunch of different things that are culturally relevant to the nation. And like overall it just seems like the relationship that he ca he created uh or he continued to instill with South Korea was very bullish. And not only that, it seems like this is the way you want to have diplomacy as you get ready to be China. Right. If if I mean if Trump Trump already had a really good meeting in Japan and that resulted in the Japanese prime minister who's a new prime minister getting to actually understand who Trump is, getting to know who h how he operates, getting to potentially buy some of the stuff that the the Japanese have already bought from the United States. Now South Korea, remember Japan already has a $550 billion investment that they agreed to under the previous prime minister and Howard Lutnik confirmed yesterday that they would be still investing that 500 billion especially in AI which is bullish Nvidia as well. Then you've got South Korea being friendly with Trump. And now if he can just complete the trifecta with getting China on board and this soybean announcement this morning really does feel like it's not in the worst situation, then I think all signs point to a broader based rally as the market prices in some better geopolitical uh stability. Yeah, Japan's up over 5% this week. I mean the Nikk crossed 51,000 last night. This is incredible. So it's not just the United States benefiting from this. It's obviously Japanese investors saying we are ready to buy the index of our own country if we think we have more diplomatic ties with the United States and we're more strategic and as a result you're getting some green. So again whether you love Trump or hate Trump I'm I'm I care about the stock market and I care about kind of what he's doing across the world to create better relationships to help not only the stock market but the economy and as a function of that it would help the stock market. Year to date is up 30% S&P's up about 19%. And it looks like so far we've had some decent meetings in this Asia trip. And if we can get a good China deal, that's why I think the markets are really giving Nvidia the premium right here at 208.15. Nvidia is above 5 trillion. By the way, I think the number was 205.3. So once it opens, it'll officially be above 5 trillion, but we are there. And you see Nvidia getting some love right now in the pre-markets. So that's sort of the main things we have on Nvidia. There's a couple other things that happened yesterday with Jensen that we'll talk about later, but overall pretty bullish across the board and the street seems to be liking this um liking this as well. Now, let's transition into some of the other stuff that we have headlines. First, let's do earnings and then we'll get into all the other things. We got some macro news and we have some layoff news that I think is worth talking about, but let's get into earnings. Uh again, companies are continuing to beat on the top and the bottom line. This morning we've had a little bit less of that, but overall even yesterday if you were on for the market close, we saw more and more beats on the top and the bottom line. Etsy beat by 21% on EPS, beat by 3% on revenues. So Etsy, their stock right now is down about 9%. Probably something they said in guidance or something the street didn't like on the call, but as a broad-based investor just looking at, hey, are these companies beating on the top and the bottom? We are seeing consistent double-digit beats for these earnings. and Etsy, another consumer company, showing that they're able to do that. Caterpillar, another very important company, beat by 10% on EPS, beat by 5% on revenue. 495 versus 452. EPS is down 4% year-over-year. Revenue is up 10% year-over-year. 17.6 versus 16.7 billion. A lot of people thinking Caterpillar might play a broader role in data centers as they provide a lot of machinery for those institutions. Look at that. Caterpillar right there up 5.82% in the pre-markets on another beat on the top and the bottom. Etsy CEO stepping down. Okay, cool. That's exactly what happened with Amcor and then Amcor recovered most of its losses yesterday. So, usually again when these CEOs step down, you tend to get a little bit of a knee-jerk reaction on the sell-off for most of these stocks. CVS, another consumer company, beat on the top and the bottom 18% on EPS. I mean, these are EPS that are ranging from 15 to 30%. It is quite phenomenal. And if we're seeing this on CBS or Etsy, I imagine what we're going to see on Meta, Microsoft, and Google. And if we get anywhere near double digit EPS, I mean, again, this could just be a very, very strong earning cycle. And today, we're going to see a lot of those numbers. 160 versus 136 and then 102.8 billion versus 98 billion for CBS. That stock in the pre-markets is up 3.43%. Then you had Verizon, which beat by 2% on EPS. Very good for the beat. And then it was a very small miss on revenue by 1%. So even though they had a miss on revenue, they beat by 2%. That stock is up 3% as well in the pre-markets. And Verizon continuing to go green. People are saying BMR is reporting today. I heard uh BMR's reporting on November 5th. I don't see it on their website either, so I don't have the exact result, but again, I don't think BMR reporting is that relevant because we already know like that how much ETH they have. We compare it to the market cap. You creme up with an MNAP. I I guess if we get their 8K, we can get the official of fully diluted shares outstanding, which is important. But I don't even know if they're going to do a call or if Tomley's remember Tomley is not the CEO. So I don't know if there's going to be there's no earnings pump to have unless Ethereum pumps. So for Bitmine, it's kind of just like it's a wait and see and uh it's more so tracking Ethereum. But I do think the earnings are next week, not today, but we'll keep an eye on eye on it if we do have it today. SMCI, we're moving on SMCI. Why are we moving on SMCI 5462? This one fully recovering from the 4795 drop that it took last week. Super Micro announces US federal entity to expand further into the federal market. Extensive US-based manufacturing of AI server portfolio targets the federal ecosystem. Okay. So, looks like Super Micro is announcing a push into the federal markets. I don't know exactly what that means. They build AI servers. They're saying, okay, let's read this. They accelerate expansion into the federal US market. The subsidiary will deliver AI ready high performance and energy efficient data center IT solutions that are developed, manufactured, validated and tested in the USA. The effort emphasizes domestic engineering faster time to market for federal deployment potential US manufacturing facilities and a focus on supplying government agencies with full stack data center building block solutions. Okay. It seems like what they're saying is that whatever data centers that the government is essentially going to need and you know the government's going to need a variety of IT solutions for different data centers in federal agencies. This goes back to the whole sovereign AI concept that Jensen was talking about. I mean, it seems like SMCI just put out a press release that says we're going to try to build a lot of those server racks in the United States via this new subsidiary, which obviously has to be music to Trump's ears because he wants more American manufacturing. So, I mean, and Jensen talked about that a lot yesterday. Jensen talked a lot about the idea of bringing back American manufacturing to the United States. That's bullish Amcore, bullish Broadcom, bullish Nvidia, bullish AMD, SMCI, etc. any of the companies that lean into that probably are going to be on the right side of the administration in terms of what they're trying to do with these semiconductors. They need to be built in the USA for security. Yeah. And I mean that's the the broader point that Jensen and Trump have been trying to make over the past couple of months. So there you go. SMCI getting a bit of a pop right there. Apple that's up a little bit as well. Apple basically at all time highs at 26932. Tesla got a big move yesterday 464. You got some upgrades on the street even after their earnings and I mean the street's getting more excited. 46450 right on Tesla. 488 is the all-time high. It would be quite incredible to break through that but we are holding the 460s right there. AMD at 262 also basically at all time highs. Uh and then you got Palanteer right here at 191. Nvidia still at 208 on the day. So that's what we have in the context of earnings. Again, the only really crappy earnings today was F was Ferve and that just, you know, wasn't the best for them. But outside of that, you pretty much had some decent results. The other company that we had was Boeing. Now, Boeing, this was also a pretty bad miss, but I think this is more of an accounting thing. They missed by 214% on EPS, beat by 5% on revenue. Boeing has had a lot of different accounting and financial engineering issues over the past two years. Boeing stock is flat. Yeah, I don't think it's like a real 200% miss. and more so has to do probably with goodwill impairment charges and taxes etc along with government shutdown which we still do have a government shutdown so Boeing is a very big government contractor but you uh you do have Boeing that's basically flat in the premarkets Ethereum and Bitcoin where are these guys ETH is at 427 are back above 4,000 we went below 4,000 yesterday and then Bitcoin fell all the way to 112 it's a little bit above 113 again Bitcoin and ETH have been quite a disappointment over the past month, but it is what it is. They're still up for the year. And I know everyone wanted a massive October. Maybe we still will have an October, but maybe we need the rate cuts today to really solidify some of that. It is kind of weird though because gold is up. Wow, gold actually making a move today. Oh, that's not good for a crypto. But gold, look at that. Gold back above 4,000, up 1.3%. Silver up 2.3%. You would think when the rotation happened in gold and it lost 4,400, maybe some of that money would come into crypto. And really, you didn't see that. you just didn't see that happen.
>> So, I think we're going to have to see these rate cuts and the potential impact of the rate cuts on crypto, but as of now, those assets have been relatively stagnant throughout the entire month. Uh, Fubo, is that one still moving? Probably up 20%. Fubo up 20.8% 440. Then you got Nvidia right here still up 3.4. AMD up 1.6. SoFi. All right. So, SoFi had a great earnings yesterday. They got a bunch of different targets. City Bank increased them to $28. Jeffre increased them to $35. Stock's red right here, but it's red at 31, which I think everyone's happy about that at least it's at 31 and not below 30 like it was yesterday. Uh I don't know how this stock reacts today. I think we got to get the rate cut to solidify the refinancing demand that a lot of people are projecting for SoFi. But I also think just generally for the market, everyone know I mean there's a 97% chance we're going to get a rate cut. Some of this stuff might be priced in to an extent. Never mind, it's 99.9%. getting JPAL to actually do it obviously would be, you know, something that people want to see happen, but it's also just a question of, hey, how much of the actual um rate cuts are we actually going to see in terms of the impact of how these stocks are affected? And that's something we're going to have to look at throughout the entire day. 2 p.m. Eastern, we're going to get the FOMC meeting or the announcement. And then 2:30, we'll be live for JPAL. Okay. So, let's uh well, let's do this real quick and then we'll talk about the layoffs. So, Poucher and uh Nvidia, they also had a big announcement yesterday. For those that haven't seen it, this is the one minute clip. Uh this is the clip that got me to have a well, just let's just call it a bit of a reaction yesterday when this when this finally happened. This is Jensen announcing the partnership with Paler. This is the single fastest enterprise enterprise company in the world. probably the single most important enterprise stack in the world today. Palunteer ontology. Anybody from Palunteer here? I just I was just talking to Alex earlier. This is Palenter ontology. They take information, they take data, they take human judgment and they turn it into business insight. We work with Palanteer to accelerate everything Palanteer does so that we could do data processing data processing at a much much larger scale and more speed whether it's structured data of the past and of course we'll have structured data human recorded data unstructured data and process that data for our government for national security and for enterprises around the world process that data at speed of light and to find insight from it. This is what it's going to look like in the future. Palunteer is going to integrate Nvidia so that we could process at the speed of light and at extraordinary scale. Okay, Nvidia and Palanteer. [Applause] Look, that was a big deal. A lot of us in the Paler community have been waiting for that. Uh Jensen, you know, really he did an interview with Karp after and talked about how important the uh the partnership was with Palanteers. It was nice to finally see that happen and given that that did happen, you know, you got a lot more people thinking of pounder in a much more serious way given Jensen officially said that this is the most important software stack on the planet. Let me show you guys one more video of Jensen and then we're going to get into a lot of the macro stuff because we did have some very interesting macro things happen yesterday in regards to the S&P 500 hitting all-time highs, but a lot of the companies in the S&P 500 not really participating. So, we'll talk about that. Here is Jensen yesterday about why we are not in an AI bubble.
>> I don't believe we're in an AI bubble. And the reason for that is we're going through a natural transition from a old computing model based on general purpose computing to accelerated computing. We also know that AI has now become good enough because of reasoning capabilities, research capabilities, its ability to think. It's now generating tokens and now generating intelligence that's worth paying for to the point where I'm paying lots of it. Cursor is all over Nvidia. Every single one of our engineers use it. We pay lots and lots of money for it. We're delighted to do it and cursor is just one of the applications you know uh um what is it uh uh 11 11 tech uh I forget but anyways um all of these different AI models that we're using we're we're using plenty of services and pay paying uh happily doing it. I don't believe we're in an AI bubble. And the reason for that is,
>> all right, so you got Jensen obviously thinking we're not in an AI bubble. But the reason he also thinks we're not in an AI bubble is because, you know, there is a transformation that is happening right here. And that transformation is real. And because, you know, it's real and because you're obviously seeing a lot of uh lot of companies that are starting to monetize and get that ROI, you know, that's his argument for why we are likely not the AI bubble. Yeah, he meant to say 11 Labs. You know I actually used 11 labs like two years ago. I remember discovering them for the first time. They basically like create custom um voices for people and you know at that time AI was so new and all these applications were so new but these companies have just grown to such an extent and it is quite incredible to see how they played out. So there you go. If you own Nvidia congratulations. I mean this is absolutely incredible. Uh my sister owns Nvidia. I texted her last night. She owns 1500 shares. I bought for her at $139. So, she's up basically 95 grand on uh on Nvidia. And I texted her cuz she doesn't really open her Robin Hood. And I was like, "Hey, you're up 95 grand." Like, I give her a screenshot. I was like, "Look, you're you're up 95 grand." And this was her response. Wow. Dude, she did like you would think someone is up a hundred grand and like they would be a little bit more excited. They would be like, "Wow, that's amazing." Like, why? Like, you know, I would if someone said, "Hey, Emit, you're up $100,000." I would want to know like why. What happened today that caused this type of move for for me to increase my net worth by hundred grand? No. She like, "No, it's it's I don't care." You know, honestly, if anyone like if anyone if anyone professionally managed her money, she is the best client ever. She does not care. Like, she doesn't give a [ __ ] bro. She doesn't care. She wants to see the number go up, but that's it. That's it. She will not ask any questions ever. So, it's it's actually a pretty it's actually very healthy to just manage her money and do whatever. She doesn't care what I do. I could do this. I could do that. She doesn't care. As long as it's going up into the right over the long term, she's fine. All right. Let's talk about macro. Let's talk about macro. So, I have three macro stats to share with everybody. And I think these macro stats are going to be really important. But let's take a look at what we got going on. First of all, this stat, which was pretty incredible. 398 of the S&P 500 names, there's only 500 of them. So, you're talking about almost 400 names out of the S&P 500 were read on the day, which was pretty incredible. So, today's S&P 500 alltime high, which was yesterday, uh, is going to make history books as per Goldman Sachs is the chart from Goldman because it says it will happen with the most negative market breath at an all-time high on record. I don't fully know if this is bullish or bearish. gut tells me it's a bit bearish to see that much divergence between like four or five companies, Nvidia being the big one today, uh, or yesterday, and everything else going red. I mean, we have not seen that in a long time. I don't know the exact date where we've seen that much of a divergence, but you're talking about 400 companies red and a hundred of them green, a lot of them relatively flat, and seven or eight of them, including Nvidia, really green. So, it is weird that the entire market didn't rally with this. Although the S&P 500 did, but it also goes to show you how topheavy Nvidia is. Again, Nvidia is 8% of the S&P 500. It has moved up, if I'm not wrong, uh, well, let's just do the math real quick. Yesterday, it was up, let's do the math. Yeah, about $435 billion. $435 billion in the past, not even in 24 hours, less than 24. So when you have that level of market cap entering into one company that's 8% of the S&P 500 and then you got Apple hitting all-time highs, you're obviously going to have some breath issues. So I think that's one thing we have to keep an eye on because you you want to see more and more companies participate, not just Nvidia. And you know, companies are putting up the earnings to participate and if they continue putting up the earnings, hopefully they continue to participate. How do we know we're putting up the earnings? Well, let's take a look at some of the stats. 69% of US companies have beaten revenue expectations in Q3 so far in 2025, the highest since Q4 of 2021. The last time you had 69% of companies beat expectations was 69.1% in Q4 of 2021. That means it's been four years. Last year, this was 53.3%. This is also on track to be the fifth strongest quarter in at least 13 years. By comparison, the record during this period was 83.1%. We're at 69, which is obviously not that bad. 25% of the S&P 500's market cap is going to be reported today or uh over the next two days between Wednesday and Thursday. So, today and tomorrow, but the fact that we are seeing US corporate companies show the highest sales beat ratio and this is not even EPS. These are just revenue beats. We're going to get EPS beats in a bit. I think right now the number is like 85% of companies in the S&P 500 have beaten on earnings. Uh it is very similar to what we saw in Q2 and they're beating by double digits, showing that AI might be affecting margin enhancements. And as a result, that's creating a lot of momentum as well. So you're seeing a little bit of a divergence in breath. You're seeing companies beat on revenue and EPS, which is very important. And then you had this stat that I don't know what to make of. So I'm curious of what you guys have to say. Retail investors are now trading 1.2 million not just options per day, S&P 500 zero DTE options per day. Retail is now trading 1.2 million S&P 500 zero DTE options per day. Institutional investors are trading 1.1 million. In other words, retail investors are now reflecting 53% of the total S&P 500 zero DTE activity. According to the CBOE, retail average daily trading volumes have risen 700% over the past 5 years. Zero DTE options reflected over 60% of the total uh daily S&P options volume for the first time in Q3 2025. I don't understand this. I don't do zero DTE. I know there's a ton of investors that do it as a way of hedging and protecting themselves and all this stuff, but I mean, this is just fascinating to see retail be this interested in things that expire within hours and and take someone's got to be wrong. Someone's got to be right, right? And I don't think everyone's just turning out to be right, but it is quite incredible to see how this is playing out. So you've have massive increased options activity which is actually super bullish Robin Hood first of all like looking at this right here is definitely bullish Robin Hood but it also indicates that there is a lot of excitement that's out there even after that 3% draw down that we had uh over the past two weeks and so I think the word of the market right now or the way to describe the market is resilient because even after that draw down invidia is at all time highs the S&P 500 is at all-time highs you're getting record amounts of companies start to beat on EPS and revenue estimates and you're seeing the options market continue to to pl to flow But I think those three macro elements are something important to understand in the broader way that uh we are seeing this market turn out towards the end of the year. Uh by the way, we just got an update. Trump and Xi will be meeting at 11:00 a.m. on Thursday. 11:00 a.m. on Thursday in South Korea. They will be meeting at 11 a.m. on Thursday. So that's tomorrow. So we've got about 24 hours until they meet. 7 minutes until the market opens. And it looks like that meeting will officially be happening. Again, Fubo, the merger with Disney is complete. That's why Fubo is up 20% right here. Fiserve, unfortunately, they had a pretty crappy earnings, reduced guidance. That's why that stock is down 41% now. Goodness gracious, that's down. And you got Nvidia trying to crack all highs. Let's do the green or red poll in the chat. Also, here's a question. If you own Nvidia, are you selling? Are you selling any Nvidia at all? Uh, green or red today? What do we think? I asked this question to Steve yesterday, asked it to Tanner. They both thought about it. I thought about it, too. But then I, you know, kept listening to what Jensen said yesterday. I'm like, I don't know, bro. I don't know if you fade this that easily. By the way, Nokia got a billion dollar investment from Nvidia as well. That's down 2%, but it was up 20% yesterday. So, Nokia and Nvidia will be working together. And that has also created a big move in that. Oh, sorry. I put the uh I put the the poll wrong. Sorry. 80% of you said yes though. So basically that means green. Basically that means green. Sorry. Green or red? Green or red today? What do we think? Dude, my I I don't I don't want to sell. I I just think like look, is it going to hold 208? I have no idea. Could it go back down below 200? Of course, that's very possible. But I just feel like based on what Jensen said yesterday and based on the scale of partnerships they're operating with, particularly around humanoid robotics, which is something Jensen really focused on. I don't know, dude. It doesn't like a lot of these other names in the data center space and the broader AI space, you could say, have risks associated with them. Nvidia obviously has risks as well, but everything goes back to Nvidia. So I haven't fully done my due diligence on Core Weave enough to know if I should have a position on it, but I do know that they will benefit if Nvidia benefits. So I do have and technically I have exposure to Core via Nvidia. Same thing with the data center companies. If you have Nvidia, you kind of have massive exposure to everything and without Nvidia all those other companies fail. It like point blank without Nvidia all of the there is no data center revolution without Nvidia. So it's one of those things where I feel like you you don't sell the the one that's controlling the entire ecosystem. Okay, I see a lot more people saying no. I see a few yeses though. Few people want to trim going into the end of the year, but most people saying no. Nebius right here. Corweav's up in the pre-market. Nebius, are we green? Nebas is green. 12387. Nebius fell yesterday because people expected some massive announcement at GTC and then there was no announcement. I don't know where that rumor started from that Nebus is going to be announcing something big, but people got a little bit too excited then Nebius didn't make an announcement and then that one got hit off. Ian is down because they got hit with a downgrade today by HC Waywright. They said um the firm believes investor optimism around Iran's artificial intelligence cloud business has reached a point of irrational exuberance and they downgraded it to a cell with a price target of 45. I have not done a ton of DD into Iran to fully understand the numbers. From what I understand, they're one of the better data center plays that's out there that actually has a lot more GPU capacity. But you do have some firms thinking that the price is a bit aggressive and that's why they're suggesting to sell. Amazon right there 232. That is also green in the pre-markets. You own SMCI? Yes, I own SMCI. I bought a little bit when it fell to 48 last week. So, I averaged down on SMCI. I I think the SMCI thesis is pretty simple. I just think like if we're going to sell more GPUs, we're going to need more server racks. It's not I I don't even think it's that complicated. And this one's basically made a full recovery from last week after it fell 9% when they gave preliminary guidance. So you got SMCI right there at 5423. All right. So we got the market open in 3 minutes. We got FOMC at 230. And then obviously we got the googs. We got Meta. We got Microsoft. It is going to be a wild day folks. It is going to be a wild freaking day. Nebus newsletter should be out on Saturday for those that are asking on the substack. Nebus newsletter should be out on Saturday. So, uh I am still doing my DD on Nebus, but I think it should be I mean worst case it comes out on Sunday, but should be out on this weekend and that'll be out for everybody. Uh yeah, it's going to be a wild day. We got PAL I we I don't think we've ever had three large caps report on the same day the way that they're reporting today. But uh this is one of those days where you just got to lock in. I'll be here the whole time. And so we're gonna see what happens throughout the entire day. We're gonna see how these companies uh put up numbers. Like look, I don't want to get too optimistic, but if Meta, Google, and Microsoft crush, like legit crush, and we get the rate cuts, is it crazy to say 7,000 could happen today on the S&P? And again, I don't want to be too excited about it, but I'm talking about they absolutely demolish earnings. All three of those companies are like collectively think 14% of the S&P 500. So like if they all move, you're going to see the S&P 500 move. It's just going to be a wild day. And then if you get the rate cut, obviously that's also bullish for the broader market. So this is going to be one of those days. And we don't even know what's going to happen with Nvidia. I mean, it's at 207 right here. I don't even know how to say if this is going to keep going up or down. I mean, you would imagine some people take some profits right here, but then again, it busted through 200 like it had no issues. So maybe people say, you know what, I'm holding on. especially after Jensen revised these these targets on um on revenue for the next five quarters. So, why would I sell? I mean, you probably have a lot of people thinking that and they're not gonna sell. And if they're not going to sell, then you know, this price might not have to to take a hit. So, there you go. Yeah, 207 is already over five trillion. As soon as it opens, we will have a $5 trillion Nvidia. And it's amazing that in our lifetimes, we were able to see this. By the way, Nphase nasty earnings yesterday, that's down 13%. Unfortunately, they have just not been able to tap into this energy revolution via solar. Visa's up a little bit based on their earnings yesterday. EA's down a little bit. Bloom Energy not in the solar space. They're up 12%. Shout out to Tess. I know she's in that one. And uh that one has done very well. So, you have a lot of different divergence between some of the energy companies in different sectors versus the other ones that are trying to position themselves for this AI data center revolution. All right, folks. Here we go. It is 9:30 a.m. Wednesday, October 29th. It is going to be a crazy day. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Nvidia, 5.1 trillion. 5.1 trillion for Mr. Nvidia. We are alive to witness a company worth 5 trillion. 20742 that's up 3.14% as we get into the market open. Tessy 462 that's up half a percent. Palunteer 191 19283 is the all-time high. Maybe we can break that today again. Karp and Jensen were on stage yesterday talking about the partnership between their two companies. Paler right there 191.4. That's up half a percent right there. AMD wow all-time highs. AMD all-time highs. So 532 all-time highs. Google about to beat 270 26973. S&P 688. AMD moving with Nvidia basically. Let me go to the semis real quick. All the semis should be moving together I would imagine. Semis. Yeah, look at the semis. Micron 3% AMD 3%. Nvidia 4%. Oh my god. Nvidia's going for 209. Oh, she hit 209. She hit 209 for a millisecond. Got rejected right at 209. She did hit it 20812 on Nvidia. ASML is up 2%. SMCI is up 3%. Intel's up half%. TSM's up 2%. Qualcomm's up a little bit. AN is up. Marvel is up. ARM is up. Broadcom is up. Obviously, SMH, Semiconductor ETF, which is now 50% this year, is up another 2%. Absolutely incredible. So, you're getting the semis get a lot of love. Meta's up half a percent. Salesforce and PayPal are down. Salesforce and PayPal are down. Nvidia, wow, 209. Is it about to break it again? It looked like it just Yeah, there you go. 20907 on Nvidia. 20908. 20937. Okay, now it's just breaking through. Now it's just breaking through. Cheesecake Factories down 5%. Palenteer 192 very close to breaking. Palanteer's all-time high. Google again 269. You got Pterodine that's making a big move today. Um that is up. Caterpillar that's up 9%. They crushed earnings as well. 210. Are we at 210? Did we touch it? We did not touch it yet. 20988. We did not touch 210 yet. I'll check resistance for it, but it looks like it is very possible. Nvidia again 209. Palantry at 192. 5 trillion. Well, now it's more than 5 trillion. Now it's 5.15 trillion on Nvidia. And then SoFi, are we at 32? Wow. SoFi. All right. So, SoFi getting a little bit of a delayed reaction from yesterday. There you go. SoFi making its move. 3224 up 2%. Uh 210 has 300,000 shares waiting. 300,000 shares waiting to be sold for 210. The NASDAQ the Q 636. That's an all-time high on the NASDAQ. There you go. S&P 500 very close to 690. 688.90 on the S&P. City Bank did upgrade SoFi. So did Jeffre. Where's CleanSpark? That stock is up 6% after they acquired some more land. Iran, they did get a downgrade today, but I is down about 1.2%. Not that crazy. Dualingo that is down again below 300. I don't know why Dolingo is getting hit in the as soon as the market opens. Looks like there's got to be some reason there, but that one losing the 300s. That's down. Disney's down. Square is down. Intel's slightly flagged. GameStop's down. Arch is up a little bit. Joby partnered with Nvidia yesterday. And that's why Joby got a bit of a boost. Joby right there is up 6% right here.$210 on Nvidia. Wow. $210 on Nvidia. Oh my goodness. My goodness. 210 up 4% folks. That is a uh that's a 930 move. That is that's a $223 billion move. $223 billion move. S&P 500 688. Google that's up half a percent. So still up 1.3. Pound here up 1.25 192. S&P at 688. And then Nvidia right there at $210. Ladies and gentlemen, let's ring the bell for Nvidia. Congratulations. 210, world's most valuable company at 5 trillion. We are getting to live through this. It's about to hit 211, folks. We are getting to live through this. It's about to hit 211. For those that are wondering why, like why is there this surge happening? Forget all the stuff you heard about yesterday in terms of partnerships. There you go. We're at 211. It's because Jensen said we're going to do 500 billion in the next five quarters. Every single earnings estimate has to go higher when the CEO of the company says that all of you guys are off on your earnings by 120 billion. Like that that that's the simple reason. If you don't want the mumbo jumbo about the AI revolution, then boom, the the $500 billion revenue target, that in of itself is enough. uh to get people to upgrade the stock. BFA Securities raised their price target to 275. Without reading through the whole thing, as you can see, there's a lot of numbers on the screen. They're increasing all their estimates and they have to increase their estimates because when you know when Jensen says something like that, you have to take him at his word. Uh and by the way, all of that all of that is excluding China. And because all of that is excluding China, that is why now that Trump's getting ready to talk to Xi, I think people are front running that uh if China revenue is coming in, that number is only going to be higher. And that's why Nvidia is getting some love. Amcor is up 4%. Yeah, Amcor back to I mean I I I I bought the dip. Yeah, I bought at 30 and I bought again at 31 and then I bought at 3250. That was those were my three buys yesterday. And this was stupid, dude. This was stupid. It did not deserve, I think, to go to 28 on a record Q3 just because the CEO is stepping down and someone who has 20 years of experience is taking his spot. And again, what did Jensen talk about yesterday? He talked about American manufacturing. AMC is going to play a big role in that. Intel is going to play a big role in that. SMCI, as per what they said today, is going to play a big role in that. All of these things you can kind of chalk up to this idea of American re-industrialization, and that starts with Nvidia. Nvidia, right? They're 21130 as well. Now, let's see some of the breath in the market because we talked about that stat today, right? That a lot of all-time highs were happening on the big tech names, but everything else was getting hit. TLT is down, Appven's down, Circle's down, Pinterest is down, Nphase, not the best earnings. That's down. Microsoft's flat. Micro Strategyy's down. That's more crypto. AS had a big news with the Saudis today. That's why that's up. Whereas Amazon, are we still holding 230? Uh, we're at least holding 230. That one's getting a bit of a red candle. Grab is down. Again, I think the street's waiting for earnings at this point. until we get those earnings, we're not going to be able to have an accurate description of what actually is the trajectory of this stock. And so on Monday, we're going to get a better understanding of that. I did buy the grab dip yesterday at around 592. So right there, 3165 that goes red, loses uh 32. Uh Nvidia right here, that's up 5%, 211, still holding 211. PayPal obviously has lost a lot of its gains as well. Wow. 7148. Basically losing everything from yesterday, unfortunately. and Fiserve didn't help that today. So, PayPal is down. ETH is slowly losing 4K. Really, Nvidia is one of the only names that's holding a lot of the green today. And that's holding up the S&P. Nvidia is still holding 210. Nvidia just or ETH just below 4,000, but the S&P is still up.3%. I dare you to open up Fiser. Okay, what do we got? Oh my goodness, dude. 45%. The stock just lost 50 billion in market cap. Goodness gracious, bro. All the semis are up today. Everything else is a little flat. It's not necessarily red, it's just more flat. Um, Meta basically flat as well. AMD that's still at all time highs up 2.19% and then Nvidia still green on the day. Uh, Garmin missed on revenue. I think they beat on EPS. Is Garmin down? Garmin is Wow. All right, that was a bad miss on revenue. I guess Garmin down 11%. This is GPS communication technology 42 billion market cap. All right. So Garmin and Fiser so far have been the two companies of this cycle that have had pretty aggressive misses uh which has led to their stocks getting hit. Verizon right they're up 4%. They had a beat on EPS. But those are the major companies that are like above 20 30 billion in market cap that have taken a pretty big hit. Uber had a partnership with Nvidia yesterday. That's why Uber is getting some love. Well, it was getting some love. Now it just went red. Also, uh, Uber is going to be licensing some of Lucid's autonomous technology. As per an announcement today, Uber plans to start offering driverless rides in San Francisco next year using Lucid's gravity SUVs equipped with neurosdriving tech. Okay, so Lucid's cars, neuros tech testing is already underway. Is Lucid up on this news? Lucid is up a little bit. It was up more. Nvidia is holding it. everything else is trying to hold or going red. If it's going red, it's not going that red, but it's definitely losing the steam that it had in the first couple minutes. But people, it's almost like people are selling everything to buy Nvidia. It's almost like I mean, that that was kind of the argument for crypto yesterday. A lot of people are just taking profits in crypto and saying, you know what, Bitcoin's not moving. I'm getting impatient. Jensen just told me he's going to do 500 billion in five quarters. I should probably bet on that. Fubu right here now down uh or up 9%. It was up 25%. So, Fubu, Fubo, uh, getting hit pretty bad in terms of the pre-market move. S&P still moving higher. New alltime high. New alltime high on the S&P. And it has to be led with Nvidia. It has to be led with Nvidia. Look at this. Nvidia 5.119 trillion. Apple back to 4 trillion. Microsoft back to four trillion. What do people think? Is this toppy or is this just a function of the market? Do people feel toppy or it's a function of the market? I can understand the toiness feelings. Adobe by the way dumping. But at the end of the day, look here, here's two reasons for why it's not toppy. Number one, Nvidia increased all the earnings estimates yesterday. So, this is just increasing the EPS targets, which to me is not toppy because you have new data that the market's interpreting. Adobe down 4%. The other reason it's not toppy is because Adobe is down 4%. Ferve is down 40%. Like in this market, if you don't put up the right numbers, your stock gets destroyed. If Google, Meta, or Amazon or or uh Microsoft don't put up good numbers today, their stocks are getting hit, especially because all of them are up a lot this year. Google's the the best that's up. So, like, I think it's a healthy market. If you don't put up the numbers, you get destroyed. Nvidia has continued to put up the numbers in the face of all the doubters thinking they wouldn't be able to put up the numbers. And this is all without the world's second largest economy buying their product. So, I think I I don't think it's as toppy if you think about the companies that are getting a premium versus the companies that are not. I don't know why Adobe's down, though. That's kind of weird. Adobe, again, it's had a bad narrative on AI, just like Duolingo for the past couple of weeks. Adobe's numbers as a SAS company, if you look at it, obviously look cheap. Same things with Salesforce, but there hasn't been a compelling reason to be excited about it. Um, they had a big conference yesterday. Barkclay has upgraded them to 465 based on that conference. Adobe unveiled AI updates for image, audio, and video creation. Adobe rolled out sweeping artificial intelligence enhancements across the creative ecosystem. It's almost like the street does not care. It's like they're selling it for Nvidia. That's kind of what it feels like. HubSpot, that's down 1% as well as we get into the market open. Adobe is boring. Nobody wants boring money right now. Yeah, that's Look, that's a fair point. Nobody wants when you see Nvidia go up 400 billion in less than 24 hours. People do not want to be stuck in something that's not moving, which is not the best strategy to just sell and chase, but nonetheless, that's what happens. And you might be seeing this happen right now. Um, Nvidia still holding 210. We got to 21163. Wolf is down 12%. No, 2%. Okay. Wolfe had a good preliminary estimate yesterday. That's why they were up 20%. Let's go to the data center plays. First of all, let's go to regionals or rare earths. Rare earths, some of them are up, some of them are down. TMQ is down 4%. CRML is down 4%. Um, Bitcoin miners are all down except Marathon, Galaxy, Hive, CleanSpark, and Cipher, but CleanSpark's losing a lot of its gains. Cipher is basically about to go red. IN's down 2%. Again, a lot of these stocks are up a lot this year, so they're still probably just consolidating, taking a breather. Bit forms right there 425. Then what's the other one? Nebius and Cororeweave. Nebas goes red 121. Coreweave is slightly up. Oh, did we get all time highs on pounds here? Did we do it? Wow, we did it. 193. We did it. 193. She is here, baby. Kind of felt like it was it was gonna happen after that Nvidia partnership. There she is. pile into your 193, dude. All right, let's check what's better than 193. Let's You guys know the number better than 193 right here is 194. It got very close to 194. Oh boy. 194. I don't even got to check resistance. I don't even got to check resistance. 194 on Palunteer. You know what's better than 194? 195 is 92,000 shares. 92,000 shares. We'll ring the bell at 195. We can get it. See if we can get 195, dude. That's incredible. The group chat I'm in is definitely going to be pissed off at me, though. I told you guys the story right last week. They're like, "Guys, what's the buy?" And I was like, "It's Palanteer." And they're like, "Shut up. We're not buying Paler." I was like, "Dude, I know it's I I'll be the first one to tell you it's expensive." Like, not saying it's cheap. I'm just saying I think this quarter is going to be a good quarter and it's at 170. It's been stuck at 170 to 185 for like five months. I think it has a breakout coming if they deliver a really good quarter. And uh it looks like we don't have a quarter yet, but a Jensen partnership is definitely definitely very helpful. And so maybe that ends up playing out. 1942 28 right there on Palanteer. Look at that. Nvidia 210. So Nvidia and Pounder kind of leading the S&P 500 today. Pounder is in the S&P 500 in the S&P 689 alltime highs. Tesla just went green. Tesla's well just went green. You know, I bought more. I bought more pounder for my sister. I bought more pounder for my sister. I I don't think I told you guys that either. So, she has 700 shares that I bought her at 20 that she's had for the longest. And I bought more pounder for myself. And then the other day I was like, "All right, it's at 175 180." And she hasn't added or I haven't added for her since last time I added was April of 2024. And you know, I was just like, dude, who cares about this $20 cost average? Like, at the end of the day, if we think Palunteer is going higher, then I should get her more. So, I added another 400 shares of Pounder for her. So, now she has 1,200 shares. Her average is 84. And uh she probably doesn't even know that I added Palunteer for her, but I did buy more pounder for her. 194 still on Palunteer. Nvidia at 210, Tesla at 460, and the S&P 689. Yeah, she says cool. I think I bought her shares at 181 is what I added for. Maybe some of them were 179, but basically in that 180 range, which look, I know it's expensive. I get it. I'm not here saying it's cheap. I'm just saying I think what what is the streak going to do when they report 50% growth? No other company, that's why Jensen said they are the fastest growing and single most important enterprise stack yesterday. And there's no other company that's putting up the numbers to compare. And so, you know, sometimes your best ideas are your best ideas. And you don't always need a new idea. You just need to continue consolidating into the ideas that you really want to hold for the long term. Nvidia right there 21084 on the day. ALD is that green? ALD that is also green. 3565. They will not do a stock split anytime soon. I mean most companies wait until they're like $500 for a stock split. At least 350 400 usually in the 500 range. Sometimes I've seen companies do it in the $300 range, but I don't think you're getting a stock split in the $200 range. Um, but I think over time eventually that could happen. Okay, so Nvidia is still moving. Bank of Canada cut their policy rate by 25 pips. The Bank of Canada had a meeting today. I didn't even know that. Okay, Bank of Canada, we got some rate cuts today, so that's good. Central banks across the board are cutting. Uh, yeah, there you go. 25 bips for the Bank of Canada. JPAL's probably going to follow it up with the Bank of Canada or with with 25 BIPS as well. We also have some data on mortgage rates. Uh, let me pull this up real quick. US mortgage rates. Wow. Lowest in a year, 6.3%. Where's Open Door? Is Open Door getting helped? Open Door is flat or Open Door is down. Open Door is down. So, mortgage rates lowest we've seen in a year. Open Door is still down. What's the volume on Nvidia? That's a good question. Volume is 70 million shares. Average is 170. So, they've done a decent chunk of that volume in the first 15 minutes. Zillow, by the way, 7380. That's down as well. Farzod, thank you for the super chat. Congrats on pounder alltime high. Uh Farz, I want to say congrats to you for sticking with your conviction about Tesla not selling the cyber cab with a steering wheel. I know you got a lot of [ __ ] from the Tesla community about that, but it looks like Farzod was vindicated yesterday. Um, and let's just say he took a victory lap. I have no idea what this uh steering wheel controversy is. I've seen a few of Farzod's tweets about it, but um yeah, apparently this was the news. Tesla will put a steering wheel and pedals in the cyber cab if that's what regulators require according to the Tesla chair. Let's just say Farzod was pretty happy when he saw that news yesterday. And so I have no idea. steering wheel announced. I don't I don't even know why it matters, but it's been like this hot debate in the Tesla community and far as it's been right. Pounce right there. 1944. Let's see. Can we get 195? It looks like she wants it. It looks like she wants it. Resistance on SPY 690. I can check. Um, we are really close to that. Nvidia very close back to to uh to 211. Who's selling Palenteer? Is anyone selling Palenteer today or are we all holding? All right, you guys know my answer, but I'm curious. Are people taking profits here? I know it's tempting. I know it's juicy. I just think even one of my friends text me, she's like, "Bro, I'm thinking of selling." I'm like, "Dude, that's fine. You can sell." I would just wait after earnings. I would just wait. I would just wait. Like may maybe it tanks 10% on earnings and it's whatever, right? But like I do think it's worth waiting until after earnings if you're going to sell. I just again dude I just like that I know outside of value there's not outside of valuation which I understand is aggressive there's not many things to say are red flags especially when you look at their operating margin growth and you can you you know you can adjust the numbers on DCF models if you increase the margin inflection over the next 10 years to really be able to say it it could be worth the price that it's worth today and as a result that's why the street continues to give it a premium ladies and gentlemen 195 on Palunteer is officially here. Congratulations to everybody from $7 to 195 all-time highs on one of the greatest stories in business history. Pounder, congrats everybody. 195 All right. So, 200 next. I mean, at this point, you might as well just catch up to Nvidia. You might as well just catch up to Nvidia. You might as well. I mean, let's check 196 resistance. Let's check. So, it busted through 195. There was about 90,000 shares waiting there. 196 is 7,000 shares. That's not a lot. 7,000 shares is not a lot to break through. Wow, this incredible. Love to fly, pilot. Shout out to you. Thank you for being here. Palunteer 195. I see most of people saying they're not thinking of of selling. I mean, I get it. Especially, look here, here's my other thing. If you have a very uh strong margin of safety here, you know, and you bought, I forget $10, $20. If your average is like 50 or 70, you just have so much room for this thing to fall and for you to still be up, then maybe it doesn't make the most sense to to trim and take because then you have you have you have to like I think you would sell pounder here if you think it's it's unsustainable and it's just going to drop from here, which of course anything can happen to a stock and it can drop. I just think the amount and we've talked about this so much over the past couple months. the amount of liquidity in this name, the amount of buyers in this name, the amount of people that will dip by in this name, the amount of growth they're showing, that's getting the analysts to raise the targets. If it falls aggressively, those are dips that people will take advant This is the only name in AI that's growing 50%. If we get anywhere near 140 again, like we got in August after Citron put out that research, which by the way, where is Citron? Do they still have the short? Because they are officially underwater on the short. They were underwater on the short about $7 ago, but like I don't know where they are. Like like if we get that level of a dip again, which I think would be a broad market based dip, I think that's a dip you buy. There's not that many quality companies out there that can grow with the margins that Pounder can grow at. And that's why I think uh that's why I think I I don't know. I'm not selling. At least I I I everyone can do what they want to do. But I really do think after earnings and if it dumps on earnings, okay, like if the earnings are great and it dumps, then gives you another opportunity. Worst case, you sell some calls against Paler premiums are amazing. Pal has some of the best call premiums in the market. Even if you go far out of the money. So if you really want to milk something off the shares like selling the calls against it also is not the craziest thing to do. 195 still right there on pounder. AMD 26. That's basically alltime highs on AMD 267 just below that. NF still down. Pinterest is down a little bit. Circle down a little bit. Where's Rocket Lab today? Rocket Lab is up 1.42%. Oscar is up 1.323%. Lemonade is flat. And then UNH got upgraded to 408 today. UNH right there 364. That one's also down. UNH is down. Um, couple things from Bank of Canada. They said, "We feel that we are at the right level. We feel if the outlook changes, we are prepared to respond." And on Trump, they said, "The weekend events remind us that trade policy is unpredictable." Okay, so they're basically saying, "We didn't expect the Trump tweet about the Reagan stuff, but we understand it could be unpredictable. We got some bullish option flow on Nvidia. $18 million of call options were purchased for the 235 strike for Nvidia December 19th. December 19th, 235. That was your strike. 18 million. Someone just bought. Could be someone. It could be a hedge fund. It could be money manager. But there was the option flow of that much money. Micron right there 232. Micron right there 232. That's up 4.5%. 4.5%. That is also green. Um, Paler. Wow. She's trying to move to 136 or 196. She is trying to move to 196. Oh, man. She's moving 19550. 19570. Oh, she's moving. Someone's buying heavy right there. Someone is buying. They don't care. They are buying more. They are buying more. Grab just went green. Google's still green. Adobe CEO is on CNBC. We'll go to him in a bit and see how he's explaining kind of what's going on with his company. Hood just went green as well. 146. I mean, it looks like Hood wants to get back to 150 as well. She's going for 196. She's going for it. 19592. There's only 7,000 shares. There it is. 196. 196. Wow. Wow. That's like I mean I'm a bit speechless here. I'm a bit speechless. 196 on Palunteer. I'm literally looking at the the the the the price right now and just imagining all those streams where we were looking at it and it was 87 bucks and it's just like it's it's it's it's been quite the journey. 196. It's definitely having a bit of a delayed reaction from that Jensen partnership yesterday with Nvidia. I mean, that was a big deal. Stock didn't react too much yesterday. It is obviously reacting today. I think it's about to go for 197, folks. 1967. Hood back over 147. Well, let me check resistance at 197. Dude, no one's working today. No one's working today, that's for sure. 197 12,000 shares. 12,000 shares. Oracle's dumping. Why is Oracle Oracle's been weird over the past couple weeks? Oracle, Wow, it's down 3%. There might be a headline on Oracle that we got to look at. Uh SoFi also goes red. 3132. Um Rocket Lab still green. Benny said, "I try not to work every day, but don't tell anybody." Bounty right there. 19650. We're going to talk about the labor market in a bit because there's a lot of stuff to discuss in in in in regards to what's going on with the labor market, but it is hard to work on a day like this. Guys, it's not even 10 a.m. It's not even 10:00 a.m., bro. It hasn't even been 30 minutes since the market opened. BMR 5137. I know a lot of people are getting annoyed at Bit Mine, but I mean, realistically, you shouldn't be annoyed at BitMine. You should be annoyed at Ethereum. Now, is there a reason to be annoyed at Ethereum? Not really because all the updates that we're seeing in regards to stable coins, tokenization, everything is happening in the right direction. It's just it's not necessarily affecting Ethereum's price right now. Tom Lee, there were some rumors yesterday he bought 113 million of Ethereum based on some of the addresses that are uh are are tracked with Bitmine. But it's more so just a question of when Ethereum can uh can make its move. Rio says, "Days like this I can work faster with a smile." Yeah, this is pretty incredible. This is pretty incredible. What do you use to look at resistance? So, I use Robin Hood. Again, this is available on other uh websites, but if you go to Robin Hood, if you press the yellow button near the share price on mobile on on desktop, you have to press the another button to open up the settings, then you can see what it looks like. So, if you're seeing it right here, it'll show you. It's not perfect, but it'll show you how many shares are being are waiting to be sold and bought. As you can see, at 197, there's about 11,000 shares, which is just not a ton of shares. And that means we might have a shot to get a bit higher, dude. And then again, you got X and Trump meeting tomorrow morning. That's also going to be really important. Any good news on that? That could just help the markets. Also, we got this rate cut coming up in two hours. So, I don't know if that's baked in. Do people think the rate cuts B like 689 on the S&P? Is the rate cut baked in right now? Is it baked in or no? Or do we think we're going higher once JPA officially says we're cutting rates? I kind of think some of it's baked in, but I also think once it's officially announced, the market will have a better way to interpret the reaction. Let's look at the heat map on what we've got going on. Yeah, it's kind of mixed, guys. Nvidia obviously glowing green. Apple green, Amazon slightly green, Google green, everything else is kind of red. Maybe the rate cuta doesn't help Nvidia, but it helps a lot of other stocks. Like a lot of these companies have debt, right? If you cut rates, they can refinance their debt. So that that starts to get factored into their expenses uh as as a percentage of the overall revenues, but you need the official confirmation of that rate cut for it to happen. The cruise lines are a great example of this. So are the telecommunication companies. So, we're going to have to see when JPAL officially says it, how the market reacts. Almost 690 on the S&P. Quantum's green on the day. QBTS D-Wave is up 3.9. Oio Q is up 3.3 and then Regetti is up 3816 that's up 2.9%. Nvidia back to 211. Palanteer trying to push 19650. Jensen did spend a decent chunk of time talking about quantum yesterday. The idea was that we could have a hybrid solution between GPUs and QPUs. And yeah, it was it was definitely a tone switch from what he talked about um eight months ago, but it seems like in general it's productive for the entire quantum sector and that's why some of those names are catching a bit of a bid. 19660 on Nvidia. Better. How's that one doing? Better. that is up about 2%. Again, rates coming down should be good for the rocket mortgage, better mortgage companies of the world. ASTS that's still up 5%. Micro Strategy, that's flat. Uber's down. Roblox up a little bit. And then the Q's are up half%. Wow. Nvidia 212, bro. Oh my goodness, dude. Guys, it's either retail or it's either a massive set of institutional investors that have just said, "We don't care. we're buying and they're buying Nvidia and they're buying pounder it's either retail or it's either a lot of hedge funds money man you know what it is I mean you know we've been talking about this for a while it could be these these fund managers that have missed their bench I mean imagine if you're a fund manager you're underperforming you missed April you missed August and September we did have a 1% dip then you missed October 10th you missed the 3% dip now you throw in the towel you say you know what all right Jensen said 500 billion I got to buy. I have to buy. And the fact that 211 theoretically could be cheap going into the end of the year, which I don't want to say that, but like if we do get a move to 225 or something like that. I mean, like that would be a good buy, right? So, the fact that that could happen is quite incredible. No way this is retail volume on Nvidia 89 million. Palanteer 12. Dude, pound that's not even a lot of volume for Palanteer. I mean, that's good volume, but that's not like crazy crazy volume or anything. So for Palenters, just a lot of buy orders that are coming in. By the way, yesterday 5 million contracts were traded for Nvidia in the options market. SoFi had 1.4 million. Beyond Meat at 955,000. Where is Beyond Meat today? Beyond Meat is down 2%. So you obviously had a lot of option activity on some of these names. Um, okay. We got pending home sales. Let me pull this up. We got pending home sales. Let's take a look at some of this data and then we'll keep going from there. All right, here we go.
>> First though, let's get some housing data with Diana. Morning, Diana.
>> Good morning, Carl. Pending home sales in September were unchanged from August and dropped.9% year-over-year. That according to the National Association of Realtors, the street was looking for a 1% gain after an even larger gain in August. Now, this count is based on signed contracts. So, people out shopping in September and making that decision when the average rate on the 30-year fix was generally on the decline, but had not dropped as much as it did this month. So, it was between 6.4 and 6.5% versus today's 6.1%. Now, regionally, sales rose in the Northeast and South, but fell in the Midwest and West. Inventory has climbed to a 5-year high, although still on the lean side historically. The Realtor's chief economist, Lawrence Yun, noted in the release that a record high stock market and growing housing wealth in September were not enough to offset a likely softening job market. Carl,
>> Diana, we'll talk more about that and how it relates to the Fed in a minute. Thank you, Diana Ol. Uh, stocks meantime sitting at record highs as we said as we await three of the mag seven earnings numbers this afternoon along with the Fed decision and the news conference. Joining us here at Post 9 this morning is Muhammad Ali, of course, Alian's chief econ.
>> Okay, so pending home sales not as uh as bad as expected, relatively decent. Looks like the housing market is starting to open up a bit more. Um Nvidia still pushing, pounder still pushing as well. 19640 got to 19680 and you got Nvidia just below 212. Just below 212. Imagine what bad news would do to this euphoria. Yeah. I mean, look, well, if it is euphoria, it's in two names, at least today, which is Nvidia and Paler. I mean, you're not really seeing it broadly because a lot of other stocks are red. I mean, I would say uh JPAL back in August in that pivot that he made was more euphoric because everything went green. I mean, last Friday it was more euphoric. Everything was green. Today it's a couple names which maybe allows it to be a bit isolated to a few names that you know the streets really expecting strong growth out of. Fear and greed we're officially at neutral folks. We're officially at neutral. All right. So that is starting to show you that at least from one indicator the market is beginning to think things are getting a bit elevated even if it's only in a couple names but those couple names control a lot of the S&P and that's why the S&P is hitting alltime highs. Um 82% of you by the way said we would end green on the day. Nvidia bit of a red candle but still holding 210 in Palter still pushing for 197. She still wants it. Most of the semis are up. Uh sounds right. There's greed in tech but not anywhere else. Yeah, exactly. That's that that's exactly what I'm trying to say. There's greed in tech but not in a lot of other places. I mean him. Dude, this has been a disaster to this freaking stock. This is sentiment on HIMS has been horrible. And I still think they're cheap, but you got these uh Bank of America reports coming out on their credit card uh uh estimates and they're saying, "Hey, like third quarter is just going to miss pretty bad. Alpha is down 1.4. A lot of the consumer stocks are getting hit. Salesforce still down. PayPal unfortunately could not hold the gains from yesterday. Reddit down three. Bloom Energy is up. Duolingo and Adobe just getting wrecked. These two stock I mean this in my Dualingo uh deep dive for my Substack. I'll link it right here in the chat for those that want to read it. Uh the last thing I said was that the reason I can't buy it. Although I really after doing the deep dive, I really do think there's a moat to the company in regards to the proprietary data advantage they have around language, but I can't buy it because like the narrative is bad. And it's like there's always going to be a narrative with your stock that you have to deal with. There's always going to be the question is how much do you want to deal with with the narrative? And with Dual Lingo, I don't know if I want to deal with the language learning narrative being commoditized by AI for the long term. Dude, we hit 196.99 on Palunteer. 196.99. They did not give us 197. We got to see if we can break through. We are very close. Wall Street Journal open AAI may IPO as soon as 2027. All right, folks. There you go. 2027 is going to be our top there. Like once Open AI starts asking the public for capital. That's how you know it's time to sell a little bit. Damn. 20. Dude, I thought it was going to be like 2030 2027. That's a couple years away. That's not that far. probably going to buy the IPO, though. I mean, like, it's open air out, right? I would be curious about their numbers, dude. I wonder if they would get to profitability before uh before 2027. It's hard to imagine they would, but you're going to get a lot of people buying into that IPO. And I really wonder what that means for the broader market. But again, OpenAI is tied to Broadcom, Nvidia, Oracle, AMD. Like, OpenAI has to win. No matter how much you like them or don't like, they have to win because so much AI is connected to them. So it will be important. Pounce right here. 19674. She's trying. She is still trying. SoFi down 2% 3095. This one not getting any love. Nvidia is still holding 210. And then the S&P just below 689. They're already at 500 billion. They should be public already. That's a fair point. They are at the point where you would imagine they are a public company. 19670 1967 70 Drago, thank you for the $50 super chat. Famous last words. Should I short Palanteer? Those have been the famous last words for a lot of people. I mean, dude, remember when we had the Bearcave who came on the channel uh back when Pounder was 14 bucks and I debated him and uh you know, his argument was, "Well, my friend's telling me that Pounder is a consulting firm." I was like, "What friends? Who are these like very important people in Silicon Valley?" I was like, "Dude, who the [ __ ] like like is this really your argument?" I was like, "You really came to a debate saying that?" And like you know from that to then Citron to like it's just it's pounder has defied every expectation because they've just kept pushing through and they you know they put up the growth which is what matters. S&P24 hoodie goes red pounder 196 Google up a little bit. Grab back to six bucks. Uber is up a little bit and then Roblox up as well. We did that interview back in 2023. That was May of 23. And you guys know me, you know, you know I I did debate in high school, so I love a good debate. And uh I always salivate to get into a debate. So, you know, he wrote this article and this article went viral. It was obviously to promote a Substack. I mean, he picked pounder as an easy target, but like he legit, like when I said, "Yo, you want to come on the channel and talk about it?" He was so excited because he knew he would get so much more attention and people would subscribe to a Substack. And I was like, "Okay, you can be excited to come on the channel. Just just realize." And in my head, I'm like, "Bro, you're gonna get obliterated if you like, this is not going to be a fun experience for you." I think he was thinking it was gonna be a friendly discussion. I like, "No, bro. Like, this is like you're taking a shot at the whole community here. Like, we're going to really dive into it." And I I think it was an entertaining experience, to say the least. I mean, the first question we asked was like, "What's an ontology?" And he was like, "What is that?" I was like, "How are you saying short pounder? You don't know the core architecture. you don't have to know every technical I don't know every technical nuance of an ontology but like you got to know what the point of the ontology is in Paler Software. And he was like what are you talking about? I was like oh this is this is fresh meat. This is fresh meat right here. Um 90,000 calls for Nvidia October 31st 215. My goodness, dude. Yeah, the option flow on this is not slowing down. Getting a little bit of a red candle across the broader market. Dolingo just getting destroyed. Let's go to the stock draft. Pounder is helping me, but Dolingo is probably hurting me bad. Um, well, we're we're close below below Matt. Matt's at 47.2. I'm at 46. Steve's at 11. Tanner's at 28. Chris is at 12. So, Matt's at 47. I'm at 46. Aller was the first pick in the stock draft at 141. Everyone was like, "Nope." I'm like, "I'm I'm riding with Ballinger. I am riding with it." STX. Yeah, they had a good earnings yesterday. Seagate. That's why that stock right here is up 16. Wow. I didn't know it was up 16. It was up 10% yesterday. Look at that. Another company in the broader data storage space, 17%. That one getting a lot of love right here. And that's green. Cheesecake is down. Cheesecake missed on revenue. I don't know if that means they deserve to go down 7% 5% right here, but they are down. They did beat on EPS which was important. Bloom Energy, they crushed earnings as well. Uh what's his name? Uh Chris Camilillo is long. Bloom Energy. Chris Camilillo 23. Goodness gracious. 23%. They had a good beat on the top and the bottom. I think they probably said something in guidance around data center space which is why they're really getting a move. But he also is now long this name. Rubric's down six. Oh, folks. We got it. We got it. 197. $197 for Pounder. That's That's a big move. That's a big 198 has 37,000 shares. 198 is 37,000 shares. We're going to ring the bell again at 200. Remember, with Pounder, it's increments of five. So, we're going to see if we can get that 200 to ring the bell. But 197 197 is such a sexy number, too, dude. Like the seven makes the one and the nine looks so nice together. Like, look at that, dude. 19. That's crazy, bro. That's crazy. All right, the same question I ask every time we get to these big levels on pound chair. Who's feeling nervous? Who's feeling excited? Nervous or excited? What do you think? Put in the chat. Nervous or excited? Admit we'll get thrown out of the apartment because the bell today. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I'm not that nervous, bro. It's more excitement for me. And and and this is a contrast to how I felt about Pounder at other times when it hit all-time highs. I felt a bit more nervous than excited. I am feeling the most confident I have ever felt about this company. And it's really easy to feel confident when you see these types of partnerships with Nvidia, but you also know the earnings growth is coming. So, I I I don't like the stock could go back down to 190. It is what it like that's you know the stocks go up and down but this is not super super scary or nerve-wracking for me. This is this is something I kind of thought over the past couple weeks like we would start to make this type of run just given we were getting into earnings. These numbers should be good. 19724 nervous about my covered calls. Okay, that's you can definitely be nervous about that. That's fair. Um pounders PE is very high. I agree. It has always been very high. It's just one of those things that again if like again Citron the reason they short it was because the PE that was their whole research report. It's like I don't know if that's the only way you can use the I mean same thing with quantum right it's like just because the valuation is aggressive which I think the valuation is really aggressive on those names that doesn't mean it's a good short it just doesn't there's a lot of things going for the sector that that that require not or that that would think you should probably not short it and with pounder forget things going good for the AI sector pounder is actually growing in that sector oh my goodness is it going for 198 8. It hit 19780. 19780. Dude, we were also talking last week about the 190 option flow. Remember the December 190 calls? We we flagged it on the on the channel. We said there was a lot of money going into those. So, you did have someone thinking that a 190 move was going to happen and those are now deep in the money. Deep in the money. Did you see Skrey versus Shay? Yes. Shade did not do the best job in that debate and he wasn't able to defend quantum as a industry as well. That doesn't mean it's a short. I know a lot of people who wanted to short after watching that, but that doesn't necessarily mean you short just because someone doesn't do the best job defending, you know, an industry in debate. But this is pretty incredible to see. Let's get an update right here on Nvidia and the move that we saw yesterday and uh then we'll keep going from there. club. President Trump telling reporters just uh overnight that he would bring up quote super duper blackwell chips with President Xi in trade talks and that definitely helped the stock momentum today. But the stock really moved on revenue visibility. Yesterday, Nvidia's CEO pointed to $500 billion in cumulative data center revenue for 2025 and 2026. That number really surprised a lot of the street because it runs at least about 10% I've seen even some estimates 20% higher than their current estimates. That's significant upside and why you're seeing so many upgrades this morning. For example, Melia is bumping their price target to $300 from$275. Goldman sees further upside from OpenAI deployments, sovereign government deals, and of course the timing of the Rubid chip launch, which is the next architecture for their GPUs. Now, on that China angle, CEO Johnson Wong told me on CNBC yesterday that only Trump can solve the trade impass. He even ended his speech yesterday with make America great again. Wall Street currently models zero zero China revenue following export bans. So any deal would represent upside not priced in. Nvidia is now worth more than all of the S&P 500 energy, real estate and material stocks combined. This according to uh just our data desk here. The stock is up roughly 56% year-to date, but has lagged other AI names like Broadcom and Oracle as investors do worry about bubble talk. But hyperscalers report over the next 48 hours or I should say some of them even tonight which could provide further catalyst if AI spending commentary stays strong. Guys,
>> Christina, you know,
>> you know, you know, Jensen saying make America great again yesterday. That was a nod to Trump and Trump hears everything, dude. If you know anything about Trump, he listens and hears everything. So, the fact that Jensen put GTC in DC was a nod to this administration. And you know, whether you like or hate Trump, and I don't even know if Jensen loves or hates Trump, I know that Jensen loves the agenda of American manufacturing and American national security when it comes to semiconductors. And that is really what he's gearing himself towards. So by saying that yesterday and by hosting it in DC, you know, you got Trump feeling a lot more in line with this idea of exporting American technology, infrastructure, software, hardware to the rest of the world. One of those parts of the world being China, which is ready to spend, I think the the TAM every year, Jensen said, is about 50 billion on these Nvidia chips. Which is why I think Nvidia is getting the run because if that's not factored in and that tomorrow we get an announcement that says Trump finalizes trade deal with China allows Nvidia AMD to sell chips. I mean you would imagine the excitement that the market would have if that officially is happening. Broadcom alltime highs 380. Look at that. 380.97 on Broadcom and then AMD basically at all time highs at 264. All the semis really getting some love right there. Palinger at 197. the art of the glaze. I mean, yeah, you know, there is always an art to the glaze. But at the end of the day, if you're a shareholder of Nvidia, you know, you're a shareholder of any company, you want to make sure that company's on the right side of the administration. Why why would you want them to be antagonistic with the administration? And this is something Jensen and Trump actually can agree on. They don't have to agree on all the other political issues, but they can agree that American semiconductor manufacturing matters. And that's why I think Jensen has aligned himself so deeply with Trump. Amcore right there 3322. That's up 3.28% as well. Caterpillar up 11%. Yep. Caterpillar making a move again. They beat on the top and the bottom. Shout out to Douggee. He was in the chat about a month ago speaking about Caterpillar and how he thought it would be a bit more vital in the data center space, particularly around machinery. And that's not the majority of their business, but you're starting to see a bit of earnings inflection from that. Where's the VIX? It's 10:19. VIX is up 3%. Okay, so the VI, this is weird. The S&P is at all time highs. The Vid is at all time highs and the VIX is up 3%. So VIX might be signaling we're going to get potentially a bit of a retracement or you just might have some people buying volatility as a hedge against the broader market. Nvidia is now the third richest country in the world. Dude, this is this is kind of crazy. 5.117 trillion. Apple's now the second largest company, 4.05 trillion. And BMR goes down. Ethereum, man, we need Ethereum to move. We need it to move. Uh just got an option flow on the S&P. Someone just bought 13 million worth of puts on the S&P. Strike is 685. Strike is 685. 13 million of puts. Expiry is December 2025. Expiry is December 31st, 2025. 681 is the strike. 13.4 million. Um, and then you got Micron. Someone bought 235 or n $969,000 worth of the 235 call expiring November 7th. Trump will have his meeting at 11 a.m. tomorrow in South Korea. Trump will have his meeting at 11:00 a.m. in South Korea. Mike Johnson is live to talk about the shutdown. We've uh we've already covered a lot of what he's been saying on the shutdown. Uh Oracle, I think I have an update right here on Oracle. Let me pull this up right here. Is Oaklo moving today? Oaklo. Oaklo is moving. All right. All right. So, the energy stocks from Bloom Energy getting a bit of a move right here and that's helping. Um, Oak looks like it's a debt issue. So, Morgan Stanley says Oracle's net adjusted debt could double to 290 billion. Wow. Right now, they're at a hundred billion. The cost to ensure Oracle's debt is now its highest since October 2023. Morgan Stanley near-term credit deterioration and uncertainty may drive further bond holder and lender hedging. Okay, so that's why Oracle is down. The streets basically afraid about debt and wow, Oracle 273 down 2.6. I mean, look, they they took out 40 billion of corporate bonds last last uh last week. And as bullish as it was for the data center space, it is a lot of debt that they're putting on. And so that could definitely be a bit concerning. Now again, if the growth is enough to overtake that, it doesn't matter. But Morgan Stanley saying this gonna be 290 billion of debt in four years, which is definitely something aggressive. Fluence Energy, that one's moving as well. Fluence, yeah, look at that. Up 11%. So, you got a lot of these energy names based on Bloom earnings that really are catching a bid. Nvidia still holding 210, Grab now above six, and then you got Pounder at 19750. Don't we care that OpenAI has a trillion in debt? That's a good question because they basically do have a trillion in debt. I guess I guess we don't care enough about it. How the hell can the market be simultaneously worried about data center debt collapse and also pumping Nvidia towards six trillion? See, it's a good question. I don't fully have the answer to that, but it's a good question. And this is the diver. This is why my portfolio has been heavy Nvidia and basically zero exposure to any of the other data center names, which I don't know if that's going to be the same for 2026. I'm trying to do a lot of due diligence on the nebases, the core reeves, the INS, all that stuff and figure out if there's like a meaningful opportunity after these stocks have already 5xed, right? You know, for those that got in early, congrats. But I didn't. But the one fear I've had is that all those companies have different operational challenges that come down to either debt financing, come down to vendor and distributor relationships, come down to GPU capacity, etc. Uh leasing, acquiring land. Nvidia just has to make the GPUs. I mean, Nvidia has a lot of challenges, but at the end of the day, they are a monopoly. And Google's trying to poke at that monopoly with the TPUs, but for for what it's worth, they're a monopoly. And so, a lot of those other names, like, you've got to get a good valuation on them. I don't know if you could just blindly buy them and just assume it's going to go up with everything else. But maybe you can. Maybe you can. But then you get an Oracle headline like we're getting right now that Morgan Stanley's worried about debt. So, can you blindly buy Oracle and just assume that everything's going to be okay? I mean, you could, but if you bought at 350, you're probably pissed off, right? I don't know how easy it is going to be to go from 273 to 350. That's a hell of a move. Remember, Oracle went from 230 to 350 within like two days after those earnings. So, it's just one of those things where it does require a little bit of understanding of what exactly you're buying and where you're buying it. Poucher 1979. We got close to 198. We got close to 198. Can you talk about layoffs? Yes, we're going to talk about layups. We're going to spend some time talking about layoffs. Uh there's a lot to talk about. I actually did a decent amount of research last night. Dude, last night was crazy. Last night was crazy. I was up till I thought I thought I would sleep early last night. I wanted to sleep at like 10 p.m. I ended up sleeping at like 12:30. I was up I was in bed. I had my laptop. I was working. I was looking at a lot of these layoff videos trying to understand what's going on. I was I I actually got into a lot of the reason why Amazon laid off people. And it's not because AI is replacing people. Like that's the wrong narrative. and I tried to verify from a ton of different reports and I'll present it to you guys and you guys can give me your thoughts. But while I was doing that work, I get put into a group chat on Twitter last night with two other people and I'm looking at my phone and I'm just like, there's no way in hell I'm in this group chat. I get put into this group chat. I can't say who the two people are. Maybe one day I can say who they are. But I'm looking at I'm like there is no way in hell I am in a group chat with these two people. It was the crazy like I stayed up another hour just thinking about because I was like I don't know how I'm in this group chat but someone set up a group and uh they put me in this group chat while I was doing this research on Amazon. Then I was like this [ __ ] is crazy. Yeah, you you can guess. I cannot say it but I was just like goodness gracious [ __ ] is crazy. Maybe towards the end of the year I can say it. Maybe I can never say it. I don't know. Joseph Carlson and Taylor Swift. Yeah, that would be awesome. It's not Alex Carp. He doesn't use Twitter. But it was like I'm just staring at like I couldn't even respond for 10 minutes because I'm staring at I'm like there's no way like I'm in this group chat. But I'm in this group chat and that kind of messed up my research because I I was just like, well, it's hard to focus now. Just like Pounder is messing up our work today. It's hard to focus. It was not Tom Lee. It was not Dan Ies. Cuz you got to think bigger. You got to think bigger than that, bro. You got to think way bigger than that. That's why I was like, "What is going on, bro? What is going on, but yeah, it was kind of crazy." It's not Trump. Well, Trump doesn't even use Twitter. Trump uses Trudeo. I don't even know if Trump would I don't even know if a government official is allowed to to be in there. Uh, Nvidia right there. 210 pounder now losing 197 back down to 196. But it do did lose 197 right there. It got to 197 93. It's not Elon. It's not Elon. I would I would say if it's Elon, it's not freaking Elon, but it still was pretty unbelievable. Let's just say let's just say an interview or a podcast could be the result of the group chat of last night. I don't know when it would happen. Hopefully, it's end of year. If not, it would be early next year. But let's just say someone in the group chat who's very highly influential made an intro with me and another person who's very highly influential. And I think the reason for that based on the further conversation is to eventually get to a podcast. And I was just like, "This is crazy, bro. It's not Jay Kush, bro. It's not J I'm like honestly bigger than Jay Kush. We got to get even got to think bigger than Jay Kush. And Jay Kush was pretty big, but still I I will let you guys know once the interview actually comes out, which hopefully by the end of the year happens and it should be fun. Microsoft right there, that's Microsoft losing 540. It was at 550. That one getting hit 537. Pinterest is down. Nphase is also down 12.64%. All right, let's talk about layoffs. This is a long topic. We got a lot to talk about. Let's talk about layoffs and let's get into it. If we get 198 on Pounder, we'll go back to it. Pounder right there 197. But let's get into layoffs because we have a lot a lot to discuss here. I can't say it, guys. I can't say I'm sorry. I can't say it. I really can't say it. I will eventually say it when it's time to say it, but I can't right now. We got We got to do the podcast first. We got to make that happen. But, uh, it was just crazy, dude. Like, I just I was just looking at the [ __ ] I was just like, "This is like this this can't be real, bro." But it's like I looked at their accounts like these are real accounts. Like gotta respond to them. So all right, layoffs. Let's talk about it. So here's what we got going on. What happened yesterday and what caused a bunch of concern in the labor market? Amazon laid off 14,000 people. Legitimately last night they laid off 14,000 people and UPS is getting ready to lay off 48,000 people. Now this is a set with a variety of other companies as you can see right here on the screen that have announced layoffs over the past five months. All of these layoffs have been aggressive and all of those layoffs, as aggressive as they've been, have been chocked up, many of them at least have been chocked up to AI. Less of them have been chocked up to demand or consumers not having as much um, you know, spending power given that earnings have been really good. So, I don't think it's a structural problem in the broader economy, but I do think it's a little bit more rooted in AI. And that's some of the pain that we're seeing right here. Now, let me show you guys a couple things before we get into all the nitty-gritty of it. Um, to kind of describe some of this stuff. So, if you go on TikTok and you just type in uh Amazon layoffs, you are going to see massive massive amounts of people that are showing that they got laid off. Here is one video that I that I saw yesterday.
>> Was laid off at Amazon. I am one of the 14,000 employees impacted. I was a senior social media manager in Amazon ads and earlier this month I actually celebrated my one-year anniversary or imversary as they like to call it and it was the closest I've ever come to a dream role. I was working social media marketing and tech something I would have dreamed about and wished for in college. I was flown out to work my first can line in the south of France of all places. I interviewed celebrities on the red carpet. Some that I had fang girlled over since I was a little kid. But most importantly, I worked at a globally recognizable company that I knew made my immigrant parents proud. And even my grandma knew what Amazon was because of the packages we get on our doorstep. And fast forward to today, it also actually is exactly one week from my birthday. I guess my present from Amazon just uh came a little bit early. But that's all to say I am feeling all the feels.
>> So I shared that video for a couple reasons. There's a few things to talk about right there. Number one, this is a real human being, right? This is a real person. And there's literally thousands of those videos on TikTok and Instagram of these people talking about their layoffs. So, you know, regardless of what you personally may feel about the individual, the person, or the job, uh that's a real human being that had a job, that had a source of income, and that job is now gone. So obviously this is this is not an when you watch a lot of these videos you it's not an easy thing to digest just as a human being because you you don't want to see anyone ever lose their job, right? And so it was tough to see a lot of that stuff last night, but it was a decent amount of it. The other reason I showed that video is because notice what she said. Her job was a social media manager for Amazon ads where she goes across the world and interviews a bunch of these celebrities to be able to like distribute via Amazon social channels. I am not here to judge if that is a worthwhile job or not. But when you look at the people that Amazon is laying off, and that is one of the examples of the people Amazon laid off, you can tell Amazon doesn't think that's as valuable anymore. Maybe a year ago, Amazon thought we needed a social media manager for ads to do this very specific thing. Today, Amazon's like, "Hey, uh, we don't we don't need this." And it could be because potentially there's more ways to automate this in regards to AI. uh potentially you don't need the type of social media distribution that they thought they needed on this particular sector of the business or and this is when you go down the rabbit hole you start to learn a lot more about what's happening right here I have verified the story with at least 10 different sources I don't know if it's the actual truth and maybe Jasse is going to give us some more updates on Thursday but the reason Amazon is cutting 30,000 people is not because business is bad or because they're replacing them with AI it's because they need the money for GPUs AWS has a $195 billion backlog that's growing 25% year-over-year, but they can't buy Compute fast enough to meet demand. This is why their uh earnings growth for AWS last for the past two quarters has been lagging partly because of structural issues, but also partly because they don't have the ability to buy as many GPUs to be able to meet all the demand that they have. This is capital choosing GPUs over people and every hyperscaler is doing it. Meta has cut 5% over the past six months and they recently just cut 600 new people in the AI division as well. This is a good video I want to play as well. This guy I think broke it down uh in in the best way that I've seen, but it's definitely something that can't be ignored and I do think it adds a lot more layers to what's going on with Amazon and what we could see from a lot of other hyperscalers when it comes to layoffs.
>> Amazon laid off 30,000 people today. The narrative is that this is about AI replacing jobs. The reality is very different and I want to be really precise about it because it gets at corporate structure and finance and not really at AI and the way you think. So when people think AI layoffs, they think the robots are doing the jobs now and therefore we are having layoffs. No, the people who are doing the jobs are more stressed if they're still at Amazon. But the AI automation story isn't actually hitting those jobs. What is hitting those jobs and is related to AI is the cost of chips. So Nvidia sells chips to everyone. GPUs, those chips are how we power AI. And none of the major cloud providers can get enough chips right now. Microsoft can't. Google can't. Google's in an easier spot. They have TPUs. And Amazon definitely can't. In fact, people don't know this, but AWS has a roughly 25% burning backlog on GPUs. In other words, they are missing out on revenue because companies are begging for more compute from AWS that they can't fulfill because they can't buy GPUs because they only had so much budgeted to buy GPUs. And so, yes, the layoffs are related to AI. But in this case, it is burning corporate demand for GPU chips that is hitting the capital expenditure budget of Amazon so hard that they need to find other ways to reduce fixed costs so they can meet the expectations of Wall Street around the overall margins of the business. And you might be like, well, why does that matter? They're all like billion-dollar companies. In Amazon's case, their margins have always been notoriously thin everywhere except AWS. Retail is like a ridiculously thin business, but the AWS margins have been really good. And so, The Street, for better or worse, expects them to continue growing the high margin business at a good clip. The street was not happy with their 18% year-over-year growth rate this quarter. And the street is looking for them to pick that growth rate back up, which they cannot do if they cannot buy more chips. And they cannot buy more chips without destroying their margin unless they can cut costs other places. And chips are so expensive that the only way they can cut costs is by going after jobs or fixed costs or salaries. And that is what is happening. And so really when you read this, instead of reading this as a guide book to where AI is automating, read it as a guidebook to the things that Amazon finds least painful to cut when they have to trade talent for GPU.
>> And think about that. Does Amazon care more about a social media manager for ads or do they care about GPUs? And that's why I shared the first video. It's like obviously like 10 times out of 10 they're going to pick the GPUs. They they do not need a social media manager for ads. They'll figure that part out later. The GPUs is what matters more. That's real revenue. That's high margin for AWS. So again, this theory, it's not fully confirmed. I expect Jasse to talk about it, but it feels a lot more validated based on what I've been seeing versus just demand is bad. That's why they're cutting jobs.
>> EU in order to maintain their margins. So these were very hard discussions and the places they cut are places that I think they are strategically not as invested in and that is the way I read it. None of this does anything to make people who got fired today feel better. Uh and so I don't want to pretend it does. Uh if you got let go from Amazon that really sucks and this doesn't fix it. And you know, for those that actually watched the videos last night or if you watch any videos today about uh you know, people getting laid off, it's sad. It is very, very sad to see. It's just it feels like Amazon is really making a decision right here about GPUs over jobs. There's a couple of other sources I was looking at last night. Here's another one saying that it feels like this is more about capex to buy GPUs, not employees. And then when you look at the types of jobs that were fired, I mean from the other videos that were watching, there were some software engineers that got fired, which you know, software engineers matter um probably more than a social media manager for ads in terms of the value they provide to the business. But a lot of the software engineers are also starting to become commoditized by AI. And one engineer can do the work of 10. So you might not need 10 of them. But then number two, if you're firing these social media managers and you're and you're relying more on GPUs, that should increase AWS growth. AWS has 36% operating margins. The retail business has like 5%. or it's like 5.3%. So, it seems very obvious what Amazon's doing. And that's why I think the stock broke 233 as well today, right now at 229 because the street likes that they're making this decision and the street wants them to get rid of these jobs. I'll put the link to that video in the chat for anyone who wants to watch it um over GPUs. So, now here's my question to everybody and I see Austin in the chat kind of put a statement that I was thinking about as well. If this is a trend with the broader uh tech companies that are out there getting rid of these, call it $150,000 to $200,000 a year paying jobs because if you look at some of the salaries, these social media managers, dude, they're making six figures. It's not like this is a $30,000 job. Like they're making they're getting stock as well, right? These are very cushiony white collar jobs, you know, day in the life. You get to go get some um what is it? Kimcha or whatever the people drink in the in the office, right? like these are the types of jobs that Amazon is getting rid of. Do you think if a lot of these companies get rid of these jobs either because AI is being AI is functioning as a form of replacement or uh they need money to buy GPUs. What does that do for the fabric of society? What does that do for the fabric of because these are 15,000 real people that got laid off yesterday and they need to go find a job. And by the way, based on all the charts that we've been looking at, we are in a lowfire, low hire job. We might start getting into a high fire low hireer job market. But we are not seeing as many job openings as we saw years ago and that is you know likely because of this issue that companies are wondering do they need to actually hire. Dude, that's how you say it right. It's kombucha. How do you say this stupid drink? Bro, I had it once. I was like why would anyone drink this dude? Kombucha. I don't know why it's in every tech company. It's kombucha, right?
>> Kombucha,
>> dude, I said it right. What are you guys talking about? It's kombucha. When I went to the Uber headquarters back in uh back in in in February when I was at the Robinet event and uh we met someone there, like we opened their fridge, it was all kombucha. I was like, "Bro, like no, I'm not drinking this shit." Like, "What is this, dude?" Like, every tech company, they all these kombuchas. But the point it it just it it doesn't feel like this is going to end nicely is my point. And and obviously no one knows how this plays out. But there's a reason Pounder said we want to not hire as I remember on on the earnings call uh last quarter. Alsarp said we want to 10x the revenue with with keeping the same headcount. They only have 4,000 employees. Pounder's always been a company that's been light on headcount. But pounders is growing like crazy and they're not hiring like crazy because they want to have the most effective engineers and they don't want to have these types of roles that hurt the bottom line. And for Amazon, it looks like it seems like this could hurt the bottom line. Palant right here still trying to get to 198 197 93. But I just thought this story has been fascinating and I think there's a lot of nuance to where the story is going to play out. Let me know in the chat if anyone's been affected by the layoffs, if you have friends that are affected. We had a couple people yesterday from Amazon that were in the chat and uh they were a bit affected. I mean, again, you're seeing a lot more of these CarMax cuts about 350 service jobs after a week earnings. I don't want to say the labor market's completely deteriorating because I don't think we have enough data yet, but I I do want to say that you're starting to see tech companies say we might not need the jobs that we thought we needed a year ago because of AI in some way. Now, the rate cut situation becomes even more juicy because what is the Fed going to do if you're seeing all these layoffs? You're going to cut the damn rates. And it seems inevitable that we're going to get to that 2 and a half% that Trump thinks we're going to get to by the end of next year. And if the labor market continues to worsen, then you know that might continue as well. Um Rile says, "Coup of my friends got affected, both software engineers." Um I know someone from UPS got affected. She was in the marketing department. Overall bearish or bullish? I think overall, you know, at the end of the day, it's bullish for margins. Like this is bullish for Amazon increasing their margins. One could argue it's bearish for the broader economy and broader society. But I think the answer when you see these types of layoffs is you got to own the assets of the company because the shareholders are the ones that are being rewarded here. It's just that simple. It is just that simple that Amazon is picking shareholders over employees and they're doing it in a way that prioritizes AWS growth which means they need more GPUs and they and they probably you know again like I don't know how much that social media manager for ads was making but she lived in New York. She probably wasn't making 40 50 grand. Like to live in New York you've got to be making some substantial amounts of money. Like you would imagine at least 150 to 200 with stock. probably not as much as a software engineer, but even if it was like, you know, 75 to 125, th those are those are decent paying jobs. And now she has to try to find another one. And the question becomes, what does that mean for the broader economy? If you know people like that I mean you one could argue a lot of the economy has been propped up over the past decade from project managers and consultants and these white collar jobs in Silicon Valley that have been able to be paid vast amounts of money because these companies have such amazing margins that they're able to hoard all this talent. If you take a look at this chart from the Wall Street Journal the top 10% of earners now account for half of all the spending. We've heard this stat before but this is from Moody's Analytics to give a little bit more context. This is the bifrocation of the economy that we have right now. It is a complete bifurcation. Felix, thanks for the super chat. Bear theory. Do you think AI plus robotics will equal layoffs will trigger socialist movements that will vote against AI robotics? Uh, yes. I think that's very possible and I think that's what Austin said in the chat. You are giving the socialists fuel when Amazon does something like this. Now, practically, does it make sense for Amazon to do this? Yes. I mean, you probably don't need the social media manager. probably need the GPU because you need AWS growth and that's what matters in this very competitive AI race. But a lot of the people that are from the ideology that is more anti- capitalism, they don't give a [ __ ] about GPUs or margins or EPS. They're thinking of the headline and the headline is Amazon picks shareholders over employees and then they're going to see Amazon has record profits this year, not knowing that the stock's been a turn. So it's like all of us are like, "Okay, cool. Yes, lots of revenue, lots of profits, but the stock's not moving because we're on this side of the camp. And he got the people on the other side of the camp saying, "How can you not recognize that Jeff Bezos is the most greedy person in the world? His net worth has gone up by blah blah blah." Like, yeah, but like the stock is kind of flat. Like, the EPS is not the best. So, it's just two different dichotoies of of schools of thought. And when you have a headline that says we're going to fire 15,000 people because of AI or because of shareholders, like that's that's that's giving a lot more people who don't own assets, which is 99% of America, they're going to feel, you know, or I should not say 99% of America, but I should say, you know, the the vast majority of Americans that maybe have some allocation to assets, but don't actually, you know, actively track or care about their assets outside of their 401k, those people and if they're living paycheck to paycheck, haven't gotten a wage increase in a while, Those people are going to get pissed off. It's inevitable. It's human nature. They're going to get pissed off. And then we're going to have to see how that plays out. Mitch, should we support socialism? I I'm definitely not a socialist. I will say that. But like I and look, Mumani, he's I mean there's a good shot he wins. And I think that's a referendum on a lot of the state of what people are feeling in terms of wealth inequality. If you're an asset holder, that's something you can't ignore. You definitely can't ignore that alphabet right there. 269 as well. Sarah says, "So, are we buying Amazon?" I mean, yeah, dude. Look, at the end of the day, I think it's still a buy. Like, if they're cutting these many people to increase their margins and buy more GPUs, like obviously Jassis be getting pretty cutthroat here. And I I can be sympathetic for the people that have lost their job, but I can also be rational as a shareholder and say, "Hey, this will likely help the stock perform." So, I do think Amazon's buy. Now, the the thing is if they don't have AWS growth in Q4 and the layoffs are not really affecting AWS guidance until like Q2, Q3, 2026, you might have the stock drop because they're just not able to put up the right numbers. That could also be a bit of a red flag before earnings that they're doing these layoffs like to kind of cushion the lack of AWS growth. So, they need like some news to tell shareholders they're going to figure it out. Um, but regardless, I still think it's the right company to to own long term. Capitalism is brutal. That is correct. Capitalism is indeed brutal. Pow will be on at 230. Pow beyond is 230. Hans says, I'm I'm in Seattle and I hear a ton of opinions all the time about tax Amazon. Yeah, a lot of people they Amazon actually sent the email at 5:00 am Seattle time. They literally sent it in order for people to not show up to the office to not show up to the office. Um, Seabor says I think the question should be Amazon along with all the other hyperscalers have accumulated nearly 1 trillion of compute backlog. If they don't deliver, customers go. Yeah, that's another good point. And if they need to deliver and they need to get the money from somewhere to deliver to buy the GPUs necessary to continue providing AI workloads, the money's got to come from somewhere. And really, you know, where else do you get the money from? It's either layoffs or you become more efficient. Amazon's a very big company. I mean, yes, they can become more efficient, quote unquote, over time, but that's not going to create billions of dollars today that they need potentially to be able to uh acquire these GPUs. So it is a it is a big point. Uh the Caterpillar CEO on data center power demand. He says we're at the early stages of the prime power opportunity. So we're excited to have more of those come online. We're continuing to raise the capacity. Lead times are starting to get a little bit more extended. The larger turbo turbines for solar need longer lead times. All right. You've got Caterpillar CEO making the argument for data center and power continuing to be a tailwind for them. Wow. 12. Is that alltime highs? That is oldtime eyes on Caterpillar. Incredible. I mean, this is a name that not a ton of people were talking about, but year to date, 64%. I mean, that that's the beauty of a real bull market. You start to get some of these gems that make big moves because of the overall capex trend that doesn't seem to be slowing down. George, thanks for the super chat. I'm starting to get FOMO. If you do get FOMO, it's one of those things that you have to be able to internally deal with. Um, look, I I I've had FOMO all year about a bunch of different names, but I I've not capitulated. I've not bought Open Door. I'm not buying ASST, which is like the new FINT favorite name, down 9% on the day that people are buying for some reason. Like they like when you when you have FOMO, you have to really ask yourself, again, we talked about this a couple weeks ago, do you feel the risk to reward on whatever name you're feeling FOMO on is worth it? And usually the riskreward is not worth it when you're feeling FOMO because that means the move has already been made. Now, if you're buying a good quality company like Nvidia, even if you're buying it at 208, if it goes back to 200 over the long term, you should be okay. But if you're buying it for the pure fact that you think it's going to go to 215, you're going to be pissed off if it doesn't go there. Which is usually why FOMO, the easy option is to always just never chase unless you're totally ready to lose the money. Because if you're not buying of the long-term mentality that like if if it doesn't make the move and you're buying it at the the height of its move, then at that point you just backhold it, which is not the best. Four is down 7% because Ferve, it's in the same sector. Ferve took a 40% hit. Ship four payments, PayPal, all those payment companies got hit. Ferve is now down 41%. Little recovery. It was down 45, but still 41. You bought Weeble. I did buy Weebo. That was pure FOMO. That That That's true. That's right. I did have my moment of FOMO. We broke even on it, but dude, I bought it at 12 and it's at 11. I ended up selling at like 1250 and I wrote a covered call to like make up what I lost, but uh the fact that it's at 11 and I bought it at 12 back in July is crazy. People really think this thing is going to 20 by the end of the year. I don't know. I mean, all the volatility is good in the market for Weeble, but I don't know if they're capitalizing on it in the best way. You should fomo and kombucha. Dude, has anyone drink that [ __ ] It is disgusting, bro. I had it once. I think my sister brought it home a couple years ago. She's like, "You should try this." Like passion fruit tangerine kombucha. I thought it would taste like juice. It tastes like hell. That's what it tastes like. It tasted like literal hell. I'm like, I never want to taste this again ever. I I don't know why. I don't know why anyone drinks this. Oh, we got more layoff news. Oh boy. We got more layoff news. I don't think this story is slowing down, folks. This could be I mean, this is something we got to watch out for. This could be something that we have to watch out. Wow. General Motors 1,200 workers at its EV factory in Detroit. Hundreds more losing jobs at battery plants in Tennessee and Ohio. You know who that's bearish for? That feels like that's more bearish for EVs than anything, the EV industry. Now, granted, GM is not the best at making EVs, so I don't think it has to be bearish Tesla or anything, but these legacy companies that have had their stocks do. And see, here's the thing. This is what this is what a lot of the socialists are going to look like. GM stock is up 36% year-to date, and they're firing employees. Like, they're not going to look at the nuance. They're going to say this is what greedy capitalist shareholders do and as a result it's not going to create the best narrative. The government tax break for EVs is gone which is also true and that's probably a reason why this is happening. Dude, we still have this government shutdown too. Like that's also I mean there's you talk about people not getting paid. There's a lot of people not getting paid right now because of that shutdown. the 10. You're just below four on the day as well. Can we do a kombucha poll? This is important. Dude, I feel like a lot of you guys are tech workers. That's why that's why you're freaking asking about kombucha. All right, let's uh let's let's watch this. I'll make that poll, but this is uh a little bit more coverage on these layoffs that we've been seeing.
>> Andrew, Amazon, Cheg, Microsoft, Meta, Salesforce, the list continues. Tech companies just are cutting tens of thousands of jobs and some of them some of them are blaming AI. But at Nvidia's GTC in DC yesterday, top CEOs were telling us something completely different about what's driving these cuts. For example, Perplexity CEO uh says the AI narrative is missing the point.
>> Overhiring they did in the co era when they didn't actually need to. That's that the results of that are being seen now. So correlation doesn't imply costition like it's not because of AI that people are losing jobs
>> and Cororeweave CEO Michael Intractor frames it as part of a bigger pattern that just happens in tech history
>> during each uh technical revolution. there is a rotation that occurs and uh I think one of the roles for government is going to be to assist uh the the the uh rotation that's required to retrain to repurpose uh uh to allow people to build careers
>> and Crouch CEO George Kirk told me AI elevates workers into controllers while AI will handle all of the grunt work. So essentially working alongside AI that's what humans will do. The reality though is just more complicated. Amazon we know cut 14,000 jobs citing AI. Microsoft eliminated over 15,000 this year while investing about 80 billion in AI. Meta slashed 600 from its AI unit. Salesforce cut 4,000. You get the point. All while record posting almost record profits. The CEOs at GTC aren't just buying the AI replacement story their own industry is pushing. They say companies are using AI as cover to finally correct years of bloated headcount and hiring mistakes. guys.
>> Okay. So, well, here's the thing. I think about Nvidia to5 trillion dollars. That's that's a question about where we're all going. But the other piece of it on the employment side is for all of these companies and Nvidia and the like to get to these valuations, they have to create remarkable amounts of productivity. So, if they're as successful as we all want them to be, it also means that maybe there's going to be folks who don't have jobs to ultimately pay for all of this.
>> Yeah. Well, to your point, they're going to have
>> roundtrip idea.
>> Yeah. Well, cut jobs. You mean in order to lower cost so that they remain more productive and keep the margins? Is that what you're implying? Ex.
>> Yeah.
>> So, of course, but then for Nvidia's case, they have the money, right? They're spending like crazy. They're investing in Intel. uh they're announcing $1 billion dollars in Nokia. So I guess if you're an employee at Nvidia, which and there's no job cuts, actually a poor example. Uh you'd be wondering why would be I'd be getting laid laid off. The same for a lot of these other tech companies when Microsoft is spending, you know, x amount of dollars on dealing with OI or other firms like Nebi, for example, to build out data centers. Why are they cutting jobs?
>> It is it is one of those things, right, where it's like, all right, all these data center jobs and data center ecosystems around AI is what we need for the next leg up. But if we're having these layoffs, can that next leg up actually take place the way people think it needs to take place? Palanteer right there. Still trying to push 198. And I don't think anyone has an answer for this. I think it's going to take a lot of time before we fully understand the impacts of the labor market. 75% of you said no on the kombucha. Thank you. It's disgusting, dude. I don't I don't understand why people drink it. Google Google alltime highs. Wow. Okay, so let's do this poll. Let's do this poll. Google 270. What stock are we the most excited for today on earnings? What stock are we the most excited for today on There's a bunch of companies, but what stock are you the most excited for? Google, Microsoft, or Meta? We're Google's call will be at 4:30. So, we're going to try to listen to Google's call and then go into the rest of them. But, we got a lot of companies reporting today. So, it's going to be a bit mad uh madness, but we're going to try to see as much as we can and do that. Uh BMR doing layoffs. Nokia. Speaking of Nokia, what Jensen had to say yesterday about Nokia and why they they dropped billion into the company
>> kind of speaks for itself. Um there was a time where Nokia was already looking to America. You you've been in the role since April, but may I start by asking you what role the administration played in bringing you both together if this is indeed a strategic priority.
>> Well, I don't think there was anything specific that the administration did other than they've created the environment to support innovation. I mean, Jensen's talked about manufacturing, but it's also about R&D and innovation and technology leadership. And if you think about where this world is going and all those incredible devices are going to be built on NVIDIA platforms, robotics, autonomous vehicles, you know, augmented reality, virtual reality, we need a different kind of network in the future. And that's what we realized and that's why we wanted to forge this partnership so that we're building a network leveraging AI for AI services. And that's really the big change here.
>> And the technology is flowing both ways. I mean, what is it that you will be able to do with Nokia? Um, Jensen, you weren't able to do on your own.
>> Well, first of all, Nokia is in all of the world's base stations and this airscale platform of Nokia is in millions of base stations around the world. If our computers are not inside,
>> Malas just come out said we see a path to 800 billion in Nvidia revenues by 2030. Price target raised to 300. This is why Nvidia is making a move today.
>> That base station doesn't help. It's no different than Nvidia's tech computing platforms not inside a car doesn't help. And so, so the first thing is we need a partner to get us into the world space stations. We also remember we're bringing AI to radio networks, AI to RAM so that we can make wireless tech communications a lot more efficient. Second, we're bringing AI for the radio, meaning on top of these radio networks and these telecommunication network, we're going to be able to provide AI services, which is going to be able to make it easier for us to do robotics and autonomous vehicles and industrial automation and reach all of the different places around the world. That's kind of hard to do with Wi-Fi. Cellier reads everything. And so, we now have this fabric that we can deploy AI computing services on top of. It's going to be completely revolutionary.
>> Okay, so you've got Jensen making the argument for why they should be investing in Nokia. Again, they only have uh 50 billion in cash only. So, it's like they're not going to buy back their stock, right? They're going to have to invest in other companies. And it looks like that's why Nvidia's been making a lot of these strategic investments. Tesla goes red, Hood goes red, Pouncer still holding 196, S&P 68, Nvidia down from the highs at 212 to 209. but still holding the 200s. Grab gapping up a little bit 604. Google continuing to hit alltime highs at 270. Uh Trump will be planning to meet the Hungarian premier on November 8th. So he just met the Japanese prime minister. He met the South Korea president today. He's meeting Xi tomorrow. And now it looks like he's going to be being the Hungarian premier on November 8th as he continues to meet some of these world leaders. Going back to the labor market. So, here's a couple charts that uh that Uzi sent me right here that I think is really interesting. So, take a look at this. Since the launch of LLMs, aka Chatbt, senior professional headcount has consistently outpaced juniors, aka if you're a junior level analyst or junior level engineer. We're looking at 2023 when CHACH launched end of 22. The blue line is seniors. The red line is juniors. And I think a lot of people that are just entering into the job market probably feel this happening right now because there's just not as much demand for junior level jobs. Then you see right here headcount over time by age group for software developers. The senior ones are picking up the most level of continued headcount. Whereas early career, that uh light blue line you're seeing right there is dropping off a cliff. That's really dropping off a cliff from 22 October all the way down to 2025. And then headcount overtime by age group for customer service normalized continue to see early career this is 22 to 25. Early career is 22 to 25. Early career uh or like I guess early career but not as early as 26 to 30. Mid-career is 35 to 40 and then senior is 50 plus 41 to 49 is mid-career 2. You can see the early career one and twos. They're falling off a cliff from where they were. The slope of the lines are relatively the same from 21 to 22. And then you get to see the divergence as you get into 2025. I'm 30, but I'm early career. Which group am I? You are early career 2. So you're not 22 to 25, but you are still in the early parts of your career. I mean, I saw this chart yesterday as well, and it does make sense, right? like as LLMs continue to launch, you might not need junior level jobs. I mean, we were dude, there was a let me see if I can find this. There was a um there was a report of someone who told Anthropic to basically they they created this massive prompt. You know, some of these prompts that take that take the LLM like an hour, multiple hours to work through. They created this prompt and the idea was to tell Anthropic to become as good as Jane Street when it comes to analyzing stocks and like hedging. And it's kind of crazy, right? Because it's like it didn't end up working, but eventually like the LLM will be able to model stocks and valuations better than the best junior analyst coming out of a prestigious business school will be able to do. And so you you you could see the divergence happening in a more aggressive way. And I think that's what some of these charts are showing. Amazon right there is still green. 229 alphabet 270.4. Continuing to go green. Doug says, "I have a friend who works on cars and drives Door Dash. He is not a computer guy, but he built an app using AI alone and it went on sale in the Apple App Store yesterday." And that's the beauty of AI. It's giving everyone opportunity, right? You don't have to be some fancy software engineer that studied for four years. You could just tell the bot how to do it and then it does it. And then you just have to be good at marketing, which is also really hard. But it's not like you you have to hire someone, you know, for hundreds of thousands of dollars to build the tech. But it does mean everything gets more competitive. Everything gets more competitive. Amit, is Grinder recruiting you? Okay. You know what? No, they are not recruiting me. They're getting taken private soon anyway. So,
>> I don't think they would be recruiting that much anyway. But it's crazy, right? Like this is actually crazy. The amount of divergence we're seeing in the labor market is not something I think we can ignore. Let's get an update right here on what's going on with China and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Our Aean Jav in Washington with more as we continue to digest the news out of the Japanese meeting. Aean, and the South Korean meeting.
>> Yeah, good morning Carl. President Trump arrived in South Korea overnight and he met with President Lee of South Korea during the Apex Summit there. That's not me. That's them. This is the third time this week someone in CNBC had their phone go off during the uh during being on live TV. It's not me. It's them.
>> He was presented with the nation's high honor medal for contributions to South Korean national security and given a replica of a historic crown as a personal gift from the South Korean president. Trump and the South Korean leader quashed hopes though of a meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un with Trump saying the timing simply didn't work out on that uh for this trip. But he did have some positive things to say ahead of tomorrow's widely anticipated meeting with Xiinping which is actually going to happen at about 10 or 11 p.m. East Coast time uh here in the United States tonight. Take a listen. The president of China is coming tomorrow here and we're going to be uh I hope making a deal. I think we're going to have a deal. I think it'll be a good deal for for both and that's really a great result. You know, that's better than fighting and going through all sorts of problems and you know, no reason for it. I think it's going to be a great deal for both.
>> The two leaders also spoke about the prospect for nuclearpowered submarines for South Korea, joint ship building efforts and manufacturing in the United States. Despite that upbeat rhetoric though, the two sides were not able to conclude a comprehensive trade deal. The US and South Korea developed a framework for a deal earlier in the year, but they've not been able to finalize it because South Korean officials have balked at President Trump's demand for $350 billion in investment into the United States, which they worry could be destabilizing for the South Korean economy. The White House did announce this morning tens of billions of dollars in investment commitments uh today, including 49.9 billion from Korean Air and a $3 billion investment from Korean energy firm LS Group. President Trump also attended what's build as a special presidential dinner for heads of state and government uh which was also attended by other leaders who were in town for the APEC uh meetings including those from Vietnam, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Thailand, and Singapore. So, a whirlwind diplomatic visit. Carl, back over to you.
>> Aean, I am curious what you made of some of the push back from Koreans, whether you thought that was related to the Hyundai controversy from a couple of months ago. And in Japan, Takahichi saying that it's going to be very hard for them not to purchase more Russian LG.
>> Yeah. I mean, you you get the sense that some of these leaders are sort of up against, you know, just real economic constraints as they talk to the Trump administration. They want to have a good meeting. They're they're going out of their way with pomp and circumstance. I mean, what we've seen in terms of the, you know, the honor guards, the giftgiving, the the sitdowns, the praise, you know, all of that extraordinarily lavish and welcoming for President Trump. But on some level, uh there's only so much they seem to feel they can do uh in terms of the investments and the commitments that the president wants. And that's why we're seeing a lot of these frameworks being announced with details to be filled in later. uh as we saw in the South Korean situation that you know they are announcing investments, they're announcing engagement uh but you wonder how much of that is the kind of investment and engagement that would have happened between these two relatively large economies anyway.
>> Yeah, framework certainly seems to be the word of the moment. Aean, thank you.
>> You bet.
>> Morgan Stanley is strengthening its push into private markets today. The firm announcing it will acquire Equity Zen, a trade.
>> All right, so uh that's the update on China. This was Trump, by the way, last night talking about uh Nvidia.
>> If you look at Davidia, Nvidia is doing unbelievable. We're bringing a lot of a lot of uh the Taiwan business back to the United States. I think by within 2 years, I think we'll have 40 to 50% of the chip market. But that's happening. And I don't know, it's happening because of the tariffs. It's also happening because of the fact that probably Maybe they're a little bit concerned about things. Who knows?
>> But they are they are you know tremendous I don't know if you're reporting it but massive numbers of and percentages of the chip business is coming back right now as we speak.
>> He then went on to say that you know he's going to talk to Xi about Blackwell. So that seems relatively bullish for Nvidia but we got to see what this deal looks like going into tomorrow. Pouncer still holding 197 folks. She got really close to 198, but not officially there yet. Not there yet. Uh, Jensen gained 9 billion in personal wealth over the past 24 hours. Jensen, I think he has like I don't know how many shares, but I think it's like 90 million shares or something like that. It's a decent chunk. He has been selling along the way. But yeah, this is why looking at the insider selling argument, it's just never the best argument. It's only a good argument if the company's not executing. If the company's not executing and insiders are cashing out, that's different. If the company's putting up growth, like people are going to take profits. It's the nature of a market. But if you said Nvidia, you know, Jensen was selling at 170, therefore it's bearish, it's like it's not the best argument to be making. Yeah, Morgan Stanley is acquiring equities and Morgan Stanley stock right there that is slightly flat on the day. Nothing too crazy for them. Matt, thank you for the super chat. Appreciate you being here. Uh, thanks for the daily content. Your guidance has helped me over the past two years since starting up. Up 239% alltime high and up 142% year to date from knowing nothing to understanding earnings reports and basic economics in the market. Chat is the best. Matt, congrats. Absolutely incredible. And thank you for being here every day. We did a year-to- date update yesterday in the chat on the close and I mean most people are pushing triple digits or very close. You know I think 80 to 90 was the average which is just incredible. And now we just got to see if that can continue towards the end of the year. BMR we still flat. We are still flat. Have people given up on BMR? What are people thinking? because three weeks ago the excitement was way higher than it is right now. I still have my entire position. I still like dude, it's it I don't think it's that hard of a hold if you believe in what's happening at the intersection of blockchain and Wall Street. And when I mean blockchain, I mean Ethereum as the deacto blockchain that Wall Street's choosing. But at the end of the day, it is crypto, right? Crypto is going to go up. Crypto is going to go down. And if you want a micro strategy type of return, you've got to kind of be with it in the dog days. Uh I don't think the thesis on Ethereum is necessarily false. It could it could end up not playing out, but I think there's just more than enough evidence to say that it's likely going to play out. It just doesn't mean that BMR is, you know, going to go to the moon if Ethereum doesn't go to the moon. But also, there's a ton of call premium on this. So, you know, I was talking to a couple people yesterday who said, you know, I don't really care that much about Ethereum or BMR, but I'm getting 12% in two weeks. Like, if the stock stays flat in this range, then like I'm just stealing money from people at this point. I'm like, yeah, I mean, that's it's a horrible argument. Also, the Clarity Act, that's correct. That's also something that we've got to wait till it gets passed, but it's going to take time. Kind of annoying when ETH being flat. I agree. But when ETH runs, you know, you definitely get a run. At least that's what we've seen before. Capitulation also could be interpreted as bullish. That is correct. You could be getting a bit of a coil up. I mean, I mean, in video, dude, I had to literally talk my dad out of selling Nvidia on Sunday. He was like, I'm thinking of selling. I'm like, why? He's like, because it's been stuck between like 175, 180, 185. My dad has 900 shares of Nvidia. And I was like, dad, just like it's in like he doesn't care. He doesn't understand Nvidia. He's just looking at the price action. I had to kind of explain it's like this is the most important company when it comes to AI. You can't just sell them because you're annoyed at the price action. So yesterday he was happy, but it's like sometimes you just really got to stick with a thesis for it to play out. Where's Meta? Where's Meta? Oh, what did you guys say on the poll? Did you guys say Google? Did you guys say Google? What did we say on the poll? Honestly, Google is the one I am really excited about because they've already had this massive run and I think search might continue to go better. Wow, 61% you said Google. Yep, it's the goops. Okay, so let's do another question. The other question is uh what what is what is uh what was the question? What oh yeah which which one do you own? Which one do you own the most of? Google, Meta, Amazon. Yeah, we don't need to do a fourth option. Google, Meta, or Amazon. Which one do you own the most out of? For me right now, it's Amazon. For me right now, it's I don't own any Meta. I have a little bit of Google, but Amazon's the big one. So, I'm curious what people are thinking here. Um, yeah, Caterpillar is moving. We covered that this morning. That one's doing great. Pounder, I do think 198 is still on the table, dude. It's close. 19740. Maybe we get there. Oh, I put Amazon. I was supposed to put Microsoft. My bad. Let me do it again because the the earnings are today. Sorry. Okay. Which one do you own the most of? Google, Meta, Microsoft. Dude, what if Microsoft is the one that outperforms everything? Like Microsoft always is so disrespected compared to the other stocks. Like what if they just show up and they're like, "Yeah, no one's messing with Azure. S&P 688, Nvidia 208, Palanteer 197. Microsoft is down on the day, which is a good setup going into earnings as well. 538 I I don't want to give all the option unless you own them all equal weighted. I mean, how many people own a similar amount of all three of them? I would imagine there's probably, you know, people own one more than the other. I feel like most of you would say Google over the other two. There are a lot of you guys that own Meta. Met your favorite stock, Sherwin Williams, pumped 5% yesterday. Sherwin Williams down 1% today. I don't know why it's my favorite stock, but for those that own it, there you go. Do they have earnings? I don't I feel like we didn't cover their earnings. Yeah, you did get a move yesterday up 5%. Um, dude. Okay, so the robot came out yesterday from NEO. That thing got a ton of pre-orders. I don't know how I feel about this robot, dude.
>> It's officially out. You can pre-order it for $20,000.
>> Let you live with it.
>> Yeah.
>> You just now telling me, "Well, what does it do?"
>> Like my chores
>> would help humanity explore the galaxy. And I really hope that when you get your Neo now, we can help give you back some of that time so you can really spend it on what you feel is very meaningful to you.
>> Okay. Can't listen to the music. But I mean, I don't know, dude. I don't know. I guess this thing is like what's getting a lot more people excited. Look, if it if it works out, it's great. I just think all the other robot company Look, here's the thing. All the other robot companies are not shipping robots yet. I'm confused why these guys are shipping robots or why they're getting ready to ship robots. And so I my mind goes to two thoughts. Number one is wait a second, are these guys better than everyone else including Tesla? Or are these guys full of [ __ ] and they're putting out a crappy product that they're trying to say is like the next evolution of robot? Because none of the other companies have actually developed models that are good enough for the robot to meaningfully do stuff in the home. You're telling me this company from Norway has figured it out before Tesla? Yeah, first to market doesn't mean the best. That's also true. I mean, the only other companies that are really shipping robots are in China. Not that many American companies have meaningfully put out or I guess you should say Western companies have put them out. So, I'm just wondering like how good is it? And if it is that good, that is kind of bearish. Figure, Tesla, electronic, all the American companies that keep showing all these fancy videos, but they can't get anything into the home, right? Like if Neo's actually doing it, then then maybe it's a bit different.
>> Chili peppers and you could put cayenne in your chili, but it is much spicier.
>> Neo is a speech enabled AI companion made for any kind of conversation. Where other AI assistants are confined to your phone or computer, Neo lives with you in your physical space and has the ability to see, hear, and remember things about your surrounding environment to provide you with uniquely helpful assistance. For example, it can suggest what to cook based on what you have in the fridge, remember your progress while teaching you a new language, and even give you interior design advice. The gestures and the light rings express Neo's intentions. Its audio intelligence can also pick up on whether you are addressing it or someone else in the room to decide if it should respond or not. As you might expect from a home robot, talking to Neo with natural language is the primary user interface for all of Neo's functionality, including autonomy. Your Neo comes with Redwood AI, enabling it to do basic household tasks autonomously.
>> Yeah. No, for sure. Okay. Now again, they're not shipping it yet. As Doug says, they are they're going for pre-order. Oh, I think Paler's trying to do it. Wait, did we hit 198? Oh [ __ ] we did, dude. No, no one in the chat said anything. No one in the chat said anything. We were too busy with the robot. We hit 198. We did it, dude. I'm looking at the iPad right now. I see one comment. Loica Cule Canman said Palanter 198 and then Marcus Patrick said 198. Okay, two three of you and then Min said 198. And then uh one other person and no one else was spamming 198 so I didn't see it. There you go folks. Busted through 198. We hit 19818. 19818. Okay, you can't say so many. I'm looking at the chat. I see five people that said it. the rest. Everyone else was talking about the video. Well, there it is. 198. There you go. All right. So, let's check 199. Let's check Let's check 199. And what we need to get 199 resistance, folks, is 38,000 shares at 200. 238,000. 200 is 2 38,000. Damn, bro. This is crazy. This is actually freaking crazy. This is just wild. Absolutely wild. What a freaking journey. What a freaking journey. For those that missed Karp and Jensen yesterday, uh we won't listen to the whole thing, but here's some of the stuff that that Karp had to say on this interview.
>> We're overestimating the benefits of this AI buildout in the near term, which is reflected.
>> Let me sorry here. So, I'm going to push back on this narrative. It's not First of all, AI makes America the dominant country in the world. So, just start there. every other country in the world, like I spent half my life in Europe, they're whining and crying and it it's like we have the right chips, we have the right software, we have the right engineers, we have the right culture, we have the right people, the risk appetite,
>> risk appetite, right people to ask questions. Uh the whole thing is combining to become a juggernaut and then and and then and like then you these these these partnerships happen and that just throws gasoline on the fire se. The classic, the real question is will the GDP growth acrew to all Americans or just wealthy Americans? And the answer to that is it depends what you do. But I deeply believe I think we deeply believe
>> well no manufacturing jobs
>> can you build if you build manufacturing jobs which is what this president wants to do. Can you build them? Yes. How do you build them? You need AI. Can you train the people? Can you upscale them? Yes. If you use
>> mechanicals, electricals and plumbers and construction.
>> You can tell Karp was excited there. balance trying to get back to 198 and as a result of that excitement um you know you're seeing the stock really have an impact based on that partnership with Nvidia. Nvidia is still holding 208 as well. All right, back to the the NEO video.
>> Can you get the door, please?
>> I got to turn off the audio, guys. The music is there. There it is. It's grabbing the door. I mean, dude, this thing looks like like a guy in a suit. It doesn't even look like a robot, which I know is kind of the point of these robots, but again, they're not shipping it yet. They're taking the pre-orders, which is a question of just like, "All right, how long will it take the ship, grabbing the cup, and then walking the cup to the kitchen, and then putting it away?" Neo's autonomy improves with diverse data and real world experience.
>> I don't know, bro. I don't know. We don't even know what this demo looked like. Yeah, it was someone controlling it. Was it neural nets? Like has anyone read the white paper on this robot? Because I haven't seen any documentation on like how do they train the models? Are they using vision action models? Are they using general purpose LLMs? How do how are the act the actu the actuators and actu the actuator is the most important hardware when it comes to building a robot and Brett and Elon have talked about this for a long time like where are they sourcing their actuators from? How are they? Like there's a lot of questions about this that I feel like are unknown, but they're offering it for a pre-order. I feel like to just kind of, you know, get people to think they're moving fast. And I don't think we know when it's going to happen. Wall Street Journal says his video is remotely operate. Didn't Wall Street Journal did a piece? I think they did a piece on this yesterday. Yeah, obviously they use Nvidia. They have the Nvidia chips, but it's not just a lot of this comes down to, as when I interviewed Brett, a lot of it comes down to how do you make the hardware and software work together in a way that makes the robots conducive to the training of the chips. Um, yeah, I'm looking at Wall Street Journal right now. They're saying it was remote operated. The X1 Neo, one of the first humanoid robots built for your home. There's an article right here saying it looks like it was remote operated. We can watch the piece on it later, but it looks like and for a demo they probably wanted to make it, you know, as strong as possible. Palinger is still holding 197, which is why you might be seeing that. Yeah, we did hit 19818 on Palunteer. Um, Amazon 231 that goes back to going green. Reddit that's still down. Grab green on the day. And then Google's still holding 270 as well. That reminds me of the Nicola EV semi scam from a couple years ago. There's dev someone in that robot suit. And even if there's not, I just feel like we need more technical details on how they're building this S&P 68874. Here was another interview with Jensen yesterday talking to some different parts of the media.
>> Blackwell specific licenses from the US government to sell to China right now. And do you expect to receive any?
>> Uh we we haven't asked for any. Uh we just we're currently we just let uh let the Chinese government, the United States figure out exactly how we're going to serve uh address China in the future, but currently I'm assuming it's zero.
>> The president said he wants to congratulate you. Do you know what he wants to congratulate you for?
>> GTC. No, I I I well first of all um I I think I think he wants to congratulate me for uh manufacturing United States that we did it at light speed. It took us 9 months from the moment that President Trump encouraged us to manufacture United States to set up um all of our manufacturing here. We've got wafer manufacturing, packaging, system manufacturing, and we're building AI factories. And so that's going to create lots and lots of jobs here in the United States. How many hours will you with him?
>> Okay, pounders moving again. Alltime high is 19840.
>> Dude, she wants 200. I don't know if she wants it today, but she wants 200o, dude. Kind of crazy. Kind of crazy on a day like this. We have all this stuff going on. big tech, FOMC, and you got Palanter trying to go for 200. All right. What is everyone doing right now? Put in the chat, what are you doing? Like, where are you? Are you at work? Are you at home? Are in the background? If you're in the chat, what are you doing besides staring at the screen at Pounder and Nvidia? Look, by the by the way, take a look at this. I just saw this right now. one of the product managers at Nvidia. Look at what they just put on LinkedIn. While we were demoing Nvidia AI with pounderontology, this happened and he puts the Nvidia and Pounder stock price together. That could be a reason why Nvidia and Pounder popping at the same time at GTC. You have Nvidia and Palanteer showing their demo together. And that could be creating, you know, a lot more excitement around kind of what is happening with these two companies and why they're working. It's pretty damn incredible. Nvidia right there. 208 on the day. Sen says, "I'm driving to work. I'm stuck in traffic." Cynthia says, "I'm traveling in South Korea." Okay, who knows? Maybe you see Trump. George says, "I'm laying in my bed listening to Aid yapping." Uh, just got home from work. Dude, I forgot like this is everyone's here from across the world, right? I don't have the AFDE demo yet. Hopefully, we get the video of it. But it looks like it's definitely getting a lot of people excited as well. I'm in the Dubai hotel lobby. I'm walking in San Francisco Pier from Wolf Package. Sid says, "I'm watching on the big screen with my monitor on my coffee table." Taba says, "I'm driving to work." Fem says, "I'm in an Amsterdam bar." Dude, is that not crazy that people are all across the world doing something different right now? We're all looking at this stock. Like, that [ __ ] has to be crazy. R says, "I'm in Denmark at the gym." Kaen says, "I'm watching you from Oregon." Ko says, "I'm talking to my neo robot." Uh, Suga says, "I'm at home cooking Korean." Raymond, did I just say Raymond? Is it Ramen? Oh my god, I just said Raymond. I think it's Ramen. Um, Magusa says, "I'm at the hospital working." I'm in my dental office from Vancouver, Canada. Yeah, I went to can cancel the dentist appointment the other day. William says, "I'm in Newark, dude. Newark. I love it. Went to high school there. A lot of love for that city." Uh, I'm listening to Mick Yappen. Caroline says, "I'm at the hospital at work." Dude, it's ramen. I me I meant to say ramen. I said Raymond. Like it is what it is. It is what it is. I'm at Ruckers New Brunswick. Okay. I love it. Alma Mater. That's just so crazy, bro. People are across the world. And it's not just Palent. It's just this entire year has been quite incredible. But also given the move Nvidia and Pounder are making today. That's wild, bro. I almost didn't own Nvidia, bro. I almost didn't own it. I was still on that, oh, it's a cyclical thing back in January. And it took Tanner and Deepseek at the same time to really get me to be like, screw it. I mean, dude, I literally look at this tweet from freaking January 30th. This is when it this is when it just kept going down and like wouldn't get any recovery. I was just like, "All right, we're going down with the ship. We are going down with the ship at this point. And thankfully, you know, you had some pretty good earnings growth since then. We need to look at Adobe here. Dude, I don't hate Adobe's numbers. I just like I want to buy Canva. I am excited for them when Canva goes public because I think they're much more adaptive in the age of AI. Here's the thing about Adobe, right? Like I am really I'm genuinely scared about getting into a name that becomes a PayPal. Genuinely scared about getting into a name that because once you're in that name and you've done all the due diligence and you believe it's going to work and like you know you're like you obviously know it's undervalued and stuff and then it does nothing. The reason the SoFi bulls were able to persist through the massive bull run we had, but SoFi was stuck at $8 was because there was growth and everyone knew eventually the street has to believe in that growth story eventually. With PayPal, there's no growth. There's just not growth or there is growth, but it's not anywhere near, you know, 30 40. It's not even near 10% revenue. So, it's like when you're in something that doesn't grow in a market that deeply cares about growth, but you're in it because you think it's undervalued, it's very scary to be stuck in that. Adobe has 8% revenue growth. Not horrible at their size, but when I think of a Canva or I think of a Sora or all these other companies that will only make it harder for Adobe to grow, just like all these crypto companies are going to make it harder for people to make PayPal over other forms of payment. It's very scary to be stuck in a name like that. and and again the belief is that the value will ultimately persist but if the value doesn't persist like and like you know here's the other Dolingo has tons of growth but they have a bad narrative. So there's so many nuances when you like really get into an investment and say, "Hey, this one maybe I'm bottom fishing, but I can ignore this part of their narrative. I can look to this part of the growth. I can ignore these other issues because I believe in its undervaluation." When in reality, buying more pounder Nvidia could be the, you know, buying more Hood could be the like, and as annoying as it is to hear that, it's like that might be a better option in a Super Bowl market. So look, I think Adobe will do well. I think PayPal will do well. But after PayPal had a 15% day and then it gets destroyed the day after. And like look, Fiserve is a stupid reason for it to go. I mean, Fiser is not the same as PayPal. I understand it's a sector specific company, but if you can't hold even 1% of grain after yesterday because another company falls 45%. It means the stock has a real problem right now. Now that could also be where the massive opportunity is, but nonetheless, that that is the risk at the end of the day. PayPal is down because their take rate keeps decreasing. Not the same for Adobe. They are utilizing Sora and VO for mass marketing. Yeah, look, I have not done a deep dive on Adobe. Maybe it warrants doing it. I just know that their topline revenue growth is not exciting. And right now, you know, when you got Nvidia growing 50% of the street really cares about growth. I mean, even Salesforce, dude, Mark Benoff tried to pump the stock by saying they would do 60 billion by uh 2030, rule of 50, and it kind of helped. It was at 245, now it's at 250. But like 60 billion growth is 10% year-over-year. It's just not super exciting. Is it undervalued even with that growth rate? Yes, of course. Same thing with Adobe, but it's just not as exciting at the moment. Pounder getting rejected at 198 196, but we did hit 19840. All right, so we have some coverage on Amazon. Let me pull this up with their new uh let's pull this up right here. Let's see if we can get some updates on AWS as well.
>> Today's tech check. Hey Mac.
>> Hey Leslie. So take a look at what Amazon's AI land grab looks like. CNBC's Katie Terasov and I got exclusive firsttime access inside one of the largest operational AI data centers in the world built specifically for OpenAI rival Anthropic. Now, an Amazon quietly started scouting land in rural Indiana in 2022, and it was able to turn a corn field into a hyperscale AI compound in less than a year. One where Anthropic is already training its models inside.
>> They're already running about 500,000 chips uh in Indiana today. And in fact, it's going so well that they've actually doubled down on that order. And we expect uh jointly we'll be running more than a million tranium 2 chips by the end of this year. It's called Project Rainier. Amazon's 11 billion dollar answer to OpenAI's Stargate. And while Meta breaks ground in Arkansas and XAI ramps up,
>> dude, they took a corn field and turned it into a data center. Anthropic's already utilizing it. I mean, that is pretty incredible. And it goes to show how much compute constrained they are that they are taking a corn field in Indiana and turning it into a data center. This is why Jensen says the opportunity is not as small as some of the analysts would think and why the projections continue to get raised if companies are transforming corn into data centers. Yeah, it's kind of corny to be honest. It's kind of corny. Please laugh.
>> It's Colossus Supercomputer in Memphis. Amazon is already online. There is such demand for our models that I think the only way we would have been able to serve as much as we've been able to serve so far this year is this multi-chip strategy because new data centers are coming online. We're getting the capacity that we can wherever we can.
>> Amazon is deploying capex faster than its rivals. Exactly what the street is looking for when the hyperscalers start reporting after the bell today. Amazon spending is neck andneck with Microsoft which reports this afternoon and investors want to know one if all that spend has been worth it and then two whether these cloud giants are going to try to match OpenAI's $1.4 trillion worth of compute deals. Guys, Mac, I'm curious if Indiana and these other states that are seeing these big data center footprints, are they offering incentives for companies like Amazon to be there and build in the corn fields? Yes, it is those kind of traditional data center incentives that you would imagine. So, a mix of uh tax offsets, but also what's driving a lot of these hyperscaler customers to places like Indiana is the ability to be able to serve the workloads that they need. So, Indiana's grid has a mix of different energy inputs. We're talking nuclear, gas. They're bringing more of these sources online, and that's really what they need. I mean, I've had conversations with OpenAI where they say that they care less about the the tax breaks and more about whether they can help them get to this 33 gawatt uh compute commitment and that's the equivalent of 33 nuclear reactors.
>> Yeah, as we talked with Caruso the other day, not everybody can move to Virginia. Uh some of these areas of the country are pretty tapped out as far as the grid goes. Fascinating look at Mac. Thank you for that, Mackenzie Sagalos. when we come back Sarah's conversation with
>> again that's kind of crazy bro that's kind of freaking crazy a corn field into data centers but that is the level of demand that persists here guys I think we're going to get the Redcat CEO on in like 10 minutes he just texted me he might be able to come on Jeff Thompson so for those that care about the drone space um they just announced a new platform with Palunteer so if he hops will be able to talk to him and we'll get some thoughts on what's going on. Are we dumping on crypto? Oh no, she's dumping. Dude, why can't people just hold their crypto? Why do they have to sell it? Like, why can't you just hold it? Why can't people just hold it? By the way, soybean futures seeing some pretty big moves right here. Highest move today since October 2024 based on this China soybean announcement. So, looks like the soybeans are doing okay. Baron went short. Dude, Baron's worth like 500 millie after going short crypto before the Trump tweet, then long crypto after that. Then he probably went long Nvidia right before this China stuff. It's got to be worth like three 400 million, dude. Three. Okay, let's ask this question. If you had a hund00 million, what's the first thing you're doing? What's the first thing you're doing? If you had a hundred million, what are you doing? Baron is a smart trader. He loses He learned his skills at NYU. Yeah, exactly. shorting Grab. Oh my gosh, you're getting a little bit of move on Grab. Earnings, baby. Earnings, earnings, earnings. Monday is going to be very important. And if we get a bad earnings, uh, you know, I might get my head chopped off, but hopefully we get a good earnings and I get to keep my head. Um, buying a Ferrari, send commit to English school. Bonds. Yeah, that's the most responsible answer. And then Irwin said 99 million to Rocket Lab. Yeah, that's not the most responsible answer. 100 million. The only reason I said that number is because there there were some Bloomberg articles saying that Baron's net worth is now 150 million, which is kind of crazy, but like you could imagine. Buy a Wendy's spicy chicken sandwich. Proving that the time is not currently right now. Buy a mid and make him my butler. Buying a 100 million worth of spy. I feel like if we all had 100 million like we would we would be able to really manage a portfolio because like like I don't know I just feel like with a if someone gave me 100 million I could do some damage with it. Now granted I would hope it's my 100 million versus because you don't want to managing other people's money is just scary but if you had your own 100 million I feel like there's a lot of ways to navigate the markets with it even if we're picking individual stocks. Obviously, there's a lot more risk when you're dealing with that much more money, but still Microsoft down. Not sure why Microsoft dropping again. They had that opening eye apprentip yesterday. Microsoft down 1%. I kind of like that setup going into earnings. We do have Microsoft going down. We get JPAL in about a couple hours and we'll get the decision at 2 PM to see what plays out. Could live off daily cover call income and keep it all in index funds. There's a lot of ways to navigate 100 million Broadcom. That one's still moving. Wow. Broadcom alltime high is 382. Broadcom, Nvidia, and Pounders. And then a couple of these other names seem to be holding up the S&P. But S&P again, if Meta, Microsoft, Google give us a hit, maybe 7,000 is not as far away. Hunter 196 and Nvidia 208 on the day. I will stop watching you if I have 100 million. That's a fair point. That's a fair point. I don't buy Ethereum because I can't stake it. I can't stake it in New Jersey. So, that's why it's hard. Also, again, I I like the crypto derivative plays more than buying crypto in of itself. Maybe next year we start like a DCA into Bitcoin and Ethereum in general, but I feel like there's a way to get exposure without having to be in those assets. [Music] It's just this month has not been the best for them. Bitcoin right there 111.7. I'd give you a $20 super chat. I appreciate that. I would appreciate that. By AK Media, we have B we I don't know if we have BMR earnings today. I don't think we do. We're going to see. Uh, I think it's November 5th. Wow, Dualingo. It's getting wrecked, bro. Goodness gracious. 275. This is why I'm not going to win this freaking stock draft with Matt. Look at that. Matt's at 48. I'm at 45 because of this stupid green owl that everyone thinks Apple's going to destroy with Google. Like why why does that have to happen? NJ is such a weird place. You can't pump gas. You can't stay deep. Will you tokenize AK? I don't think we'll ever tokenize AK media. Probably not. You know, you know the funny thing about this? I I I said this a long time ago, but I'm like, if I had 100 million, I feel like I would still do the show every day. And I know a lot of people say, why would you do the show if you have that much money? It's like we I just love doing the show. Like it's not even about the money there. In fact, I feel like the show would be more fun, dude. We could freaking like buy 10,000 shares of a stock before earnings. You know, we could do a bunch of like I feel like it would be even more fun if that was the case. But I just love doing it so much every day that I don't think it would change anything. All right, folks. We got someone backstage. Let's bring them on. It's been a couple months and I've since I've spoke to them. Uh, a lot of you guys have been interested in his company and uh, well, his stock is not doing too bad. Up about 120% over the past six months. Latest partnership with Pounder. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jeff Thompson of Redcat. Jeff, what's up? Uh, Jeff, we can't hear you. If you click on the if you click down um on the mic arrow. Okay, he'll be back. And then we'll get Jeff. And then we'll get Jeff. Dude, I know a lot of you guys are are into Redcat and the drone names. And that's another drone company that's taken off. So, we'll get Mr. Jeff's thoughts. Dude, Chad was supposed to be on today, but Chad just told me he got busy because he has a big meeting. But he was supposed to be on today as well. I wanted to talk to him about this Nvidia pounder thing. Maybe we'll try to get him tomorrow if he can't make it today. Mitch's gonna blame Streamyard. Now, I don't have to blame Streamyard. Jeff can blame Streamyard, but it always is Streamyard's fault. It usually always is Streamyard's fault. Um, UMAC is up as well. This is another drone company if I'm not wrong. Unusual machine. Oh yeah, they got a partnership. Didn't they get uh didn't Yeah, they they got a partnership yesterday for the massive purchase agreement from one of the government agencies, Unusual Machines. That one is up 7% on the day. Yes, Jeff is on UMX board, correct? Jeff is on UMX board. Look, he's just texting me. He's going to click it again. Yo, Tanner and I were talking about this yesterday that StreamYard really needs to make things way more intuitive for people. Like, there's so many parts of it that are just so bad, but it's the only platform that's out there. That's why it needs to get better. Hypertronics says, "Letting you know you have fans from Singapore. I'm very looking forward to coming to Singapore hopefully in July next year. I have a meeting this week to start planning more of the meetups. Singapore is on the list and it should be fun in July of 2026. Should be a good time. Um, come to Chicago. Yeah, Chicago's also definitely on the list. There's there's actually a decent amount here in Chicago as well, which will be good. Tanner says, "Shreenards and OBS don't work well for having people on the stream." Yeah, exactly. It's like there's just a lot of complications with those two, especially if you're like having guests, but you know, ultimately we're going to see hopefully if this one can get a bit better. All right, let's try it again. There he is.
>> What's up?
>> Can you hear me?
>> I can hear you loud and clear.
>> All right, had to switch to traditional mic on my MacBook. So, we're good now.
>> You're good. You're crispy. We can hear you. How are you doing? It's been it's been about seven months since we've talked.
>> Yeah. Uh well, if you've seen a lot of the stuff we're doing, we're super busy. Um right after last time we hung out, I think it was the AIPCON, but uh we launched a uh a USV business for boats. Uh we partnered with a uh European company to do the tech stack and we brought a lot of superstars on to build the hulls, which have been building hulls for generations. and um launched 155,000 square feet in Georgia uh to build these boats. Uh and uh we keep winning stuff with our traditional Black Widow that just came out. This is the Black Widow hat right here.
>> I still have mine. Yep, I got mine.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, we're uh you know, we're getting there. We're we're we're building. We're building. And uh you're going to see the first uh you're finally going to see some revenue ramp out of all these momentum stocks. And uh I hope to be the first one out of the gate. Okay. So, let's talk about what happened this week or what you're guys are ready to announce with Palunteer. What is kind of a new partnership? And and what is is it a platform? Is it a product? How are you guys kind of thinking of it? Yeah, it's a product that we got together with Palunteer late last year and it's uh to uh what one of the biggest problems that the Department of War has is all these everyone's talking about drone dominance, but one of the key issues that we keep hearing about uh from our customers are that there's no such thing as a an environment where GPS will work ever again in a battlefield. So, Palunteer has a a product that we uh we're the first company they put it on uh that has any uh scale or uh that actually is going to be productized uh for something that has a program of record with the US Army, which is the short-range reconnaissance program of record. Um so, we now have visual navigation from Palunteer. They integrated onto the Black Widow. Um we got it to a point where we liked it. We finally did some finalized uh demonstrations and it performs just just as good as a GPS. We were able to perform missions uh without GPS uh last week and uh now it's we're offering it for sale as a partnership uh revenue share between us and Palanteer. So, let's talk about the drone space because there's a lot of companies, as you mentioned, some of these momentum stocks that have literally, you know, 5 to 10x over the past couple months as the Department of War uh is getting a lot more interested in pursing these drones. What is your take on the the macro landscape of the industry? And how much of a vital role do you think the the Trump administration is going to play in terms of supporting a lot of those drone companies? Yeah. Well, anybody who's been paying attention since 2022 has realized that uh you know, drones have changed warfare. No one can dispute that. Now, finally, the US is not disputing it. Not only for people like me that understand it, but the uh the Department of War, this new administration came in really strong. They put executive orders for drone dominance. They put an executive order for ship building, which were we're part of both. And then uh you know, Secretary Hegsth came in and put out a video talking about how we, you know, go faster with drone dominance. And uh so we really have supported this administration uh to, you know, build lots of drones because we were way behind. Well, we we're still way behind. Um but the the technology gaps that we have, we can overcome so quickly. Like for instance, this this partnership with Palunteer that we just did, uh we literally have GPS capabilities without a GPS. So if you know anything about flying drones in a stressful environment, when you don't have a GPS, even for a drone that needs a GPS, it's like flying FPV. And FPV is when you use the goggles, it's like you're a real pilot. It's very stressful. You can't not pay attention. You can't just cruise around like you do on, you know, a real estate drone, right? So if you have GPS capabilities, you can the it can help you fly the drone. So you're not when your cognitive load isn't staring at the screen. Oh my god, I got I can't miss two seconds or I'm going to crash this drone. So it really helps there. Our our drones are also been tested for electronic warfare. Uh so then the next step that we're looking at with Palunteer is to put on their product uh Maven onto the Black Widow, which would give us a drone that fits in your rucks sack on your back that's probably pretty much as capable as a Reaper MQ9 or something. There's probably more technology in your rucks sack than you would be in a Reaper that can't even fly over Ukraine. from a from a visual navigation perspective and then all the data being compiled uh via Foundry for these drones. Do you think there are like other software providers that are easily enabling that or is the reason you're working with Pounder because the integration is just really seamless?
>> Well, there there's two things. They they've got a lot more access to their uh Well, let me just back up a little bit. There's a million companies out there trying to do visual navigation. The problem is the example I always use is Gaza, right? Everyone does this. Basically, they match maps. Sometimes they're using Google Maps, which even without a war are so old they they aren't accurate and and could screw up. But to use a real-time example, you go to Gaza during the war, every day that that map is different. So, if you're trying to compare your what your cameras are seeing to the map, it's not going to work. So, if you can't have that, then the the drone you have is a brick. It's a waste of time. you're you you've lost money if you got a $30,000 drone that you're supposed to be using in in the battlefield. That drone could become useless uh if it can't work. So, Palanteer has access to their customers uh you know, real-time satellites. Uh so, that's a huge advantage to get new maps onto the drone, which nobody else has that capability. So, that that's that that's one. Second is, you know, as this is tied into, we're also uh in the early stages of warp speed for our first factory. We have a factory in Salt Lake City. They're implementing warp speed and now we're actually going to be putting more chunks of their software into that facility. Uh we're also in the the large factory in uh Georgia. We're going to be implementing warp speed there. And then our Long Beach facility, which makes our longer range drones, will be also getting the Palunteer's software. So having our drones be built with this software, giving us more efficiencies, allowing us to get better margins like other customers that are using this less waste uh can bring up our yields, which also increases your margins. Um, so there's there's a lot of stuff where we're going to be cross-pollinating between not only visual navigation, putting Maven on our drones for artificial intelligence, um, and and having having their their their backend, their basically factory operating system running our business.
>> Can you speak a little bit about this partnership, Redcat and Paladine to embed AI into the teal drones?
>> Yeah, so we look at ourselves as a as an iPhone. Um, and every mission is different for different customers, whether it's the Marines, Air Force, who whoever it might be. And what we look to do is, uh, we we're an open platform. So, if you've, if you've got some integration you want to do on on the Black Widow and you have some customers that are requesting it, then we will actually do that integration. We're not just going to integrate with everybody. We'd be spend all our time integrating with every every small company out there. But Paladine has some great software that also does some interesting swarming and artificial intelligence and they have some direct paths to some customers. Uh and so that also makes the Black Widow more valuable to the customers they're pitching our product to with their software on it. So we do that with many many different vendors uh on our on our drone. Also we do something with SafePro which has been doing a lot of work in Ukraine identifying mines. Um, so, uh, you go through a minefield. If you're a soldier, you you probably want that software to identify these mines if you get across that field. Um, things of that nature. We we do some, uh, 3D mapping on the edge with reveal. Um, we work with Sighteline on also object detection and targeting. Um, whatever the whatever can complete the mission, uh, we we can say to the army, hey, you tell us what products you want here. And lots of the times we're guided by the Department of War of hey we're we're we're dealing with uh this company XYZ. We think it would be smart if you put their platform on your platform. Uh and uh we typically listen once it comes from them.
>> How how serious is he H Heath on the drone push? I mean I know publicly he said we are really getting ready to support this industry but are they so disturbed by the geopolitical instability with Russia, Ukraine, Israel, Hamas that they're just like this is the future and we this administration has to be prepared for the next 5 years. I I think they're absolutely serious about getting drones to every soldier. uh every like I was flying with 101st a few weeks ago and what they're hearing uh from Hegathth uh is get get everybody a drone and what we're seeing to start with some of the uh you know once the um the world opens back up but we're uh we're also seeing some some contract flows change dramatically from original uh you know what the size of these contracts were supposed to be compared to what they're probably going to be going forward has accelerated uh quite quite a bit from previous numbers from the previous administration.
>> Yeah, it's it's at least publicly what I've seen is that the admin really cares about drone technology and you know you're seeing a lot more defense contractors get a lot more love uh from the administration because they want to be more prepared and and it and it makes sense over the long term. Uh there's a lot of other drone platform companies like Andos and a bunch of more that I could name. How would you say you differentiate from those companies that are also out there competing for some of the same contracts potentially?
>> Yeah, so we we started with um a a program of record called short-range reconnaissance which was almost 5 years ago before we got into the final down selection. So um we you know we we pivoted to defense many many years ago um and we focused on the war fighter as the customer and nobody else. So our our our requirements for our drones were, hey, this this is going to be for the the war fighter, the army requirements are very strict in what they want to make a soldier safe and more lethal. We built a drone for that. We didn't kind of say, "Hey, we got this cool thing. Uh it's a it's for first responders and fire departments and shoehorn it into a army or or a warf fighters, you know, rucks sack." No, no. We built it for that rucks sack so they can be safer and more lethal. And a lot of the other companies are are pretty broad and they're investing in a lot of different things, different strategies. I'm sure Andos is going to do great. They've got a quite a war chess right now and uh you know Eric's a smart guy. Uh so I I think uh I think they'll do well and they're they've been pretty aggressive uh in the last couple weeks with the acquisition. So I think uh he's going to put that money to work right away. Uh, all right. Last couple questions for you. Andre, any thoughts on them as a broader defense contractor that's growing.
>> Yeah, I think uh they're great.
>> I think is interested in drones as well, right? I mean,
>> yeah, they we don't overlap uh other than uh we're supposed to be integrating with the MR teams. So Anderil Ghost, like the helicopter that they have, and uh another company, uh PDW got the the down select for Trunch One, which they're still in the middle of. So it's not in production yet. It's not a production contract, but uh long range reconnaissance, mid-range reconnaissance, and short-range reconnaissance are all under one group. It's called PMUAS. And u and that all comes out of one light item in the budget called SUAS. And uh
>> we're supposed to integrate across all these platforms. Uh we've got the first universal controller that the Army uh has up and running using our controller. So we're supposed to be integrating with with other folks like Anderles and and the other folks in MR and LR. And there's also SPS, which Fleer one with that little black hornet. Um that is uh the Sensorborn uh systems from Fleer. Great drone. Um and obviously we work a lot with Fleer with their cameras and their sensors. So, uh, we kind of work with everybody.
>> Yeah. And I think that's also what I got from the conversation we had at APCON a couple months ago is like becoming that de facto platform to work with as many integrated systems as possible. when when you're getting messages from the government to integrate one platform onto another, it seems like they really want to make it interoperable, which is which
>> no that that that is absolutely true because this is, believe it or not, uh even though this number is probably very dated now from what we're hearing in the last few months, the original program for SR was about 14,000 aircrafts, which could be the largest amount of aircraft ever acquired. They don't cost hundreds of millions of dollars each. not the largest in in revenue in revenue or in dollars on contract value but in the amount of aircraft. So the amount of sensors that we're going to have implemented into the army is more than any other program before. So you know you know Palanteer is going to have access to all these sensors for visual navigation. Great amount of information uh that's going to be across way more devices than any other previous program. So, it's it's it's going to be quite a data offering uh being on our platform, which is currently the largest aircraft acquisition. We got a super chat right here from Math 97. Uh been an Arcad investor since last year. I love the company. Random question. Do you think drones or evol could ever replace the need for layover flights by transporting people up to planes in flight?
>> Wow, that's that that's uh interesting. But uh I I've been looking at a a cargo drone recently and they let me fly it. It can handle 500 lb and what they had inside of it was a dummy army soldier. Um and my first my first joke was, "Hey, you guys mind if I could get in this thing and fly around?" And they said, "Yeah, we'd lose every license that we have." Um so I mean I think it could be possible. I don't know if anybody would want to try it or do it as a way to catch a flight. Yeah, it would be a little bit like the Jetsons. That's correct.
>> Yeah.
>> Um the overall drone industry, I mean, is this something to you that's in the tens of billions, hundreds of billions, trillions? Like realistically, how big do you think the TAM is for this market?
>> It's definitely even right now it's already in the close to like 50 billion world right now. Um and that's uh you know, and we're only nine months into administration saying, "Holy cow, we're behind. Let's move forward." Uh and and lots of times like you know DARPA and the internet and all these things get started with the government first. GPS's we wouldn't have cheap GPS's if it wasn't for the government.
>> So and I hate to I hate to say the government's the way to go to get certain things done. Um but the uh without that we wouldn't have we wouldn't get there. And I think long term with the scale of what the uh Department of War is doing, we will be doing so much stuff for security. Um you know, we already have drone swarms at Redcat uh you know, on our on our boats, the USVs. We're going to be putting swarms in the front of them uh along with missiles and torpedoes. Um, but having swarms that can reliably get up in the air by themselves and monitor areas for ISR, that would be very valuable to think about a lot of the locations that the security guards are walking around and falling asleep during the night and where you could have literally live sensors flying 24/7 along the border of a very important facility. That would be way better than uh humans. Uh, and I think you're going to see way more applications like that come down into the consumer market as we get some scale because of the departments of war and the thirst for small smart weapons.
>> Yeah, agree. It does seem like that market is not slowing down. Jeff's Twitter right there in the chat. If you guys want to keep up with this content, follow on with what's going on with Redcat, you can follow him right there. Jeff, thanks for coming on. Last question for you. We got to ask this question to everyone who joins the stream and you're welcome back anytime you'd want to be on. Uh, what's your favorite movie?
>> Oh, I'm going to embarrass myself. It's kind of a family joke, but it's Tallaladega Nights.
>> It's a great movie. It's a great movie. I haven't watched that movie, but I'm believing it's a great movie. Oh, no sir. My just my wife on my 50th birthday replicated with all my kids the baby Jesus scene which you're not going to know cuz you haven't seen it yet, but if you ever uh she she went and got all the Sunbeam bread and the Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Power Eight and they made completely made a joke on my 50th birthday and it was one of the best birthdays I had. But uh it's just a it's a goofy movie but so much fun.
>> So this is like legit like last movie you could watch it would be Tallaladega Nights. Yeah, if I wanted to laugh.
>> All right, there you go. I love it. Thank you, Jeff. I appreciate it. Jeff's Twitter in the chat and uh we'll hope to have you on next time as well.
>> Great. Thanks, Emit. Appreciate it.
>> Thank you.
>> Later. All right, there you go. Talladega Nights. Uh, I I I don't know what you I Dude, as soon as you said it, I was like, "This from like 1935?" Like, what? What? I've never heard of this, but I couldn't lie. I couldn't lie and say I watched it, so I had to have to be honest today. The ballot of Ricky Bobby, huh? Well, I know Will Frell, Tallaladega Nights. NASCAR superstar Ricky Bobb's at the top of his game, adored by fans. The trophy Wi-Fi says incredible French Formula 1. Have people seen this movie? Is this a legit movie? 2006. Okay, so it's been around for a minute. Well, there you go. Tales. That's his movie. Google alltime highs, baby. 272. And again, shout out to Jeff. Awesome guy. And uh you know, when I talked to him back at AICON in March, he uh he really helped me understand the drone industry. And you know, we've seen a lot of these drone stocks start to get momentum. and they have a mandate from the government. So maybe that momentum continues. Nvidia getting a red candle from 212 to 205. So you do have a selloff pantry right there at 195. S&P 687. The goos taking off on the day 27 freaking two on the day. Dude, I should have lied and said I watched it, bro. I should have lied. I should have lied. But I I'm choosing to be honest because you guys got all mad at me when I when I said I watched Animal House. See how much more less awkward it becomes if you just be like, "Great movie. Awesome. That's a classic." Instead, the other person has to be like, "Well, I know you didn't watch it, but there's this funny scene." It's like, we could avoid all of that by just going with the flow. Just going with the flow. But you guys got mad last time I did it. Google two, dude. 272. This thing just jumped right when freaking uh right when freaking Jeff came on. I I don't know why Google's moving up and Microsoft's moving down. But I wonder what that means for earnings if Microsoft and Google have good numbers, but maybe one is running up too much already and the other one is running down. So, we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see. Uh all right. So, uh I will be back. Uh, first of all, if anyone has any lunch, I think you should go get some lunch right now. I'll be back in a second. I do have to use the bathroom. It's been like four hours and I'm going to heat up a little bit of chicken and rice that I have from yesterday. So, we'll heat that up. So, we're going to be here all day. Keep it moving. I'll be back in like 5 10 minutes. Probably five minutes. Shouldn't take too long. And uh if anyone else has lunch, go get some lunch. We'll be back. And then we got JP in a couple hours. Got JPEG in a couple hours. We're gonna see what we got. Use the break feature. There's a break feature on YouTube. I've never seen a break feature. I was I was just going to play CNBC, but I didn't know there was a break feature. All right, I'll be back in like five minutes. We got uh we got Liz Young. Let's see what she has to say and then we'll we'll keep going from there. is in danger of snapping 8day winning streak into its own print. But there's a look at Alphabet shares. You want to Liz take issue, agree with or whatever with any of the comments that were already made on the desk.
>> Um I mean I'll take a little issue with the the perplexing comment because we've been good. I did too. So I'm glad you did. Thanks for the backup. Go ahead.
>> We're so and on his birthday too, right?
>> Joey on his birthday.
>> Happy birthday.
>> Happy birthday Joe.
>> Thank you very much. Let's continue please. So, so we've been talking about this for a long time that there would be a chase into year end and here we are one month into Q4 and the chase is on. The large cap love affair is on. The risk on speculation trade is alive and well. The game is strong, right? And this is happening during a week when Q4 seasonality usually picks up and then we have this run into year end. So that supports this even further. And then this is also characteristic of late cycle large cap behavior. Usually when you have number one late late economic cycle, late cycle in a rally, you also have concentration that just gets more and more concentrated until it turns the other way. There's no timing that that could go on for a long time. But all of this is emblematic of that same trend.
>> Really? I mean, I've been hearing this a lot over the last year or so, if not longer. Are we really that late cycle? How could we be late cycle if people say we're in like the second inning of the whole AI spend and the AI boom? That doesn't match up in my mind.
>> Somebody's wrong. We don't know who yet. So late cycle in the sense of the market cycle. There's a business cycle and there's a market cycle. Right now we are a little bit convoluted on where we are in the economy. Number one, we don't have a lot of data, but we're coming down in inflation, which is not usually late cycle behavior. If we get into 2026, it's possible that we have stimulus that comes into effect that actually drives inflation back up a little bit. We never actually hit target. We start rising again and inflation. Unemployment starts to rise. That starts to feel more late cycle in the economic standpoint.
>> But I mean, we're cutting rates. I think the market's late cycle. We're cutting We're cutting rates. Well, if we have to pause that, right? There's all of these question marks that could happen in 2026. That's not a 2025 story,
>> but there's a lot of it seems a lot of if if this happens, if that happens, but what's the likelihood?
>> We play probabilities too more so than ifs, right?
>> Isn't that what you all do?
>> Can I just make one comment on information?
>> 2000, March of 2000 was when the market crashed, right? And the S&P was down 50%, the Nasdaq was down 90% at the worst. And it was the beginning of the internet, right? It was the beginning of the internet, but it was also the end of this enormous rise, the euphoria about internet stocks that did come down crashing. So they don't have to coincide the cycle on the market,
>> right? They're not supposed to coincide. But right now, I think we are at a point where actually the market is very detached from what the economy is doing. That doesn't make the market wrong. The market is always using the information it has and the optimism that we're looking at with AI. Do you think the market's detached from what the economy is doing? The economy is pretty good.
>> Pretty good, but it's not heating up. It's cooling down. So, if the market is is with the economy, the market should be front running maybe a heating up in economic activity. But we know that a lot of the metrics are showing us that economic activity is actually cooling down, which we needed to happen in order to bring inflation down. And now we're getting announcements that are getting slightly concerning layoff announcements from a lot of bellweather companies, but we don't have any labor data. So right now we can still say that the economy is okay and the labor market is okay because we don't have any data that proves otherwise. But when it starts coming back out again, we don't know what that'll look like yet. You know, it's so interesting because when you talk to uh to companies uh and whether it's CEO or CFO or just pick somebody, you know, that's in middle management, um there's a disconnect because they don't see things being as good in the economy. Yet, we see numbers, we see some companies reporting, but and and I've been unable to square that disconnect. It's been going on for months and months that the economy is not that good. We hear from some people that come on the network as well, but it really doesn't matter in terms of the market. Market's looking forward and what it sees forward is lower rates, low regulations, you're not levered to AI.
>> Yeah. It's through economy.
>> The economy doesn't look good to you
>> because if you go down the list, I love that that uh Carl uh Kintia put this out on social from vital knowledge. It tells a good story about if you're tech, boom.
>> If you're not tech, not so much. Cheesecake Factory, weaker sales. Caesars, EBITD, miss. Etsy, weak EBITD guide. Generrack a miss and a guidance cut. Hormemell EPS warning. Craft hind guidance cut. Masco guidance cut. Manderly guidance cut. PPG guidance cut. I can look at all of those and there are probably more and build a case that you see
>> told you economy is not so good
>> and I agree
>> or we have a new economy that the market and investors are placing their bets on
>> right so it comes full circle to what you started the show with which is that the breath disparity so that's more reflective the breath is more reflective of what I believe is actually going on in the underlying economy and the question is how do you play that and the only way to play it with confidence, I believe, is staying with the AI companies. Now, they're overvalued on any reasonable metric, right? But where else are you going to go? Okay, I love the All right, we are back. We are back. Does everyone have some lunch? Got some chicken, some rice. Dude, I think the last time I ate on stream, it was like a year ago and it was like I don't know why it was I was live at night and I think I ate sushi on stream. So, can you guys see the smoke? It's like heating up. We are uh officially officially eating lunch together. Look at that. Look at that. One meal a day. Let's get some broccoli. Let's get some broccoli in it. It's like 5,000 people watching. You chew a piece of broccoli. Dude, Dumb Money is live right now. Should we watch Dumb Money? Google's still green, Microsoft down. All right, let's let's go to dumb money for a little bit. Let's see what these guys are saying. Is anyone else eating lunch? Put in the chat. First of all, what time is it where you're at? I mean, it's 12 on the Well, it's 9 in California. It's 12 in the Northeast. It's like six in the UK, right? So, yes, dumb money. All right, let's see what they're saying. the sector and certainly it looks like they are uh they continue to raise in a bit and open AI which is multiple old episodes right that one worked out uh in a way uh Amazon might be the way to play anthropic on on the AI side now it just took a while for them to get there with the data center capacity to serve that relationship and this could be the quarter where that becomes the the topic of focus this I mean
>> perhaps I mean we've been talking about how you know your favorite chat GBT is the normie of uh all LLMs and that people that are doing serious work are doing it on different models for a while that was Gemini but I hear more and more people um seeing praises for Claude so um you know maybe dump some people are dumping uh Gemini for Claude and I think we've seen that there's what there's rumors is that their ARR has grown like 7x in the past year or something like that. So I I do think people are converting and and starting to utilize cloud.
>> All right, we'll get back to them later. But I mean they're speaking of Google's ARR right there that's not slowing down, especially in the cloud space. 27180 on the googs up 1.64. You got Tesla at 458. Pound share. Pounder and Nvidia both going down at the same time. They're down from high of days. up a lot. Now again, Nvidia, I think it's pretty normal for it to go from 212 to 206. However, that is like 120 billion in market cap that it just lost. Uh but, you know, then again, breaking above 200, one would argue there's probably going to be a little bit of a little bit of a pullback there. Um Scott says, "My girl and I made a bagel. I love it." Scott, thanks for being here. Zokal says, "I'm not eating until 8:00 p.m." I tried doing that last year, bro. It just didn't work. So now after the market open, I eat my one meal and kind of gets me through the end of the day. But if you can if you can last through 800 p.m., that's incredible because it is not easy. Oh my goodness, Bitcoin. Are we below 111? We are We were just below 111. 11151 11:51 on my lunch break I'm eating some chicken in the car that's so crazy every time every time every time like like like people say where they are what they're doing dude someone last night who's he's been a longtime pounder investor and he he sent me a video of of his family like all together sitting on on the couch saying happy birthday and I was like dude like like this is crazy like you he had he had two little girls his wife and you know their lives have been completely changed from pounding because like he went in heavy and then they all three said happy birthday you see this stuff and you want to cry dude you're like this is just this is absolutely crazy but it is it is the point of a community right everyone here comes together and no matter where you are what you're doing get to bond over a certain topic Spencer says, "I'm watching from North Korea." Of course you are. Dude, North Korea is scary. I had my North Korea binge back in freaking uh back in May. I was like, you know, you have these rabbit holes you go down. I went down the rabbit hole in North Korea and I learned a lot about them and I was like, my goodness, like they are not a friendly place. They are not a friendly place. Like it's not nice to be in North Korea. all these vloggers that go to North Korea to like show off and like I'm like, "Bro, I would be so scared to say anything." What's the name of the guy that that that they basically killed, but they didn't fully kill him, but they beat him up enough to kill him? It's the white guy who was there and unfortunately he he like he took something off the hotel wall and the cameras caught him and then they just brutally tortured him and then they sent him back to the US basically dead. Otto Lambir, is that the guy's name? That story is a hell of a rabbit hole to go down. Yeah, Otto Lambir from North Korea. Yeah, a lot of people have seen those that that documentary. Then you got Dennis Robin who freaking loves North Korea because he thinks Kim Jong-un is like his best friend. So there's a variety of different circumstances on it. We're getting a bunch of downtime, guys. Uh down outages are spiking. Microsoft, Minecraft, AWS, Starbucks, Xbox, and Kroger. All their websites are reporting reporting a a uh a down detector increase. Wow, dude. 16,000 reports from Microsoft Azure. What about AWS? 2,000 reports. So, a lot better for AWS. And then Xbox, 1,800 reports for for Xbox in the Northeast. That's not good before earnings. Not good to see that before earnings because people are getting fired. Dude, I was I really went down the rabbit hole last night and I saw all these videos of people getting laid off and it's tough, dude. You like, you know, it's just you you don't want to see that as a human being and you got all these people just thinking like they have to figure out a new life. They have to figure out what they're going to do. I I think Amazon's giving 90-day severance then that's it. UNH website is down. Uh okay. So this might be affecting a bunch of companies right now. United Health likely runs on Azure or Amazon. Yeah. UHC.com not working. Wow. Okay. So it it doesn't seem like it's as bad as it was. This is UHC. It's not even loading back in back last week when like Robin at Coinbase Slack was not working either. I mean, Legend so far is fine, but you are getting some outages across the board. Hood is not glitching yet. I don't see it. Jeff's ex handle I'm putting right here in the chat for those that want to follow him. But you are still getting some some hits here on different websites. I don't own Redcat. I don't own any of the drains drone stocks. Again, I really just haven't done work on them. Uh but I do not own Redcap or the other ones, but they've done well. Yeah, the layoff thing is I mean again it's like it is it is it is one of those things where again 14,000 of them were sent out yesterday. So when you have 14,000 a lot of those people you know, making the argument that they got hit from these layoffs. And you had a lot of people that vlogged the journey right before they got laid off. So, they got the email and they were like, "I don't know if I'm officially laid off." But they might be like, "Here's this one video. Let me show you guys this video." This one also is another one of people doing or talking about these layoffs. There is no AK media layoffs. This is a very capital-like business when it comes to headcount. Although we we did we ended up hiring someone last week. So, but like again like if if you're a soloreneur entrepreneur, it's a little bit different. If you're working at a big company, you know, but layoffs again, they affect the entire economy. So, it's like it's not something that anyone can really ignore. All right, here is one of the other videos yesterday. I'm
>> just laid off 30,000 peeps today and I'm one of them. All QA in my or got laid off today. Rule elimination. Let me walk you through what happened. Maybe it helps someone going through the same thing. So, here's the timeline. Amazon sent the layoff text and email at 3:00 a.m. When I woke up around 8:30, I saw it. The email had everything. your package thoughts, how to return to your laptop, how to talk to HR all of it. Then I saw Chime from my skip manager. My meeting was at 11:00 a.m. We talked for maybe 20 minutes. He said it was a final decision made by ARC. Nothing to negotiate. He wished me the best. It feel so real. Here's what the package looks like for everyone who is wondering. 90 days pay to find a new job. the seven weeks of pay plus all unused paytime off. My final date is January 26, 26. So basically about 20 half months of salary after that. My role is L5 engineer and honestly there aren't many opening left. Two in Seattle, a couple more across the US. I can't
>> So you have a lot of these engineers saying we saw the layoffs coming. there's not that many other options left because they're not hiring as much. And then you had this guy who had bit of a more optimistic take because he didn't even want to be at Amazon anymore. But here's what he said yesterday about this 30,000 people. I'm Amazon engineer. I could be next, but I don't give a [ __ ] Here's why. Every single day, I feel like I wasn't working for growth. I was walking away from getting fired. Just trying to survive another review cycle. I worked years to get here grind through college interview for this to just not get fired. [ __ ] it. In big tech, we are just a number on a spreadsheet. Whether you got lay off today or made job tomorrow. So if I got that email tomorrow, here's what I would do. I would move somewhere cheaper, build my own distribution channel directly, sell my skills or product, own my own career. And actually, I already made this decision two months ago. I plan to leave Amazon and start my own business overseas probably by the end of this year because I want to control my own future. The safe pace that was golden edge privilege a brief moment in time that era is gone not coming back. So I'm building my own past. No idea if it works but to see what happened. Definitely a more optimistic perspective on what's going on. Uh I didn't know he was going to curse like that. I didn't know he was going to just flat out curse that much. But nonetheless, he doesn't give a you know what. And the reason he doesn't care is um is because you know what he what he speaks to is this idea of feeling like you're a cog in the machine which exists in every single job right like people feel like they're a cog in the machine and you know there might not be as important but with tech workers I think uniquely there's so many of them and you know it is more replaceable than not with the advance of AI they just feel like even though you have a good salary what is the purpose of what you're working for that is why and again this is the intangible stuff that that is hard to see in the valuation models This is why Pounder matters. Karp really get I mean I've spoken to a lot of employees at Pounder. The reason they're there is because of that mission. It really does matter at Amazon. What's the mission? Like get you to buy more stuff and and adding to your cart. Like there's not this like grand, you know, back when it was a startup there was this grand mission. Now it's just become a massive company with millions of employees and you don't feel that sense of purpose anymore. And so it's tough to be able to um to be able to be inspired. So yeah, meta workers wake up every morning to make AI slop. Very fulfilling. Microsoft 365 users can't access the admin center and face delays with other services according to Microsoft. Is this why Microsoft started dumping a bit in the morning? Someone knew there would be some issues. That's not the best right before earnings, bro. It's not the best before earnings. Okay, let's do this poll in the chat. I don't think I've done this poll before. Or maybe I have. It was a while ago, though. Um, let's do this. By the way, 64% of you said Google, 21% said meta, and Microsoft was last in terms of being the most excited. Do you work in tech? Yes or no? What does tech mean? Uh, engineer, product manager, marketing, sales. Do you have do are you employed by a company that you would objectively, you know, classify as a tech company? and do you work in it? And then we'll ask some other questions, but I'm curious what the the mix is up here. Okay, 58% so far say no. It's almost 6040 on working on tech. A plumber I would not say is working in tech. One could argue a plumber might be getting paid and more of these people that work in tech. QA uh engineer data scientist Peter says I invest in tech. Is lemonade at $60? Is lemonade actually at $60? Where's Lemonade? Bro, what did Lemonade announce today? Look at that. 61 7% move. Okay, so I'm looking like or it's looking like 6040. Okay, 6040. All right. So 64. Let's ask another question. Do you work in a trade job? Trade job broadly defined as skill sets that you went to trade school for or you use your hands, you fix ACs, you know, you plumber, that type of stuff. So I'm trying to see the mix of how many trade jobs we have versus how many tech jobs we have. 24%. Because it definitely leveraged more towards tech versus trades. 8020 on this. He's going to ask for a social security number next. Oh my gosh. Okay. So, the last poll I was going to ask right here. So, 7030 there. And this one kind of culminates everything, but I wanted to get some of the specifics. Do you think your job is blue collar or white collar? Blue or white? What are we thinking? I think you can you can objectively tell yourself if it's blue or white, right? Like if you are actively doing something on the day-to-day moving you know you're getting things done here and there traveling uh you know point A to point B probably more blue collar obviously factory warehouse driver is blue collar if you're sitting in front of a screen all day yeah it's white collar you're not you're not blue collar I think my job is [ __ ] so is it brown Uh, okay. What's the mix on this? 6040. 6040. 6535. So, here's the question, right? I wonder how many of the bluecollar jobs actually are going to be in a safer position than the white collar jobs given what we're seeing with all these layoffs. Again, we watched that video this morning of the girl who's in marketing for Amazon ads. Like I'm not going to lie, when she said I'm a marketing manager for Amazon ads, I have no idea what that is. I have no clue. And I'm pretty sure it's a you know, a role that should have been filled and is valuable to Amazon. But like if you can't immediately say, you know, why is that creating value for the for the shareholder? Because I'm thinking as a shareholder, I'm like, okay, so this girl probably getting paid 150,000. What is she doing that's helping, you know, my stock? If you can't say it and if Jassee's in the boardroom thinking, "All right, I don't know why we have this person here." Like, inevitably that's gone. And until the robots come for the blue collar work, I I think the blue collar, you could argue, is a bit more safer than the white collar because a lot of the stuff maybe it maybe it's just not as needed in the age of AI. And yes, every business needs marketing 100%. But it's like again, Amazon ads, it's it's it's a great business. is I think it's doing $45 billion run rate. You have to ask yourself if you get rid of a lot of the people managing that ecosystem and that platform, what happens to the run rate? Does it increase, decrease? Does it get more margin efficient? And look, there's ways this goes against you. Like if Meta were to cut, and Meta has done this back in 2019. They cut a ton of um trust and safety people in their ads division because Zux was trying to, you know, make better margins and increase efficiency. and you had a lot of ads that got approved on Meta. We're talking pornography. We're talking about terrorism. We're talking about all this crazy [ __ ] that would have been stopped if you had trust and safety. Well, now fast forward 5 years later. I'm not saying AI is perfect at trust and safety, but I imagine Med is training some models to get really good at recognizing when an ad shouldn't be approved and they might not need a content moderator to physically do that. And that's just that's just like Uber versus the taxis, right? That's just it is what it like that's going to happen. And the question then becomes where you know where does the market go or where does the economy go if that places if that actually takes place. Okay. I saw this headline yesterday. Peter Tealback substrate raised 100 million at 1 billion to develop a new X-ray lithography system that aims to reduce advanced chip production costs and provide a US alternative to ASML. This was actually a headline we didn't cover yesterday. It's a big deal in my opinion because you've got this big American manufacturing push from Trump around semiconductors. ASML is is essentially a monopoly um in lithography. If you got Peter Teal saying, "Hey, I'm going to fund a company that's going to try to compete with these guys in the US. Name is Substrate valued at a billion." I don't think it's bearish ASML, but it's definitely more bullish American manufacturing when it comes to semiconductors. So, you do have that headline that is important. Kruba says, "I admit I left my full-time job in mid-Sepptemeber after crossing seven figures in the stock market in five years to focus on my digital publishing business." Yeah, look, I've heard that story from a lot of you guys. Uh that you've been able to leave the job due to the market and and it goes back to this this trend we've been talking about for the past two years now, which is if you own assets, it's been a fun ride. If you don't, it's tough. And the assets give you the the the potential freedom, the flexibility to maybe make other decisions. But most people don't, right? Most people just they don't care about the state. They're not watching the stock market stream at 12:30. They're they're doing something else. They don't care about it. And that's where you have the majority of of Americans, definitely in this country. And then, you know, then you have to deal with the nature of how it's perceived when companies do make decisions that are more friendly toward shareholders versus employees. Pal's at 2:30 for those that are asking. Pal's at 2:30. We'll get the update in an hour 30 on what happens for the FOMC. We're going to get the rate cut. It's just the question of how much the street reacts to it. Also, I want to see who uh who like who says yes, who says no. Is it unanimous? Is it like a couple of these Fed presidents said we don't need to cut? I wonder what JPAL's commentary is on the labor market. Obviously, that's going to be really important, but all that stuff matters. I made thoughts on covered calls this week for earnings. I think you have to pick which strike you're comfortable with. So if you own Google, you have at least a 100 shares. Let's say you bought it at 220. Google's at 270. You have to ask yourself, you know, do I think Google can get to 290 by the end of the week. Maybe you saw the cover call at 290. If you think Google's overextended and it's going back down to 250, maybe you saw the cover call at 275. General, I'm a bit hesitant for calls on earnings because you just don't know what's going to happen. And unless you're really confident that you're ready to exit Google at 280 and therefore you sell the call at 280, maybe get three bucks a premium, so technically you're selling at 283 and you're totally okay with selling at 280, then I would avoid calls because it's just like you never know what if the numbers are so gigantic that it just like and then you want to keep the shares, right? And you get annoyed that you ended up selling the call. So, it's really just a question of how you want to want to hedge. Neo says, "I got laid off in my family's real estate office today. Was told to focus on the market. It's a bittersweet feeling." Who laid you off, Neo? Was that like your like was it your immediate family? Was it mom, dad? Or was it was it like a distant family like cousins? But look, if they're saying to folks on the market and potentially manage some of the family money, that's also not a horrible idea. But I mean like even like like the fact that you said even in your family's business you had to lay off. It's tough, right? My big brother. Damn. Okay. Yeah. I mean, see, and here's the thing, right? I I I don't know the relationship you have with your big brother, but your brother just might be saying, "Dude, we can't afford it." Right? And if you're if you're doing well in the markets, maybe that's why he's saying you can focus on the markets because we can't afford to pay you. But that's like that just goes dude over the past 48 hours my entire mood has changed on the labor market. This 15 thou like 15,000 emails were sent last night from Amazon at once. All at once right before earnings because they know they had to just rip it off and they did it at 5 a.m. Seattle time to make sure people wouldn't come into the office. Like it is starting to highlight a much bigger issue that I don't know is structural yet but I do know is related to AI. But I'm happy you're here, Neo. Hopefully, you know, being part of the chat and being part of the community can create a little bit of solace today. Family business has always been tough, dude. I I have some experience with this because my dad and my uncle, his brother, and my grandpa, they all ran the liquor store together. And dude, family business like, you know, like it's just there's there's always some dispute about something, you know, like like the biggest dispute my family had was and my mom got really pissed off about this, but my dad worked Monday through Friday in the liquor store. Sorry, Monday through Saturday and then nights on Sunday. So like literally my dad worked six and a half days a week and my uncle only worked Saturday and Sunday. But when it came time to split the profits, they did it 50/50. And my dad is again my dad's a family guy. My dad is like nothing gets in between family. My dad, you know, it's he's just it's it's part of the Indian culture as well, but my dad's like, I don't care if I work more than you, you work more than me. It's it we're always equal. And my mom is like, okay, but he works two days a week. You're working six days. I don't think. And so the amount of fights that created when we were growing up because like, you know, my mom would be like, "We're broke." And my dad is like, "I'm doing the best I can." And my and my mom's like, "No, no, you can increase your paycheck tomorrow if you just don't split the money 5050." My dad's like, "Nope. I have these are my values. I can't I can't negotiate here." And that's just how it is. You know, some family business can get messy, bro. Family business can get messy. Yeah. I know. I see a lot of people here agreeing with my mom, but I also look I as after understanding how my dad thinks like there was no way she was ever going to convince him to not do it 50. There's just no way. Like my dad is who he is. Sometimes you can't you can't get changed, right? So family business always has a variety of different different nuances of it. Damn. Oatmeal oatmeal cookie hater, which I love that name. I hate oatmeal cookies as well. Well, I I'm okay with oatmeal cookies. Oatmeal raisin cookies. No, that we need to talk about Steve with that. Oatmeal raisin cookies are disgusting. He says, "My grandpa laid off my mom and died a year later. He was 91 and the rent was too high, but he couldn't survive not working every day." It's crazy, man. It's crazy how some of this stuff happens, especially when you get to an older age and you still have to work. That's partly why I've been so focused on getting my mom and dad into investing because I'm like, dude, they're gonna retire. Like, my dad has to retire in like the next two years. I'm trying to get him to retire right now. And like, you know, like I I think there's a world in which he could retire. He's just really stubborn as well and he's not doing it. I'm like, dude, you're going to be 70 in a couple years. You cannot keep working the way you're working. Uh my mom is more white collar work and she's definitely going to retire in a couple years. And you know, I want them to be wellversed in the markets and being able to have a nest egg and not have to worry about just the pension and for them to be able to create income for themselves. So like I I think it's the most important thing and this is the disservice this country does. Like we don't teach people when they're young because when you get older, you cannot just rely on social security, dude. It's like I don't even know social security is going to be around by the time I get to that age. That's a re I did this social security deep dive a year ago. I had this big tweet that went viral when I when I when I talked about all the findings I had from social security and the stuff I found it blew my about how they calculated how they take out the money, what percentage is there, how much is even left in the reserve. The biggest thing I found out is that freaking Clinton Clinton wanted to put the entire reserve in the S&P 500 for social security back in 1994. It was 1991 roundabout. um it was two trillion at the time and he was like let's just dump it into the S&P. He would have had to gone through 2008, the dotcom bubble, 2020, but still it would have done very well if they just dumped it into the S&P. They took a vote. Congress said, "No, it's too risky. Put it into treasuries." And then Bush Bush came in and he tried to do it again. He said, "This is a good idea. Let's put it into the market. Let's not leave it in the treasuries." Congress voted. They said, "Nope." And now it looks like by 2035 either we're gonna have to raise the percentage that we take from people today on social security to fill up the reserves or we're gonna have to give the people on social security right now less benefits. And that's the most um that that's one of the the the the hardest politically it's the hardest way to sell politically. Like the political capital of anyone who agrees with that is tough because you have a lot of older people that outnumber younger people. And if you say, "Hey, vote for me. I'm going to decrease your benefits on social security." It's easier to say, "I'm going to take more from the 25-year-old's paycheck than I'm going to decrease from the 70." But it's one or the other. Quite frankly, it's got to probably be both because we don't have the money to pay for this [ __ ] And unfortunately, we we put it into freaking treasuries and it's ironically going to get us into more debt. Yeah. And then here's the other thing by Zo right there. Retirement age likely's got to go up. What is it? I think it's like 60. What is the official retirement age? It's like 64, right? It's 65. Anyone born in 1960 or later, it's 67. Yeah, that's going to 70, bro. There's no way this is not going higher. Like we we we cannot afford to pay everybody. Of course it's 67. Of course, of course it's 67. Why not? But it's based on the year you were born. Okay. Well, anyone born after 1960, which is when you're you're starting to get into those older ages. 67 right now. Yeah. I think when I get to that, dude, it's going to have to be older. Like
>> and then you know social security you get social security as a function of the money you contribute during your younger years in a job. If you have this layoff uh new world we're getting into where we where Elon says working a job is optional. Well then where is the social security coming from when you're older because you're again you're contributing when you're younger to get paid back when you're older. That's the whole point of it. like we are going to have a fundamentally different paradigm for how we think of the economy whether it's UBI increased taxes deflation I I don't know how you would define it but if it's not through the traditional ecosystem of of the job market and it's something I think everyone's got to be prepared for AWS is still down. Yeah, we're getting a lot more of these AWS and Azure and Xbox are getting hit the hardest right here. Cloudflare. Oh, Google Cloud. Look at that. that just spiked 360 reports on Google Cloud and then Cloudflare as well. I mean that's Cloudflare is a lot of the internet. Cloudflare just got 200 reports as well as it spiked. All of this right before the earnings. Right before the earnings. Tossen says I'm 28 as well. UBI is going to take over social security. Are we under attack? I would hope not. That wouldn't help the bull market. That wouldn't be the best thing either. I don't think we're under attack. But that is kind of suspicious though. All these companies getting hit at the same time. I mean, if it was just AWS or Azure, maybe it's a specific thing. I don't see any headlines on cyber security. Gold is up. Of course, gold is up. Well, it's actually down from the morning. It's up, but it's still below 4,000. Is it China? Dude, China just bought our soybeans. They better not freaking attack us. They just They just offered a peace treaty with the soybeans. Of course, on Amidst all day stream, the Martians attack. Exactly. It has been happening too frequently. That's correct. It has been happening a bit too frequently. Oh boy. All right. We're going to have to see. We're getting a lot of down reports on cloud, Google Cloud, Azure, Xbox, AWS, and then Cloudflare. That's what we're seeing across the board. Yeah, we're going all day. We'll be live all day. Two million user reports indicate Amazon's down in the US as per down detector. This is what happens when Amazon fire see everyone's going to be like, "See, Amazon fired a bunch of people. No one's there to do the work. No one's there to do the job." And then boom, you get an outage. Robin is working okay, though, and so is some of the other companies that were affected last week. But everything else looks like it has some decline. Do they need Google's whiz? Did they even acquire them yet? That's still pending, right? There's a $ 32 billion March 18th they signed the agreement. I think they did because their cloud I mean I their cloud numbers last quarter were phenomenal. One could argue Whiz probably ingested a couple hundred million of revenue to get that beat or they might have pulled it forward but pending regulatory approval they can officially show the numbers. Um, but you are seeing some of these services that are down. Okay. What else do we got? What else do we got? What else do we got? Anyway, this layoff stuff, dude, is crazy. This layoff stuff is absolutely crazy. Jared, thanks for the super chat. Yeah, down detector. Half the internet. What? Okay, so what websites are you guys struggling with? Because I'm not I mean, is Twitter down? Twitter seems fine. YouTube's obviously working. Yeah, Twitter's working. Look, I just got Tanner's tweet. As soon as I open Twitter, Tanner, why does my algorithm love you, bro? Every time you tweet something, they're like, "Hey, Emit, have you seen what Tanner tweeted?" I'm like, "No, but I guess I guess I'll I'll I'll look at it if you're going to show it to me." Tanner SoFi updates. Timothy Switzer, who is this guy? He's one of the most SoFi bearish analysts. He had a $8 target in March. Now he has a $20 target after earnings. Timothy Switzer. He is from KBW. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember this guy. This guy got clowned a couple months ago. KBW has been a bit weird on a lot of these names. I mean, I think they've been bullish hood, but it took them some time as well. Dude, Richie still gave Pounder a $45 price target for those that missed that. He reiterated it yesterday. I was like, Richishy, come on now. You can be bearish, but 45, it's a bit aggressive. 197 almost back to 197 on Pounder. Azure says, "We have taken action that is expected to address the portal access issues here shortly." Oh, speaking of Microsoft, dude, Nadella dropped some bombs in terms of some stories around OpenAI. Here's what he said yesterday about how he thought about OpenAI and when they initially invested back in 2019.
>> A1 billion for sure. How big of a deal was uh writing a a1 billion dollar check back then? I mean big company Microsoft we think it makes revenues around a billion dollars a business day. Uh was it one day of work from you or was it or was it you know weeks of negotiation? Seriously? Did you build memos? Like were you building Excel sheets? Like what were you thinking?
>> Even at Microsoft you kind of got have to get a board approval. Just go throw a billion dollars out of the air. But you know I must say it was not that hard to convince uh anyone that this is an important
>> area and it's going to be risky like I mean in retrospect I mean who would have thought hey I didn't put in that you know billion dollars saying oh yeah this is going to be whatundagger I mean that's not like what was going through our head which this is a a partnership that I mean by the way remember this was a nonprofit right and I think you know Bill even said yeah you're going to burn this billion dollars right and yeah We kind of had a little bit of high risk tolerance. Totally.
>> Um and we said we want to go and give this a shot. Uh and then of course we subsequently um you know here we are at GitHub universe. In fact this is probably the place
>> where that billion to 10 billion happened because in 21
>> uh is when I first saw GitHub copilot.
>> Sure.
>> And I said man this is working.
>> This a year before the release.
>> Uh no actually in fact I was fact-checking my thing. I think GitHub uh co-pilot launched in 21, Chat GPD in 22.
>> Sure.
>> And if I remember right, 23 is the blip, the the November blip with OpenAI, and then everything has been smooth since then.
>> The blip.
>> That's the nicest way you could put that. That's fantastic.
>> Linear, meet the system for modern software development. Linear is a
>> Okay, so then this was the other clip right here about Nadella talking a bit more about Amazon as well. We I mean we've heard this thing a while ago uh it just comes up again and again with uh public SAS companies that are maybe a little bit more of a point solution and they have to go through a business model transition and that can be harder than a tech transition and we hear about oh well if you want to change your business model maybe you want to be private but it feels like is there some sort of advantage of being a hyperscaler a $4 trillion company that you can go and retool a piece of the business over here change the business model and and have almost the the privilege of, you know, not having shareholders come to you and beat you down about a slight shift in a business model in a subdivision. That's that you don't get that.
>> I can't deny that, you know, diversity of business models, diversity of the portfolio that Microsoft has has been helpful. I mean, it's kind of uh but that said, I don't think you can take that and say somehow you can make it
>> if you don't reinvent yourself. So, I think what happens in tech unfortunately Yeah. is that when these shifts happen,
>> yeah,
>> whether you like it or not, you have to first be relevant after having it doesn't matter what the business model is. The business model may be like, hey, I had whatever 90% margins, you are going to at best have 10%.
>> But you have to jump all in because even that 90 is going to zero.
>> Yeah.
>> And so given the binary nature, you got to make it to the other side.
>> But then the category economics matters, right? Because if you can't sustain long-term innovation if there is no category economics, I mean hypers scale is a great one. In fact, the best day in hypers scale business was the day Amazon announced their operating margins IPO.
>> Yeah, it you know because that's where nobody knew hypers scale business is an unbelievable business. It's a commodity but at scale nothing is a commodity. Uh and so to me that is kind of going to be the key here. even SAS applications.
>> Quickly unpack why that was so good for you again just because the market recognized that you were in the same business and it was fantastic. That was one and more importantly it was much more expensive right I mean think about our server business right super profitable
>> except it was onetenth
>> the size when I look at it compared to Azure
>> so we like we sold a few servers but man we sell a lot of cloud VMs
>> uh or containers who would have thought how expansive
>> the cloud consumption model is going to be in terms of people being able to sort of it's kind of the Germans paradox that sort really played out in a massive way if you broadly.
>> Yeah,
>> it's kind of crazy, right? Basically, Nadella saying, "Hey, once Amazon showed us that there are margins in a hyperscaler world, it gave the street a lot because Amazon was the original first hyperscaler with cloud. It gave the street a lot more liberty to respect the Microsofts of the world that had good margins but not the same type of volume, sacrifice some of that margin to get more volume if they could at least keep a bit of it. And as a result, Microsoft is, you know, the $4 trillion company that it is today. But it is down as well based on this Azure stuff. Microsoft right there 538 down half a percent. Tesla's GTA 6 is delayed again. Wasn't it supposed to was Isn't the time frame May 2026? Did they delay it from May 2026? The last time I played Grand Theft Auto was literally a decade ago. I played Vice City on my PSP. Um, but I didn't play GTA 5. Dude, if it's delayed from May 2026 again, that'd be crazy. That That's take two. That's your exposure. Chris actually had Chris literally picked this in the draft just because of Grand Theft Auto. Um, you do have this one basically flat on the day. It's because you have no life of it. Dude, I got the Nintendo DS over the summer thinking I would start playing Super Mario Brothers. I played for like two hours and then I don't even know where the I don't even know where it is anymore, dude. I thought I was going to like legit play this, but I have not had a chance to play it. Uh, is the rate cut good for Bitcoin? Yeah, I mean, we'll do a poll right here in the chat. The rate cut is good for like everything, but we got to see if it happens. Market pump or dump after FOMC? What do we think? Pump or dump after FOMC? I have that interview coming out uh with the with the Palanteer author Michael Steinberger soon. Uh hopefully tomorrow I got to finish editing it. But um yeah, that was from the book that I read and I think that'll be a good interview as well. But I did enjoy reading that book a lot more than just messing around or watching videos or something. Nvidia had six trillion before GTA 6 is out. That Yeah, the fact that could legit happen. I mean, what's another trillion, bro? We're at five already, dude. We were at three. No, we were at 2.2 two in April. Then we got to three, start to recover. Then we got to four, big deal. Now we're at five. It's like another trill, bro. What's wrong with another trill? Might as well just give it to us at this point. The book is called The Philosopher in the Valley. I think it comes out November 4th. It really is a good book on Karp and Paler. It's called The Philosopher in the Valley. LRN is down. Stride. Why are these guys down 50%. This is a $3 billion company. Stride is a technology based educational company which engages in the provision of proprietary and third party curriculum. Oh, this this you know just off that description. This is screaming CHEG to me. This is screaming CHEG. Is CHEG even around anymore? Che's down 14. who had earnings in the education space that knocked off all these stocks was a stride. They have earnings. One of these guys had earnings and I bet they said, "Yeah, we think AI is commoditizing curriculum development." Boom. Stock goes down. Stock go down. CH just had more AI layoffs. Oh, LRN had a call. They bad guidance. Okay, so they actually beat on the top and the bottom, but they lowered their guidance 50% though. My goodness, dude. That's a pretty aggressive downside move off of lowering guidance. But there you go. CHEG is doing a layoff of 40%. This was inevitable. This like this is a company. I don't know how this company survives. Yeah, 45. Wow. Back to this layoff conversation. 45%. This came out last night at 1:00 am. I didn't even see this one. My goodness, dude. Nearly half of workforce due to the new realities of AI. Yeah, if you posted in the chat, I must have missed it. Goodness, dude. Now see if Dolingo comes out and says something similar which again I really don't think language should be like like like Google or Amazon or Apple should kill Dolingo but if they say we have to do layoffs then that's Dualingo admitting yeah we have some issues and we might have to pick margins over employees. Is there Oakland news? There was some news about nuclear power this morning uh with Brookfield and last night. That's why Oaklo is pumping. SMR is that getting a pump. Yeah, SMR is up and then Nanuclear, those are up. So, all those names in the nuclear arena getting some love. What do you think about ASST? Dude, I I have no idea why people got so excited about this. There was a big account on Twitter, Mike Alfred. He bought a million dollars worth of it and everyone was like, "Okay, cool. Big account. Bought a million. I should buy in as well." and then people bought it. I have not heard a fundamental thesis. Mike has not tweeted a fundamental thesis. I've not seen any deep dive on like why you should buy this company. This is Vake's asset management fund that he was going to invest in. Biotech turned into a Bitcoin treasury. Did a merger was at $15. Then it fell to 95 cents. Then you had a big account on Twitter buy a million dollars worth of it and then everyone piled in and now it's down, you know, 20% over the past couple days. I don't know, maybe there's something there. But from my understanding, they trade below NAV, which is the only attractive thing. But I I just don't know why it's attractive to trade below NAV. If you can buy a company that trades above NAV, now one would say, well, the valuation is more attractive. Yeah. But the fact that it got below NAV, that's it's a pretty big issue, right? That means there's something internally that investors not willing to pay a premium for. Whereas on a micro strategy, I feel like it's safer because if investors are willing to pay the premium, even if the valuation is a bit more aggressive, you're getting and that could be happening there. Going back to the nuclear stuff, here was the Brookfield CEO. This is likely why Oaklo and all those other names are up speaking about what they're doing with nuclear energy
>> investment into new nuclear plants in the United States. And uh we're super excited about this. And and probably the most important thing isn't the 80 billion, but we needed to have scale to be able to build supply chain across America. And the nuclear industry had had had gone downhill and just nobody was building plants. And to be able to build the first one, you need to have the the belief in and the supply chain needs to believe that you're going to build out the whole business and it's going to be and it's going to sustain itself for a long period of time. So the whole idea behind this is that we're going to build out the new industrial platform for nuclear in the United States and all the suppliers will build it out and we'll be able to have a whole new business in America based off of nuclear and that's why the US government is backing it and we're we're very excited about that.
>> How is it structured? So do you do you line up financing? The uh so the US government is buying $80 billion of plants uh from us and from Westinghouse or a little more than we own half of it and uh with our partner Kamico and uh so Westinghouse will build the we'll build all the plants. The US government will own them
>> um and they're they're going to be financing them and so we're just going to be the builder of those plants. Whereas on last week we announced another transaction which is with South Carolina and we Brookfield are going to be buying the plant. Westinghouse.
>> So, this is why the nuclear names are running today. And as you can see, Brookfield committing as much money as they're committing. That is obviously also helping out. Bloom Energy also making a move today. Fiserve a little bit of recovery. It was down more. Still down 40% on the day. Nvidia holding 207 and Paler holding 197. They both fell a bit from their highs, but still holding it up on the day. This was another interview that uh the information did yesterday with Paris Hilton. We're talking about how this whole AI new life cycle of jobs can be replacing uh jobs that already exist. Here's what Paris Hilton had to say about the use of AI.
>> I am the biggest undercover nerd. I'm obsessed with everything to do with technology, with AI, and I use it daily, several times a day. whe whether I'm like ideulating new ideas for a product line, for a music video, for a campaign or photo shoot or just different anything. I just I use it all the time. And I've been working I've partnered with Google um with Gemini. So I've been using Gemini on my Android Motorola era razor every single day. I love how I can because I am such a creative person. I'm constantly thinking of so many ideas, but I love how with the AI, I can really capture those ideas and turn them into reality faster because it's just with anything, making mood boards, you could just anything your mind can think of, it could right away either, you know, produce an image or, you know, an entire script or different types of products. Even when I'm doing music, sometimes I'll like put it in there as well and be like, how would you make this sound even more like me? So, it's really interesting and I've actually been having an AI trained model at Paris Hilton one that we've been training for several years now before anyone was really even talking about AI. So, again, I've always been ahead of the curve in this. It is pretty crazy because I think a lot of the creatives are going to try to benefit from what AI can do as a tool, but the fact that she's training a model that's based off Paris Hilton, uh, you know, the inevitable question becomes, could that replace Paris Hilton? And what does that mean for the actual value of creativity? But yeah, you got Paris Hilton discussing AI, which is going to show how widespread this industry is starting to become. Let's get an update on the Fed. Again, we're going to get that decision in about 55 minutes, but let's get a little bit of coverage here and see what we think is going to happen.
>> Too aggressive until it could resolve the conflict between high GDP growth and lackluster employment gains. Well, futures markets have priced in a 98% chance of a cut today and 84% of one in December. Less certain about a January cut with just a 42% probability. More certainty into April or March, sorry, into March. One dovish offset could be the announcement by the Fed that it's ending the runoff of its balance sheet. Quantitative tightening maybe as soon as this year or early next year. That could mean a renewal of purchases next year to offset the natural runoff of securities, not QE though. But the uncertainty over rates is a direct fallout from the shutdown. The Fed is forced to both make and guide policy without key data and it could dial back that guidance. Now, Dom,
>> is there any uh indication right now, Steve? We know that the Fed is going to come to a decision. They have to come to one. What exactly they have been looking at? what have they been kind of evaluating in the absence of the government data XCPI that we got last week?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. I expect maybe it to be asked at the meeting. Uh uh Dom, well, we know that a lot of the data that they look at is stuff that we get. It's their regional Fed surveys that when you put them all together, they kind of give you a pretty decent picture of what's happening. Employment and prices. There are some private sector inflation series that we're all looking at. Um and I think they get some other data, too. some high frequency um credit card data may be something they're also looking at. So I I think they have the data, but I also think Dom that they would say that they don't have all of the data they need and that this government data is very important to determine where the economy is and where it's going.
>> All right, not flying blind, but maybe slightly visually impaired there. Steve, thank you very much for that. That's the setup for the Fed. Let's talk now about the setup for investors ahead of the Fed. Now, Tim, we're gonna start with
>> All right, folks. I uh I got a guest who's calling in. Hasn't been on the stream for a while, but uh
>> a lot of you guys know him. Sachin, what's up?
>> Doing good, man. Just uh it's uh 17 a.m. in the night in K and I'm watching you live for several hours now.
>> Well, great cuz because now you get to join the show and we get to talk. So, I love it. Um,
>> yeah.
>> So, I mean, there's a bunch of things I want to ask you, but let me let me start off with this question. Uh, the the the company that you and I really started covering a couple years ago is inching towards 200. What are your thoughts in general of Pounder? You're at 197. Um I mean to be honest it's very humbling and I was reading my old post and watching some old videos and was trying to figure it out like I mean how did I able to identify something that able to grow this much this fast and I think one of the thing like even on the very first article I wrote was that uh I wanted to look for companies um which are going to grow for 10 years 20 years and there a post on Reddit I did um and it was discussing like why companies like Palantia and why companies like SpaceX and this is the same time you know I mean early in 2020 I invested in SpaceX also and I mean those time people were very bearish on Tesla and of course like Palantia was I mean like it was taboo to discuss and in my circle nobody was nobody wants to even discuss about it.
>> Yeah. I mean uh so I thought I mean I had some feelings about the companies I have seen their their performance so I thought okay whom should I discuss and that particular time I wasn't uh active on social media and you know people like me who are supposed to go in big corporate roles and that was the the track of life that time we don't create social media presence because things can come back to bite you okay So uh but
>> did you ever did you ever expect this in your wildest dreams 450 billion in in 3 years?
>> Uh not in 3 years to be honest. Okay. I mean uh and especially like when it was $56 I think that particular time I would have taken even I mean 100 billion in three years. Okay. Uh so I think this is this is what happens. I think this is what people don't realize like when you are in a good company so you remember like when the the chat GPD happened and AIP happened so I mean you can create opportunities for you if you give yourself that optionality
>> so for example like I mean I'll give you a very simple example if somebody is investing in S&P so investing in S&P is very simple you don't have to do anything you just keep buying S&P as much as possible as much S&P grows okay so you living an easy life But then you cannot expect for 50% return. So it's it's always like you take a risk and you want something in return. So the point is like you want that optionality then you have to do something at least that will create that optionality for you. So in the case of Palantier they had this product okay they were of course there was I mean lot of misinformation about it but anyway I mean those things were there but when the the chat GP and LLM thing happened I mean the the management realized that this is it this is what is going to make ontology operationalize and it immediately brought in AIT see GP didn't happen for Palantia I mean Chad GPD happened for everyone in the industry I I mean snowflake was there. Okay. I mean a data robot was there. Everything was there. I mean all these UI path no one was able to respond as fast as this.
>> Yeah. And you know what happened that particular time is that so I mean they were able to solve complex problem before like I told you like I was in a meeting with with Palanteer guys and we were discussing about some point Airbus and they mentioned that I mean like some of the guys mentioned like the Airbus the product they build that their internal valuation Airbus like valuation was $18 billion. How many companies can say that that they created a product for a company and that product is 18 billion. 18 million is a is a quite a sizable company that can be included in S&P. So but when the AIP thing happened, AIP actually helped them in sorting their biggest trouble. The biggest issue was sales those days. If you remember, we used to discuss they need to beef up the sales team. But this whole idea like how to bring like how do you make companies feel and touch the product? Okay. uh and even like during that time I know like I mean I was working and uh I was also trying to arrange the a workshop with with my company uh those days. So that that kind of trickled and suddenly like what happened like when people came forward and people said okay yes I mean we solved this uh in this much time a lot of people say it's not possible it's not possible it's consulting and I used to work for an MBB consulting I know what a consulting company is nobody can come and tell me before that I used to work for Shambaj I mean I know what the technology consulting is I led the digital and data strategy for a company like Shambajar so I know like I I know the players I know all these players like
>> that that that was the biggest concern back then right that it was a consulting company there wasn't really tech the margins aren't there and I mean those concerns look so silly three years later
>> no I mean like I mean in 2021 my especially Q4 my day involved meeting with people in companies um I mean you named the company you name the company like Cognite snowflake uh Palanteer data robot data I was meeting these guys and I was also I mean so so I had a very good idea like well I know from my customer side what my customers are trying to solve I knew from my company side like what are my additional products that how I want to enable them and where where is the the gap in the solution so I was able to figure it out that this is probably going to be the the best solution to I mean it was I mean I mean I wasn't an investor I was a tech I was a technical guy
>> technical guy who was very sound in what he used to do and somehow able to grow up in in corporate ladder. So, but I was still like that problem solving for person. So, I was thinking it from that point of view.
>> Let me let me let me ask you this question. Would you would you sell Palanteer at these levels? Um I mean like at this point in this uh momentum whatever position I have you know I mean a portion of my position was called off because of covered calls I had uh but uh whatever I mean as a good size position is still remaining I mean I don't see I mean there is no point selling it right now.
>> Okay. Okay. So, so, so the valuation uh push back would be that it's it's aggressive and I you know numbers really well so you know it's aggressive but are you saying that the the the differentiated moat that they have across all of software is just a better reason than worrying about the valuation at the moment. So let me put it this way like the day a CEO of a $50 billion company stand up and say that we solved a problem using snowflake or data robots or data eco uh within uh 6 hours which used to take us 6 weeks or 6 months and we created a value more than 500 million a billion I probably sell I will say at that particular time there is no company.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And and you know I mean like a lot of people know like I mean there was a time like I was pushing to acquire a company which had some product called like you can call it knowledger graph or ontology. So I went really deep into that like what kind what it takes to build this kind of products. Even our own company has a team in team in Stanford that was sitting and they were building something like that. Uh I mean uh I don't want to call it was a joke but they have been doing it for years and nobody has seen I mean any part of it it hasn't seen the light of the day. So you can imagine like these things are uh are way more complex and you know it's not about like complexity it's about momentum it's about I think the focus Paluntier has is not technology the focus Palier has is how to solve the problem and so and they focus on the problems which current technologies cannot solve and then they say okay how to build technology for that so so you remember like when when when I mean like a lot of people will not remember it because it's quite old when uh Steve Jobs came back in Apple and there is a very famous round table and people are very condescending to him okay u and that particular time like Steve Jobs said something he said that I mean it's it's okay I mean yeah you can build a piece of technology and it could be very good or I mean but at the end of the day you want to build a technology and then figuring it out how to sell it to person or you want to go to the person and want to understand like what is the problem how I want to solve it what kind of product and then build technology backwards. Okay. So in a way like this is what they did. They didn't I mean like you go back to the origin of the company they said okay what happened and you know despite all the conspiracy theories and everything like the the basic idea was very simple. They said and as per the the official version of 911 everybody said that there were informations and data available in different systems and nobody was able to match it to figure it out about the 911 attack but that was the official conclusion of the 911 uh whatever investigative team has learned
>> right
>> so that was the starting point like how do we figure out how do we find a system that can swing through uh all the set of data while protecting all the the the the liberties and uh it should not be like become a tool to to to punish people in a in a bad way. Yeah. No I I
>> Yeah.
>> I was so the idea was very simple this is a problem and this current technology cannot solve this problem. So what kind of technology will required?
>> Yeah. No, and it ended up being Palenter and and obviously we've seen that in the growth use cases over the past couple years which I also think was also very important. Such I don't want to keep you too long but two other quick questions for you and then I'll let you leave. Uh first off we got grab earnings coming up. Any quick thoughts on what you think we can expect in Q3 for that?
>> Um no man I mean see their performance is good but my view is Grab probably will be a slow burn. Okay. Grab is is not a US company. So the US catalyst don't apply here. People need to understand that part. It's a southeast. It's a very strong company. It has a lot of cash. It's growing very good. I mean I'm a grad user. I know. I mean like this is probably the only company in my in my uh portfolio for which which I'm a user. Okay. So uh the thing what happen is like when this company but when you have such a strong company they can make massive strategic moves and that is where I think the major major push will come. So for example say uh tomorrow uh say for example say Clara want to go into Southeast Asia. Clara doesn't have license. So Clara can go and
>> pounder. Last question for you is PayPal. So you took a position in it had a big day yesterday kind of giving back some of the gains. Are you doubling down here or what would you do from
>> I have already doubled down. I mean I already posted that I already increased my position and this is probably the largest league position I have ever taken. Okay, it's it's it's it's bigger than my SOFI and AMD initial position. Okay, so the idea is very simple. See, okay. Um, so there there is a fundamental view and there is a technical. So let me explain the technical view first, which is simpler. I mean, so for example, if you see where the the label of PayPal is PayPal is just closed above its 200 moving average, which hasn't happened for a long time. If you see all the I mean moving average very close to golden cross or silver cross where you want to look at it and it's at the level like 69 and above. Now when you look at the weekly moving average they are just double in the history of PayPal in the history of PayPal all of these six averages has never came under a $10 range. They are currently in a $6 range. It has never happened. So think about a spring which is there's a pressure from top there's a pressure from bottom. So what will happen at the end of the day? Inertia will make it break either on the top side or on the bottom side. No. Okay. Uh this is where the fundamental part come. Fundamental part is now currently PS for this company is two. The PE is 40. It has never been this low. The company the growth is not like super 30% or 40% like Sofi and Hood can get but it is decent growth. They are buying by the stocks like crazy. It's undervalued. There is no question about it. It has been become the first uh uh wallet with JBD which is the biggest or the most uh exclusive pixie dust that you can find in in in these waters nowadays. Okay. So for example, let's say it breaks below at this level. Okay. Uh so what I mean it might go to 50 but it come back to these levels. Eventually it has to break up. And if you see like this base that we are talking about like this 60 or 50 to 90 I mean this base is now over 3 years we all know what happens when a base is this long company is performing I mean yeah I mean we are going to see serious move at some point in this okay uh so it's an asymmetric back in my opinion at this particular time okay I mean my downside is that uh if it doesn't move I will eventually like in next seven 8 months Once I will get I mean a decent exit. Okay, my my average point for example like the leak is $8.3 uh for me like I mean I will get an exit if I find that it's really not moving somewhere around seven or 7.5. So and if it moves I mean let's see I mean it can really go goes I mean seriously up.
>> Yeah, I agree. And I I also think the downside is limited at this point. Maybe you know you have to wait until it actually makes that move but
>> it does feel like the downside is and I it feels like you've caught more of a bottom here
>> which is a good thing. I mean it's a it's a see eventually what will happen like uh when market breaks everyone goes for these kind of companies which are slightly undervalued bit on safer side even if they go down they don't go down rel I mean like so far inhood will go down more relative to companies they they they move they they are high beta company they move uh higher in both directions that's the reality but when you get to a point where you realize that the the possibility of downside side and a possibility of decent exit uh exist for you in case thesis don't work or stock doesn't react. I mean this is where I always take large size. I mean this is where I took large size Valentia. I took large size with AMD. I took large size with SoFi. I mean uh I mean if you don't take large size then then when do you take I mean large size. Well, that that's the one thing I've learned from you over the past couple years as well is like if you're gonna have conviction, you might be right, you might be wrong, but if you're right, you should really enjoy being right, you know?
>> Yeah. I mean, uh so same thing like I mean like when uh uh you remember the sofi discussion we had like in April, I mean like once we knew that okay liberation day issues are sorted out so far is back to 13. So that particular point calculating the probability it will be above 20 by the year end was was quite decent. I mean it could reach to 2122 because I mean the performance was still coming strong. So at that particular time buying the January calls at 83 cent was a clear asymmetric bet that means even if it goes to 22 you still make I mean more than 100%. So now I mean it is 31 32. Okay, the calls which I bought on 83 cents and I haven't sort of sold yet a single call. I mean uh those calls are I don't know like today I was seeing were like 12 $13 and I'm still not selling I still have couple of months to ride on that okay with rate cuts and with all discussion of S&P inclusion and funny thing is the because it was such a good stock I mean all of this money all the I mean the the initial capital came from selling cash secured put so this is practically a free position for me. Yeah, it makes sense. It makes sense. Suchin, there's his Twitter right there in the chat. Thank you for being here. Thank you for being a great part of the community. I mean, a lot of us appreciate all the insights you've given, especially on pound share over the past couple years. And, you know, deeply means a lot.
>> There's one one more thing I want to tell Amit. I think this is I I'm more keen about my AMD position going into things and I wrote an article also like because to me like this is a bit tricky. Yes, the stock has run and there is lot of upside and there's a lot of revenue has to come but it will all come next year and year after. So what happens the AMD has to deliver the triple beat and AMD has to raise their guidance like mad like Oracle raised their guidance something like that
>> agreed
>> if they don't do it I mean this is at least for now they I I believe it will tank
>> I agree 100%. 100% but but they have this open air partnership you'd imagine they do increase that fiscal year 26 guidance but
>> I mean they have to and Lisa is a smart CEO I mean she knows what's at stake here because you cannot once you lose the confidence of investors I mean for example just imagine I mean Nvidia delivers a solid earnings and Nvidia goes to 230 240 and they mass up and they go to for example say 220 210 but investors will think now I would prefer to be in Nvidia than AMD So she has to maintain the moment and it's pretty simple. You have such large deal with open AI, you have such large deal with uh with Oracle. Why not raise guidance like a like a madman? Okay. So I I I'm still trying to figure it out and this is where I'm up so late is like how to h this position because this is quite big for me. I mean it's quite a big position and I mean uh at this point it's already a 10x for me.
>> Wow. Congrats.
>> Okay.
>> Incredible.
>> I mean because I sold a piece of portion of this when it 3x then then it tanked again then I bought again. So practically the calls I have they're effectively $6.1 for me and those calls are nowadays like 86 $88. So it's close to get 15x and I mean I haven't sold a single thing.
>> No.
>> So that that position I'm more more keen like what to do in next 3 4 days how to hedge it. I don't want to exit it but I just want to hedge it one way or other way.
>> All right. Thank you Sachin. Appreciate it. His link in the chat. You can follow his Twitter his articles. Thank you Sachin for hopping on. Really appreciate it.
>> Thanks man. You take care man.
>> Y happy birthday.
>> Thank you. Appreciate it. Talk later.
>> Thank
>> 10x on AMD. So I think Satchin's up like 200% year to date. Um AMD, SoFi, and Palunteer really helping that. Uh but yeah, for those that I think there was a little bit of a glitch for 10 seconds with YouTube, but he said he's super bullish PayPal and he's doubling down on PayPal. He's doubling down on PayPal here and he thinks it is more asymmetric. I mean, look, I agree with them. It's definitely asymmetric. The question is, will you have the upside to the asymmetry? But look, are they going to take PayPal down to 50? Like, it it does really feel like the downside shouldn't be as aggressive as what the upside could be. But the question is just can they change their narrative and really get that growth? uh update on mortgage rates that we talked about in the morning, lowest since September 2024.
>> Now joins us with the numbers and what exactly is going to drive some of that home buying sentiment. Diana,
>> well Dom, let's start with interest rates. Now, the average on the 30-year fix dropped last week, as you said, to the lowest level since September of last year. That's on the Mortgage Bankers Association's weekly report. It moved even lower to start this week on a separate read from Mortgage News Daily. Now, as a result, applications to refinance a home loan last week jumped 9% for the week and were a whopping 111% higher than the same week one year ago. That is correct. Rates were higher last year, but only by 43 basis points when you compare that exact week. Demand from home buyers moved up a little bit, but buyers have not been nearly impressed by these lower rates. And you see that in the latest pending home sales index out this morning. Sales in September were unchanged from August and dropped 0.9% year-over-year according to the National Association of Realtors.
>> We're going to need to get lower than six. We're going to need to get lower than six, I think, to get Yeah, as a lot of you guys are saying, too early to refi. 5.9, 6.05, 6.3 is not cutting it. Like, I don't know if that's enough to get people excited. And that's why we need the rate cuts today. Now, hopefully those rate cuts end up leading to the 10-year falling and that could help mortgage rates. 10, you're back above four. Got JPound 30 minutes or at least the announcement in 30 minutes. Then we'll get FC at 230, but um the the cut is going to be vital to hopefully get 30-year mortgages to start coming down. Decision is in 30 minutes. In 30 minutes, we will get the decision. Dude, did you guys see that tweet from Barbell Financial? He freaking rage baited the entire platform of Twitter. Um, look at this. It's got eight million views, bro. He said, "I just paid off my mortgage. The only good mortgage is a paid off one. Our biggest monthly expense is gone." The rate 2.625%. 2.625%. For context, a money market fund is giving you almost 70% above that rate if you just put your cash there. I was just like, bro, he rage baited everybody. Everybody. And then this is his next comment after it. He said, um, he said, what did he say? He said, "To all the idiots, to all the people saying I'm an idiot for paying off my house and being truly debt free, maybe you are just having a bad day, but better days are right ahead of you. Your rent and mortgage payments are coming to in four days." Like, this dude is just having fun with it. He doesn't care. There's two sides to this, right? The first side is that you get the peace of mind of paying off some of your debt, which is like, you know, like like what's the price on peace of mind? Now, one could argue, well, the price is 3.75% in a money market fund. But, uh, that peace of mind sometimes is invaluable to people that just don't want to deal with the debt payment. The other argument is, wait a second, if you're, you know, getting a very low rate to finance your capital or to finance your purchases, then the opportunity cost of your capital is significantly more valuable than than the cash that you would use to pay it off. So, like my Tesla has 0% APY. just wouldn't make sense to pay off the remaining $22,000 when like I'm not having to pay any interest on it. That $500 a month that you're paying on. It's like, okay, that's that's it. That's all you have to like there's no necessity to be like, let me just pay this off. Unless I mentally wanted to feel better that I paid off my Tesla. But outside of that, it's like any excess cash not going into Tesla can be making way more than 0%. Because the interest is 0%. Now, with a home at 2.65, you can still get a lot more above that, but his argument was more so about peace than anything, or at least mental peace. Let me let me do a poll. How many people would agree with that? 70% of you say pump after the FOMC, by the way. So, we got a decent amount of people saying we're going higher, which I think we are, but I'm also like, dude, we're at alltime highs. I wonder if the market gives us a bit of a rug. if it's already baked in. Would you pay off a 2.6% mortgage early? I feel like most people will say no. Amit, are you here the whole day? Yes. This is the first all day stream we've done in a while. Last time we did this was May and it was similar around this time. We had a lot of earnings coming up so we just stayed live but doing the same today. Dude, we did this also that remember PayPal earnings back in uh February 2024. We stayed live the whole day for that as well and I think we had pounder in the night, but it was a long day. So, we've done it a couple times. We're going to have a couple Jose will join in a bit um for earnings. I think Sam is gonna join. So once we get a lot of the FOMC and all this stuff, we're going to see what happens. Uh 68% said no. So still 30% say yes, you would pay it off early. Can you recap the morning stories? Yeah, I mean we didn't have a lot of crazy stuff happen in the morning. We talked about China. Trump had some really good updates on potentially giving the Blackwell to Xi and uh you know having a better deal with China. So that was bullish for Nvidia. Nvidia obviously popped to an all-time high of 212 pound got to 198. Um China bought more soybeans which was also bullish 180,000 tons from the United States sign of goodwill. Amazon opened up an 11 billion data center in Indiana from a cornfield and they also expanded their partnership with uh Anthropic. Nvidia got upgraded to 275 from Bank of America. And then on some of these macro charts, zero DTE options, 1.2 million a day retail is now trading, which is quite incredible for the options volatility. Uh this is all the stuff Nvidia's done over the past couple of days. Samsung partnership, Hyundai partnership, Crowd Strike, Uber, Palunteer, billion dollar investment in Nokia, seven new partnerships or seven new supercomputers with US government, US partnership uh or partnership with US DOE and 500 billion in expected business over the next five quarters. And then Google got to a lovely all-time high, which is also nice to see. Wow. 27240 on the Googs. 27240 on the Googs. I love being debtree on my house and an extra 3500 a month. Yeah, I mean that's the bullcase of it. Obviously the argument is you can still make that money without having to completely be debtree. But again, it really comes down to psychologically just how do you want to navigate? I mean, I've definitely paid off stuff early, like just because I don't want to deal with having to log in every month and actually making the payment and it just feels better to be off, but like on the bigger purchases, it's more like, okay, there's no need to pay that much early. So, I think it's just a a preference right here. BMR 50.87 down from 53. Peggy says, "We paid off our house to over 10 years early." And say debt again. It's debt. That's how you say it. There's no way in hell I'm saying debt wrong. Isn't the B silent in debt? There's no freaking way I'm saying it wrong. Yeah. See, look, even Google debt.
>> I said death. Well, debt can sometimes lead to death. I guess it's pronounced debit. Okay, I could have really trolled everybody and said debit. Oh my goodness. I could have trolled everyone or I could have like really stressed the beat. The debt. The debt. It's important to pay off the deba. But that would have been too obvious, dude. People would have known it was a troll at that point. Would have been too obvious. Way too obvious. Way too obvious. SoFi still down 2.6. Grabby up two. And then Wow, Google's pushing, bro. Like really pushing. 27258 on the Googs. Why do we think it's pumping before earnings? I don't know. I mean, Street's expecting some good numbers, but like is it that good? Okay, Estee Ladar, I say correctly. Everyone just wants to hate on me. Uh AWS again, still seeing outages right here. So, it's not looking like Microsoft there's a little bit of resolution based on what they said with Azure. AWS is still down. Um we got a quote from Sam Alman. Sam Alman's OpenAI says they have committed to 1.4 4 trillion in compute costs and would like to do much more depending on revenue growth. Wow. Oh my. Is this from the live stream they did the other day? 1.4 trillion in compute costs. Did they just do an update? Oh, they just did an update just now. They just did one. Let me uh Yeah, let me pull this up. Okay. And then I want to go on to infrastructure. So I know there's been a lot of confusion about sort of where we are in our infrastructure buildout and we figured we would just be super transparent about that. So where we are today um all of our commitments total a little bit over 30 gawatt of uh of infrastructure buildout. Um and that's about a $1.4 trillion total uh financial obligation for us over the next many years. Um this is what we've committed to so far. Are we
>> Can you say over the next 90 years?
>> And that's about a $1.4 trillion total uh financial obligation for us over the next many years. Um this
>> No, he said many, bro. But it sounded like 90, right? If that's the case, all right, I guess the cycle is going to go on for the next century at this point. If that's what we're doing,
>> is what we've committed to so far. We of course hope to do much more but given the picture we see today, given what we think we can see for revenue growth, our ability to raise capital, this is what we're currently comfortable with. This requires a ton of partnerships. We've talked about uh many of our great chip partners. Uh there are people building the data centers for us, land, energy. Uh there will be chip fab facilities. This is already getting to require quite a lot of supply chain innovation and we're thrilled to get to work with uh AMD, Broadcom, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, Oracle, Soft Bank, many others to really make this happen. But this is still early. If the if the work that Yakob talks about comes to fruition, which we think it will, and if the economic value of these things um happen and people want to use all these services, we're going to need much more than this. So I want to be clear, we're not committing to this yet, but we are having conversations about it. Our aspiration is that we can build an infrastructure factory where we can create 1 gawatt a week of uh compute and we aspirationally would like to get that cost down significantly um to like $20 billion a gawatt over the 5year life cycle of uh you know that equipment. To do this will require a ton of innovation, a ton of partnerships, obviously a lot of revenue growth. um we'll have to repurpose our thoughts about robotics to help us build data centers instead of doing all the other things. Um but this is where we'd like to go and over the coming months we are going to do a lot of work to see if we can get here. Um it will be some time before we're in a financial position where we could actually pull the trigger and get going on this. 1 gawatt is like a big number, but I figured we would show a little video to put this into perspective. Um this is uh a data center that we're building in Abene, Texas. This is the first Stargate site. We're doing several of these now around the country, but this one is the furthest along. There's like many thousands of people that work here every day just doing the construction at the site. There's probably hundreds of thousands or millions of people that work in the supply chain to make all this happen to design these chips, to fab these chips, to put them together. Um there, you know, there's all of the work that goes into this for energy. There's an enormous amount of stuff that has to happen um for each one gigawatt. And we want to figure out how we can make this way more efficient and way cheaper and way more scalable. so that we can deliver on the infrastructure that the research roadmap requires and that all of the ways that people will want to use this need
>> 1.4 4 trill folks that they've committed to. By the way, I guess Google decided to just make the earnings move before the earnings 273. Dude, could you imagine if they deliver a good quarter and this jumps up to 290? Like, it's not out of the realm of possibility. What's the implied move on Google? Isn't it like 5%. I think it's five, right? Yeah, that would be that would be putting Google to the upside at around 287 5.5 implied. Okay, so that yeah, that would get you to 290 on a 5 and a half% move. Now, a 5 and a half% move is is still aggressive for a company of their size, but if they really blow it out of the park, who knows? Got the googs at 200 273. Uh, we got an update from Marjorie Taylor Green. What has she bought? She's our Nancy, right? She's our new Nancy. She bought more IBIT. She bought PaloAlto Network, IBIT, and Amjit. PaloAlto Network. I bid in Amjen. She also bought Palenter back in January. Such says Google generates the most free cash flow in the whole world. Yeah. And they might get heavily rewarded for that today as well if they can continue that. Okay. So, Bitcoin, Amgen, and PaloAlto Networks. That's what NY's buying. All right. Or not Nancy, sorry, Marjorie Taylor Green. Um it is nice to see them buy a little bit of biddy given Bitcoin's been kind of stuck but Bitcoin down on the day. Nvidia still 207 and then Tesla 461. Palanter going back for 198. She's trying 198.40 19772. June says I just sold Amjen. Where is Amjen? We even looked into this the other day. This stock I think is up for the year. Amgen yeah 12%. So going back to Sam Alman again 1.4 trillion in commitments is is quite incredible. And again this is you know what Suchin was saying about AMD like honestly Larry Ellson doesn't have 300 billion in revenue but he has 300 billion in performance obligations which are not contracted as revenue in any legal capacity. It's just what the street is what the company believes if they live up to their obligations they will be able to achieve in contract backlog. I agree with Such and that's what Lisa Sue has got to do. She's got to say, "Hey, we're increasing our RPO by like 80 billion because it's like 10 billion a gigawatt or something that they have with OpenAI and it doesn't have to be real today. The promise of it just has to be real for tomorrow. And that maybe is enough to give it a pump, but we're going to have to see. We are going to have to see if they can do that. We got the uh 15 minutes until we get the FOMC decision and we're going to see what we get. Palanteer 19774, Tesla still flat, and then Invidia right there at 206. Again, Pal is going to be speaking at 2:30, but in 15 minutes, we're going to get the exact the exact u decision on what's going to happen or not. There's no news on Google. We've been trying to figure out what's happening. Uh the anthropic news is a couple days old, so not sure why it's pumping, but probably people getting ready for a bit of a move. Also, again, guys, this is something we got to be ready for. This could be ALGO just setting up a little bit of a pump and dump, a little bit of a rug pull. This has happened the past few FOMC meetings. Now, the last one was really good because we got the JPAL pivot, but the two before that, you had a pump and then you had a dump. The dump wasn't as aggressive, but nonetheless, you did have a dump. So, it is one of those things that you have to just watch out for when this takes place. The rate cut in general should be rather bullish. Ethereum right there back at 4,000. This was Paul Tudtor Jones yesterday uh making the argument that a blowoff the top which is when things get so exuberant that they hit such a you know such a peak that it's almost easily identifiable why this was the peak and then everything crashes. He says we are in place for a rally before we get that blowoff top.
>> Um well it it it's like the Prince song. It's 1999. Party like it's 1999, right? Feels exactly like
>> It's a great song, by the way, for those who haven't heard it. Phenomenal song.
>> 1999. I don't know whether we'll actually replay it exactly, but I think all the ingredients are in place and certainly from a trading standpoint, you have to position yourself like it's October 99. Um, I don't see why you would do anything but that. And remember, the NASDAQ doubled between the first week of October 99 and March of 2000. So, if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's probably not a chicken, right?
>> But you think it's 99? And we were talking to Mike Novagrats earlier today. It's not 98. I mean, everyone's in the it's either 98, 99, but it's not 96. By the way, Steve said yesterday it's 1989.
>> So Steve thinks Steve thinks the party has not even started,
>> I guess, is the point. And that's that's a problem potentially,
>> right?
>> Or it's maybe an opportunity, but you have to get on and off the train pretty quick.
>> Well, if you just think about bull markets, right, the the the greatest price appreciation is always the 12 months preceding the top. So that's the nature of of a bull market. It kind of doubles whatever the annual average is. before then. So if you don't play it
>> right,
>> you're missing out on the juice. If you do play it, you get you have to have really happy feet because there will be uh a really really bad end to it. And my guess is that I think all the ingredients are in place for some kind of a blowoff. Will it happen? Again, history rhymes a lot. So I would think some version of it is going to happen again. If if anything now is so much more potentially explosive than 1999. 1999 we were looking at a rate hike in November. Now we're looking at a rate cut. We were looking at four more rate hikes before we actually topped in 2000. Now we're looking at four rate well three or four rate cuts probably at least. So you have monetary policy that's going to take us to real rates of zero or less probably depending upon the next Fed share. And then the big difference is obviously fiscal policy. We had a budget surplus in 992000. Now we've got a 6% budget deficit. So that combination, that fiscal monetary combination is a brew that we haven't seen since I guess the post-war period, early 50s, something like that. And that was crazy times, right? Coming out of the war.
>> But you think that most people who are watching us now, you need to be in this market now. But then the question, as I said, is you have to jump off the train before the train crashes. If you're suggesting the train is going to crash,
>> I'm not suggesting the train's going to crash. I'm suggesting that we're in a period that's conducive for massive price appreciation in a variety of assets. Will it happen or not? I don't know. There's if you kind of just look if you just think about the leverage that we had in 1999, you look at margin debt and then you look at today margin debt, but you have to throw in leverage ETFs because people don't use margin like they did back then. We're probably a little more elevated than we were in October of 99. It will take a speculative frenzy for us to elevate those prices, right? It will take more retail buying. It'll take more recruitment from a variety of other from long short hedge funds, from real money, etc. It'll take a a combination of those things. It's not going to go up without flows and without a story. The story is there. is the combination of the most unique and aggressive fiscal and monetary uh conditions that we've ever seen.
>> Okay.
>> And look, I I think he's right about that. By the way, pounder trying to make a move potentially at 199. But he's making two points right there. That retail is going to have to get really excited again, which retail is already very excited. So the level of a blowoff top euphoric retail excitement, I don't even know what that looks like. I mean, I genuinely don't know what that would look like. it would have to be a magnitude above what we're seeing already. Uh he's right about the leveraged ETFs increasing the types of margin people are using. So instead of borrowing money, if you're going double XX leveraged on these ETFs, which there's about 705 of the the levered versions of them, which is an all-time high, that is another form of margin that could be entering into the system. Uh and then you're going to have to have really good monetary policy. Now, the one problem with that turning into this massive euphoric top is that if the earnings growth continues to catch up with it, which today is going to be a big day to see if that does, then maybe it doesn't have to be as euphoric if there's enough earnings to justify it. By the way, pound your all-time highs here. 1985 19850 was the alltime high. I'll check 199 resistance, but looks like she's going for it. Uh, so the the recipes are in place, but again, I feel like for it to be so euphoric, you would still need companies to not execute for there to be a reason for the selling to eventually happen, which is what we saw in 21 with rate hikes and obviously companies just weren't able to put up the earnings growth necessary to maintain their multiples. In this situation, you do have those companies putting up earnings. 199 is 41,000 shares. 41,000 shares. Dude, I was saying maybe we see 200 after earnings. I've been saying it for the past two weeks and now it's like I don't know it it is a little I mean look whenever something runs up before earnings if the earnings don't deliver absolutely what the street was expecting then it could get hit as any stock can get hit uh as a runup into earnings but if the earnings deliver even better I mean this thing's going above 200 but we got to see what we can get on those earnings Um the earnings growth for the 12 months preceding the dotcom burst was almost 20 to 30%. So that doesn't have to be enough to stop it. Look, that's a fair point. I would say here the earnings growth has to persist in a in a meaningful way, right? Like we we need multiple multiple years of earnings growth and we would, you know, this year I would say 2025 has been the only first quote unquote year of earnings growth because 23 you had some growth but it was whatever. 24 you were just starting to see a little bit of a peak. For the past three quarters in 2025, Q3 is not over yet in 25, but based on what we've seen so far, it's been double digit earnings growth. We didn't have that in 24 at least. I don't remember companies beating by an average of 10%. Uh I think Q2 is 8.5% on EPS. So that would have to happen for the coming years to get more money to be excited to be, you know, taking on the risk of of of investing in an equity in order for it to not feel as exuberant. But again, you know, this is a weird time, guys. guys, we had a 3% draw down and people went and bought the dip like it was like there was no tomorrow back on October 10th. Like I really wonder what it would take for people to just say I am not going to buy. I'm gonna stay in cash whenever I have the quoteunquote opportunity of a dip because everyone's so conditioned to buy. And it's like I don't I I don't know over the next I mean you would have to have some really aggressive uh downturns for people to feel so scared to put money back into the market because again retail's just not been scared and as a result the hedge funds have started to you know have to capitulate and they can't be as scared as they were before as well. Yeah. Joby partnership with Nvidia we saw that yesterday. That's why Nvidia got a move or that's why Joby got a move yesterday as well. Lumen, I don't know what happened over the past couple days. They announced that Ballinger partnership. Stock's been doing great. Look at that. Up 11% on the day. I don't think these guys had earnings yet. But this one has been making a move. The only negative catalyst is no rate cuts. Yeah, like again, we spent a good amount of time today talking about the labor market. It is inevitable we are going to get rate cuts. JPAL has no choice but to cut these rates. Like one of the only cushions the Fed has in a structural change via AI on the economy for labor markets is uh cutting rates and today will be the first day where they continue to begin that. We have five minutes folks. Five minutes for this rate cut. All right. What are we doing? What are we doing? Is anyone buying something? Selling something? Is anyone doing a little bit of a trade? What are the prediction markets saying? I think it's got to be like 99%. It's got to be 99% on the rate cut. Yeah, it's not even worth taking a bet, dude. It's 99% cut 25. Being nervous. We all know it's a rate cut. I'm just curious what's going to happen. What are we going to see? I wonder if it's an immediate knee-jerk reaction up or down. The United States announced the deal with Korea in the morning. We talked about that in the morning. They have a bunch of different investments Korea is uh pledging to put into the United States. But no specific news just now on US and Korea. China US tomorrow. That's going to be really important as well. That should be happening at 11 a.m. That's what scares me. We're all too convinced. Well, I am I am not there. There is zero hesitation in my brain about us getting a rate cut. I I am I guess you could I I just have no idea how the market would react. If we were in red today, I feel like the rate cut would be the bolt, but we're at alltime highs. So, it's kind of like, okay, is Nvidia just going back up to 212 when we cut the rates? Like, we already know we're cutting the rates. Is it fully baked in? Is it going to tank after the rate cut because markets are like, "All right, we got it and now we can take some profits and get ready." Like, I I don't know. I am very curious to see what this happens. Let's make my tweet. This is how we make the tweet every time before before the ray cut. All right, breaking. Jerome Pal and the Federal Reserve have lowered interest rates by 25 basis points. Boom. Then we need a good photo of JPAL. Which photo do we use? Oh, look at that. That's a new one. I like that one. I think we go with this. Do we go with this? This is my favorite one of JPAL. I I've seen so many JPAL pictures. I have favorites. Is that kind of weird? I don't think it's that weird, bro. It's like It's the Fed chair. You gotta you gotta know this this is actually this one you know this picture is a that's a younger Jerome you know what I mean that picture is a definitely a nice picture as well if you know what I mean it's a good picture this one I think we'll do this one's a good one too this looks like James Bond bro the thumbs up picture thumbs up are you Are you sure? All right, if you guys are sure. We got two minutes, so we have to make a decision. This one's a good one, too. Thumbs up. Thumbs up. Okay. All right. That's what we're doing. That is what we are doing actually. No, I don't like that, bro. That's We can't do that one. That's getting cut off. Oh, no. We have a minute. We have a minute. We have to pick it. All right, we're going with Old Faithful. That one's getting cut off, guys. We can't do that one. Twitter's cutting it off. It's turning it into a box. It's like it's going to make it look weird when it pops up on the feed. All right, here we go. Here we go. Let me go to FOMC. Uh, we should be getting the results any second. 30 seconds. Let me just pull this up in the background. All right, folks. Do we think we're getting it? Are we getting the cuts? Are we getting the cut? Are we getting the cut? I will give you guys as soon as I see it come across my feed. I'm on their website. So, we all know what's going to happen, but we're just like waiting. All right, here we go. I'm waiting for the press release. I'm waiting for it. All right, it's 2 p.m. Dude, if it's 50, that's going to be I don't think it's 50, but if it's 50, that would be crazy. Is it 25? Is it 25? I'm on the website. Uh, I don't see it yet. It's probably 25. It should be popping up very soon. Should be popping up soon. Okay, I think we got it. I think it's 25 to 4%. There were two descents on this. The second one
>> is 25. Two descents.
>> One by new Fed Governor Myron who wanted 50. first one by Kansas City Fed President Jeff Smith who wanted no change. So dissents on both sides, a kind of a rare occurrence for the Fed. The Federal Reserve announcing it is stopping quantitative tightening or the roll off of its balance sheet as soon as December. Um all rolloffs of treasuries from here on out and mortgage back securities on the Fed's balance sheet will now be invested into T bills. It's a bit of a change there. on the economy. The Fed said economic activity expanded at a moderate pace. According to available indicators, one of two nods in the statement to the absence of data by the Federal Reserve. It had
>> no pump on the markets. If anything, you're getting a little bit of red, nothing crazy. I mean, a little bit of green on some of these stocks, but you wouldn't be able to differentiate it too much from what we saw yesterday or from what we saw like five minutes ago. Nothing too crazy right now. said in September that the economy was moderating. So almost a bit of a an upgrade to the economy, but according to available data, job gains, it said, has slowed. However, unemployment remained low through August. And again, it said more recent indicators are consistent with these developments. That's another nod to the idea that the Fed doesn't really have the official data. More recent indicators is what it's using. Inflation, it says, has moved up since earlier this year and remains somewhat elevated. That is the same characterization as September. And there's not much in the way of of uh forecasting the future path of rates. I believe that will have to wait for the um press conference from Fed Chair Powell. But again, the Fed cutting by a quarter, two dissents on both sides of the uh of the issue. One pro wanted more, one wanted none at all. And the Fed stopping quantitative tightening as of December, guys. So, no QT in December, which means we're going to stop selling off bonds, which is really good for the US balance sheet, very good for liquidity, great for the M2 money supply. Market should love that. Where is Bitcoin? Are we getting any move on Bitcoin? Uh, yeah, you got a green candle to 112. A little bit below 112. So, you got a little bit of move there. ETH basically flat at 4,000 but you have uh no QT in December. Uh someone dissented and they said no cut. The other person descented Moran and said 50 cuts or 50 basis points. So the majority of people agreed that 25 is the right option. One person wanted to be more bullish. One person wanted to be a little bit more bearish. The bond yields are higher. People are selling off bonds on this news. How about gold? Gold is also higher. Little bit higher. Not crazy higher, but above 4,000. Same thing with silver. Up 1.98%. SoFi dumping. Is it okay? It's not. Well, it's it's it potentially is going to lose 31 right here. You're getting a little bit of a back stop at 31. Nvidia, I mean, at least it's holding 200, which is nice to see. Pound here just below 198. The Googles still holding basically 273. TLT is obviously down because the 10 years up. Apples down a little bit. NFA still down 11%. Microsoft down half a percent from Azure. Dell's flat. Rocket Lab's up 4.2. I don't think there's any headline on Rocket Lab, but that's helping it out. Uh how about the Rare Earth plays? What's going on with them? They are all red except one. Uh Bitcoin miners are all red except CleanSpark, Bit Farms, Hive, Marathon, and Riot. The rest of them are down. Amcor is slightly green. I mean, this is pretty flat, guys. We're not getting we're not getting a big move. Even though he is confirming quantitative tightening is going to end by December. Last time he said it in an interview, he said we might be ending it soon. Today, he's confirming that by the end of the year, there's no more there's no more QT. Tesla going slightly green. Yeah, feels like it was priced in. Feels like it was priced in, folks. In about 20 minutes, we will have the actual meeting with JPAL, but so far definitely feels like this was more priced in than not. And I mean, it it should be, right? The street kind of knew what was going to happen. There was a 99% chance and ALOS will likely still have to wait until we get some more results. Let's get a little bit of coverage on this, but the Federal Reserve is cutting by 25 bits. have moved maybe higher by anywhere from what I could see one to three basis points. This is all about the Fed rate press conference now at this point. But what stood out to you from hearing what you heard from Steve and then what you saw or didn't see from the market reaction?
>> So that's a great question. So I I think that we are in the sweet spot of policy uncertainty for markets. And what I mean by that is that we're expecting there to be better growth in 2026, but at the same time, we're also expecting the Fed to cut interest rates. So you may have higher growth, you may have a labor market which is keeping wage inflation and wages relatively, you know, stable, which keeps profit margins high for companies. And again, better growth, lower rates. You're discounting those future cash flows at a lower rate. You're increasing the present value. And what it's doing is it's supporting valuation. So this uncertainty that's being discussed right now with the labor market and what Fed policy is likely to do and lower interest rates, equities of the beneficiary.
>> Okay, David, you you see it all from an from an asset management perspective. Does this change at all anything with regard to how you view future allocations, how new client money gets put to work? What exactly does this mean in the construct of how investors have to view what this rate decision will mean for them? Well, I think the one interesting thing was that descent uh uh in terms of not cutting at all from the Kansas City Fed president. I think that that is really interesting uh because it does says it says it says that there's some push back and I think the push back isn't about the economy. I think it is about you know how strong markets have been this year and if that gathers a little little uh momentum we may see Fed easing a little bit more slowly next year. So maybe not heading straight down to 3%. uh in terms of investors here you I think it's been a wonderful year for investors but that follows two great years and you know I'd say rebalance rebalance rebalance I mean I think people just need to make look at the risk side of their portfolios and not just the the very strong gains that we've seen in equity markets
>> Francis you right there you go the coveted 25 bips we have seen in the next 20 minutes we'll get JPAL to cough and say good afternoon and uh avoid any questions about Trump, but all of that will start in the next 20 minutes. I don't know what the street is going to want him to say to really get more excited. I mean, he said he's not going to do QT and he has said that uh well, he has not said that, but it looks like the the the summary of economic projections is signaling that December we're likely going to get another rate cut. So, we got one more left for the year. I mean, this is all bullish, but again, like the S&P is at alltime highs. Like, it's like no one can be upset right now, you know? It's like, all right, Nvidia 207, S&P 688. I mean, we probably were going to just bust through 690 just off of the rate cut that's priced in, but it's not like anyone could be too upset. 68840. Yeah, it's not like we dumped exactly when you had a little bit of red on some names. Ethereum going red, Bitcoin going a little red, but outside of that, it's still strong. Here is uh what the Fed said. So again, they're going to reinvest the principal payments from the Federal Reserves holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage back securities received in October, November that exceeds a cap of 35 billion a month into Treasury securities to roughly match the maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding, aka no more QT. Usually they would be selling those assets off which is we've been doing QT for the past two and a half years. So the fact that it's changing now is important. Um as you can see right here JPEL says job gains have slowed this year and the unemployment rate has edged up but remained low. Inflation through August. More recent indicators are consistent with these developments. Inflation has moved up earlier since in the year. The new chair announcement should be in December. Trump said he would announce it in December. So, I don't think we're going to have to wait till January, but we will get it in December. TLT is down. Yes, as the 10-year spikes up. I mean, the 10ear spiking up is kind of not that surprising as investors are potentially asking for a better rate to get their capital stuck in bonds. Also, I mean, look, even though rates are coming down, if rates are coming down and that's good for equities, you might have some investors going more risk on and saying we don't want to be stuck in 4% yielding bonds when Nvidia just went up 10% in less than 24 hours. So, that that could be a little bit more of the money coming off the bond market side going into equities, but you do have the S&P relatively flat from before the announcement. Still don't know why Google's running the way it's running. Still I have no idea why Google made it. 2% move on Google is not small but I feel like it's anticipation of earnings. Um is the rate season as a response to the economic downturn? Yes. I mean I would imagine again we talked a lot about the labor market not being the best. There's tons of different stats about layoffs. So yes, it's in response to the labor market. I mean that's what JPL said in his statement. But on top of that, it's also in response to the fact that they just can't be as restrictive as they've been for the past two and a half years, especially if they see any level of weakness. Uh the committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2% over the long run. Uncertainty about the economic outlook remains elevated. The committee is attentive to the risk to both sides of his dual mandate and judges that the downside risks to employment rose in recent months. There you go. That's your quote. The downside risk to unemployment has rose over the past couple months. leading them to feel more cautious about cutting rates. And that's what we got. Why is Nokia down? Thank you for the super chat. I'm not sure. I mean, well, if I had to guess, it would be that they went up 25% yesterday. So, going down 5% is not, you know, crazy. It's giving back a little bit of those gains. People taking profits on Nokia. I I don't think it has to do much with the rate cuts. You know, this might be one of the more boring uh FOMC meetings in terms of stock market reactions because this is like everyone knew it was a rate cut. There was really no controversy there. And Nvidia kind of stole the show yesterday by basically saying AI is real and we're increasing our estimates and you got the entire market thinking, okay, maybe that matters a lot more than rate cuts. And we already know we're getting those rate cuts. Yeah, he's going to be live in about 15 minutes for JPAL and then we'll switch to him. Bitcoin right there 111.5 on the day. I think none of us should be too mad about a about a nonvolatile as long as we don't lose the gains, right? Not losing it, even if it's not dramatically increasing, I don't think is the worst thing as we get toward the end of the year. Dude, we have two days left of of October, too. That's crazy. Like, we are heading into the last two months of the year. And so all these earnings, all these macro events, they are going to culminate as we get into the final two trading months of 2025. Here's a little bit more coverage on these rate cuts before the announcement at top of the hour. You can see that we're slightly elevated in yields and yields were already up a little bit on the session. But here's the point. You know where they were before the last interest rate cut? So they cut on the 16th, they cut today. on the 15th, the day before the September cut, a 2-year closed at 354. They're virtually unchanged. Look at the 10-year now. Okay, the tenure was hovering right around 4%. So, it's a little hotter since the announcement in the rate cut. Where was it? The day before the September cut 404 virtually unchanged. the dollar index, we see that it's improved slightly, highly unchanged since the 25 base point rate cut. And the day after the 15th, the 16th when they actually cut rates is when the dollar index made its multi-year low. So, the point here is we're all talking about the Fed and cutting rates. It certainly looks like December's priced in and Jim Carro's probably right. probably get one more next year. But the issue is we're all looking towards the yield curve and especially thinking about housing and the rest of the curve. But the rest of the curve is bucking the trend. We've had a cumulative 50 basis points and basically the interest rate markets are unchanged. And since the October first shutdown of the government, the yield curve is flattening, which tells me there's nervousness that it's negatively affecting the economy. Back to you,
>> Rick. If I could just follow up here, what sense do you get from the trading community out there where you are in Chicago that the Fed is on the right path with a potential campaign or or a trajectory of lower interest rates over the next several months? Well, they like that because it most likely helps positions, but in the grand scheme of things, most sources I talked to think it's very difficult to grade what the Fed's doing because their GPS wasn't doing all that great when the government was open to data was questionable. Now, how are they getting data? I know they put it together and there's a lot of anecdotal puzzle pieces they're using, but in the end, my comment would be, and I don't mean this in a derogatory fashion, but I think that the grade for the Federal Reserve is see it best with my sources. And they believe that the economy is going to reheat and definitely keep the rate cut cycle to a minimum compared to what some are looking forward towards 2026. Now look, that is definitely possible because you do have a little bit more of a hawkish Fed. IWM, by the way, slightly up, but you do have some red candles. However, by May of next year, Trump's replacing Powell. And there was a report last night uh in Japan. I mean, Trump like uh said this publicly that he wants Bent to be the Fed chair, but he also said that if Bent wants to be the Treasury, then I won't force him to be the Fed chair. But whoever Trump's, you know, whoever Trump is going to put into that position is likely going to be on his side of cutting rates, which means even if they're hawkish for the first half of the year, the back half of the year, these rates are coming down, whether it's Kevin Hassid or Kevin Worish or uh or Bent. And that might be the silver lining as well for a lot of investors that want lower rates. Pounder there 197 and then Nvidia 207 on the day. Pablo, thanks for the super chat. How Heyid, how would you manage covered calls for pounder? Strike 200 expiring 2026. When will you start to worry about them expiring January 26? I would definitely roll them before earnings just because I do think there's a shot that pounder is above earnings is above 200 by earnings. I think you should be able to get to like March 230, 240, maybe pay a small debit or get a credit. And that's a lot more manageable than 200 going into January. And then if if it if it gets hit on earnings, then you can roll them down. If it goes up, then you have more room. So I would get out a couple months and try to get another 15 20 bucks there. UNH, why is UNH dumping today, dude? UNH was almost at 390. Why is it down 3%. Did we have another healthcare company report? UNH increased their EPS guidance. They got a price target from uh UBS to 430 and Morgan Stanley to 411. Very weird that this one's getting hit today. CNC was green off earnings last night as well. CNC. Yeah, that's weird, bro. CNC's up 11. CNC had a lot of issues this year. They're up 11. UNH decent earnings, got the street estimates, and now the stock's down three. I mean, two upgrades from reputable firms and still going down after earnings is weird. But you might honestly, bro, you might have some people selling you an H to buy Nvidia. Oh, CNC was in the morning. Okay, gotcha. Well, see any of these healthcare name I mean Molina was the bad one last week and I could understand how the whole sector takes a hit off that but CNC doing good definitely isn't bearish for UNH grab right there at 608. Google still 272. AMD up 1.5. S&P still green. We haven't gone red today folks and if we went red it was for a very small portion of time. We've been pretty green the whole day. The pivot away from QT is the most important to be honest. Yes, I agree. I think that's what the majority of the questions are going to be about today from uh from the press. Robin right there 146. And again, they're not officially starting QE, but they're stopping QT, which is a form of QE. And that is something that I think most people are going to be very curious about why exactly they're going that way. How's Oaklo? Oaklo is still up. You got plenty of names that are doing okay. Iran, the Bitcoin miners. Iran is down. They got downgraded today. Bit farms up a little bit. Disney flat. Dualingo getting just destroyed. And S&P is still green. I mean, you are a QT. Thank you. I appreciate that. So is JPAL. So is JPAL. Open Door going down 1.7% down. Is PayPal almost back to the 60s? No way, bro. Is it actually 60 cents away from goodness? Well, again, it's either bottoming here or it's not, but PayPal is there. Yes, I'll be streaming POW speech. JPAL just posted calls in the Discord. I wonder how the market reacts once we get his final statements because then remember the other thing we got is is Microsoft Met and Google. So, we're gonna be here for the next few hours after JPAL and those three are definitely going to have a big impact. Yeah, I thought people would love PayPal for the dividend. I mean, Steve has been talking about PayPal doing a dividend for years. They finally did it. All these dividend funds can finally buy it. But it feels like the street wants something a bit different, potentially more in terms of growth to figure out what's going on. The Fed did say they're going to roll over their mortgage back security payments into buying Treasury bonds. It's not exactly quantitative easing, but it's it's it definitely feels similar to it. I'm sure they're going to get some questions on QE. And you know what the biggest question is going to be? The biggest question is going to be why are you guys cutting rates or engaging in stimulus when inflation just came in at 3%. And your target's at 2%. And instead of the Fed just raising their target, which would have been the smartest thing to do, I think a year ago, because 2% just seems unrealistic, they're going to blame it on the labor market. And you should be blaming it on the labor market. But if they had also just not had this like 2% arbitrary target, they could have said, "No, inflation's fine. We're at 3%. But the 2% number has changed a lot of dynamics. Let's get a little bit more coverage on this and then JP Pal's going to be live in about 10 minutes.
>> Terry in there and what you've heard from our panelists so far.
>> So anything less than a cut would have been a problem for the overall markets. I think that you're going to see Chair Powell has done in May of 2026. I think you're going to see 25 basis point cut every meeting that he's available to cut 25 basis points. I don't think you'll see a 50. I think it it that allows him to keep President Trump at bay or criticism at bay, allows him to satisfy the markets and allows him just think about this. Every quarter point cut, you know, the the debt is at historic highs. Every quarter point cut saves the government 88 billion dollar on an annual basis to service that debt. Sounds like a win to me. The markets think it's a win. unemployment rate should probably be higher if the full participation rate is really moving in a static flow going forward off of the April tariff tantrum. What rallied the most? The most unprofitable companies, the unprofitable companies rally the most. So, we're starting to see sort of the uh the mega cap tech take over leadership again. So, I think you're going to go high and low. You're going to go unprofitable companies. You're going to go Russell 2000 companies that are really relying on variable rate debt financing, right? 30% of them rely on this monthto-month. Tom,
>> I think I think we saw something to the extent of that. I I believe it was from Torston Slock over at Apollo showing the Russell 2000 profitable versus unprofitable and the performance gap that we've seen with the outperformance coming from the not profitable Russell 2000 smaller cap companies over the course of this kind of year. and it's it's been expanding. My question then though is we've talked about this divergence and K-shaped recovery ever since not just the pandemic but call it the great financial crisis lows.
>> Something has to give at some point because inflation is still a problem. It's still out there. There doesn't feel like there's a view that it could percolate up again to the levels that we saw at four decade highs at points over the last three to four years. But it has to still be a concern if you're a central banker thinking about a cycle of interest rate cuts.
>> And that's what I think a lot of the questions are going to be about today because yes, the labor market matters, but if inflation is 1% above their targets, even if it doesn't get back to 8% like it was in 22, it still might not justify the cut, which is what JPA is gonna have to talk about today. Wow, they have, dude, they have grabb on the screen. Look at that. They actually have grabbed in the bottom tickers. Oh, CNBC never has grabb. Look at that. Grabs on the screen. They usually never have it.
>> Is it not? Uh, correct. What would you think though is more of a concern now? And this is what the Fed is trying to to weigh. Is it price stability or is it full employment? And at this point, we're at a juncture where it is full employment. Reason why I say that is the tariffs really do that onetime price shock to the to the uh price of goods. And you can't really get your head around that, right? When you think about it, tariffs are going higher. It's got to be an ongoing basis. They only go up once. They stay up once. So the the uh amount of uh corporations that are passing it on, that could be different. But let's think about the the budget act that President Trump passed. People are going to get roughly per household $2,000 coming in the door with those tax cuts. Tariffs are costing them roughly $1,000 per household. Great. You know, these are averages. So, they're actually above water on those tax policies.
>> So, that's where I think that's where I think that most of the market is not pricing in. And then the full expensing, right? So that free cash flow, net profits, those are all tailwinds to the economy. But when you look at where we're at now, look at the amount of layoffs that we've seen in the last 30 days and white jobs thousands,
>> right? So if you're thinking where do I want to really put my emphasis, it's on jobs right now. It's not on tariffs. We've already seen the bulk of inflation on that. I'd rather place my bets on cutting rates. And the 2-year is lower than the Fed funds rate. Does not happen often, especially in a rate cutting cycle. That 2-year should be above where the Fed funds rate is. And it's still lower. So, I think you're going to see us get back down to that neutral rate. They think it's at 3754. I think it's at 2753.
>> All right.
>> And the 10ear as well, still above four. I mean, this is one of the reasons why mortgage rates haven't really been coming down. you need this 10 year closer to 3.7 3.8. We did get a couple of 3.9 closes over the past week. Uh but as you can see, bond market definitely selling off these bonds, increasing these yields even with news of the rate cut. Five minutes. Five minutes. We're going to see what happens. Again, uh the cool thing about these FOMC meetings is most of your friends or family have no idea that there is a guy called Jerome Pal who controls the fate of the economy. I mean, quite literally, he does. But all of us care as Google hits all-time highs at 273. and we are all here together to watch him stumble on every syllable and try to figure out if we're going to lose money or make money. Iran got downgraded today by HC Wayne. They got a $45 downgrade. That's why that stock is selling off. Why is Yeah, I don't know. Look, the rate cuts are bullish for SoFi long term. I guess in the immediate term SoFi is weird, dude. There's it's it's above 30, so no one can be upset. Stock's up more than 100% year to date, but it just might need a bit more of a boost to really make a more explosive move. 3105 down about 2% right now. Uh so that's what you've got on SoFi. Nvidia still holding 200s, not really giving that up. Palanter still holding the high 190s. And then you got Amazon at 229. As he mentioned the uh the the layoffs that are starting to increase, you know, Amazon firing 15,000 people, that becomes national news. So, I do think JPL is also going to get questions about those layoffs. And we're going to have to get a lot more clarity on what he thinks the labor market will look like. I mean, you got some people that are probably going to say, why aren't we cutting more than 25 bips if the labor market is weakening as much as it is? So, that's also going to be important. Did you see Elon's tweet on robo taxi? I did not. Let me go to Elon. You can bet on JPAL coughing probably on Kali. Do they have it again? They probably have a prediction market for this. They had one in the last interview he did. Uh Elon, what did Elon say? Just saw this in a conference room at Tesla Global Engineering HQ in Palo Alto. It's pretty cool. Elon's getting a lot more excited for what could happen with robo taxis and you know the market's overlooking the earnings growth because they're rather focusing on the physical implementation of AI which is why Tesla's moving. CNBM is up 400%. I don't know what this company is. Cambium Networks it is still a small cap at 99 million which means it was worth tens of millions this morning. just got halted. Holding company which engages in the provision of wireless brand broadband networking infrastructure solutions for network operators. Huh. This feels like telecommunications. This feels like tele because of Starlink. Did Starlink announce something with them today? If they did that will definitely Oh yeah. Wow. nine hours ago. Kambium Networks integrates with Starlink for enterprisegrade service delivery. Damn, 400% move with Starlink. Okay, I don't know if I would touch it here after 4xing in a day, but it had Dude, this is a company that you wouldn't think would be public given it's 99 million now after a forex, but when you have those types of updates, it can definitely help the stock. All right, JPAL's not live yet. He will be live soon and we will all get to see what Mr. Powell says. Thank you everybody for being here. Been going on for how long? Five hours. Doesn't even feel like five hours. Feels like it's been barely five minutes as we've analyzed the equity markets all day. And then right after this, we'll have some people come on, help analyze what what pal just said. And then we will have Meta, Microsoft, and the Googs. So, it is going to be a pretty important day. Here we go. Here is Mr. J. Pal. Drone Pal is taking the podium as we speak.
>> Good afternoon. Um my colleagues and I remain squarely focused on our achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Although some important federal government data have been delayed due to the shutdown, the public and private sector data that have remained available suggest that the outlook for employment and inflation has not changed much since our meeting in September. Conditions in the labor market appear to be gradually cooling and inflation remains somewhat elevated. In support of our goals and in light of the balance of risks to employment and inflation, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by a quarter percentage point. We also decided to conclude the reduction of our aggregate securities holdings as of December 1. I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Available indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. GDP rose at a 1.6% pace in the first half of the year, down from 2.4% last year. Data available prior to the shutdown show that growth in economic activity may be on a somewhat firmer trajectory than expected, primarily reflecting stronger consumer spending. Business investment in equipment and intangibles has continued to expand, while activity in the housing sector remains weak. The shutdown of the federal government will weigh on economic activity while it persists. But these effects should reverse after the shutdown ends. In the labor market, the unemployment rate remained relatively low through August. Job gains have slowed significantly since earlier in the year. A good part of the slowing likely reflects a decline in the growth of the labor force due to lower immigration and labor force participation, though labor demand has clearly softened as well. Although official employment data for September are delayed, available evidence suggests that both layoffs and hiring remain low and that both households perceptions of job availability and firms perceptions of hiring difficulty continue to decline. In this less dynamic and somewhat softer labor market, the downside risks to employment appear to have risen in recent months. Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid 2022, but remains somewhat elevated relative to our 2% longerrun goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index suggest that total PCE prices rose 2.8% over the 12 months ending in September and that excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8% as well. These readings are higher than earlier in the year as inflation for goods has picked up. In contrast, disinflation appears to be continuing for services. Near-term measures of inflation expectations have moved up on balance over the course of this year on news about tariffs as reflected in both market and survey based measures. Beyond the next year or two or so, however, most measures of longerterm expectations remain consistent with our 2% inflation goal. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. At today's meeting, the committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to to 3 and 3/4 to 4%. Higher tariffs are pushing up prices in some categories of goods resulting in higher overall inflation. A reasonable base case is that the effects on inflation will be relatively short-lived, a one-time shift in the price level. But it is also possible that the inflationary effects could instead be more persistent. And that is a risk to be assessed and managed. Our obligation is to ensure that a one-time increase in the price level does not become an ongoing inflation problem. In the near term, risks to inflation are tilted to the upside and risks to employment to the downside. A challenging situation. There is no risk-free path for policy as we navigate this tension between our employment and inflation goals. Our framework calls for us to take a balanced approach in promoting both sides of our dual mandate. With downside risks to employment having increased in recent months, the balance of risks has shifted. Accordingly, we judged it appropriate at this meeting to take another step toward a more neutral policy stance. With today's decision, we remain well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We continue to face two-sided risks in the committee's discussions at this meeting. There were strongly differing views about how to proceed in December. A further reduction in the policy rate at the December meeting is not a foregone conclusion. Far from it. Policy is not on a preset course. At today's meeting, the committee also decided to conclude the reduction of our aggregate securities holdings as of December 1. Our long-stated plan has been to stop balance sheet runoff when reserves are somewhat above the level we judge consistent with ample reserve conditions. Signs have clearly emerged that we have reached that standard. In money markets, repo rates have moved up relative to our administered rates and we have seen more notable pressures on selected dates along with more use of our standing repo facility. In addition, the effective federal funds rate has begun to move up relative to the rate of interest on reserve balances. These developments are what we expected to see as the size of our balance sheet declined and warrant today's decision to cease runoff. Over the three and a half years that we've been shrinking our balance sheet, our securities holdings have declined by $2.2 trillion. As a share of nominal GDP, our balance sheet has fallen from 35% to about 21%. In December, we'll enter the next phase of our normalization plans by holding the size of our balance sheet steady for a time while reserve balances continue to move gradually lower as other non-reserve liabilities such as currency keep growing. We will continue to allow agency securities to run off our balance sheet and we'll reinvest the proceeds from those securities in Treasury bills, furthering progress toward a portfolio consisting primarily of Treasury securities. This reinvestment strategy will also help move the weighted average maturity of our portfolio closer to that of the outstanding stock of Treasury securities, thus furthering the normalization of the composition of our balance sheet. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy. Maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting max our maximum employment, bringing our inflation sustainably to our 2% goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.
>> Markets red Q&A.
>> Nick Timmeros of the Wall Street Journal. Chair, are you uncomfortable with how market pricing has assumed a rate cut as a foregone conclusion at your next meeting? Well, I as I just mentioned, um a further reduction in the policy rate of December meeting is not a foregone conclusion as I've just said. So, uh I would say that that needs to be taken on board. We had um you know, I would just say this uh 19 participants on the committee. Everyone works very hard at this and takes their obligations to serve the American people very seriously. And at a time when we have tension between our our two goals, we have uh you know strong views across the committee and as I mentioned uh there were strongly differing views today and uh the takeaway from that is that we haven't made a decision about December and you know we're going to be looking at the data that we have uh how that affects the outlook and the balance of risks and I'll just say that
>> you and some of your colleagues have framed uh last month and maybe today uh I won't quote you about there's a risk management exercise. At what point do you uh conclude that you've taken out enough insurance? Are you looking for some kind of improvement in the outlook or could this unfold along the lines of last year where you made a sequence of adjustments and then waited to gather more information? So the way we have been think way I've been thinking about it is um the the the risks to the two goals for a very long time the risk was clearly of higher inflation and then that has changed now and as we saw the particularly after we saw after the July meeting we saw the downward provisions in job creation we saw a very different picture of the labor market and suggested that there were higher downside risks to the labor market than we had thought and that suggested that policy which we had been holding at a at a I would say modestly others people would say moderately restrictive level needed to move more in the direction over time of neutral. If the two goals are sort of equally at risk then you ought to be at neutral because one of them's calling for you to hike and one of them is calling for you to cut. So if that if that got back into balance then you'd want to be roughly at neutral. So in that sense it was a riskmanagement uh and and I would say the same about today sort of the same logic but as I mentioned going forward is is a different thing
>> CLA
>> um Cla Jones Financial Times. Um thank you for taking this question. um you know we we've we've we've just heard from you that that the um the discussion in December and the conclusion of the discussion is not a foregone conclusion. I'd like to just dig into that a little bit more about what sort of arguments were brought up was the any consideration for instance of the investment we're seeing in AI and some of the the generation of household wealth through rises in stock prices related to the AI boom. Thank you. You know, I wouldn't say that's a that's that's a factor in everyone's assessment of the economy. I wouldn't say it's the driving factor, I don't think, for anybody. You know, I guess I would say it this way. Once again, I I would just point out that we have the situation where the risks are to the upside for inflation and to to the downside for employment. We have one tool. It can't do both of those. So, you can't address both of those at once. You've got a very different situation. So, you have some people people have different forecasts, right? So they'll they'll they'll they'll feel they'll forecast faster or slower progress on one or the other. And they also have different levels of risk aversion and you know people some will be more averse to inflation overruns and some will be more averse to underruns of employment. And so you put that together and as you can see from the SCP and from the public discussion that goes on between the meetings when you participants go out and talk they're very disperate views and they were reflected in strongly differing views in today's meeting as I as I pointed out in my remarks and that's what leads me to say that you know that we haven't made a decision about about December. You know, I always say that it's a fact that we don't make decisions in advance, but this is I'm saying something in addition here is that that it's not it's not to be seen as a foregone conclusion. In fact, far from it.
>> Can I just ask a quick follow up on QT? How much of the um the the fund impressions we've seen in money markets are related to the US Treasury issue more shortterm debt? you know, that could be one of the factors, but the reality is we've seen, you know, the things that we've seen um higher repo rates and federal funds rate moving up. These are the very things that we've se that we that we look for. We actually have a a framework for looking at, you know, what the place we're trying to reach. But what we said for a long time now is that when we uh feel like we're a little bit or a bit above uh what we consider a level that's ample that we would freeze the size of the balance sheet. Of course, reserves will continue to decline from that point forward as non-reserve liabilities grow. So, this happened, some of it, some things have been happening for some time now, showing a gradual tightening in money market conditions. Really, in the last, call it 3 weeks or so, you've seen more significant tightening and I think a clear assessment that that we're at that place. The other thing is, you know, we're we're the balance sheet is shrinking at a very very slow pace now. we we've reduced it by half twice. Uh and so there's not a lot of benefit to be you know to be holding on for to get the last few dollars because you know uh again the balance sheets the reserves are going to continue to shrink as non-reserves grow. So, you know, there was support on the committee uh as we thought about it to go ahead with this and and announce effective December 1 that we will be, you know, freezing the size of the balance sheet and that the December 1 date gives the markets a little bit of time to adapt.
>> Colby,
>> thank you. Colobby Smith with the New York Times. So much of the rationale for cutting interest rates even as inflation moves away from the 2% target seems to be, you know, that there are these mounting downside risks to the labor market. But if those don't materialize and the labor market either stabilizes around current employment levels or even starts to strengthen somewhat, how would that change your perception of how much interest rates need to fall from here? Would you then be a bit more concerned about underlying inflation and the possibility of second round effects from tariffs? Yeah, I mean in principle if if you were to see data that suggested that the labor market is strengthening or even that it's stabilizing, you know, that would certainly play into our decisions going forward. So, and we do have, you know, we get some data. The labor market is a place where we get, for example, we get the state level data on initial claims which which are sending a sort of a signal of more of the same. We also get you job openings um and we'll get lots of survey data. We'll get the Beige book and things like that. So, we'll have a we'll have a picture of what's going on in the labor market. And, you know, the fact that we're not seeing an uptick in in claims or a downtick really in openings um suggests that you're seeing maybe maybe continued very gradual cooling, but nothing more than that. So, that does give you some comfort. But if this shutdown lasts a while longer and you don't have that data in hand, I I'm just wondering how that hinders the committee's ability to assess the state of the labor market and make the right policy decisions and and also how much is that factoring to the into the debate about December?
>> Yeah. So, you know, we'll we get we get like I mentioned what we get in the labor area. We get some data in the in inflation, some data in economic activity. Um and we'll get we'll have a picture of what's going on. And we also will have the beige book. Again, uh I would say we're not going to be able to have the, you know, the detailed feel uh of of things, but I think if there were a significant or material change in the economy one way or another, I think we'd I think we'd pick that up through this. So, in terms of how it might affect December, it's really hard to say. December's uh you know, this the meeting is I guess six weeks away. U we just don't know what we're going to get. Um if if there is a very high level of uncertainty then you know it that could be an argument in favor of caution about moving but we'll have to see how it unfolds.
>> Steve
>> Steve Leman CNBC Mr. Chairman can you characterize the uh the meeting in terms of you said strongly differing views was a close call this cut or was it a close call maybe the other way because you had dissents on both sides. Thanks. So I was referring to uh the discussion about to the extent it related to December. You saw we had we had two descents, one for 50 and one for no cut. So um you know that was a strong solid vote in favor of this cut. This the strongly u uh differing views were really about about the future. What does that look like? And I think people are saying you know they're they're noticing stronger economic activity. you know forecasters generally broadly have raised their economic growth forecasts for this year and next year in some cases quite materially. Uh in the meantime we see you know a labor market that's kind of I don't want to say stable but it's it's uh it's not clearly in motion not it's not clearly declining quickly. In any case, it may be just continuing to gradually cool. And again, people have different they have different forecasts and expectations about the economy and different different uh risk tolerances. And so there's a you know, you read the SCP, you read the speeches, you know, there are different views on the committee and and to the point where I where I said what I said. And just to follow up on the balance sheet, um, if you stop it the runoff now, does that mean you have to go back to actually adding assets sometime next year so that the balance sheet doesn't shrink as a percentage of GDP and become a tightening factor?
>> So, you're right. The the the place we'll be on December 1 is that the size of the balance sheet is frozen. And as mortgage back securities mature, we'll reinvest those in Treasury bills, which will foster both a more treasury balance sheet and also a shorter duration. So that's what in the meantime, if you freeze the size of the balance sheet, the non-reserve liabilities, currency for example, they're going to continue to grow organically. And because the size of the balance sheet is frozen, you have further shrinkage in in reserves. And reserves is the thing that we're that we're managing that has to be ample. So that'll happen for a time, but not not a tremendously long time. We don't know exactly how long, but at a certain point, you'll want to start grow you want to start reserves to start gradually growing to keep up with, you know, the size of the banking system and the size of the economy. So we'll be adding reserves at a certain point and that's the that's the last point. Even then, we'll be we'll be um we didn't make decisions about this today, but you we did talk today about the composition of the balance sheet and there's a desire that the that the balance sheet be right now we where it it's it's got a lot more duration than the outstanding universe of Treasury securities and we want to move to a place where we're closer to that duration. That'll take some time. We haven't made a decision about the ultimate end point, but we all agree that we want to move more in the direction of a of a balance sheet that more closely reflects the outstanding treasuries and that means a shorter duration uh balance sheet. Now, this is something that's going to be take a long time and move very very gradually. I don't think you'll notice it in market conditions, but but that's that's the direction of things. Johnell
>> Janelle Marte with Bloomberg. How are officials interpreting the latest CPI report? So some components came in lower than expected but core inflation was still at 3%. So at this moment are what what are you learning about the drivers and also what are do you view that the risks are greater that the Fed makes a mistake on employment or inflation? So okay so the September um CPI report we didn't get PPI after that which is which is important for translation into what we look at which is PCE inflation but we can still make a a pretty good assessment of what that will be u when we get PPI there might be some adjustments but so directionally uh you know it was a little softer than expected and we always break it down into the three components. So basically um you've seen goods prices increasing and that's really due to tariffs and that's due that's in compared to a longer run trend of very very mild deflation in goods. So that's moving inflation up. On the other side of that good news that housing services inflation has has been coming down and is expected to continue to come down. So if you remember a year a couple years ago that's the one that just we kept expecting it to to to do that. Now, it's doing it's been doing that for some time and we expect to continue that. That leaves the the biggest category is services other than housing services and that's kind of been moving sideways uh over the last few months, but a significant part of that is uh non-market services and we don't take a lot of signal about the tightness of the economy from that. So, if you add all that up, a couple things to say. One is that inflation away from tariffs is actually not so far from our 2% goal. We we we estimate people have different estimates of what that is, but it might be, you know, five or six uh tents. And so that, you know, if it's 2.8, then then, you know, uh core PCE not including tariffs might be 2.3 or 2.4 in that range, something like that. So that's not so far from your goal. Um uh so that we look at that and the the thing about tariff inflation is the base case is that it will come and it probably will increase further but it is that it will be a one-time increase. And you know we've been very focused for all of this year at making sure that that's the case and thinking carefully about what are the what are the pathways through which it could become something else troublesome inflation. One of those would be, you know, a really tight labor market. We don't see that. Another could be inflation expectations moving. We don't see that. So, I think, you know, we we're we're watching this very carefully. I think it's it's not the case that we're just assuming that it's going to be one-time inflation. We understand fully that this is a risk we have to monitor and ultimately manage.
>> With the stubborn services inflation, what are some of the things that the Fed could do to address that? Um and if especially when we're seeing potentially labor supply challenges.
>> Sorry, say say the first
>> the stubborn services inflation that you
>> service inflation. Yeah. Well, again, the part of services inflation that is that that isn't uh coming down as we would like it to is the non-market part of of um non-housing services. And you know, overall that that's just something that that we we expect will come down. the non-housing the non-market part of it should come down. It largely reflects higher stock prices and and I mean a financial services that are imputed rather than actually paid is uh is a big part of that. But also just you know we think policy is still modestly restrictive in my telling. So that's the kind of thing that should lead to a gradually cooling economy. That's one of the reasons you see a gradually cooling labor market is because you know the uh Fed policy is modestly restrictive. So that that that should also help get that. I I want to say though, we're absolutely committed to returning inflation to 2%. If you look at longerterm surve surveys or market pricing, you will see that that that's a credible commitment and there there should be no question that that's that that's where we're going
>> Chris.
>> Great. Thank you. Uh Chris Raver at Associated Press. So there's a big investment boom in AI infrastructure right now as you know and wondering if the existence of such a boom u would indicate that rates are not that restrictive after all and could further rate cuts at this point perhaps fuel an excess level of investment there or uh market bubbles. How is the Fed thinking about that? So I I don't I don't think that the uh you're right there's a there are a lot of data centers being built and other investments being made around the country and around the world. Um and uh big US companies are just investing a lot of resources in thinking about how AI which will be based on those data data centers run through those data centers is going to affect their businesses. So it's a big deal. Um I don't think that the spending uh that happens to build data centers all over the country is especially interest sensitive. It's based on longer run it's you know longer run assessments that this is an area where there's going to be a lot of investment and that's going to drive higher productivity and that sorts of things. I don't I don't know how those investments will work out but I don't think they're particularly interest sensitive compared to some of the other sectors. And then just a quick followup, can you you mentioned that you do have data that you're looking at for inflation and growth in the absence of government data. Could you give us a sense? I think we know a lot about the jobs data that's out there. Can you give us a sense of what you're looking at to track inflation in the absence of government data? Thank you.
>> So, it's a lot of things and it it doesn't replace government data, but you know, and you know, all of these uh it's, you know, it's I'll just mention some of the many many names, price stats, uh Adobe and and others. uh uh and and um for wage inflation, there's ADP data. Um on spending, you're going to ask about spending at some point. You know, there are lots of other things that we look at, but it's again, it's um it's many u many different sources and again including what we get out of the of the the Beige book, which will be sort of um come out midcycle as always. And it doesn't doesn't replace uh the government data, but it gives us a picture. Again, I think if something material were happening, if there were material developments, I think we would pick that up. I don't think we'll be able to have the very the very granular understanding of the economy uh while this uh while this data is not available.
>> Howard,
>> uh Howard Schneider with our Reuters. Thank you. I just wanted you to elaborate a little bit on what you said a moment ago about about the lack a continued shutdown making it more difficult to make a move in December uh and that may make you more cautious to the degree you are relying on private data that isn't the gold standard or that you're relying on your own surveys or the beige book. Do you worry at some point you're going to have to start making policy by anecdote?
>> You know this is a temporary state of affairs and you know we're going to do our jobs. We're going to collect ev every scrap of data we can find, evaluate it, and think carefully about it. And that's that's our job. So that's what we're going to do. If you ask me, could could it affect the the um you know, the December meeting? I'm not saying it's going to, but yeah, you could imagine that that you know, what do you do if what do you do in if you're driving in the fog? You slow down. So that that could or could not. I don't I don't know how that's going to play into things. um we may get the data may come back, but there's a there's a possibility that it would make sense to be more cautious about moving. I'm not I'm not committing to that. I'm just saying it's certainly a possibility that you would say we we really can't see, so let's let's slow down.
>> As as a followup in the debate on this meeting, uh we saw recently uh some pretty big layoff announcements coming from from Amazon and others. uh wondering if that figured into the discussion at all that you're starting to see the turn this tension between growth and employment starting to be resolved you know to the detriment of employment. Uh and secondly uh some of the stress is starting to appear in the the bottom spur of the K as they call it uh household uh health premiums that are going to be possibly be going up quite substantially things like that. Has that started to become a factor in your policy discussion? So those are those are both things uh you know that we're watching very very very carefully to to start with uh the layoffs. You're right. You see a a significant number of companies either announcing that they are not going to be doing much hiring or actually doing layoffs and much of the time they're talking about AI and what it can do. So, we're watching that very carefully in and you know, yes, it could absolutely have implications for job creation. We don't really see it in the um in the initial claims data yet. Now, it's not a surprise that we don't. It takes some time for it to get in there, but we're watching that that really carefully. Um but again, don't don't see it yet in the in the um in the in the initial claims data. on on the the K-shaped economy thing, I would say the same thing or similar thing. We are uh if you if you listen to the earnings calls or the reports of you know big public consumer-f facing companies many many of them are are saying that there's a bifurcated economy there and that um consumers at the lower end are struggling and buying less and shifting to lower cost products but that at the top people are spending at the higher income and wealth and there you so much much uh an anecdotal data on that and so we think there's something there. Um so
>> Edward,
>> thank you. Edward Lawrence with um Fox Business. Uh so Mr. Chairman, I want to take another crack at the at the uh further um reduction in rates is not a foregone conclusion. So in December, he said far from it. So if a cut might not be on the table for December because of lack of data, what does the other concerns then stem from? So if it's not lack of data as as the reason December is is not a foregone conclusion, what other things could be the concern then?
>> Well, perspectives on PE of people on the committee that you know we've now moved 150 basis points and that we're down into you know you're into the that range between three and four where most estimates of many estimates of the neutral rate live in that 3 to 4% area. You're there now. you're you're above the median number for the committee, but I think there are people on the committee who have higher estimates of the neutral rate, and that's a you know, you can argue these positions since it can't be directly observed the neutral rate. So, you know, I I think for for for some part of the committee, you know, it's time to maybe take a step back and and uh and and see whether there there really are uh downside risks to the labor market or see whether in fact the the growth uh that the stronger growth that we're seeing is is real. Um ordinarily the labor market is a better indicator of the momentum of the economy than the spending data. That's the lore in this case that gives a more downbeat read. Um so people just have you know there again we've cut 50 more basis points um in the last two meetings and there was a sense like let's from some let's let's let's pause here kind of thing and a sense from others wanting to go ahead but that's why I say um differing views strongly differing views. So on that division then you're talking about uh going forward. So what's more important to in this division? Is it inflation risks? Is it employment risk? Or is is there a deeper philosophy division among the board?
>> I I look everybody on the committee is deeply committed to doing the right thing to achieve our goals maximum employment and stable prices. you have differences on how to do that and as I mentioned some of that is different forecasts but a lot of it is also um different risk aversions to the different two to two different variables which is common through you know through all federal reserves there they're people just have different risk tolerances let's say so that leads you to people with disperate views you will know that from the speeches you've been listening to from my colleagues and uh and so we're at a place now where we have in fact cut two more times And you know, we're now we're 150 basis points closer to neutral, wherever that may be, than we were a year ago. And so there's there's a growing chorus now of of feeling like maybe this is where we should at least wait a cycle, something like that. That's that's what it is. It's just what you think it would be. It's and again, you've seen it in in the uh the September summer of economic projections. You've seen this in in the public remarks of FOMC participants. and and now I'm telling you that's what that's what you can expect that in the minutes and um I'm just telling you that's what happened in the meeting.
>> Elizabeth,
>> thank you so much. Liza Schelsey with ABC News. Uh what is your explanation for why the job market is weakening right now and what will this rate cut do to improve the job market?
>> Big question. Labor market. I think the um there are two things affecting the job market and one of them is just a dramatic reduction in the supply of new workers. So and that's two things that's uh declining labor force participation which is a cyclical thing and then there's declining immigration which is just a big policy change that actually began in the last administration and it has been accelerated now. So a big part of the whole story is that that supply side story. Okay. In addition, labor demand has declined and and you know the so the labor the unemployment rate has gone down meaning that demand for workers has gone down a little more than supply. So um that's that's what's going on and but it is mostly a supply function a you know it's mostly a function of of the change in supply I think and many people think. So the question then is what does what does the um you know our tool do which supports demand and you know so and I would just say when you're when you're in a situation where job job creation if you adjust for likely overounting in the way that BLS does its work is pretty close to zero. So maximum employment doesn't on a sustainable basis doesn't if it's if you're making creating zero jobs if it's in equilibrium if it's if it's in balance it's a pretty as I as I said before a pretty curious balance so you know I thought and many of my colleagues thought in fact you've seen the last two meetings that it was appropriate for us to react by supporting demand with our with our uh rates and we've done that we've we've reduced so that rates are looser there I wouldn't say that they're accommodative right now, but they're meaningfully less tight than they were. And that should help um so that at least the labor market doesn't doesn't get worse. So, it's it's a complicated situation. And and some people argue that that this is supply and we really can't affect it much with our tools. But others argue, as I do, that that there is an effect from demand and that that we should use our tools to support the labor market when we see this happening.
>> You also talked about tariffs causing a one-time price increase. Should American households consumers expect that inflation will continue to go up this year because of those tariffs?
>> So the the basic expectation is that there will be some additional increase inflation because it takes a while for tariffs to work their way through the through the production chain and finally get to consumers. And we see this now from the from the tariffs that were put in place now many months ago. We see those effects. But if you put tariffs in effect and they've been coming into effect consistently in, you know, February, March, April, May, and that's all happening. So that'll continue to happen for some time, probably into the spring. These are not big increases, though. These are a tenth or so on inflation. They may be big increases on a particular product that's been tariffed. But overall, these are fairly modest. I think, you know, some projections go we're 2.8% inflation. You might get two or three more tents or four more tents maybe. But then as as all the tariffs are in, they stop generating inflation. You've had a one-time price increase. As long as you're not, at least this is this is the theory. This is how we believe and hope that it will work out. Once there once the last tariff is is put on something, at that point it becomes it becomes a higher price level, but it's it stops going up, if you will. Prices stop going up, they'll just be at that level. And then measured inflation will come back down to non-tariff inflation. As I mentioned, non-tariff inflation is not so far from 2%. Now, now consumers don't are not interested in that story. Their their prices are higher. More than that, the reason they're so unhappy about inflation is the inflation that we had in 2021 2 and three because, you know, you can say that prices aren't going up as much, but that doesn't mean people aren't feeling those higher prices from the inflation we had two or three years ago. They are. And that's I think a large part of why the public views sample people. Inflation is still very much making people quite unhappy even you know and it's nice that you know that that prices are are not going up as fast as they were but they're still much higher than they were and it'll take some time for that effect to wear off. As real incomes rise it will feel better over time but that's going to take time. Mike,
>> Michael McKe from Bloomberg Television Radio. Uh, do you have any concerns that equity markets are or are close to being overvalued at this point?
>> You know, we we don't look at any one asset price and say, "Hey, that's wrong." You know, that's it's not our job to do that. We look at the overall uh financial system and we ask whether it's stable, whether it could withstand shocks. Right? So uh you know banks are well capitalized while some households are clearly under stress in the aggregate the you know households are are in good shape financially relatively you know relatively manageable uh levels of debt I at the at the lower income spectrum you are seeing rising defaults particularly around subprime auto but nonetheless in the aggregate pretty good um and uh you don't see so you don't see too much leverage in the banking system or the financial system it's a mixed picture, but it's not an over overly troubling picture. And again, I'm not I it's not appropriate. You know, we don't we don't set asset prices. Markets do that. Well, are you you must be well aware that by lowering interest rates, you're contributing to additional uh asset price uh increases. And I wonder how you balance the idea that lowering rates would help the labor market with the reality that uh it seems more likely to be stimulating increased investment in AI, which is the rationale for thousands of job cuts that have been announced in the last few weeks.
>> Yeah, I I don't I don't think interest rates are an important part of the AI of the data center story. I I think you know people think they're great economics in building these data centers and they're making a lot of money building them and they think they have very high present value and all that sort of thing. It's not it's not really about it's not a it's not you know about 25 basis points here or there. Um you know we use our tools to support the labor market and to create uh price stability. That's what we do. That's our two jobs, right? So we're here to by by lowering rates at the margin that will support demand and that will support more hiring and that's why we do it. Now no 25 basis point or even 50 basis point hike is going to be a dispositive thing but ultimately uh you know lower rates will support more demand and that'll that'll support hiring overtime. And of course we we also have to be careful about this which is what we've been doing because we we know where inflation is and we know that you know I've told you the story. It's complicated story but this is the best assessment that we can make and um and it but you know be because there's uncertainty around around inflation and the path ahead for inflation. That's why we're going that's why we we the pace we're going has been a careful one.
>> Victoria Hi, Victoria Guita from Politico. Um, on AI, I'm just wondering, you know, it seems like a lot of the economic growth that we've been seeing is fed by investments in AI. So, how worried are you about what a sudden contraction in tech investment would mean for the overall economy? Is there enough strength in other sectors? And, um, specifically, are there are there any lessons that you take from the 1990s in in how you might uh approach what's happening right now?
>> Yeah, this is this is different. um in the sense that these companies the companies that are so highly valued actually have earnings and stuff like that. So if you go back to the 90s and the dotcom they were these were ideas rather than companies and you know we're we're so there's a clear bubble there whereas the you know the I won't go into particular names but they actually have earnings and you know you it looks like they have business models and uh and profits and that kind of thing. So it's it's really a different thing. um you know it's the the investment we're getting in um equipment and in all those things that go into creating data centers and and feeding the AI it's clearly part one of the big sources of growth in the economy. Consumer spending also though has been you know is is much bigger than that and has been growing and and has defied um a lot of uh you know negative forecasts continuing to do so this year. consumers are still spending. Now, it is it it may it may be mostly higherend consumers or maybe skewed that way, but the consumer is spending and that's a big big chunk of of what's going on in the economy, bigger than substantially bigger than AI. You could point to the to growth. I mean actually uh you may be growth as opposed to level, but consumer spending is a much bigger part of the economy.
>> And why do you think that the labor market is slowing so much even though consumer spending is strong?
>> Why has it slowed so much? Well, what's happened is is that the supply of workers has dropped very very sharply due to mainly immigration but also lower labor force participation. So, um and and that means there's less need for new jobs because there's there's there isn't this flow into the into the pool of labor that you know where people need jobs because those there aren't those people now. So, there's not a supply of workers showing up for jobs. In addition, demand has also gone down and so has labor force participation has declined, which is more of a sign in this case of of uh of demand as well as trend. So I think you're seeing some softening. You know, the the economy is growing at a slower rate than it was 2.4% last year. We think around 1.6% this year. It could have been a couple of ten higher if not for the shutdown. U and of course that will reverse. But uh uh you know, you still got the economy growing at a moderate pace.
>> Andrew, hey there, Andrew Akerman with the with the Washington Post. Um I wanted to ask if you could elaborate on how you think about policy in the context of the data drought. Um, does it make you inclined to stick with your plans as set out in September in the absence of the data that might change your mind or does it make you inclined to proceed with added caution because of uncertainty?
>> Yeah. Well, we'll we'll know when we face that question if we face that question. I you know, it'll probably be argued both ways, right? But I I I've said a couple times here that, you know, if you if you really aren't getting information you really don't know and the economy looks like it's solid and stable and hasn't really changed, you know, there will be an argument. I don't know how persuasive it will be, but there will be an argument that um you know, you slow down in a in an when you can't see as as far ahead. Um, others may argue, I mean, I'm not sure where this argument will come, but you're perfectly right that you could also argue, well, things haven't really changed, but you might not know that, you know, so I I don't know whether we'll face this or not. I hope we don't. I hope by the time of the December meeting, we're getting, you know, uh, a better flow of data, but if we we're going to have to do our jobs one way or the other.
>> Okay. I I also just wanted to ask a FINRA question. I think several years ago, you said the overall amount of capital in the system was about right. as the Fed moves forward with a revised Basel uh proposal uh potentially changes to the GIP search charge um has that changed at all and or are you planning to significantly reduce the amount of capital in the system? Thanks.
>> So there's discussions going on I think uh among the um agencies and I I don't want to get ahead of those discussions. Uh I continue to think that the level of capital when I said that in 2020 was about right and of course there's been much capital added since then through various mechanisms but um I you know I look forward to to uh I I I know those discussions are really just getting going. They haven't come to the point where they're you know where they're got a whole plan and that kind of thing. So I I really don't have much to say on that.
>> Brian.
>> Hi Chairman Powell. Uh Brian Chung with NBC News. Um is the weakness in the jobs market accelerating and who's at risk if the interest rate cuts are not the effective medicine for a further slowdown in the labor?
>> So we we do not see um the weakness as you put it the weakness in the job market accelerating. I would say then again we don't have we didn't get the September employment report payroll report but um we do get we look at you know the in unemployment insurance claims initial claims are reported at the state level and we still get those and that we can cumulate them and get the national number and there's really I mean no story you can look at the numbers same thing with the job openings we get from Indeed there's just no story over the last four weeks it's kind of stable so you don't see anything that says that the job market is or really any part of the economy is is making a significant deterioration don't see that um you see more things like I mentioned though which is the uh you know you see big companies making announcements of either of layoffs or of the idea that they can they don't they won't need to hire they may their number of employees is not expected to go up over a number of years there may be different people working there they say that too but they don't need a bigger headcount so you see those kinds of things you don't see it in the aggregate numbers the layoff numbers have not gone up but job creation is very low. Um, and the the job finding rate for people who are unemployed is very low. Uh, but the unemployment rate is very low as well, 4.3%. Is it is a low employment unemployment rate?
>> So, as you make these cuts, is it the lower income workers that you're thinking about or those who might have their jobs automated? Is there a particular labor market that you're particularly
>> So, we can't our our tools don't allow us to target any demographic or any income level, that kind of thing. I do think that people, you know, we saw this during the global financial crisis and the long recovery, uh, if you have a long period of very strong labor market conditions, it benefits people at the lower end the most. the last two or three years of of that long expansion um people at the lower part of the income spectrum were getting the biggest benefits and and you know lots of things were happening in in that space demographically which were very constructive and you know we're not at that place right now but so yeah you know I mean a stronger labor market is is the best thing we can do for for the public it's also part of our job it is half of our job uh but it is it is absolutely the best thing we can do um for people uh you know along with keeping prices stable. Those two things I mean inflation also hurts people on fixed incomes more than other people.
>> Courtney,
>> hi Chair Powell. Courtney Brown from Axios. Um as you know the 12 Reserve Bank presidents terms are um up for renewal at the end of February. I'm wondering if you can give us a timeline for when the board will consider those reappoints and whether we can expect everyone to be reuped or if we can expect some changes.
>> So, it's a process that we go through under the law. Uh the way the law works is we we have an reappointment process every 5 years for all of the all of the uh reser each each of them and all of them. We're in the middle of that process and we'll we're going to complete it in a timely way and I really that's that's really all I can say.
>> Okay. Thank you. Daniel
>> Daniel Ais a France press um you've now had dissents in three consecutive FOMC meetings but in this meeting you had desents going in both directions and you've just mentioned there's strong disagreement over the future path of rate cuts have these disagreements complicated your role presiding over the FOMC meetings and if so how
>> I wouldn't say that no I I think you you know you have to take what comes and what comes right now is you know pretty challenging situation where we have first of all we have we have 4.3% unemployment we have an economy that's growing close to 2% so you know overall it's a it's a good picture it's it's a good picture but in terms of our policy we have upside risks to inflation downside risks to employment and this is a very difficult thing for a central bank because you know one of those calls for rates to be lower one calls for rates to be higher we can't do both so we have to balance the too. And so it's a challenging thing and you know uh as we have worked our way through this process um you would expect that there would be a range of views ac across the committee on on what to do and the speed with which we should do it and that's what we have. That makes a lot of sense to me. These are all of these people are you know people who take their jobs very seriously, work very hard at this and just want to do what's right for the American people. But they have different views on what that is. And you know, it's an honor to work among people who care that much. It is. But I, you know, I I don't feel that it's unfair or or or anything like that. It just it's a time when we're making quite difficult judgments in real time. And I I believe we'll get through this. And and I I think we've done sort of the right thing so far this year. I think we were it was appropriate for us to be careful about this. I think it would not be appropriate to just ignore or assume away the inflation issue. At the same time, I think the risk of of higher, more persistent inflation has declined significantly since April. And um I if if we if we do wind up resuming rate cuts at some point, we will at some point. Um you know, I I think we're trying to get to the end of this cycle with the labor market in a good place and with inflation, you know, on its way to 2% or at 2%. So that's that's all we're trying to do and we're doing it under, you know, quite challenging circumstances and doing the best we can.
>> We'll go to Jennifer for the last question.
>> Thank you so much, Cher. Jennifer Shawn Burgerer with Yahoo Finance. Both regional and large banks have taken losses on loans given delinquencies on subprime auto loans. JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond warned, "When you see one cockroach, there may be more likely." I'm curious how the Fed is looking at these loan losses and if it poses risks to the financial system or the outlook for the economy. Is it a warning sign?
>> So, you know, we're we're obviously we watch this these things very carefully, credit conditions very carefully. You're right. You've seen rising defaults in subprime credit for some time now and now you've seen a number of of subprime credit uh automobile credit uh institutions having significant losses and some of those losses are now showing up on the books books of banks. You know, we're we're looking at it carefully. We're paying close attention. Uh I don't see at this point a broader credit issue. it doesn't seem to be something that that has uh very broad application across financial institutions but you know we're going to be we're going to be monitoring this quite carefully and uh and making sure that that is the case
>> and then separately um many you yourself have said that we're in a bifurcated economy right now with high netw worth individuals continuing to spend with the lower income pulling back. How much of consumer spending continuing hinges on the stock market remaining strong? In some odd way, does the market help keep the economy buoyant?
>> So there there is some there's some relationship there, but remember uh the more wealth someone has, the lower an additional dollar of wealth matters. So your marginal propensity to consume declines quite dramatically as you reach as you reach levels of stock market wealth. So, you know, the stock market, it it would affect spending if the stock market went down, but it wouldn't drop it wouldn't drop sharply unless there were quite a sharp drop in the um you know, in the stock market. Um people at the lower end of income and wealth have a much higher marginal propensity to consume of an incremental dollar of income or wealth, but they don't have the stock market wealth. So, I think it's it's certainly a factor supporting consumption right now. Um but and you would you would see it if you saw a material correction in in u in spending but um it wouldn't be you shouldn't think that that it'll you know dollar for dollar stop consumption because that wouldn't be the case. Thanks very much. All right, that's J Palunteer. She's pushing for it. She is pushing for it. My goodness. She's trying to go for two hundo folks. We haven't touched it yet. got to 1998 85. Uh there's a lot to talk about based on what JPAL just said. We got a whiplash down to 682 on the S&P. S&P still red, folks. Haven't fully recovered from that whiplash. Individual names continuing to make their move like a Palunteer, like an Nvidia still at 207. Uh Google all-time highs, but that was kind of weird. Bitcoin and Ethereum got rugged as well. Uh, Bitcoin now back a bit. Ethereum was at 3,800. Bitcoin was at 109. I don't know what happened when JPL said that we're not expecting the December cut. I guess the markets got really freaked out about that. We'll talk more about it. And that's what created that whiplash. But now we are back and some of these stocks are trying to make a move right here. You got pounds right there. 19940. 200 resistance, folks, is 21,000 shares. 201,000 shares to see a two handle. 201,727 shares to be exact to see that two handle on Palunteer. Okay, so let's talk about what JPAL said and uh what's going on. So, first of all, this was a pretty weird FOMC in in in regards to the fact that JPAL came out and one of his biggest talking points was that December rate cuts are not confirmed. And of course, everyone knew December rate cuts were not going to be confirmed. You never officially know what the next month of rate cuts are going to look like. um there's always just a projection from what like bond market traders and and prediction market traders and then obviously the future traders expect. But he made a big point out of it in his statement and that's what I think really got the market to feel weird of just like why are you so adamant about telling us that we're not getting a rate cut in December and again in my opinion in my humble opinion there is no world in which we don't get a cut in December. It does not make any sense. I mean, he just spent the past hour talking about labor market weakness, and there's a lot to dive into for why he said the labor market was weak, but you wouldn't say that we're not going to get a rate cut in December. Now, he could have said that we're data dependent, but again, I think the reason the markets and the algos reacted the way they did is because if you read between the lines, it wasn't just him saying we're data dependent like he usually does. It was more so him saying, "Hey, hold your horses, guys. Hold your horses. We're not we're not going to give you the December cut that easily." And I think that's why markets reacted a bit negatively. But again, that was that was eight and up. I mean, like people decided to buy that dip immediately when it happened. You probably had some people that sold, but a ton of people came in and bought. Now, what did he say about the labor market? Number one, he said labor uh labor market participation is going down. So, that's one thing that he made a big point of. Number two, he said immigration's going down. So, a lot of the jobs that would have been solved via immigration because of that declining immigration from a policy perspective, that's hurting the labor market. And then he also said that labor demand is slowing down. So he had three arguments from Pal around the labor market. Participation down, declining immigration, and then overall demand slowing down. He didn't really make that that big of a statement around AI and he didn't explicitly say AI is the reason for this. He just pointed broadly towards the trends that he's seeing. I mean, I think he mentioned AI a couple times, but not necessarily making the argument that AI is the defining, you know, he didn't go as deep into the whole conversation as we did in the morning around Amazon and AI and GPUs and capex for why people are losing their jobs. He did explicitly say that the labor market weakness as per the Amazon 30,000 job headline uh is concerning and that's what he said in his written statement before he went live. And as a result, I mean, again, I don't know why they spent any time talking about no December cuts when we know the only tool the Fed has at their disposal to fight the labor market are interest rates. So, if you bought that little dip that we had, I mean, not a full recovery in every single name. S&P still down on the day, down about 0.24%, 24% but they took us all the way from 689 to 682 and that created a little bit of pain. Uh I just bought five shares of Meta, Microsoft, and Google. So I officially have skin in the game for all these companies. If they tank, then I guess that's the start of my DCA on all three of those. I have some more Google in a separate Robinet account, but on the main account didn't have any Goog. I literally bought Google at alltime highs, which is probably stupid, but whatever. Uh, Meta, not at all-time highs, 747. I'm not that comfortable about Meta. I don't know what Zux is going to say. And then Microsoft, I mean, I hope Azure guidance is good, but this is a bit of a gamble for me on those three companies. So, just five shares of each. We're going to see what plays out. Makes it a little bit more fun for earnings. But you do have the S&P 500 at 685, Google just below 273, and then SoFi losing two. I mean, SoFi got almost down below 30 as soon as we had that whiplash. So, the fact that all three of these kind of went or the fact that all the entire market went to the downside on that on that JPAL headline is a bit uh is a bit weird, but that is what you have there. Now, we still have 30 minutes left till the end of the day, and usually after the FOMC, those final 30 minutes is when the market decides if we're going to pump or dump. And so, we're going to see now kind of how this plays out. Amazon still holding on strong. Amazon fell to 228, no 227 during that whiplash. Now it's back to 228. Got to a high of 232 today, but you do have some of these names. Beginning uh beginning to recover. Uh what else did JPL say? So let's get into a couple other quotes that he had overall. I mean a lot of questions at the end I think were pointless. I mean some of these questions they were asking him, you know, he had no real meaningful way to respond. Now the question about data centers I think was important. Uh Pal said this is very different than the dotcom bubble. The companies have real earnings and business models today. If you go back to.com those were ideas rather than companies. So that was good to see. He even said which is actually I think more bullish data centers than not. He said data centers don't care about interest rates. And I thought that was kind of bullish because he's basically like dude whatever we do with interest rates the demand for this technology is so strong. the demand for this um ecosystem continues to be so strong that interest rates are not going to affect the data center buildout because these hyperscalers have plenty of money. They don't really care about interest rates when it comes to spending that money in order capacity they need for GPUs and they're willing to spend which should be bullish. I ran and clean spark and all those companies Nebia's core etc that are in the data center space. Nebia is right there up 1.4% and then coreweave that is down. I'm not buying Amazon because I already bought Amazon. I bought Amazon 214, 215, 220 over the past couple weeks, really over the past month. And so we'll see what Amazon says tomorrow, but Amazon earnings is not today. Apple and Amazon tomorrow. The other three are today. Nvidia back up to 207 as it starts to go green. Brandon says and they know the ROI is higher than the cost of interest. Yeah, I mean the interesting I mean this is the same thing, dude. The fact that Oracle put up 40 billion of debt in corporate bonds yielding I think closer to 7%. they are pretty confident they will make through their cloud computing business way more than 7% on their investments and so they are willing to take on all that debt and so I I do think it was bullish when JPAL said that but it it highlights how much he does not care about interest rates in the context of AI uh as a like as a as a impact for what he says hurting the broader theme of the stock market in AI because he's comparing it to the dot bubble and he's saying they're just not the same. These are three different or two different uh worlds when it comes to the stock market for Chad's in the chat. Okay, Chad. Yes, I'm sending you the link. We were supposed to get Chad on earlier in the day. We didn't have a chance to get him on. Chad, I'm sending you the link right now. Um we'll get Chad on to tell us a little bit more about this Palunteer Nvidia partnership and he can he can join. Chad, I just sent you the link. Maybe maybe uh maybe we see the 200o when Chad joins. Crazy day, dude. Crazy freaking day. 19831. All right. What did you guys do during the meeting? Did anyone sell, buy? Anyone doing the earnings plays? Let me know in the chat. Are you holding any of these stocks going into earnings? Are you doing a little bit of a yolo? Are you making a bit of a move? I mean, dude, if some of these stocks go up like 10, 15%. It would be quite incredible. And then the question then becomes for the S&P. What impact does that have if these make a move? I sold a little bit my SoFi. I saw someone said they bought 5,000 shares of BMR. This one got all the way to 48. Again, knee-jerk reactions. They got hit. SoFi now below 30 and then they recovered. We're in the last 20 minutes of the close today. So of the market. So we're going to see if these stocks can actually continue to stay above. S&P is getting a little bit of a dump right here. Down.33. Pounder from 199 to 198. Tesla went red. Nvidia holding 207 which is nice. Got BMR at 48. Bot Hood and SoFi. Um I mean I just bought 300 shares a pound here at 199.80. I mean again if you're if you're look I think it is 200 after earnings if they give us a good earnings. We're going to have to see. But obviously massive massive momentum today and you know you're doing what I did with Google. I know I'm buying it at all time highs and if it falls I have no one to blame on myself. But it's a good quality company that is worth dcaing into. Google right there 27360. Reddit is down half a percent. Then Amazon just went red right here. I see a decent amount of you saying I bought BMR. I bid as well. That one's green. By the way, that politician that bought BB AI Big Bear like three months ago, apparently she didn't just buy 50,000. She bought a h 100,000. There's another 50,000 she quote unquote forgot to disclose. That was revealed just now. She's going to pay a $200 fine for forgetting to disclose that. But Big Bear up about 1% on the day. So, you do have some of the politicians buying that stock in video right there. 2.93%. Up right now. Um, okay. Let's see couple of other of these. Did Pal say the labor market is weakening? Pala like objectively and explicitly said we see weakness in the labor market and that's why it's getting I mean that's why I think the markets are easily pricing in that December cut even though Pal said to not price it and by the way on the prediction markets there was a 90% chance for a December cut now it's 71% chance after what Jay Pal said but I don't know if that's necessarily going to make that much of a difference going into uh December. Chad, what's up?
>> I just lost your audio.
>> Oh, you can't hear me?
>> I can't hear you.
>> Okay, I'll get you on in a second. We'll get Chad back on in a second. I'll tell him to rejoin. That might help. Uh, yeah, Nvidia was up 5%. Now it's down three. All right, he's going to go rejoin. Um, here's another thing I want to show everybody before we get into these earnings. Take a look at this chart right here. Microsoft, Amazon, and Google now have nearly 700 billion in combined backlog. Most of that backlog again is related to customer cloud commitments. So this is going to be another really really important thing to see today if they can increase their RPO customer cloud agreements overall guidance obviously operating margins across the cloud and we're going to need to see what numbers they put up. Uh Modziz thank you for becoming a channel member. Vip Patel thank you for the $5 super chat and Meustoto thank you for the super chat as well. What a fun day to spend with you and thank you for the long stream. Thank you guys all for being here. First time in a while we did a long stream almost seven hours. We're going to go probably another two, three hours, but it's a big day. It's a big day. It's a fun day. Happy everyone has been here throughout the entire day. All right. Can you hear me?
>> I just lost you again. As soon as you brought me up, I lost you,
>> dude. We need some pounds here to fix this. What's going on? It's okay. No worries. All right, dude. It's because it's a freaking uh Azure, bro. It's because of Azure. Azure going down today. as you're going down. Okay. So, is it back? Is it back? We're good.
>> We're good now.
>> Okay. Perfect.
>> Technology.
>> Technology.
>> There's a little bit of an echo, so I'm going to I'm going to try to just speak and then mute myself immediately.
>> Here, I'm going to switch here. Is this better?
>> Hello.
>> Hello. Yes.
>> All right. Cool. Wait. Hi. Okay, good. Good. No echo. Okay, cool. Uh, Nvidia Palunteer, what's going on here, Chad?
>> This is exciting. We've been working on this for a while. Um, but the the big thing everyone's like, well, what does it mean? Like, and we're partnering, right? So, in reality, what's happening now is like having Nvidia models, whether they're deterministic optimization models or some of the LM stuff like the Neatron or Nemo Retriever. um these different models they have that are LM based based on like the llama stuff that they've been they've taken the llama open source models and created their own highly tuned models. So those will be available in platform and then their uh their koop um optimization engine is available as well. So like I I got all excited about this because even this morning the reason I had to miss this morning's call is I had to meet with a customer who was excited about our Nvidia announcement and wanted to talk about this. So it is has brought a lot of energy about it. Um a lot of questions actually then had another call today where you know customers are bringing up what Jensen said about us excited about the opportunity to work together with everyone. So lots of excitement about it but really the idea here is more models more optionality brings first and like best-in-class optimization models into the platform for people to use and orchestrate with AIP. So like really cool exciting stuff. Of course you bring up the stock price. I'm sure my lawyers will love that.
>> Well, well, you know, if we hit 200, then we're going to have to have to keep the stock price down. Um,
>> but you know, I think the the big thing here is like there should be more options. You should have more optionality with tools, more options where you run them. Um, and that's really what this is about is that optionality to use the right tool for the problem.
>> What do you mean by integrating models? because I do think a lot of people were confused about what like we know what pound your AIP is, we know they connect to a lot of models. How does that work with like Nvidia specific models I guess?
>> Yeah. So, so like think about this like let's say in the example we posted a video of Lowe's how we built this together with Nvidia to show this as an example and and really the the concept here is it's not just about like generative AI like generative AI is not great at optimization. Optimization models are great at optimization. They're very much more deterministic. Both are running on GPUs. Both are AI models, right? The thing is you need to orchestrate the calls, the access to data, the handoff functions, the security. So what I can do with this is actually have the generative AI models help me reason access data across my enterprise bring the context that I need make calls to the optimization model get results back orchestrate the results into actions that are being taken. So think about what you're seeing on the screen there like that graphic we call it the sandwich graphic but it's it's really the ontology is the operating system. Now we have more access to tools and drivers essentially in my operating system to orchestrate this. So for the Lowe's example you got on the screen here. How do I optimize my supply chain? Well, now I have AI agents running. They're calling optimization models to help me figure out how to reroute something better. Then the agent takes that and turns into actions to actually change that in their ERP to reroute product to make it real. And so that's where like now we have best-in-class access to all the NVIDIA infrastructure and models right inside of AIP.
>> When Jensen said yesterday that uh the Poundrontology is the single most important enterprise stack in the world, I mean Jensen's not saying that lightly. Do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do you think the reason he's kind of making that assertion based on the partnership that you've had with Nvidia is because they're recognizing that these LLMs as valuable as they are and Nvidia's been supporting the LMS for the past couple years the integration of LMS for business use cases which is that whole ROI that the entire industry is looking for that comes ultimately through the ontology.
>> Yeah it I mean LM aren't trained on your business data. No one wants LLM trained on their business data. They want it to have the context your business. Ontology stores the context about how you operate. It's the data, the logic, the actions of your business. Then you bring in the LMS that are not trained on that. And the two of those together running on the NVIDIA hardware that is the valuable part. And so to really wield them, you need to have that contextual store. But it's more than just data. That's the problem that a lot of people fall short with like co-pilots and other things is if it's just the data that's missing the logic about how to how your business operates the living breathing organism that the businesses are and the actions of like what are the levers I can take to optimize my business and that is what the ontology really contextualize now you also need to have like enterprise level security you have to have all these other things as well as that integrated into this ecosystem and then LMS really help accelerate that and so That's that's really what this is about. And so whenever we have like a partnership like with Nvidia here is our goal is how do I get our customer to outcomes faster by having Nvidia stuff integrated in the platform that means I can use the models faster I can run the optimizations faster right so when when I heard Jensen and Karp talking about how you know how we're going to accelerate things the fact that I can now run the best-in-class optimization model for supply chain like that inside of AIP from an agent that's incredible. So now I can show up to customers and execute that much quicker. The computes that much quicker, right? So it's it's a value for our customer and that's really what we're talking about.
>> Last question for you, Chad. Again, thanks for taking the time out to talk about this. I think a lot of people are appreciating more clarity on this partnership. Uh Karp on the CNBC interview yesterday with with Jensen was was talking more about the idea of AI as a addition versus subtraction from the American labor force. Uh all of us are seeing massive massive layoffs. Amazon with 30,000 announced yesterday. I think one of Karp's big talking points over the past couple of months has been that AI should be an addition and AIP ontology all this stuff should enhance the worker, not replace the worker. How do you think this partnership with Nvidia kind of culminates into that ethos that Palunteer is not trying to be the company that replaces you, but rather be the tool that accelerates your productivity? Well, you know, this is theory verse reality. Where I'm living is in the reality at the edge with the people. So, if you actually are building the systems for real at the edge with those people, what you're seeing is your best domain expert on supply chain or on the warehouse, you're seeing the dream and the thing that they always knew like if I could just do this thing. AI gives them the agency to do and build what they want what they like what they can go build. So now you are giving people agency to go build to have more output like I like there is a finite amount of reducing you can do there is an infinite amount of growth you can do right and so I always look at this as how am I 10xing rather than cutting by 50%. that is infinitely more valuable and so that's really what we should be f focused on is how do we drive the output the value creation is what it's about
>> yeah and I think that's what Jensen said this partnership is going to supercharge the palry ontology I think the increased access to models and all the different suite of features right there just makes the context of the organization more valuable and as a result as Karp says the value is uh or the val the upside is from is is down is downstream from the value creation the partnership with Nvidia should only help create more and more value for these customers,
>> right? And and this is just the start. I mean, we just we just wanted to launch and have real stuff, real product. Like, I'm I'm never going to have a partnership that is not around real things just for the sake of putting two names together. We could have launched this a long kind of time ago if that was the case. We want real product of us working on real problems for real customers. So, like this is just the start. Now, it's about the opportunities of us both working together. What other ways can we accelerate time to value for our customers? How do we help them run models faster, quicker? And so this is this is really the idea of like when we say like we're only beginning like literally like this is just a few little subset. There's so many ideas that we both have together what we can go build. Um and when you start talking about the chips and ontology that is really where the value creation is.
>> Chips and ontology. I love it. Chad, thank you so much. There's his Twitter. You guys can follow him right there and uh looking forward to getting a lot more details on how this partnership evolves.
>> All right, see you all. Thanks all.
>> Thank you, Chad. Appreciate it. All right, there we go. Nvidia and Palanteer, that partnership is now official. Been waiting years to see it happen and it is happening. Let's bring on the next guest, folks, who's going to be with me for the next few hours, I believe, as we cover these earnings. Sam,
>> what is up? Whips whiplashing left and right, dude. You know, honestly, coming into this morning, um, small caps have just been lagging the whole rally, probably for the last few days, which is interesting because they led the whole way up. And then you have mega cap basically gaining most of the inflow. So,
>> oh, they're getting hit. They're going down.
>> Yeah, they got they got pretty hit. Um, so I I I had you a little bit. I I I seen crypto being pretty weak lately, so I decided to um cut some swings when it comes to crypto, but um still in the data center names. I mean, Nebius is green on the day that had a massive dip buying opportunity just a couple of hours ago. Um I did not buy the dip though. I did have like some covered calls on Iron and Nebius that I ended up buying back, but I don't know. We got these earnings after hours. I think the market is just totally looking forward to the entire event.
>> What was your reaction to Mr. JPAL? By the way, Google right here. 270. Where is it? Four, dude. I bought this at 273 like 10 minutes ago. So, this is pretty incredible. Uh, what was your reaction, Sam, to what JPAL said? And do you think he said anything that was enough to be different from before? Uh, I did think that it was kind of odd how he was like saying, you were mentioning it earlier during the stream. I was watching it where was like, uh, yeah, we're going to kind of slow down with the rate cuts. Are we're going to kind of, you know, we're going to see that unemployment is starting to see an uptick here. Inflation risk. It's like I This guy's looking at the market. He is looking at the stock market and he's like, "All right, it can't prop up stuff again this again." Right? So, I mean, the way that I see it, and I see some people uh commenting regarding the 7500 target. Yeah. I mean, I think SP 500 is still going to get to 7500, but I also think that a lot of the small caps and a lot of the more speculative stuff has had a massive run. Like, am I going to be pressing the gas here? Probably not on it. Uh, but I do think that um the mega caps have a pretty good amount of upside when it comes to things that are more the value sense. Even though I don't think Amazon is like too over is even overvalued or anything. But I mean, we got some catching up to do, right? We we got I mean Amazon tested that 200 day moving average just a couple weeks ago
>> and it's bounced pretty considerably since then. like uh not even 10%, but you know it when you really think about like the market and everything like what has really been running the last few weeks that is no longer running anymore. Everything's going back to the mega caps. So
>> do you think the labor market is having a bit of a moment right now?
>> I saw those posts about Amazon and I mean I voiced it that well they're not laying off people across the entire board. They're laying off people mostly in corporate and also retail. And they closed a lot of stores. Like the stores have not been doing good. So really, I mean, I if they were laying off people in Azure, if they were laying off, I'm sorry, in AWS, if they're laying off people in ad markets and stuff, then okay, maybe that might be something. But I don't think this is like directly contributed because of AI cutting jobs. I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that we're normalizing job openings. uh we went on a massive hiring spree during COVID and that's starting to normalize at this point. I I don't think that the fear that AI is going to take everyone's jobs. I don't think that's going to come really for like the next few years, maybe like five or 10 years till that really has an effect. But I think by that point people are going to adjust like look with computers and when the internet started people had to adjust. People had to learn how to use internet and if you don't know how to use internet then you probably have a hard time finding a job today. And then it came with infrastructure and engineering basically turning into code applications and people in my field had to learn how to do that otherwise you got cut from your job and then now today it's AI like you you just it's another skill you need to learn but it's just at a much more accelerated pace. Yeah, I agree. And JPAL didn't give us any comments about how bad he thinks AI is affecting the market, but he did acknowledge there is a impact on the labor market and I don't think that's something that the Fed or market participants can ignore. Uh these are the earnings we have folks. Carvana is up. Chipotle, Marta, Libre, Starbucks, then you have the big three. We have a couple other earnings, but it's going to be pretty wild after the bill when we get into them. Sam, any predictions from you on Meta, Google, Microsoft, and what you think we get today? I I'm looking at capex mostly and I'm also looking at um Azure growth and GCP growth. That's going to be like a telling sign as far as how much demand there actually is in the market. Uh I mean who knows with with Azure. Azure came in at 39% which is pride the street. It was like a 35% last quarter for the estimates and it came in at 39% which is insane. And Google was about in line with estimates. I I do think that we're going to continue seeing maybe flat to upper momentum on that. I'd imagine Microsoft is going to reacelerate past 39%. At least at least I I would expect them to only because look at how many people are signing up with Azure and also on top of that look at all these deals you're getting with OpenAI and uh and Azure and then you know you also have them signing up with uh Nebius to uh build more data centers. you know, they they better do good in their top on their top line when it comes to Azure, when it comes to GCP for Google because if they don't, I think that might cause a little bit of scare as far as demand goes. And then Capex, I I think this is going to directly impact a lot of the data center stocks like Nebius and Iron, Cipher, and so on. Iring actually got a downgrade this morning, so that's probably the reason why it's weak. But dude, if Capex is flat to down, uh I don't I I'm not so sure if these stocks will be up after hours. they might get hit pretty hard and you're going to get hit with the semiconductor stocks too. So, we'll see.
>> That's the bare case. If Capex guidance is down and these companies don't have the cloud revenues accelerating like the street expects them to the Nebuses, the Core Reeves, they're all derivatives of these hyperscalers getting a deal with them. So,
>> I'd be very surprised. I mean, with that presidential dinner that just happened a couple months ago with Zuckerberg basically saying out there, oh, you hit or miss a couple hundred billion dollars, you know, like I would be surprised if they reduce capex. If anything, I would expect them to increase capex and if they don't increase it, I I just I think the market is expecting an increase in capex, but I think it's going to happen.
>> Agreed. Google 275, are you nervous that it's pumping before earnings or
>> not really? I I I think uh a lot of money is rotating into mega caps and basically value lately. Um I think that's going to continue happening for a little bit of time and I think that's really what's going to push the market up. You know, because if you think about all these small caps, like you can see IWM is pretty weak today. Um that isn't going to these small caps are not going to push the market up. What's going to push the market up are the mega caps and they've been lagging a little bit. But if you get like Google at 300, you get Microsoft at 450, you get Amazon like at 250 bucks or more, Meta at 800 plus, dude, we're going to 7500. Like the thesis is not that we're going to go to 7500 because every single piece of crap in the market's going to go up. The thesis is that the mega caps are going to catch up. That's the thesis. And it's going to be super volatile. You just saw it today. Like it's going to be extremely volatile. There's going to be shakeouts and stuff. There's also going to be opportunities to kind of hedge the market or maybe sell some covered calls and stuff and we got a crazy opportunity this morning. Um, but you know, other than that, like dude, I I've cut a significant amount of speculative exposure in in the last couple of months and I've rotated more capital into mega caps and value stuff that's actually been working. Like I'm not buying the Verizon's, I'm not buying um Ficeerve or I'm not buying like a lot of, you know, the stuff that Chris usually focuses on. Uh if anything, I'm buying more of growth that is of really good value. So people are asking about Rubric. Rubric is near 70 bucks and it's pulled back pretty considerably from its recent high. Uh am I adding here? I mean, I already added pretty aggressively in the high 70s, maybe a little too early. Um but you know, we'll see. We have a we we do have a lot of the enterprise software earnings coming up. I think I think um service now is reporting today if I'm not mistaken.
>> Yes. Yes, they are.
>> Yeah. S that that's going to be a big factor in it. When Amazon reports tomorrow that's going to move the software market too. Software has not been leading this charge up other than specific cyber security leaders. We need to see that continue momentum into cloud. If you do these names will come back. Um, but until then, dude, I'm bullish. Rubik, get I want to get out of here. I'm bullish Rubic. Get I I don't I I I I don't care whatever anyone says. Cyber security is here to stay, right? Cyber security will always be around and it's become super important the further we go down this AI track. So, I'm still bullish Rubric. Am I adding in like short-term calls and everything? Probably not. Like, that's kind of scary to be doing that right now. Um, but I'm still holding my position. I'll probably be adding maybe in next couple weeks. Uh I I only have a few percents of cash left. I don't have too much cash. Uh Meta Street wants 667 per share. They want 49.4 billion in revenue. Google Street wants 227 a share and 101 billion of revenue. And then Microsoft Street wants 366 a share and 75.39 billion of revenue. Folks, it's not too often you get three of the most important companies on the planet reporting, but nonetheless, they reporting at the same time. Final poll for the day. Which one do you think does the best after hours?
>> I think um man, you know, I I want to be bullish Meta, but um I just I'm not too confident on their margins this quarter. um mostly because the copious amount of spending they've been doing as far as their free cash flow margins. Uh operating margins is going to be set aside from that because most of the capex is attributed to cash flows on the investing side versus like the operating income. Um so maybe they'll be able to sustain that but there's going to be a point in the next few years where capex is going to equal equal operating cash flow if not supersede it. Right? So if that happens you know I hope people are ready for that. the the ideal is invest now, reap later. I I think I think Meta might be like somewhat flat, maybe up a little bit. Uh I think Microsoft is going to do just fine. I'm not sure if it's going to be up like 5 10%. But dude, I I don't know. I I I think Google's going to go to 300 bucks only because I don't own it anymore. All right, here we go. 2 minutes. 50% of you are saying Google is going to do the best equal split between 25 25 on Meta. Last question for everybody. I'm just going to say to put the ticker in the chat. Which one do you think would dump? If you had to pick one to dump out of all three, put in the chat which one do you think?
>> Man, I I have a feeling Meta just might not surprise the upside. If it does, great. If it does If it does great, I have a position in Meta. But
>> I felt the same about Meta last time and then Zucks just demolished. Like how would I even you know but like now I don't know this this is why your stomach turns and it's gut-wrenching but
>> it's crazy man
>> I think Microsoft could be the dark horse I think Microsoft could be the one that surprises a lot of people
>> if Microsoft surprises the upside the market is just going to go up like a lot right meta what is it like$2 billion $2 trillion maybe a little bit less like that's not going to move the markets if Microsoft goes up that will move the markets and if it's cloud it is going to be fun ride.
>> All right, here we go, folks. We got about 30 seconds. I will ring the bell as we close out the day. We got 25 bips. We will have all three earnings and a lot of other companies. It's going to be a bit madness after the bell. I will try to get the numbers as quick as I can on all of them and flip through each of the stocks and see what reactions we're getting. But it is going to be a pretty big day for the equity markets. Just remember, regardless of what happens up or down, we are all winners for actually caring about trying to achieve some level of financial freedom by allocating capital. Uh it's not something that everyone does, but the fact that we're all doing it is very, very special. Thank you everybody for being here. Wednesday, October 29th, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, there we go. Pound here alltime high 198.883 on the close. Robin it at 144. Tessy at 461. Nvidia's up 3%. S&P actually closed green. We closed green even with that whiplash from JPL 68772 on the S&P 500. SoFi right there 3087. Reddit closed green on the day. Amazon up half a percent. Grabby Grab 185 605. PayPal was down 4% because of Fiserve going down 40%. Salesforce down 1%. Apple basically at all time highs at 269. SMCI up a little bit on the day. Ethereum slightly down 3900. Then Bitcoin 110.6 that was also a bit down on the day. We should be get earn getting earnings pretty much in the next 30 seconds. Googs. Do we have a mover on googs? Let's see. Googs tends to be earlier before the other two. She's moving. She 276, I think. Yep, there she's moving. All right, we're gonna see. I will get the numbers as soon as I can. And we're gonna see what we got. Googs usually happens immediately. Microsoft and Meta a little bit later. Uh, we do have Service Now, we have Starbucks. We have Chipotle, Mardo, Libre. I don't see any crazy new moves after hours. We got to pay attention to Nvidia as well as we're looking at all these companies. Teddoc, eBay, KAC, another semiconductor name. And then Service Now and Software. Mart Libre is up right there. And then Starbucks, that's down. Google 276. You're getting a bit of a candle. Nothing too crazy, but the numbers are not in yet. Yeah, S&P did go green. S&P did go green on the close. Falling knife, thank you for the $200 super chat. You did not need to send that. Deeply, deeply appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here. And thank you for the super chat. Also, Muckabe, thank you for the super chat as well, man. Uh just for being here with me. Couldn't do this alone. Appreciate you guys. I'm just very happy that people chose to be here all day with me and we got to do this together. So, thank you all for being here. Googs 280. All right, we're getting the move. We're getting a move. 280. 281 282 283 284. Oh my goodness. How big of a beat was this? How big? I don't have the numbers yet on googs. I don't have it yet. I don't have it yet. Streets got to like it for a 280 move. 282 Street's got to be happy with it if they're giving it that much of a move right now. Let's see if I can pull this up. I got Micardo Libre numbers. It looks like a beat and a miss from Ricardo Libre. Don't have Google yet. 281. She's holding 280 again. The stock was stuck at 150 for like nine months. So, this is a big one. Oh my goodness. 26% beat. Oh my goodness. 287 versus 227. That's almost a 30% beat. Revenue 102 versus 100. That's a $2 billion beat on revenue. Google's at 285. Google is at 285. It looks like she wants 300o end of year, maybe earlier than that. My goodness, 26% beat for a $3.2 trillion company. That means
>> that's pretty insane.
>> Completely underestimated what Google would put up.
>> Let me pull this up.
>> Microsoft and Meta I don't have yet, but Google just making a massive move right here.
>> Yep. Oh, Micros 285 still moving. There you go. 284. Wow. Microsoft's dumping. Are we actually dumping? Microsoft is dumping. Microsoft is dumping. Microsoft is down 4%. Wow. Google go up. Microsoft go down. Let me see Microsoft numbers. We'll get into the specifics of everything in a second. Um, Mardo Libre, by the way, they missed by 11% on EPS. They beat by 3% on revenue. Uh, Marta Libre is also down. Not down like crazy, but they are down. Google just hit 289. Google just hit 290. Google just hit 290. Microsoft just hit below 520. Oh my goodness, dude. Up and down. That is quite incredible. Uh EPS on Microsoft. I think I have it. Do I have Microsoft? Let me see. Do we have it? Yeah. Okay. They beat by 13% from Microsoft on EPS. 413 versus 366. Uh that's a beat. And then revenue 3% 77.6 versus 77.5 or 75.3 billion. EPS is up 20% year-over-year. 25% revenue was up 18% year-over-year. Street doesn't like it. Street loves Google. 295. Oh my goodness. The guys, this was at 150 for 9 months. If it goes to 300, that is a double on a $3 trillion company in less than four months. Forget less than four months. They started moving closer to to to September. It's less than three months. 292 on the googs hit 295. Microsoft, this is not a bad number on Microsoft. 13% beat is not something to scoff at. I guess the street thought, you know, they could get a 20% beat like Google. 77.6 versus 75 billion on revenue. Meta, let me see if I have Meta. Meta's dumping. Oh boy. I kind of had a feeling about Meta dumping. Kind of had a feeling about that. There you go. 728 on Meta. Uh, let's see. Meta's numbers. Don't have them yet. Should be getting them in a second. Meta.
>> Do they say capbacks in the earnings calls? Oh, wait. No, they should be on the sheets.
>> Yeah, and I'll get the sheet in a second to see uh Meta. Hold on. There's no way these numbers are true. I got to be looking at something crazy. I'm looking at some weird numbers. There's got to be the numbers I'm looking at is looking like they missed EPS by $5. There's no way. Now granted, the stock's down heavy right now, so maybe there is a way. Met there's 708. Goodness gracious, bro. This one just getting wrecked. Um, Google's 300. Did we hit 300? Uh, I didn't see that. I saw 295, not 300. Meta 706. Meta and Microsoft getting hit. Google going up. I'll try to get the Microsoft numbers in a second or the meta numbers, but let's get some coverage real quick on Microsoft and then let me get the uh the meta numbers right here. Let me pull this up right now from it being at a discount valuation wise to the likes of Microsoft uh and other comparable names. So I do think that's why you have that a positive and then you know the revenue acceleration in cloud as Stephanie was saying is something that is going to tell you that we can still tolerate the the higher capex
>> guys I think I was looking at the right number what the either this is false or an 84% miss on EPS for Meta what I guess I was looking at the right numbers 105 versus 667 51 billion versus 49 billion. This has to be an accounting thing. This has to be accounting. This has to be they're taking off a charge off or they're they're they're they're uh engaging in a charge off, goodwill impairment. There's no way. Or if this is legit, and it's not accounting, which I really do think it's accounting. If it's legit, that means they're spending a ridiculous amount on labor and it's screwing their margins. But there's no way it's screwing it by 84%. Like that makes no sense. But that's what you are looking at right here on Meta. [Laughter] Chad says they're writing off scale this quickly. You know, we're laughing at that. But theoretically, that's what a miss like this implies, that they're taking off a massive uh loss on their on their investments. In this case, you know, they put 15 billion into scale AI. Maybe they're not getting the ROI right here. 695. We need some more details on what's happening with Meta GPUs. Okay. But they've been buying GPUs for four years. This
>> so it says that they expect capex for the year. So only one more quarter left to be 66 to 6 to 72 narrowed from previous outlook of 64 to 72. So they expect capex to be a little bit higher in the bottom range. Capex didn't really change. Uh expect another year of significant capital exponential dollar growth in 2026. They don't give a number.
>> Okay. Okay. The reason EPS is down, Meta takes a 15.93 billion non-cash charge on their tax bill. What are they doing writing off 15 billion?
>> I got a billion.
>> No, 15.9 billion.
>> Billion.
>> Let's get some coverage on uh on Meta.
>> Is down seven or so%.
>> Well, earnings and revenue both beat expectations. Adjusted earnings of $7.25. That's ahead of estimates of 669, but that includes a one tax onetime non-cash income tax charge of $15.9 billion. Um, but that without that one-time charge, which is due to the big beautiful bill, um, President Trump's big beautiful deal bill that would have been an EPS. Revenues also ahead of estimates, daily active people um, ahead of estimates 3.54 billion versus 3.49 billion estimated. and the average price per ad was up 10% in the quarter versus an 11% gain that the street uh uh street account estimate um had anticipated. Now, in terms of Q4 revenues, the company's guiding to Q4 revenues between 56 billion and 59 billion that compares to the 57.25 25 billion estimated. And they say the outlook reflects an an expectation for continued strong ad revenue growth partially offset by lower year-over-year reality labs revenue in the fourth quarter. We're going to continue to dig into this. Um does seem like everyone is working.
>> Did anyone catch what she said? What what was in the big beautiful bill that caused this $15 billion? I'm going to listen to it one more time. I got to hear that. I'm still confused why they were able to take that that much of a if they didn't have this, they would have beat EPS by about 10%.
>> Revenue both beat expectations. Adjusted earnings of $7.25. That's ahead of estimates of $669, but that includes a one tax onetime non-cash income tax charge of 15.9 billion.
>> One time non-income tax charge of 15.9 billion from the big beautiful billion dollars. Um but that
>> okay so without that Meta would be up 698 after hours. Google still moving 285 but it looks like that's the story on Meta. That's why that's getting hit. Microsoft also still getting hit. Microsoft uh down about 4% right here. A little bit of recovery but Microsoft is still down. Jose, welcome.
>> What's going on man? Seems like I missed so much already and it's only been 10 minutes since the market closed. What's up Jose?
>> What's going on Sam? Let's get some coverage on Google here and then we'll try to dive deeper into these numbers as well.
>> Some more details on that report. Mac,
>> hey there, John. So, one number that we were looking out for is its fullear capex guide. It's now ranging between 91 billion and $93 billion. That puts it very close to the numbers that we've seen from Microsoft and Amazon, the two biggest spenders in that cloud war. They've got capex commitments of around hundred billion. It's backlog numbers, so that's the best indicator of future revenue. That's coming in at $155 billion. Also key here, it's Gemini app, which goes head-to-head with OpenAI's Chat GBT. It's looking at monthly active users of 600 650 million versus
>> Wow, that's a big one. That's a big jump. 650. ChatBT is at 800.
>> This is OpenAI's 800 million. I want to bring you that allimportant search and other revenue number. This is its cash cow for the company. We're looking at uh 56.57 billion for that segment, beating estimates of 55.1 billion. Uh we are seeing a miss in its other bets revenue. That's 344 uh million versus the 433.1 million. That's where its Whimo business lives. One other thing for you I've got John is your Q2 uh your Q3 YouTube revenue. That's beating estimates at 10.26 billion versus the 10.01 billion expected. And last thing I'll say for you, that cloud revenue growth, that percentage growth 34% higher from a year earlier to that 51 uh 15.16 billion as it looks to come up the ranks from that third place position. Back to you guys.
>> Okay, McKenzie, thank you. Those shares are up almost 4%.
>> Jose, any quick thoughts on those numbers?
>> Did I miss something? Did they increase capex? She mentioned 91 to 93 billion. Last quarter we saw it was 85 billion um for for Google. Uh, so it does seem like a nice capbased growth here. Um, so I'm I'm pretty excited about that. Uh, so again, just jumping in here, but that was the first thing that grabbed my attention if those numbers are true. I don't know if they're looking at like they could be just looking at the next 12 months based on current numbers or if they actually increased their guidance. I I I do think they actually did. She said it came in line with what the street was expecting. So it looks like it's a $5 billion increase. We'll confirm that, but it seems like that is the case. Google doing the best after all these earnings at 286. Meta is starting to recover a bit. I still don't know exactly what the big beautiful bill had to do with this $15 billion charge off, but without it they would have beat EPS uh and it would have came in at 725. Street was expecting 667. So if they came in at 725, then technically Meta would have had a 9% beat. So if Meta had just not had that charge off, which I think the street can ignore that I mean the ALOS are not going to ignore it, but maybe that shouldn't be something that has that much of an impact. Microsoft right here, I want to get it deeper into Microsoft's cloud revenues, and we'll pull that up in a second because that's the big story for Microsoft real quick before that. Service Now, they beat on the top and the bottom 482 versus 427 beat by 12%. Revenue beat by 1.4%. Service Now, that stock is up about 2% after hours. And then you have Carvana, they missed on EPS. We're seeing a lot of different stuff happen in the uh car market with delinquencies. 137 versus 103 revenue. They beat 565 versus 501. So that stock is down even though they beat on revenues. Uh Google's going to be starting at 4:30 guys. So in 15 minutes we'll open up Google. Uh we'll get to Meta and Microsoft once Google is done. But all three of these calls will be happening at the same time. So we'll try to get updates.
>> Transmetics uh reported too apparently. TMDX
>> down 10%.
>> Down. Okay, they beat by 83% on EPS, missed by 1% on revenue. That stock is indeed down 10%. But at least you're seeing that topline beat or the bottom line beat, which is important. Uh Chipotle just reported, let me pull that up real quick and then we'll get into Microsoft
>> around a bit in the after hours here. Now it's higher by more than 3%. It's third quarter results essentially uh in line for Chipotle. company lowering though its fullear same store sales guidance. Now for the third quarter in a row, it now expects low singledigit decline versus a prior forecast of flat. Now that's despite its EPS coming in right in line at 29 cents. Revenue is also in line at 3 billion for the quarter. Same store sales also up 0.3%. Its average check is up 1.1% but traffic did fall by just under a percent in the quarter. Restaurant margin about 24.5%. That's 1% lower than analyst estimates. It says due to higher beef and chicken costs along with the impact of tariffs. Now, CEO Scott Boatright telling me in a CNBC exclusive interview that younger consumers under 100k annual income are pulling back a bit in the quarter. Take a listen.
>> We've seen a pretty sizable step down in the consumer that's under $100,000 in annual income. Specific to that is a group uh the 25 to 34 year old which we overindex to has pulled back measurably and we believe that
>> that is the first time we're hearing from a restaurant that a consumer making less than 100k they are seeing less foot traffic for. So that is definitely something all of us have to pay attention to. If that's happening at Chipotle that's probably happening at other restaurants and it's showing a bit of a bifurcation within the labor market and obviously people that are just starting out their careers. I mean, if they're not eating at Chipotle, then, you know, either Chipotle is too pricey or there there are some issues with their income that isn't allowing them to afford Chipotle. So, that is a bit of news that's important for the consumer. Chipotle right there down 1%. Google still holding its move 28871. Chipotle's just mid. Okay.
>> It's crazy with Google, right? First 100 billion quarter. That's wild on revenue. Um I I
>> the first Google $100 billion revenue quarter.
>> Yeah, I think that's what they just me they they mentioned on their uh press release here. Um we delivered our first ever $100 billion quarter.
>> Okay, so let me pull it up right here real quick. This is Microsoft. So we are looking at on cloud 49.1 billion. Street had 48. So they beat intelligent cloud 30.9 personal computing 13.8 versus 12.8 adjusted EPS again 413. net income. Microsoft did about $28 billion of profits. I guess the street wanted something a bit higher than Google right there at 290. Here is what Sundar said. Alphabet had a terrific quarter with double digit growth across every part of our business. We delivered our first ever hundred billion dollar quarter. Our full stack approach to AI is delivering strong momentum and we're shipping at speed, including the global rollout of AI overviews and AI mode in search in record time. In addition to topping leaderboards, our firstparty models like Gemini now process 7 billion tokens a minute via direct API use by our customers. The Gemini app now has over 650 million monthly active users. By the way, three months ago that was 450 million. So that's up 200 million. We continue to drive strong growth in new businesses. Google Cloud accelerated ending the quarter with 155 billion in backlog. And we have 300 million paid subscribers led by Google One and YouTube Premium. Okay, not too bad. Uh Sam, any thoughts on some of these Google numbers as we're seeing it come through?
>> You know, I calculated that cloud growth, it was 28%. Um, which is still pretty nice. I mean, they're getting bigger, so lot of large numbers. Uh, but I mean, like, what what can you say? They're definitely winning the uh they definitely win the LLM market. I I think they're still number one, right? They still the number one LLM in the world or chatbot in the world. I think they're probably going to continue doing so. If you really think about a company that's very experienced at monetizing search, even even when it comes to AI search, at some point they're going to start monetizing that. This is the company, right? So I seeing a quarter like that, you're seeing the money rotate pretty much out of Meta, out of Microsoft. This is just going by price action and going to Google. That's just what it looks like right now after hours because this is a lot of money, dude. This is a lot of money moving after hours and it's going to go somewhere. So, so one of them had to be up
>> and and and if we see I mean that cl the slide with cloud um few things that really caught my attention is um similar type of revenue growth even though Sam mentioned right the law of of large numbers they still last year they grew 35% still they're growing 34% I'm going to guess due to this massive demand in AI solutions and AI cloud infrastructure u but more importantly if you look at that operating margins uh
>> yeah yeah
>> huge growth I I mean huge growth Yeah, now 23.7% uh about 200 uh two billion now 3.6.
>> How do you think Google increased that by 6%. Just more efficiencies because that is impressive dude.
>> So cloud is um you reduce overhead as you scale out. So the larger you get the more your operating margins go up like AWS is like around 30 31.5% or something last quarter. So it's no surprise the bigger that they get the more efficient they get because it's just you don't need to multiply how many engineers you have when you have when you're just automating the whole thing. Wait, so they grew at 35% their cloud?
>> 34.
>> Oh wow. 34%. That's actually pretty good. That's so that's pretty good. That's pretty good.
>> Yeah. And and and also just with the overall kind of in AI infrastructure utilization, right? If you you have one server, but the that one server is being used 100% of the time, you're going to be able to increase on your margins dramatically faster than if you had that same server only running 80% of the time or 70% of the time. So, uh pricing power there on the cloud aspect, but also the utilization rate um are are are two things that I think can help accelerate that number uh pretty nicely.
>> I agree. Google right there at 290. Uh, I'm gonna pull up Google Q2 2025 real quick and compare what Sundar said. So, it looks like it looks like you're right, Jose. They did increase. Yeah, look at this. So, so they said 85 billion. This is Q2. This was three months ago. The most recent quarter is 91 to 93. That's an increase. So on the high end, that's an eight billion increase on capex. If if
>> others
>> that is so bullish your data center stocks, that's what you want to see.
>> Nvidia right there 207 some of the other data center names after hours moving a little bit. Nebus and Core
>> I curious to see how Broadcom because obviously Broadcom is one of the ones that make with TPUs usually they kind of move um with Capix a little bit more than Nvidia. Um any movement? No, I don't don't see much. pretty much flat from from close. But yeah,
>> it did hit an alltime high today, which is crazy, right?
>> Um, Jose, your reaction to Meta, let me pull up Meta slides, but do you think it's justified because of this tax miss that they have?
>> I I I had to read through it, but a tax miss, I mean, I don't think would be something that would create for me to sell uh a meta. Uh, right. So, would love to read more on if there's any major changes. started slowing down in was there any slowdown anywhere else? Um but just there we see ad impressions were up 14%. We also saw kind of the price increase. Um
>> yeah, you got average price per ad up 10 or up 10, impressions up 14, and then DAP still up 8%.
>> In terms of daily active people, here's what Meta said on this non-cash charge impact. We expect a significant reduction in our US federal cash tax payments for the remainder of 2025 in our future years due to the implementation of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. However, the implementation also led to the recognition of a valuation allowance against their US federal deferred tax assets reflected the impact of US corporate alternative minimum tax. As a result, the third quarter 2025 provision for income taxes includes a onetime non-cash income tax charge of 15.93 billion. Excluding this onetime t tax um or third quarter effective tax rate would have decreased to 14%. Net income would have increased to 18.64 billion and then diluted EPS would have been 725. Yeah, this seems like a nothing burger.
>> Wait, so there they reduce their tax payment. Is is that what they're saying? So
>> I I didn't read
>> I am I am not an accountant, but from what it seems like they're saying is that they were deferring certain payments based on the valuation against different assets they had. The big beautiful bill had some change up in terms of how you're able to value those assets and then how long you're able to defer stuff. And that led to them recognizing 15.9 billion in tax that they had to pay.
>> Yeah. Because I I I know with the big beautiful bill, one thing that you can kind of write off right away was your AI servers, right? Historically, you had your AI servers. You you could you you had to distribute it over, I think, 5year time frame or whatever time frame, some longer time frame. But now with the big beautiful bill, um you are able to defer everything at once. I don't know if that's what's happening here, but if if there was any changes, I wonder if it comes with with that aspect. And I would have to do a little bit more research, but that would be the first thing in my mind.
>> Yeah, it it you know when Chad mentioned scale AI, that's what it kind of sounds like. It's almost sounds like exactly what they invested in scale. I don't know if the investment would mature so quickly for them to defer the assets, but 15 billion is what they put into scale. It almost seems like that's what they've had to pay. Maybe it's just a coincidence that it was 15 billion, but
>> I wonder because I know the big beautiful bill include just anything pretty much research and development in the AI aspect here in the United States. So, I wonder if that was like you mentioned with the scale AI if they were able to just write it off. Again, that
>> knowledge I'm I'm not a tax person. Um, but with the big beautiful bill, you you were able to expense everything uh a lot faster than than normal.
>> Street really doesn't like it. I mean, outside of that, I don't see anything else that we should be upset about. Revenue is up 26%, guys. This is a $2 trillion company. That is not small growth. uh uh income from operations up 18%. Operating margins increased well decreased slightly but at a at a far lower rate than their revenue growth. Net income that is up again because of that 15 billion that's what takes it down but if it wasn't it would be up almost 30% year-over-year and you're seeing broader growth outside of the other parts of the business. Meta said we had a strong quarter for our business and community. Meta Super Intelligence Labs is off to a great start and we continue to lead the industry in AI glasses. If we deliver even a fraction of the opportunity ahead, then the next few years will be the most exciting period in history.
>> Yeah, this doesn't feel that scary for uh for Meta based on these numbers. Let's get some coverage right here on Microsoft and see what the street thinks about this one.
>> Yes, the street one a little bit higher on that growth that you just mentioned and uh I think that's really largely it all the other metrics look good. I think the street's not picking up on the booking and the the actual RPO. And if you look at those numbers, you're talking about a a commercial booking number at 112% of 50 plus% growth in RPO. Uh that's one of the best growth rates rates we've ever seen. And that does not include the new commitment from OpenAI 250 billion incremental. So Open AI helped them in the quarter, but all this 250 billion is is not in that number as they indicated in the release. So I don't think the market's picking up on that. So that to me is the future indication of health of this company is the just blew the doors off on RPO and bookings growth which is again the the most important thing that that we look at as software analysts what's the future indication of of health that's that's it uh capex uh was a little bit higher which everyone uh had expected and you saw Google and meta also raise their gu so everyone's asking what's happening to capex we just got basically a raise from all three uh from what we can see and then when you think about margins Everyone's like, "Well, how can you make money in AI?" She put up Amy, the CFO of Microsoft, put up better margins than expected. So, this is further indication that they're making money on AI, that they're not uh effectively, you know, losing uh capital on on this investment. Uh they're actually driving really good margin improvement.
>> So, the stock down 3% in overtime right now, and I realize we still have to get through a conference call here, too. Do you buy on this dip?
>> We do. If you look at the bookie number, you know, you can't find too many companies growing their their backlog uh commercial backlog over 100 and their RPO, which is the remaining performance obligation over 50. And that's an indication of what's to come for the next several quarters. So, we we're buyers of Microsoft.
>> How does this speak to what we saw?
>> Okay, so Google actually delayed their call, so we have some time. Uh
>> uh
>> oh, just kidding. Um, usually Google does it at 4:30. They're doing it at 5:30. I think Meta we might actually get to start off with first as uh Meta does it at 5. Uh, no, Meta is starting. No, Meta is starting at 4:30. Is that Yeah, Meta start.
>> Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah,
>> I guess they did a switcheroo. They also did a switcheroo on the stock price. Last time Meta went up, Google went down. This time Meta goes down, Google's I guess they traded places. All right, so for those that care about Zucks, we're going to start off with Zucks in a couple minutes. I mean, overall, how is everyone feeling? It's uh I mean, if you look, if you bet I think the majority of the chat bet was going to be the winner. Uh obviously that has played out. 290 on the Googs. Microsoft already recovering. I mean, it's still down 2% but it's not as ugly. Meta, the tax thing is stupid, but nonetheless, maybe there's a different reason. The street's upset and that's why it's down. And that's what you got. eBay's down a bit. Looks like they didn't have the best earnings. Chipotle, again, I a lot of you guys were asking, "How does Chipotle know the amount of income they of their users?"
>> I was curious about that, too.
>> I don't know either, bro. Like, that's a good question. Like, how does he know
>> how are they collecting this info?
>> Do they like do they read your credit card? Like, how do like how that Yeah. How do they know? I guess the people in their app maybe, but still.
>> Yeah, I I don't remember putting that in the app. I don't remember it being asking me. Maybe it's by the demographics of where the sto located. So, you know, I you ask me like where Chipotle is usually located. Usually located in kind of middle class
>> everywhere. I mean, they're everywhere, but the ones in like the middle class areas are, from what I've seen is where the cavas are, where all those nice restaurants are. And it's like, dude, Chipotle is like 12 bucks for a bowl when it used to be like seven bucks.
>> I might as well just eat at a restaurant, right? So,
>> and I thought they give you free guac with the chips. Apparently, the guac is actually I thought like I thought years ago it used to be
>> Oh my goodness. That would be insane giving guac for free.
>> Uh, real quick before Meta, this is Starbucks
>> earnings to bring you. Starbucks results are out. Kate Rogers has those numbers. Hi Kate. Hey Morgan. So the stock a little bit higher here as you can see by more than one and a half percent. A mixed fourth quarter for Starbucks. Uh EPS a miss here. 52 cents adjusted versus estimates of 56 cents. Revenues though a beat 9.6 billion for the quarter versus the 9.35 billion estimated. And that's even with the labor investments that the company is making right now. Comps turning positive globally. Q4 comp sales up 1% better than the 0.3% decline estimated. Q4 North American comp sales flat uh versus 0.9% estimates. Transactions declined in North America, but noteworthy update here. US comps did turn positive in September as the company's back to Starbucks plan take shape. Q4 international comp sales also better than expected, up 3%. Uh it's China, same store sales, second home market there also up 2%. We're going to be looking out for any guidance and any updates on China and that market on the earnings call, guys. We'll bring you updates as we get them. Back over to you.
>> Uh Kate, thank you. I do want to mention so Starbucks not going as bad as Chipotle. That stock basically flat. Um but Chipotle is the one that's taking a bigger bigger of a hit. Okay, so that's what we got with earnings. Three most important companies outside of Amazon and Apple reported. Google just I mean this story is remarkable. Google stock year to date 44% bottomed in April around 143 came back to 150 by June. just a massive massive move. And then Microsoft looks like cloud revenue was just a little bit flat as Jeff was saying and that's why it's taking a bit of a hit but still up 30% even with this 2% decline that we're seeing after hours. All right, here we go. Zox is starting. Let me pull this up and then we will switch over. Joining me today are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO, and Susan Lee, CFO. Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are based on assumptions as of today. Actual results may differ materially as a result of various factors, including those set forth in
>> amends also increased their capics. On the lower end,
>> quarterly report on form 10Q filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. During this call, we will present both GAAP and certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The earnings press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.appa.com. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark.
>> All right. Thanks, Ken. Thanks everyone for joining today. We had another strong quarter with 3.5 billion people using at least one of our apps every day. Instagram hit a major milestone with three billion monthly activives. And we're seeing good momentum across our other apps as well, including threads, which recently passed 150 million daily activives and remains on track to become the leader in its category. I am very focused on establishing Meta as the leading frontier AI lab, building personal super intelligence for everyone and delivering the app experiences and computing devices that will improve the lives of billions of people around the world. Our approach of advancing open-source AI means that when Meta innovates, everyone benefits. Meta super intelligence labs is off to a strong start. I think that we've already built the lab with the highest talent density in the industry. We're heads down developing our next generation of models and products and I'm looking forward to sharing more on that front over the coming months. We're also building what we expect to be an industry-leading amount of compute. Now, there's a range of timelines for when people think that we're going to get super intelligence. Some people think that we'll get there in a few years. Others think it will be five, seven years or or longer. Um, I think that it's the right strategy to aggressively frontload building capacity so that way we're prepared for the most optimistic cases. That way, if super intelligence arrives sooner, we will be ideally positioned for a generational paradigm shift and many large opportunities. If it takes longer, then we'll use the extra compute to accelerate our core business, which continues to be able to profitably use much more compute than we've been able to throw at it. And we're seeing very high demand for additional compute both internally and externally. And in the worst case uh we would just slow building new infrastructure for some period while we grow into what we build. The upside is extremely high for both our existing apps and new products and businesses that are becoming possible to build across Facebook, Instagram and threads. Our AI recommendation systems are delivering higher quality and more relevant content, which led to 5% more time spent on Facebook in Q3 and 10% on threads. Video is a particular bright spot with video time spent on Instagram up more than 30% since last year. And as video continues to grow across our apps, Reels now has an annual run rate of over $50 billion. Improvements in our recommendation systems will also become even more leveraged as the volume of AI created content grows. Social media has gone through two eras so far. First was when all content was from friends, family, and accounts that you followed directly. The second was when we added all of the creator content. Now, as AI makes it easier to create and remix content, we're going to add yet another huge corpus of content on top of those recommendation systems that understand all this content more deeply and can show you the right content to help you achieve your goals are going to be increasingly valuable. Our ads business continues to perform very well, largely due to improvements in our AI ranking systems as well. This quarter, we saw meaningful advances from unifying different models into simpler, more general models, which drive both better performance and efficiency. And now, the annual run rate going through our completely end-to-end AI powered ad tools has passed $60 billion. Now, one way that I think about our company overall is that there are three giant transformers that run Facebook, Instagram, and ads recommendations. We have a very strong pipeline of lots of ways to improve these models by incorporating new AI advances and capabilities. And at the same time, we are also working on combining these three major AI systems into a single unified AI system that will effectively run our family of apps and business. Uh using increasing intelligence to improve the trillions of recommendations that we'll make for people every day. I'm also very excited about the new products that we're going to be able to build. More than a billion monthly activives already use Meta AI and we see usage increase as we improve our underlying models. Um I'm very excited to get a frontier model into Meta AI and I think that the opportunity there is very large. The same goes for our business AI. Every day, people have more than one billion active threads with business accounts across our uh messaging platforms ranging from product questions to customer support. Our business AIS will enable tens of millions of businesses to scale these conversations and improve their sales at low cost. And the better our models get, the better this is going to work for all businesses. This quarter, we also launched Vibes, which is the next generation of our AI creation tools and content experiences. Retention is looking good so far. Um, and its usage keeps growing quickly week over week. I'm looking forward to ramping up the growth of Vibes over the coming months. More broadly, I think that Vibes is an example of a new content type enabled by AI, and I think that there are more opportunities to build many more novel types of content ahead. As well as our new models become ready, I'm looking forward to starting to show everyone some of the new kinds of products that we're working on. At Connect, uh, we announced our 2025 line of AI glasses, and the response so far has been great. Uh, the new Rayban Metaglasses and Oakley Meta Vanguards are both selling well as people love the improved battery life, camera resolution, new AI capabilities, and the great design. And there's our new Meta Rayband display glasses, our first glasses with a high resolution display and the meta neural band to interact with them. They sold out in uh almost every store within 48 hours with demo slots fully booked through the end of next month. Uh so we're going to have to invest in increasing manufacturing and selling more of those. Um this is an area where we are clearly leading and have a huge opportunity ahead. Taking a step back, um, if we deliver even a fraction of the opportunity ahead for our existing apps and the new experiences that are possible, then I think that the next few years will be the most exciting period in our history. We've got a lot to do. Uh, but we're making real progress delivering strong business results, building the talent density and infrastructure needed for the next era, and leading the way on AI devices that will define the next computing platform. I'm proud of how our teams are rising to the challenge and I'm grateful for their dedication, hard work, and creativity. As always, thank you all for being a part of this journey with us. And now, here's Susan.
>> Thanks, Mark, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's begin with our segment results. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. Our community across the family of apps continues to grow and we estimate more than 3.5 billion people used at least one of our family of apps on a daily basis in September. Q3 total family of apps revenue was $50.8 billion up 26% year-over-year. Q3 family of apps ad revenue was $50.1 billion up 26% or 25% on a constant currency basis. In Q3, the total number of ad impressions served across our services increased 14%. Impression growth was healthy across all regions, driven by engagement and user growth, particularly on video surfaces. The average price per ad increased 10% year-over-year, benefiting from increased advertiser demand, largely driven by improved ad performance. This was partially offset by impression growth particularly from lower monetizing regions and surfaces. Family of apps other revenue was $690 million up 59% driven by WhatsApp paid messaging revenue growth as well as metaverified subscriptions. Within our reality lab segment Q3 revenue was $470 million, up 74% year-over-year. The significant year-over-year growth in Q3 was partly due to retail partners stocking up on Quest headsets ahead of the holiday season. We did not have a similar benefit in the third quarter of last year since our Quest 3S headset launched in the fourth quarter of 2024. Aside from this, strong AI glasses revenue also contributed to revenue growth in Q3. Moving now to our consolidated results. Q3 total revenue was 51.2 billion, up 26% or 25% on a constant currency basis. Q3 total expenses were 30.7 billion, up 32% compared to last year. Year-over-year expense growth accelerated 20 percentage points from Q2 due primarily to three factors. First, legal related expense growth was higher than in Q2 due to charges we recorded in the third quarter as well as us lapping a period of acrruel reversals in the third quarter a year ago. Second, employee compensation growth accelerated driven by technical hires, particularly AI talent. Finally, growth in infrastructure costs accelerated due to increased infrastructure operating costs associated with our expanded data center fleet, depreciation on our incremental capex spend, and thirdparty cloud spend. We ended Q3 with over 78,400 employees, up 8% year-over-year, driven by hiring in priority areas of monetization, infrastructure, reality labs, meta, super intelligence labs, as well as regulation and compliance. Third quarter operating income was $20.5 billion, representing a 40% operating margin. Q3 interest and other income was $1.1 billion driven primarily by unrealized gains on our marketable equity securities. Our tax rate for the quarter was 87% which was unfavorably impacted by a one-time non-cash reduction in deferred tax assets that we no longer anticipate using under new US tax law. Our tax rate would have been 14% excluding this charge. Although the transition to the new US tax law resulted in an accounting charge in the third quarter, we continue to expect we will recognize significant cash tax savings for the remainder of the current year and future years under the new law. And this quarter's charge reflects the total expected impact from the transition to the new US tax law. Net income was $2.7 billion or $15 per share. Excluding the one-time tax charge, our net income and EPS would have been $18.6 billion and $7.25 per share, respectively. Capital expenditures, including principal payments on finance leases, were $19.4 4 billion driven by investments in servers, data centers, and network infrastructure. Free cash flow was $10.6 billion. We repurchased $3.2 billion of our class A common stock and paid $1.3 billion in dividends to shareholders. We ended the quarter with $44.4 billion in cash and marketable securities and 28.8 billion in debt. Turning now to the business outlook, there are two primary factors that drive our revenue performance. Our ability to deliver engaging experiences for our community and our effectiveness at monetizing that engagement over time. On the first, daily activives continue to grow year-over-year across Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp. We're continuing to see improvements to our products and recommendations drive incremental engagement with year-over-year growth in global time spent accelerating on both Facebook and Instagram in Q3. In the US, overall time spent on Facebook and Instagram grew double digits year-over-year, driven by continued video strength as well as healthy growth in non-video time on Facebook. The engagement gains continue to be driven by product work and ongoing improvements to our recommendation systems as we optimize our model architectures, implement advanced modeling techniques, and integrate more signals about people's interests. We also continue to focus on increasing the freshness of recommended content on Facebook. Our systems are now surfacing twice as many reels published that day than at the start of the year. Looking to 2026, we expect to advance our recommendation systems across several dimensions. On Instagram, one focus is evolving our systems to surface content across a broader set of topics that cater to the diverse interests of each person. This follows a similar approach we've implemented on Facebook that has driven good results. We also expect to make significant progress on our longerterm ranking innovations in 2026. We're seeing promising new results from our research efforts to create foundational ranking models and expect the new model innovations we're developing as part of this will enable us to significantly scale up the amount of data and compute we use to train our recommendation models in 2026, yielding more relevant recommendations. Another large focus next year is leveraging LLMs to improve content understanding. We expect this is going to enable our systems to more precisely label the keywords and topics within videos and posts, which will allow our systems to both develop deeper intuition about a person's interests and retrieve the content that matches them. Finally, we're making good progress with Meta AI and threads. The number of people using Meta AI across our family of apps continues to grow and we're increasingly leveraging firstparty content into Meta AI results with the majority of Meta AI's responses to Facebook deep dive queries in the US now showing related reels. We're also seeing a lot of traction with media generation. People have created over 20 billion images using our products. And since launching Vibes within Meta AI in September, we've seen media generation in the app increase more than tenfold. On threads, we see strong growth in both daily activives and the depth of engagement as we continue to improve recommendations. The ranking optimizations we made in Q3 alone drove a 10% increase in time spent on threads. We also continue to ship new features including launching direct messaging in Q3. So anyone on threads can now message one another within the app. Now to the second driver of our revenue performance, increasing monetization efficiency. The first part of this work is optimizing the level of ads within organic engagement. We continue to refine ad supply across each of our major surfaces within Facebook and Instagram to better deliver ads at the time and place they are most relevant to people. Longer term, we have exciting ad supply opportunities on both threads and WhatsApp status. Ads are now running globally in feed on threads and we're following our typical monetization playbook of optimizing the ads formats and performance before we ramp supply. Within WhatsApp status, we're continuing to gradually introduce ads and expect to complete the roll out next year. The second part of increasing monetization efficiency is improving marketing performance. Advancing our ad systems remains a critical aspect of this work and we are driving performance gains through ongoing improvements in our larger scale ads ranking models. For example, we continue to broaden the adoption of Lattis, our unified model architecture. In Q3, we rolled out Lattis to app ads which drove a nearly 3% gain in conversions for that objective. Since introducing Lattis back in 2023, along with other back-end improvements, we have now cut the number of ads ranking and recommendation models by approximately 100. As we consolidated smaller and more specialized models into larger ones that use the lattice architecture to generalize learnings across surfaces and objectives, we continue to observe performance improvements as we combine models and expect to drive additional gains as we consolidate another 200 models over the coming years into a smaller number of highly capable models. In addition to advancing our foundational ads models, we're innovating on our runtime models we use downstream of them for ads inference. For example, we began piloting a new runtime ads ranking model in Q3 that leverages more compute and data than our prior models to select more relevant ads. In testing, we've seen this new model drive a more than 2% lift in conversions on Instagram. We also significantly improved performance of Andromeda in Q3 by combining models across retrieval and early stage ranking into a single model, driving a 14% increase in ads quality on Facebook surfaces. Within our ads products, we're seeing continued momentum with Advantage Plus. In Q3, we completed the rollout of our streamlined campaign creation flow for Advantage Plus lead campaigns. So now advertisers running sales app or lead campaigns have end-to-end automation turned on from the beginning, allowing our systems to look across our platform to optimize performance by automatically choosing criteria like who to show the ads to and where to show them. The annual run rate of revenue running through our end-to-end automated solutions has now reached $60 billion following the implementation of the new streamlined creation flow. As we continue to see more advertisers leverage the performance benefits of our solutions within our advantage plus creative suite, the number of advertisers using at least one of our video generation features was up 20% versus the prior quarter as adoption of image animation and video expansion continues to scale. We've also added more generative AI features to make it easier for advertisers to optimize their ad creatives and drive increased performance. In Q3, we introduced AI generated music, so advertisers can have music generated for their ad that aligns with the tone and message of the creative. Finally, business messaging remains a significant opportunity for us. We're seeing strong growth across our portfolio of solutions, including with click to WhatsApp ads, which grew revenue 60% year-over-year in Q3. We're also making good progress on our business AI efforts, where we've been focused on building a turnkey AI that helps businesses generate leads and drive sales. We've been opening access in recent months to more businesses within our initial test markets, the Philippines and Mexico, and have seen strong usage with millions of conversations between people and business AIS taking place since July. This month, we expanded availability within WhatsApp and Messenger to all eligible businesses in Mexico and the Philippines, respectively. In the US, we're also starting to roll out the ability for merchants to add their business AIS to their website so we can support the full sale funnel from ad to purchase. Next, I would like to discuss our approach to capital allocation. Our primary focus is deploying capital to support the company's highest order priorities, including developing leading AI products, models, and business solutions. As we make significant investments in infrastructure to support this work, we are focused on preserving maximum long-term flexibility to ensure we can meet our future capacity needs while also being able to respond to how the market develops in the years ahead. We're doing so in several ways, including staging data center sites so we can spring up capacity quickly in future years as we need it, as well as establishing strategic partnerships that give us option value for future compute needs. The strong financial position and cash generation of our business enable us to make these investments while also accessing additional pools of costefficient capital. Moving to our financial outlook, we expect fourth quarter 2025 total revenue to be in the range of 56 to 59 billion. Our guidance assumes foreign currency is an approximately 1% tailwind to year-over-year total revenue growth based on current exchange rates. Our outlook reflects an expectation for continued strong ad revenue growth, partially offset by lower year-over-year Reality Labs revenue in Q4. The anticipated reduction in Reality Labs revenue is due to us lapping the introduction of Quest 3s in Q4 of last year, as well as retail partners procuring Quest headsets during Q3 of this year to prepare for the holiday season, which were recorded as revenue in the third quarter. Turning to the expense and capex outlooks, I'll first start with 2025 before providing some commentary on our planning for 2026. We expect full year 2025 total expenses to be in the range of 116 to $118 billion, updated from our prior outlook of 114 to $118 billion and reflecting a growth rate of 22 to 24% year-over-year. We currently expect 2025 capital expenditures, including principal payments on finance leases, to be in the range of 70 to 72 billion, increased from our prior outlook of 66 to72 billion. Onto tax, absent any changes to our tax landscape, we expect our fourth quarter 2025 tax rate to be 12 to 15%. Turning now to 2026, we are at an exciting point for our company where we have continued runway to improve our core services today as well as the opportunity to build new AI powered experiences and services that will transform how people engage with our products in the future. We expect the set of investments we're making within our ads and organic engagement initiatives next year will enable us to continue to deliver strong revenue growth in 2026. While our progress on AI models and products will position us to capitalize on new revenue opportunities in the years to come. A central requirement to realizing these opportunities is infrastructure capacity. As we have begun to plan for next year, it's become clear that our compute needs have continued to expand meaningfully, including versus our own expectations last quarter. We are still working through our capacity plans for next year, but we expect to invest aggressively to meet these needs both by building our own infrastructure and contracting with thirdparty cloud providers. We anticipate this will provide further upward pressure on our capex and expense plans next year. As a result, our current expectation is that capex dollar growth will be notably larger in 2026 than 2025. We also anticipate total expenses will grow at a significantly faster percentage rate in 2026 than 2025 with growth primarily driven by infrastructure costs including incremental cloud expenses and depreciation. Employee compensation costs will be the second largest contributor to growth as we recognize a full year of compensation for employees hired throughout 2025, particularly AI talent, and add technical talent in priority areas. Finally, we continue to monitor active legal and regulatory matters, including the increasing headwinds in the EU and the US that could significantly impact our business and financial results. For example, in the EU, we continue to engage constructively with the European Commission on our less personalized ads offering. However, we cannot rule out the commission imposing further changes to that offering that could have a significant negative impact on our European revenue as early as this quarter. In the US, a number of youth related trials are scheduled for 2026 and may ultimately result in a material loss. In closing, this was another good quarter for our business. We have an exciting set of opportunities to continue improving our core business while delivering innovative new experiences and services for the people and businesses using our products in the years to come. With that, Christa, let's open up the call for questions.
>> All right, Zucks.
>> Thank you. We will now open to 720 and answer session. To ask a question, please press star one on your touchstone phone. To withdraw your question, again, press star one. Please limit yourself to one question. Please pick up your handset before asking your question to ensure clarity. If you are streaming today's call, please mute your computer speakers. And your first question comes from the line of Brian Noak with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
>> Thanks for taking my questions. I have uh two for for Susan. Uh the first one, Susan. So the the the pipeline for for core improvements to come in 26 with models and ad ranking models and more types of compute seems very exciting and the the infrastructure build seems sizable behind that. So can you help us a little understand some of the early quantifiable signals you're seeing on AB tests from some of these improvements to come that sort of make you most excited and give you confidence you're going to get ROIC from all this capex. That's the first one. Second one's a little faster. How how large is the reality labs revenue headwind in the the 4Q guidance? Thanks.
>> Thanks, Brian, for the question. I think your first question had a couple parts to it. So, I'm I'm going to try to disagregate those parts and um let me know if this if this addresses what you're getting to. I will say that the growth in 2026 capex uh relative to 2025 comes from growth in each of the core areas um MSL uh core AI as well as um nonAI spend. So all of those areas are growing but um the MSL AI needs are growing the most in terms of the core AI pipeline. You know, I think we talked about uh last year when we were going into the 2025 budget process, we had a roadmap of resource investments across both headcount and compute that we um thought would pay off, you know, in 2026. And it's really a very broad range of sort of different ads um ranking and performance uh efforts. Um and we're continuing to see that, you know, those have paid off through the course of the year. There is sort a long list of of spec of specific efforts but one of the measures that we look at to monitor this is is you know how are we driving ad performance? How are conversions growing? Conversions is a complex metric for us because advertisers optimize for so many different um conversions with different values. But when we control for that and look at value weighted conversion rates, we're seeing very strong year-over-year growth and conversions um weighted conversions continue to grow faster um than than impressions. We also talked about some of the new model architecture um over the course of the year and the degree to which the new model architecture is enabling us also to take advantage of having more data and more compute to drive ads performance. So we expect um that that's going to be a continued story in 2026. Uh we are in fact at the beginning of our 2026 budgeting process now and we you know see a similar list of um of uh revenue investments um that we you know that we're excited to be able to invest in. And so we think that um that's going to be a big part of our ability to continue to drive strong revenue performance throughout the year. on your second question which is uh the reality labs um the reality labs revenue headwind um I don't think we have quantified the exact size of that we expect that Q4 reality labs revenue will be lower than last year for a couple reasons that I alluded to the biggest factor is we're lapping the introduction of Quest 3S and Q4 of last year and we don't have a new headset in the market this year we also recorded all of our holiday related Quest 3S s sales in Q4 24 since the headset was launched in October 24. This year, we're recognizing some of those Quest 3s sales in Q3 as retail partners have procured Quest headsets in advance of um the holiday season. We're still expecting significant year-over-year growth in AI glasses revenue in Q4 as we benefit from strong demand for the recent products that we've introduced, but that is more than offset by the headwinds um to the Quest headsets. Your next question comes from the line of Doug and Muth with JP Morgan. Please go ahead. Great.
>> Thanks for taking the question. Um, I appreciate the strategy to frontload capacity for super intelligence. Can you just talk about your thought process in kind of triangulating the capex dollar growth and the significantly faster expense growth next year with core growth in the business and then the impact on earnings and free cash flow and do you do you have targets that we should be thinking about for cash on hand or net cash overall? Thanks.
>> Um, thanks Doug. We're right now, I would say, in the process of of we're relatively early actually, still in the process of putting together our budget for 2026. Um, and it is on the on the capacity side a particularly, you know, dynamic process. We're certainly seeing that we wish we had more capacity today than we do. We would be able to put it towards good use. Um certain not only would the MSL team appreciate having more capacity but we'd be able to put it towards good and ROI positive use in the core business as well. Um so we're really trying to plan ahead not only to ensure that we have the capacity we need in 2026 but also to give ourselves the sort of flexibility and option value to have the capacity that we think we could need in 27 and 28. So that said, you know, there are lots of moving pieces in the budget. It's not baked yet. that it's still sort of in the process of coming together. Um we don't have you know specific targets to share. Uh but we do feel like you know our strategic priority is really making sure that we have the compute that we need to be well positioned to succeed at AI. And you know that's that's sort of the foremost priority as we're putting together the budget.
>> Yeah. I mean I I'll add a few thoughts on this too. Although I I mean as Susan said, we're we're still working through the the actual budget and I think we'll we'll typically have more to share on that early next year. Uh but to date we keep on seeing this pattern where we build some amount of infrastructure to what we think is an aggressive assumption and then we keep on having more demand to be able to use more compute especially in the core business in ways that we think would be quite profitable uh than we end up having compute for. So I I think that that suggests that being able to make a significantly larger investment here is very likely to be a profitable thing over um over some period because if the primary use of it is going to be to accelerate the the AI research and the the new AI work that we're doing and how that relates to both the core business and new products. Um but any any compute that we don't need for that, we feel pretty good that we're going to be able to absorb a very large amount of that to just convert um into more intelligence and better recommendations in our family of apps and ads in a profitable way. Um now I mean it's of course possible to overshoot that right and if we do I mean this is what I mentioned in my comments then um you know we we see that there's uh just a lot of demand for for other new things that we would build internally externally like almost every week people come to us from outside the company asking us to you know stand up an API service or um asking if we have different compute that they could get from us and we haven't done that yet but obviously if you got to a point where you overbuilt you could you could have that as an option. Um and then you know the the kind of the very worst case would be that we effectively have just pre-built for a couple of years in which case of course there would be some loss and depreciation but we'd grow into that and use it over time. So my view on this is that rather than continuing to be constrained on capex and feeling in the core business like we have significant investments that we could make that we're not able to make that would be profitable. that the right thing to do is to try to accelerate this to make sure that we have the compute that we need both for the AI research and new things that we're doing and to try to get to a different state on our our compute stance on the core business. So that's kind of how I'm thinking about that overall. Um, of course there's a lot of operational constraints too on what one can build, right? So, um, so we're basically trying to work through this all and and I think we'll have more, uh, to share in in the coming months and over the course of next year. But, um, but I think that there's just a huge huge amount of opportunities ahead here.
>> Your next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
>> Thanks so much for taking the question, Mark. wanted to reflect on some of your comments with respect to scaling towards super intelligence and bringing it back to consumer AI. Maybe reflect a little bit on the signals you've gotten on the way consumers across family of apps interact with meta AI today and how you think about scaling and exiting models from the super intelligence effort might change the utility and behavior around meta AI in the years ahead. Thanks. Yeah, I mean a lot of people use Meta AI today. I mean as I said in my my comments up front, there's more than a billion people who use it on a monthly basis. And what we see is that um as we improve the quality of the model primarily of for post-training llama 4 at this point, we are um we continue to see improvements in in usage. Um, so our view is that when we get uh the new models that we're building in MSL in there and and get like truly frontier models with novel capabilities that you don't have in other places, then I think that this is just a massive latent opportunity, right? We we know I mean I I would guess that you know Meta I think has the best track record of any company out there of taking a new product that people love and getting it to billions of people in terms of of usage. So I um I I think that the ability to plug in um leading models is going to I would predict lead to a very large amount of use of these things over the coming years. So I'm I'm I'm very excited about that. In terms of new new products, um it's not just Meta AI as an assistant. I think that there are going to be all kinds of new products around um different content formats and we're starting to see that with with video and content creation, but I think there's going to be a lot more like that that that I'm quite excited about. Um and then there are the business versions of all these too like business AI and um and then you know that's of course one part of the story is the new things that will be possible to build and then the other part is how how more intelligent models are just going to improve the core business and improve the recommendations that uh we make across the family of apps and improve uh the recommendations and advertising and I think there's just a you know as we've shown there's sort of this very large amount of headroom and the opportunity there keeps growing as we uh as as we are improving and optimizing the AI there and I think that that really shows no sign of being near the end. I think that there's quite a bit more to do there and you know like I I I said um in response to the last question we are sort of perennially operating the family of apps and ads business in a compute starved state at this point. um which is on the on the one hand sort of an odd thing to say given the the compute that we've built up, but we really are, you know, taking a lot of the resources and and using them to advance future things that we're doing. And we think that there's a lot more compute that we could put towards these that that would um just uh unlock a huge amount of opportunity in the the the core business as well.
>> Your next question comes from the line of Mark Schmoolik with Bernstein. Please go ahead. Uh yes, hi thanks for taking the questions. Um Susan, as you think about the visibility into kind of the runway next year of continued ad performance and engagement improvements, how do you think about kind of the scale of those improvements versus kind of the progress we've seen over the last two years? Uh, and then Mark, as you think about kind of the timing of some of these newer efforts coming out of Super Intelligence Labs, is us anchoring to kind of an updated frontier model launch sometime next year like the right way for us to think about it or should we be looking at kind of progress from new products you're excited to see shiplike vibes? Thank you.
>> Um, thanks Mark. So on the sort of ads improvement side um you know some of the innovations that we have been uh launching actually um you know involve sort of improving our our larger scale models. So we you know don't use our larger model architectures like gem for inference because their size and complexity would make it too cost prohibitive. Um the way that we drive performance from those models is by using them to transfer knowledge to smaller lightweight models that are used at runtime. And then in addition to the foundation model work, we are working on advancing our inference models by developing new techniques and architectures that then allow us to scale up compute and complexity in an ROI positive way. So um in general, you know, we obviously have a very large base of, you know, advertisers. There's a lot of demand liquidity um in the system and even you know smallcale improvements that we are able to make in terms of driving you know basis point improvements in the performance of ads or singledigit you know uh increases in conversions relative to impressions in a given quarter. You know off of a large base mean that we're really able to continue to grow the absolute dollars of revenue growth in a in a pretty meaningful way. Your next question comes from the line of Justin Post with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
>> Actually,
>> thank you.
>> Hey, Justin, just give us one second. I think there was a second marks question that we just want to get to on MSL.
>> Yeah, I mean I'll I'll keep it quick. I mean, I don't think we have any specific timing to to announce certainly on on um the models or products, but I I expect that you will see both. We we expect to to build novel models and novel products and I'm excited to share more when we have it.
>> Kristen, please go ahead.
>> Great. Thanks. Um, so Mark, you mentioned the prior two content cycles and obviously you've been able to generate very attractive margins on them. as we get into the AI cycle, you know, obviously some concerns on the investment, but um can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about, you know, tools that could be coming out for users? You know, I know there's some new competition. Um and then secondly, how you think about margins in this content cycle? Any reason to think they would be different versus prior cycles? Thank you. Um, I think it's too early to really understand what the margins are going to be for the for the new products that we build. I mean, I think certainly every each product has somewhat different characteristics and I think we'll we'll kind of understand how that goes over time. Um, I mean, my general goal is to build a business that maximizes value for the people who use our products and maximizes profitability, not margin. So, I think we'll we'll kind of just try to build the um the best things that that we can and and um and try to deliver the most value that we can for most people. Your next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler with Barkclays. Please go ahead.
>> Uh, great. Hey Mark, some of the goals for uh competing AI labs are around achieving AGI or these other milestones that are kind of like out there and a little esoteric. um how are you setting up your new team in terms of achieving those types of goals versus products that can generate revenue from Meta kind of right out of the gate? Um and and is the goal that you had articulated to us previously around giving you know billions of people kind of a personal AI to use uh the still the direction of travel that you see or is there you know other things like kind of this vibe or sora uh angle that that you know you think are are potentially important? How should we think about like the overall direction? Thank you.
>> Sure. So the way that I think about this is that the research is going to enable new technological capabilities to exist and then those capabilities can get built into all kinds of different products. So the ability to reason more intelligently is for example very important across a large number of things. It would be useful for an assistant. Um it will also be useful in business AI. It will also be useful in the AI agent that we're building to help advertisers figure out what their campaigns are going to be. Um, it will also have implications for eventually how we do ranking and recommendations of people's feeds and um and make different decisions there. Um, that's just one example. I mean certainly the capability to be able to produce very high quality good video is going to be useful for giving people new creative tools. um it will help increase the amount of content inventory that can be shown in Instagram and Facebook and therefore uh should enable an increase in in engagement there. It should help advertisers be able to create creative that will help us monetize better. So you can just go kind of down the list of capabilities that you' you'd expect and I think each one will enable a bunch of different things and I think the art of product development here is looking at the list of technology capabilities and figuring out what new products are going to be useful and uh prioritizing those. But fundamentally I would sort of expect this exponential curve in new technology capabilities that are going to become available. And the other thing that I expect is that I think being the best in a given area will drive great returns rather than this is not like a check the box exercise of like okay we can generate some kind of content and someone else can. I I think that like the the company that is the best at each of these capabilities I think will um get a large amount of the the potential value for for doing that. So there are lots of different capabilities to to build. Um I'm not sure that any one company is going to be the best at all of them. I doubt that's going to be the case. But a lot of what we're trying to do is not like not kind of do some things that others have done. We're really trying to build novel capabilities. And I'm I'm keeping this high level because I'm not I don't want to necessarily from a competitive or strategic perspective get into what we're prioritizing. But um but that hopefully gives you a sense of how we're thinking about what we're doing. We want to be able to to kind of build novel things, build them into a lot of our products and then have the compute to scale them to billions of people. And we think that that's going to both um show up in terms of new products being possible and new businesses and very significant improvements to the current business too.
>> Your next question comes from the line of Mark Mahani with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead. Uh uh thanks. Can I just ask just a question on Meta AI and both the product and the monetization path? So when you look at it, what you've seen that's most encouraging to you in terms of the uh adoption and and uh the the the use of uh of meta and then you know when you think about um I know you you generally like to roll out and then uh you know deepen engagement and then later think about modernization like where do you think you are on that path now? Is it clear to you what the modernization options are for Meta AI? Thank you very much.
>> Um, I mean, I think the most promising thing that we're seeing is one that we were able to build something that a large number of people use and I think that that's valuable. And then secondly, that as we there is a a clear correlation as we improve the models in ways that we think make them better that people use them more. So that shows that we have um a runway to basically be able to improve engagement and turn this into um a product that's leading over time. Um in terms of where we are on this and we basically just did this huge effort to to um to boot up meta super intelligence labs and build what I am very proud of is I think the the highest talent density lab in the industry at this point. There are a lot of really great researchers and infrastructure folks and data folks who are who are now a part of this effort who are um who are focused on training the next generation of of work and doing some some really novel work. Um and when that is ready, I think that we will be able to plug that into a number of the products that we're building and and I think that that will be very exciting. But um I I I think that that's really the next thing that we're that we're looking at. And then from there, I I think that these models will also improve monetization in all the different ways that uh that I that we've talked about so far in terms of improving engagement, improving um advertising, helping advertisers engage. I mean, there's the the one opportunity that we just we usually talk about on these calls, but hasn't hasn't come up as much here is just the ability to make it so that advertisers um are increasingly just going to be able to give us a business objective and give us a credit card or bank account and like have the AI system basically figure out everything else that's necessary including generating video or or or different types of creative that might resonate with different people that are personalized in different ways, finding who the right customers are. All of these um all of the capabilities that we're building I think go towards improving all of these different things. So I'm quite optimistic about that. Your next question comes from the line of Ronald Josie with City. Please go ahead.
>> Great. Thanks for taking the question and this maybe dubtails perfectly off of Mark what you just talked about and you know we heard a lot about end to end automation here. I think reaching a $60 billion ARR. Want to hear about if you can talk to us more just about adoption rates amongst the advertisers and then maybe bigger picture as you incorporate ranking recommendation changes like Andromeda or gems or lattice just talk to us how this automation is driving call it a higher ROI for for advertisers overall as we bring it all together. Thank you.
>> Yeah. So, we've been we've been sort of laying the the continued uh brick by brick build of um of Advantage Plus and extending the set of objectives that it applies to over time. And so, in Q3, we completed the global roll out of the streamlined campaign creation flow for Advantage Plus lead campaigns. So now advertisers who are running sales app or lead campaigns have endto-end automation turned on from the beginning. Um and like you know the kind of application of the streamlined campaign creation flow for other objectives. This generally allows advertisers to optimize um and automate several aspects of the campaign setup process at once. That includes things like audience selection, where to show the ad, how the budget gets paced and distributed across adsets to to drive the most efficient outcomes. Um, and you know, we see that Advantage Plus continues to drive performance gains. Advertisers who run lead campaigns using Advantage Plus uh are seeing a 14% lower cost per lead um on average than those than those who are not. And I would say that we think that there is still a lot of opportunity generally to grow adoption of Advantage Plus. Um, a lot of advertisers only use our end-to-end automated solutions for a portion of their campaigns. So, we can grow share there. Uh and to capture that opportunity, we're focused on driving continued performance improvements and addressing some of the key use cases that we still need in order to grow adoption. Um we're also working to broaden adoption among advertisers who use one of our singlestep automated solutions. For example, advertisers who might only use a piece of it like advantage plus audiences by helping them understand um the benefits of using more than one automated s one automated solution um at the same time. So I would say uh advantage plus is sort of an ongoing platform by which we both continue to expand the feature set that is available in advantage plus and then expand the extensibility or the coverage of that feature set to sort of the broader set of advertisers. Um you know I think Mark uh mentioned that the annual revenue run right now for advertisers who are using these automated options is you know $60 billion. And again, we we see that there's room to continue growing that.
>> Your next question comes from the line of Yousef Wallally with Truist Securities. Please go ahead.
>> Great. Thank you very much, Mark. On on wearables in particular, do you think you'll be able to sell enough hardware to recoup your investment or is that dependent on maybe creating new avenues for revenue from things like advertising services and commerce through that new computing platform? and and if so, what are kind of the gating factors there? And then Susan, um, how do you see the onbalance sheet versus offbalance sheet financing on of your AI initiatives? You've recently struck a deal the blue owl for the Louisiana data center. Is that part of the capex guide for 26? And if it's not, how significant will that way of funding be for meta going forward? And basically, would that slow down your capex growth past 2026? Thank you. I can talk about wearables and then and Susan can jump in on the other part. So I think that there are a few pieces here. Um one is that the the work that on Rayban Meta and the Oakley Meta uh products is going very well. Um I I think yeah I mean at some point if if these continue going as well as it as it has been then um then I think it will be a very profitable investment. I think that there's there's some um revenue that we get from from basically selling the devices and then some that will come from additional services and from the AI on top of it. So I think that there's a big opportunity. Um certainly the investment here is not just to to kind of build a um just the the device, it's also to build these services on top. Um, right now a lot of people get the devices uh for a range of things that don't even include the AI even though they like the AI, but I think over time the AI is going to become the main thing that people are using them for. And I think that that's going to end up having a big business opportunity by itself. Um but you know as as um products like the Rayban Meta and Oakley Metas are are growing um we're also going to keep on investing in things like the more full field of view um product form of um of the Orion prototype that we showed at Connect last year. So those things are obviously earlier in their curve towards getting to being a sustaining business. And our general view is that we want to build these out to reach many hundreds of millions or billions of people. And that's the the the point at which we we think that this is going to be um just an extremely profitable business.
>> Um Yousef your second uh question. So the uh JV that we announced with Blue Owl um is is sort of an example of you finding a solution that enabled us to partner with external capital providers to co-develop data centers in a way that gives us long-term optionality in supporting our future capacity needs just given both you know the magnitude but also uncertainty of what the um the capacity outlook in future years looks like. Um, in terms of how that is recognized as capex, our prior capbacks reflected a portion of the data center build cost prior to the joint venture being established. Going forward, the construction costs of the data center uh will not be reported recorded in capex as the data center is constructed. We will contribute 20% of the remaining construction costs required um which is in line with our ownership stake and those will be recorded as other investing cash flows. All right, I'm switching to Google. Uh, we got like 30 seconds. Jose, any quick thoughts on what you heard just now?
>> Um, I think you posted it on next that they mentioned they feel like they always have enough compute, but it's never enough. Um, and for that reason, and the other thing is they're really focused with AI. They're not focused on creating AGI, right? They're focused on making AI solutions that are going to directly impact their core revenue. So, I'd like to hear from that. It's a whole different approach from some of the other AI labs out there. Sam, any quick thoughts?
>> I mean, a lot of the questions really were around reality labs, uh, as far as the guy down and how much capex they're spending and basically kind of reason with the analysts as far as like why we spending so much money. I did did kind of notice for a minute that he I think he was like Mark was trying to say it from a defensive standpoint as to why we're spending this much money, not like an exciting standpoint. But it's like look, we're spending this money because we're really excited for the future. So I think that criticism has actually translated into the price that you see after hours, how it's selling off. Maybe they're not seeing it happen as much as fast as they expect. I mean, with this, you know, like it really is a bet at this point. I think Meta's margin expansion story was already baked into the price and now it's like, well, we want more if we're going to keep your stock price up here. So, uh, we we we'll see what Google says. I mean, as far as everything else goes, man, they're all spending more money, so it's always a good thing to see. It's what I want to see right now.
>> Yep. No, I would agree. I think overall it looks like things are going in the right direction. It's just that onetime tax fee is uh what's getting the street upset. By the way, guys, Sam's and Jose's Twitter putting that in the chat and their YouTube, so you can follow them there. And let's get into the googs.
>> I'll quickly cover the safe harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business operations and financial performance may be considered forward-looking. Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially. Please refer to our forums 10K and 10Q including the risk factors. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAPT GAP measures is included in today's earnings press release which is distributed and available to the public through our investor relations website located at abc.xyz/investor. Our comments will be on year-over-year comparisons unless we state otherwise. And now I'll turn the call over to Sundar. Thank you Jim. Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us. This was a terrific quarter for Alphabet driven by double-digit growth across every major part of our business. We are seeing AI now driving real business results across the company. We delivered our first ever $100 billion quarter. 5 years ago, our quarterly revenue was at 50 billion. Our revenue number has doubled since then, and we are firmly in the generative AI era. In parallel, we've built for the long term and diversified with successful businesses in cloud, YouTube, and subscriptions. Our momentum is strong and we are shipping at speed. As just a few examples, a first party models like Gemini now process 7 billion tokens per minute via direct API use by our customers. The Gemini app now has over 650 million monthly active users and queries increased by 3x from Q2. Cloud had another great quarter of accelerating growth with AI revenue as a key driver. Cloud backlog grew 46% quarterover-arter to 155 billion. And we crossed 300 million paid subscriptions led by growth in Google One and YouTube Premium. Today I'll discuss progress in our full stack approach to AI and then share highlights from search cloud YouTube and Whimo. As a reminder, our full stack approach spans AI infrastructure, worldclass research, including models and tooling and our products and platforms that bring AI to people everywhere. First up, AI infrastructure. Our extensive and reliable infrastructure which powers all of Google's products is the foundation of our stack and a key differentiator. We are scaling the most advanced chips in our data centers including GPUs from our partner Nvidia as well as our own purpose-built TPUs and we are the only company providing a wide range of both. As we announced yesterday at Nvidia GTC, we are now shipping the new A4X Max instances powered by Nvidia GB300 to our cloud customers. Our highly sought-after TPU portfolio is led by our seventh generation TPU Ironwood, which will be generally available soon. We are investing in TPU capacity to meet the tremendous demand we are seeing from customers and partners. And we are excited that Anthropic recently shared plans to access up to 1 million TPUs. Next, worldclass AI research including models and tooling. Our models are worldleading. Gemini 2.5 Pro, VO Genie3, and our viral sensation nano banana are among the very best in class. Over 230 million videos have been generated with V3 and more than 13 million developers have built with our generative models. We're looking forward to the release of Gemini 3 later this year. Our research leadership is advancing Next Frontier Technologies. Last week, we announced that our Willow Quantum chip achieved a major breakthrough, running an algorithm 13,000 times faster than one of the world's best supercomputers. And the result is verifiable, paving the way to future practical applications. Speaking of quantum, let me congratulate Michel Devy, our chief scientist for quantum hardware. He received a Nobel in physics for early research he did in the 1980s. Three nobles awarded to current Googlers in two years. Incredible. And third, our products and platforms. We are bringing AI to more people and developers than anyone else. In July, we announced that we processed 980 trillion monthly tokens across all our surfaces. We are now processing over 1.3 quadrillion monthly tokens, more than 20x growth in a year. Phenomenal. This quarter, we took big steps to reimagine Chrome as a browser powered by AI through deep integrations with Gemini and AI mode in search with more agentic capabilities coming soon. In August at made by Google, we unveiled our Pixel 10 series of devices. They are the first with our most powerful chip designed to run on Gemini Tensor G5. They're our best reviewed devices ever. And last week, we launched Android XR, our new operating system with Samsung's Galaxy XR device. It brings new ways to use headsets and glasses with Gemini at the core. Now, turning to highlights from search. AI is driving an expansionary moment for search. As people learn what they can do with our new AI experiences, they're increasingly coming back to search more. Search and its AI experiences are built to highlight the web, sending billions of clicks to sites every day. During the Q2 call, we shared that overall queries and commercial queries continue to grow year-over-year. This growth rate increased in Q3, largely driven by our AI investments in search. most notably AI overviews and AI mode. Let me dive into the momentum we are seeing. As we have shared before, AI overviews drive meaningful query growth. This effect was even stronger in Q3 as users continue to learn that Google can answer more of their questions and it's particularly encouraging to see the effect was more pronounced with younger people. We're also seeing that AI mode is resonating well with users in the US. We have seen strong and consistent week-overweek growth in usage since launch and queries doubled over the quarter. Over the last quarter, we rolled out AI mode globally across 40 languages in record time. It now has over 75 million daily active users and we shipped over 100 improvements to the product in Q3 and incredibly fast pace. Most importantly, AI mode is already driving incremental total query growth for search. Philip will talk more about monetization and share how AI is helping people connect with businesses and shop on search. Next, Google Cloud. Our complete enterprise AI product portfolio is accelerating growth in revenue, operating margins, and backlog. In Q3, customer demand strengthened in three ways. One, we are signing new customers faster. The number of new GCP customers increased by nearly 34% year-over-year. Two, we are signing larger deals. We have signed more deals over $1 billion through Q3 this year than we did in the previous two years combined. Third, we are deepening our relationships. Over 70% of existing Google Cloud customers use our AI products, including Bank OBV, Best Buy, and Fairpric. As we scale, we are diversifying revenue. Today, 13 product lines are each at an annual run rate over $1 billion. And we are improving operating margin with highly differentiated products built with our own technology. This deep product differentiation starts with our AI infrastructure. We have a decade of experience building AI accelerators and today offer the widest array of chips. This leadership is winning customers like HCA Healthcare, LGAI Research and McQuary Bank. And it's why nine of the top 10 AI labs choose Google Cloud. We are also the only cloud provider offering our own leading generative AI models including Gemini, Imagine, Vio, Chirp, and Lyria. Adoption is rapidly accelerating. In Q3, revenue from products built on our generative AI models grew more than 200% year-over-year. Over the past 12 months, nearly 150 Google Cloud customers each processed approximately 1 trillion tokens with our models for a wide range of applications. For example, WPP is creating campaigns with up to 70% efficiency gains. Sarowski has increased email open rates by 17% and accelerated campaign localization by 10 times. Earlier this month, we launched Gemini Enterprise, the new front door for AI in the workplace and we are seeing strong adoption for agents built on this platform. Our packaged enterprise agents in Gemini Enterprise are optimized for a variety of domains, are highly differentiated, and offer significant out-of-box value to customers. We have already crossed 2 million subscribers across 700 companies. Next, YouTube. In the living room, YouTube has remained number one in streaming watchtime in the US for more than two years, according to Neielson. Last month marked YouTube's first time as a live NFL broadcaster. This exclusive global broadcast live from Brazil drew more than 19 million fans and set a new record for most concurrent viewers of a live stream on YouTube. YouTube shots also continues to perform well in the US. Shots now earn more revenue per watch than traditional instream on YouTube. At our made on YouTube event, we rolled out a number of AI powered features that are helping creators supercharge creation and build their businesses. AI is now streamlining the entire content creation workflow from generative video tools and more efficient editing to AI powered insights that help creators optimize their channels. We are also using AI to expand monetization, automatically identifying products to make their videos more shoppable. Philip will discuss in more detail. And finally, Whimo. Next year, VHO aims to open service in London and they are working to bring service to Tokyo. They've also announced expansions to Dallas, Nashville, Denver, and Seattle and secured permission to operate fully autonomously at San Jose and San Francisco airports. Autonomous testing continues to scale in New York City. The new VHO for business allows enterprises to offer Whimo as a work travel option. and we launched Wayo teens accounts in Phoenix this summer. We are pleased to see usage steadily increase with positive feedback from teens and their parents alike. Whimo's growth and momentum are strong and 2026 is shaping up to be an exciting year. Overall, a milestone quarter. The incredible work of our teams is driving momentum across the board and our leadership in AI positions us so well for the opportunity ahead. I want to thank all of our partners and our employees for their hard work and an excellent Q3. With that, I'll turn it over to Philip.
>> Thanks, Andor.
>> All right, this part's going to be boring, but 10 minutes of this and then Q&A
>> for the quarter, then structure the rest of my remarks around the great progress we're delivering across search, ads, YouTube, and partnerships. Google services revenues were 87 billion for the quarter up 14% yearonear driven by accelerated growth in search and YouTube partially offset by year-on-year decline in network revenues adding some further color to our results the 15% increase in search and other was led by growth across all major verticals with the largest contributions from retail and financial services YouTube saw similar performance across verticals its 15% growth in advertising revenues was driven by direct response followed by brand. Starting with search and other revenues, which delivered over 56 billion in revenue for the quarter, as S mentioned, AI is driving an expansionary moment and transforming how people use Google search. Our investments in new AI experiences such as AI overviews and AI mode continue to drive growth in overall queries, including commercial queries, creating more opportunities for monetization. These AI experiences are enhancing how people connect with businesses and shop on search. We recently added shopping capabilities in AI mode which now help people shop conversationally in search and we expanded tryon capabilities to more clothing items now available to anyone in the US. Lastly, we're making it easier for consumers to benefit from deals through new loyalty offerings like personalized annotations on organic results and ads. Looking at monetization, businesses can now tap into our most powerful AI search experiences. Using our most advanced AI models, we can understand and predict intent like never before, unlocking entirely new commercial pathways to provide valuable new consumer connections and helping us monetize even more efficiently. Rolled out globally in September, AMAX and Search is already used by hundreds of thousands of advertisers, currently making it the fastest growing AI pod search ads product. In Q3 alone, AIMAX unlocked billions of net new queries. By delivering the most relevant ad across surfaces and matching advertisers against additional queries they weren't reaching before, AIMAX helps advertisers discover new customers at the exact moment they need their product or service. Kayak, for example, looked to grow conversions while staying within their rorowass goals. After turning on AIAX and search, they grew the conversion value by 12% in early tests. We continue to infuse generative AI capabilities at every step of the marketing process. We rolled out Imagin 4 in asset studio and product studio helping businesses produce more and better creatives. On the measurement front we enriched the model supporting Meridian our marketing mix model with additional variables and more granular reporting in PMAX is making bidding more effective. Financial services company SoFi has been using PMAX to meet its ambitious growth targets and help drive a 39% improvement in its conversion volume year-over-year. Moving to YouTube, where we saw accelerated revenue growth, our recommendation systems are driving robust watchtime growth in our key monetization areas like shorts and living room. As we leverage Gemini models, we're seeing further discovery improvement on direct response. We're excited about the growth and revenue we're seeing, especially from small and medium advertisers adopting demand gen. We also improved performance on demand gen with over 100 launches helping to increase conversion value by more than 40% for advertisers using target-based bidding on YouTube. The retail vertical continues to lead our growth on YouTube with demand genen helping us further monetize shopping related categories. Looking at the living room, a long-term bet more advertisers are adopting interactive direct response ads, leading to an annual revenue run rate exceeding 1 billion globally for this format. For our viewers, we continue to give fans greater access across sports while tapping into the best of YouTube's product innovation and creatorled content. Sun mentioned that we expanded our NFL partnership with our first ever exclusive global broadcast of an NFL game. Brands love the opportunity and we sold all our ad inventory within a couple of weeks. Looking at creators, a significant force behind the thriving YouTube creator economy is the collaboration between creators and brands. Tools like direct linking to deals, websites, and shorts and swappable brand segments and long form will soon help creators show how they deliver great value for brands. Thanks to a collaboration with Dude Perfect, Comcast Xfinity drove an 8% search lift, beating other Xfinity ads recall lift on shorts by 34%. At the same time, it decreased the cost per lifted user by 50% when compared to the next most efficient ad. We continue to invest in AI part features that are helping creators supercharge creation and build their businesses. With V3 integration and speech to song, creators go from idea to iteration quicker and new channel insights help them better understand performance. Ending on YouTube with our subscriptions products. We're also seeing momentum with strong growth in offerings such as YouTube Music and Premium and YouTube TV. We're also applying Gemini internally to help us serve customers with increased speed, intelligence, and efficiency. Our sales teams use Gemini enriched with ads knowledge to streamline customer interactions. This increased productivity by over 10% led to hundreds of millions in incremental revenue and frees up sellers to engage with more customers at a deeper, more strategic level. In our customer support division, Gemini powered solutions have managed over 40 million customer sessions so far this year and resolved hundreds of thousands of customer inquiries and we're just getting started. As always, I'll wrap with the progress we're seeing across partnerships where customers tap into the strength and breadth of Google's products to accelerate their transformation. Revolute, the global financial services company, leverages Google Cloud's Vert.ex AI platform and Gemini models to help power its advanced customer service chatbot, develop new hyperpersonalized financial products, and offer predictive insights. Revolute is also increasing its presence on YouTube, adopting V3 for personalized creatives, making Google a key ads partner for delivering growth and launching new markets. In closing, I'd like to thank Googlers everywhere for their contributions to our success. And as always to our customers and partners for their continued trust and of course a huge thanks to all of you as we celebrate 25 years of Google Ads. Anat over to you.
>> Thank you, Philip. My comments will focus on year-over-year comparisons for the third quarter unless I state otherwise. I will start with results at the alphabet level and we'll then cover our segment results. I'll end with some commentary on our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2025. We had an outstanding quarter in Q3, continuing the strong momentum we've had throughout the year, delivering double-digit revenue growth across search and YouTube advertising, subscriptions, platforms, and devices. and Google Cloud consolidated revenue reached $102.3 billion, a 16% year-over-year increase or 15% in constant currency. Total cost of revenue was 41.4 billion, up 13%. Tech was 14.9 billion, up 8%. Other cost of revenues was 26.5 billion up 16% with the increase primarily driven by content acquisition cost largely for YouTube followed by depreciation and other technical infrastructure operations cost. Total operating expenses increased 28% to 29.7 billion. R&D expenses increased by 22% driven by compensation and depreciation expenses related to our AI efforts. Sales and marketing expenses were flat and GNA expenses increased meaningfully primarily due to the $3.5 billion charge related to the European Commission fine mentioned in the earnings press release. Operating income increased 9% this quarter to $31.2 2 billion and operating margin was 30.5%. Excluding the EC fine, operating income increased 22% and operating margin was 33.9%. Operating margin benefited from strong revenue growth and continued efficiencies in our expense base offset by the legal charge and a significant increase in depreciation expense. Other income and expenses was $12.8 $8 billion primarily due to unrealized gains in our non-marketable equity securities portfolio. Net income increased 33% to $35 billion and earnings per share increased 35% to $2.87. We generate free cash flow of $ 24.5 billion in the third quarter and 73.6 billion for the trailing 12 months. free cash flow in Q3 benefited from strong operating cash flow and recent tax changes regarding the timing of when research and development costs are expensed and assets are depreciated. This was partially offset by higher capex. We ended the quarter with 98.5 billion in cash and marketable securities. Turning to segment results, Google services revenues increased 14% to 87.1 billion, reflecting strength in Google search, YouTube advertising, and subscriptions. Google search and other advertising revenues increased by 15% to 56.6 $6 billion, representing another robust quarter with continued growth across all major verticals with the largest contributions from retail and financial services. YouTube advertising revenues increased 15% to $10.3 billion driven by direct response advertising followed by brand. Network advertising revenues of $7.4 billion were down 3%. Subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased 21% this quarter to 12.9 billion, driven by very strong growth in both YouTube and Google 1 subscriptions. Google services operating income increased 9% to $33.5 billion. Operating margin declined year-over-year to 38.5% as healthy revenue growth and continued efficiencies in our expense base were offset by the impact of the EC fine which was fully reflected in the Google services segment. Turning to the Google Cloud segment which again delivered very strong results this quarter as cloud continued to benefit from our enterprise AI optimized stack including our own custom TPUs and our industryleading AI models. Cloud revenue increased by 34% to 15.2 billion in the third quarter, driven by strong performance in GCP, which continued to grow at a rate that was much higher than cloud's overall revenue growth rate. GCP's growth was driven by enterprise AI products, which are generating billions in quarterly revenue. We had strong growth in enterprise AI infrastructure and enterprise AI solutions which benefited from demand for our industry-leading models including Gemini 2.5. Core GCP was also a meaningful contributor to growth and we had doubledigit growth in workspace which was driven by an increase in average revenues per seat and the number of seats. Cloud operating income increased by 85% to $3.6 6 billion and operating margin increased from 17.1% in the third quarter last year to 23.7% this quarter. The expansion in cloud operating margin was driven by strong revenue performance and continued efficiencies in our expense base partially offset by higher technical infrastructure usage cost which includes depreciation expense and other operations costs such as energy. Google Cloud's backlog increased 46% sequentially and 82% year-over-year, reaching $155 billion at the end of the third quarter. The increase was driven primarily by strong demand for enterprise AI. As Sundar mentioned earlier, cloud has signed more billion dollar deals in the first nine months of 2025 than in the past two years combined. In other bets, revenues were $344 million and operating loss was a billion4 in the third quarter. Within other bets, we continue to allocate more resources to businesses like Whimo, where we see opportunities to create substantial value. With respect to capex, in the third quarter, our capex was $ 24 billion. The vast majority of our capex was invested in technical infrastructure with approximately 60% of that investment in servers and 40% in data centers and networking equipment. In Q3, we return capital to shareholders through repurchases of stock of 11.5 billion and dividend payments of 2.5 billion. Turning to our outlook, I would like to provide some commentary on factors that will impact our business performance in the fourth quarter of 2025 as well as an updated outlook for capex for the year. First, in terms of revenues, we're pleased with the overall momentum of our business. At the current spot rates, we could see an FX tailwind to our revenues in Q4. However, the volatility and exchange rates could affect the impact of FX on Q4 revenues. As for segments in Google services, year-over-year comparisons in advertising will be negatively impacted by the strong spend on US elections in the fourth quarter of 2024, particularly on YouTube. In cloud, demand for our products remains high as evidenced by the accelerating revenue growth and the $49 billion sequential increase in cloud backlog in Q3. In GCP, we see strong demand for enterprise AI infrastructure, including TPUs and GPUs, enterprise AI solutions driven by demand for Gemini 2.5 and our other AI models and core GCP infrastructure and other services such as cyber security and data analytics. As I've mentioned on previous earnings calls, while we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployments and data center construction, we still expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment in Q4 and 2026. Moving to investments, we're continuing to invest aggressively due to the demand we're experiencing from cloud customers as well as the growth opportunities we see across the company. We now expect capex to be in the range of $91 billion to $93 billion in 2025, up from our previous estimate of $85 billion. Keeping in mind that the timing of cash payments can cause variability in the reported capex number. Looking out to 2026, we expect a significant increase in capex and we'll provide more detail on our fourth quarter earnings call. In terms of expenses, first, as I've mentioned on previous earnings calls, the significant increase in our investments in technical infrastructure will continue to put pressure on the P&L in the form of higher depreciation expenses and related data center operations costs such as energy. In the third quarter, depreciation increased 1.6 billion year-over-year to 5.6 billion, reflecting a growth rate of 41%. Given the overall increase in capex investments, we expect the growth rate and depreciation to accelerate slightly in Q4. Second, we expect sales and marketing expenses to be more heavily weighted to the end of the year, in part to support product launches and the holiday season. Q3 was a strong quarter, and we're excited with the adoption of our AI products, helped by a rapid pace of innovation and great execution by our teams. This translated into strong momentum in search, YouTube ads, subscription platforms and devices and cloud resulting in our first hundred billion dollar plus quarter. Now Sundar Philip and I will now take your questions.
>> Thank you. As a reminder, to ask a question, you will need to press star one on your telephone. To prevent any background noise, we ask that you please mute your line once your question has been stated. Our first question comes from Brian Noak with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
>> Great. Thanks for taking my questions everyone. Uh the first one maybe for for Philip or or Sundar. It's on Agentic e-commerce and Agentic Travel. There's a lot of external Wall Street discussion about Agentic e-commerce potentially monetizing at a lower rate than search. So the the question is what what factors are you most focused on to sort of ensure a smooth transition for your search business and for your advertisers as you move over to a more agentic world and the second one Sundar is on Whimo. How far are we from an integration of Whimo into more of the the core Gemini capabilities and the users in the platform? you're taking your your user data of where I'm going, what hotel I'm staying at, what airport I'm staying at, and have me integrate that into Whimo. You can actually have users use their profiles to preschedule Whimos. How how far off is that? What do we have to do?
>> Hello, Brian. Great question. Uh, this is all early. Uh, but we see agentic experiences really as additive to the way people seek information. Uh, it helps us answers, uh, people's tough questions. It helps us uh it helps people get stuff done and it helps businesses in the process. And uh we're working on multiple agentic experiences across key verticals such as travel, commerce, shopping and so on. And we're paying a lot of attention to creating a seamless user experience, but also to the fact that we need to integrate different partner ecosystems in a way that creates value for them. And uh by the way, we're also working closely with a lot of our partners on the other side through our cloud services to improve their own agentic experiences. And uh so maybe we go a little deeper on the shopping side um where we actually use AI already uh very actively to improve the shopping experience. Um as you know uh we launched a more visual experience on AI mode that gives people a much more intuitive conversational way to shop. um you can simply describe what you're looking for now like the way you would talk to a friend and it will show you the visual shopping results. Uh and then we think about building an agentic shopping future and it has to be one again that benefits both users and merchants here and you know that AIO we also introduced new agentic checkout u which will let shoppers use uh like aentic AI to buy products from merchant sites and so on. Um we have a partnership with PayPal uh to help merchants build aentic commerce experiences. as we have a new open protocols for agent to agent transactions and so on and so on.
>> And uh Brian on Whimo uh great question. I was reflecting I think on the exact same topic. I'm I'm scheduled to meet with the team to do a review on it in a few weeks out. uh look it is an exciting time clearly you know is scaling up particularly uh in 2026 and I think the possibility as you said of uh you know Gemini particularly with the multimodal experience as well as services like YouTube I think there's a real opportunity to make the uh incar experience uh dramatically better uh definitely something we are excited about and you'll see newer experiences uh in in 2026 for Great. Thank you both.
>> Our next question comes from Doug Anuth with JP Morgan. Your line is now open.
>> Thanks for taking the questions. Um, Philip u maybe you can just talk more about uh some of the drivers of the core search strength and I guess in particular when you think about AI overviews and AI mode. We know that query growth is accelerating, but can you help us understand from there kind of what happens in terms of clicks per query and conversion rates and pricing in these AIdriven search formats? And then um Anat, uh can you talk about where you see opportunities in the core cost space as you look to make room to absorb the rapid growth in infrastructure and depreciation going forward? Thanks. So let me give you a bit of vertical color first. In Q3 uh three search and other revenues again delivered growth across all major vertical as we said uh was from retail and financial services. Healthcare was also a contributor to the growth here. Um our new AI experiences um you mentioned them AI overviews AI mode continue to drive growth uh in overall queries including commercial queries uh really creating more opportunities uh for monetization. Um, AI overviews are scaling up and are working for our entire user base. We're now scaled to over two billion users here and uh we're continuing to expand ads in AI overviews in English to more countries uh across desktop, mobile and so on. And as I've said before for AI overviews, even at our current baseline of ads um below and within the AI's response overall, we see the monetization at approximately the same rate. Uh so over time we're excited about the opportunity of uh richer experiences in AI mode and AI overviews uh to basically open up then the opportunity for also uh much richer uh placements. Um and um I think as I've said on a a prior call, we managed the business to drive great outcomes for users and an attractive RORI for advertisers. Uh we don't really manage to paid clicks and uh CPC targets. Um but uh as you will see in the 10Q uh paid clicks were up uh 7% year on year and CPCs were up uh 7% year on year. Doug, into your question around where else can we see more um opportunity for efficiency and productivity and I think you heard me say before this is not a one-time type of effort but rather an ongoing way in which we manage the business and the key here is that the more we drive productivity across our business the more we can invest in the business for growth and obviously continue to uh drive improvement in the P&L. Some of the areas are things that you've heard us talk about in the past such as uh moderating the pace of headcount growth, optimizing uh real estate footprint, but also as we invest more and more in our technical infrastructure, ensuring that we are optimizing that buildout and um the overall technical infrastructure we have, you know, that a lot of the data centers for example that we we build ourselves, so they're uh optimized and we make sure we do them in the most efficient way. uh Sundar mentioned uh in on one of the previous calls the productivity associated with leveraging AI for Google. So it is the example the uh the percent of code now nearly half of all code generated by AI that's a way for us to leverage AI to drive further productivity um across the business and obviously we always look at making sure that when we provide services or products that we get the right economics and the right value for what we provide. So the one good example is shorts which has a lower revenue share than instream that it helps to improve uh some of our gross margins. So this is an effort we have ongoing I've mentioned in the past that we have a headwind with depreciation obviously increasing alongside our capex increase. So we're have we have efforts across the organization to ensure we we run the business in the most disciplined and productive way while continue to invest for future growth. Thank you both.
>> Our next question comes from Eric Sheridan with Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
>> Thank you so much for taking the questions. Maybe two if I could. Sundar, when you think about your custom silicon efforts across the organization, can you reflect a little bit about the opportunity set you see with each passing generation of custom silicon both in terms of driving operating efficiencies inside the organization and potentially uh increased monetization efforts around those outside of the organization. Um, second question would be for Philip. Um, obviously we can see the YouTube advertising revenue number in the reported results. Can you reflect a little bit about the scaling of the subscription side of YouTube offerings and how the two parts in in together maybe present an interesting framework in thinking about the monetization side of YouTube uh increasingly being a mix of both ads and subscription. Thank you
>> Eric. Um overall I would say we are seeing you know substantial demand for our AI infrastructure products uh including TPU based and GPU based uh solutions. It is one of the key drivers of our growth over the past year and I I think on a going forward basis. I think we continue to see uh very strong uh demand and we are investing uh to meet that. uh I do think a big part of what uh differentiates Google cloud uh you know effectively we are the you know we've taken a full deep full stack approach to AI so we are and and that really plays out right we are the only hyperscaler who is really building offerings on our own models um you know and and we we are also highly differentiated on our own technology so to your question I think that does uh you know give us the opport opportunity to uh continue driving growth in operating margins in cloud as we've done in the past and and also I think from a revenue uh you know uh sets the infrastructure portion of our business uh to be to be a growth driver looking ahead as well
>> and to the second part of your question look just taking a quick step back uh you know we often describe YouTube's business as a flywheel obviously it first all starts with the creators and we have significantly invested here to be the place that YouTube creators really call uh their home. Uh that's a big piece of it. Uh the number one piece uh viewers of course uh YouTube has billions of monthly logged in users and every day people watch billions of hours of video and we talked about how recommendation systems are driving robust watchtime growth uh and so on and so on. So on the monetization side uh YouTube's business is really powered I would say on a let's call it a twin engine monetization strategy combining its advertising business and its growing sub subscription services. uh both YouTube ads and subscriptions saw strong growth uh this quarter and so looking at YouTube music and premium uh users are on average delivering more value to creators uh to music uh media partners and YouTube itself than even adup supported users do. So in other words on average a YouTube music and premium subscriber generates a meaningful high gross profit uh than they were simply an ad supported users and uh fans come from all over the world uh you know this and this engagement through ads and subscription generates YouTube's revenues and funds what I started with these uh creators here and this then drives more viewership and engagement and so on and that's the flywheel and so our priority continues like this growth cycle we're happy with this twin engine monetization strategy Our next question comes from Mark Schmullik with Bernstein. Your line is now open.
>> Uh yes, thanks for taking the questions. Uh Sundar, you know, with the strong adoption of Gemini, AI mode and overviews across the user base. Are there any meaningful differences to call out kind of around the behavior and depth of engagement for those users across the entire Google ecosystem? Uh and then Philip, I know we kind of asked this uh you know most quarters, but I'm I'm curious kind of with some of the adoption you've seen around AI overviews and mode, you know, how you see the economics of search evolving with the higher commercial and total query volume and how it kind of compares against the incremental cost to deliver these results. Thank you
>> Mark. Um look, I think obviously AIO views are a natural part of the Google experience and so you know engagement is very very high. I would say AI mode you you have a a varied cohorts there are people who are casual users who are checking it out and then but there's a core group which which really likes AI mode and is passionate about it and so you see the early adopters uh uh you know the product is resonating very strongly and they are seeking it out so I think I think that's how I would highlight the difference with Gemini again uh you know sort of engaged user base who who are seeking out the product and and so on but across the board I think um you know the trajectory has been we are we are definitely seeing in each of those use cases a set of early adopters and then more people coming in and the people who are using it continue to use it more over time and report high user satisfaction. So I would say the underlying product metrics uh are are pretty uh encouraging uh to see as well. look into the second part of your question. Um I think we covered before SA covered the query development and as I've just said before for the AI overviews even at our current baseline of ads right whether above below and within the AI response overall we see the monetization at approximately the same rate and this is a a great baseline for further innovation. Um, we talked about this. We're excited about where this can go. And, uh, on the AI mode side, uh, we're testing ads in AI mode and we'll continue to test and learn. Uh, before we expand this any further, um, so this in combination with what we mentioned about the commercial query, uh, overall development, uh, I think we're in a we're in a good place here. Um, you could also argue that on queries that historically have not been well monetized, uh, we think there's a potential opportunity here, um, where you can obviously imagine that we can build this out with smart AI integration.
>> Our next question comes from Michael Nathansson with Muffet Nathansson. Your line is now open.
>> Thanks. I have two, one for Phil, one for not Philip. Um, it's clear that when people use AI mode, the query length is is much longer. Could you talk about how that longer length may be impacting your ability to drive rorowaz and what you're seeing in terms some of the early the benefits of maybe longer query. You you came um to Alphabet from a pharmaceutical company. You've been there more than a year. Can you talk a bit about how you're working to look at ROIC internally and what early signs are you seeing that gives you confidence that this spending is you know is really driving better returns longer term. Thanks.
>> Look as Sund shared AI mode now has over like 75 million daily active users in the US and we see strong and consistent we growth in usage uh since launch and the queries doubled over the quarter. Um and as I also mentioned we're testing ads in AI mode. We'll continue to le uh test before we expand any further. It's really too early to tell and go into any of the details of that testing.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. And the uh the question related to ROIC and how we look at um just overall our business and where do we see early signs that are encouraging. So first I would say it's not just early signs because we're seeing returns obviously in in the cloud business. You've heard us talk about the fact that we already are generating billions of dollars from AI in the quarter. But then across the board we have a a rigorous framework and approach by which we evaluate um these long-term investments that are meant to do two things. One is to ensure we have we build a resilient growth profile for the company but also that we meet the demand of the customers that we have here in the in the more near and midterm. So we look at it across the business. We evaluate the potential return for each one of them whether it's um in cloud and I think that's more visible obviously externally given uh that you see the the revenue generated and the fact that we're unable to meet at this point customer demand we have more demand than we have supplied um in our ads business you see the the fact that we're investing to transform search as you heard from Philip and Serno with AIO in a uh mode so we're um and excited to see what what our investments are help investors are helping um advertisers as well. Uh YouTube where it's helping power recommendations. So we're we're when we make a decision on investment in the long term, we go through a very rigorous process of assessing what the return could be and over what time frame we will see that return to give us the high level of confidence to then invest and make those investments for for the long term. So it's a it's a very um rigorous approach. Thanks.
>> Our next question comes from Ross Sandler with Barclays. Your line is now open.
>> Great. Um, about 20% of Google's search queries are are commercial historically and you you've talked a bunch on this call about how AI overviews are kind of expanding the breadth of queries. Um, could you talk about how new products on the monetization side like AI Max are potentially increasing the percent of commercial queries? So look, AIAX and I mentioned this in my call before improves the ability for advertisers to target a wider range of queries. separately there is the question of whether queries uh actually increase with AI mode and I sar actually talked about it uh and mentioned the opportunity that he sees here. So I think it's important uh to separate those two things and I personally also see this is what I just said in my last remark that I think over time there's an opportunity to actually take uh let's say queries that are not fully commercial but could have an adjacent uh commercial relationship to basically expand this into more attractive uh ads offerings without or while really creating an really interesting user experience at the same time.
>> Yeah. And and the only thing I would add is just stepping back broadly. I think AIO views in AI mode are you know dramatically improving search. We can see it in uh user satisfaction, user quality, all our metrics and they universal in the nature. They apply across uh the universality of human needs. So I think we are we are seeing it in breadth and so you know naturally over time that'll apply to commercial categories as well. Our next question comes from Ken Geralski with Wells Fargo. Your line is now open. Thank you very much. Two questions, please. First um it it it appears more and more clear that um all the new modes whether uh at Google with Gemini overview AI overviews AI mode even catch EPT is growing the addressable market uh for engagement in search like behavior. Could you talk about what gives you confidence that it will also grow the addressable market for marketing activity and overall revenue associated with that behavior? That that's question one. And and question two is just more about as you think about uh AI mode, AI overviews and and traditional Google search. Um h how do you think do do you see a world in you know 12 to 24 months those all coexist? And does the user does the user eventually pick what what uh what mode they want? Is does the algorithm pick the the mode? Could you talk a little bit about how how you think that will progress over the next 12 to 24 months? Thank you very much.
>> Uh Ken, thanks. Look, I think um you know it's a dynamic moment and you know I think uh we are uh meeting people uh in the moment with the with what they are trying to do. uh obviously search is evolving and you know between AI overviews and AI mode I think we are we are able to kind of give that range of experience uh for people in this moment over time you will expect us to you can expect us uh to make the experiences simpler um uh in a way that just like we did universal search many many years ago we may have done text search image search video search etc and then we kind of brought brought it together as universal search. So you will see evolutions like that. But I think I think we we want to be sensitive to making sure we are meeting the users uh uh you know in terms of what they are looking for. I think Gemini allows us uh to build a more personal, proactive, powerful AI assistant for that moment. And and I think I think having the two surfaces, search and Gemini allows us to really serve users across the breadth of their uh needs. And but over time, we will, you know, thoughtfully look for uh opportunities to make the experience uh better for users. And to the first part, I would I would broadly say, you know, as as you know, I do think we we've been consistently saying for a while now, uh this is an expansionary moment and and and we are seeing people engage more and and I think when they do that, uh naturally a portion of that information for users those journeys are commercial in nature. So I would expect that to play out over time as well. Our last question comes from Justin Post with BAML. Your line is now open.
>> Great. Just a couple. Um, Senator, I think you mentioned Gemini 3 is coming. Maybe you comment on the pace of innovation in frontier models. Is there still just a tremendous amount of innovation or or is it slowing at all? And then you mentioned, you know, a number of large deals signed in the last nine months for cloud, which is great. any any changes in the economics of these deals as far as u you know long-term profitability uh anything we should be aware of? Thank you.
>> Thanks Justin. Uh the first on the on on on the on the pace of Frontier Model uh research and development. Look I think you know two things are both simultaneously true. I'm I'm incredibly impressed by the pace at which the the teams are executing and and the pace at which we are uh improving these models. uh but it also is true at the same time that each of the prior model you're trying to get better over is now getting more and more capable. So I think both the pace is increasing but sometimes we are taking the time to put out a uh you know a notably uh improved improved model. So I think that may take slightly longer uh but I I do think the underlying pace uh is is uh phenomenal to see and I'm excited about uh our Gemini 3.0 release later this year. on on cloud. Um you know I mean I I would I would point out as a sign of the momentum I think the number of uh deals greater than $1 billion that we signed you know in the first three quarters of this year are greater than the two years prior. So we are definitely uh seeing strong momentum uh and we are executing at pace and in terms of long-term uh economics you know I would say that again us being a full stack uh AI player and the fact that we are uh developing highly differentiated products on our own technology I think will help us uh you know drive a good trajectory here as you have seen over the past a few years.
>> Great. Thank you.
>> Thank you. And that concludes our question and answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jim Freedelland for any further remarks.
>> Thanks everyone for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter 2025 call. Thank you and have a good evening.
>> Okay, there we go. Jose, raw thoughts on what you heard from the Googs.
>> I mean, for me, obviously, the excitement comes in the AI space. They mentioned uh capacity constraints still. Uh they're going to continue and well, uh we were listening to that. Um obviously, we didn't uh listen to the Microsoft call, but they mentioned very similar stuff, right? So, uh all three companies today, Meta mentions that one thing that they're seeing is as they build comp uh compute capacity, they continue to need more. Google said the same thing and Microsoft said that by the end of this fiscal year there's still going to be uh compute constraints. So overall extremely bullish in my opinion for the trend of the overall AI ecosystem. One can say bullish for Broadcom, Nvidia, AMV, whoever, but just the overall ecosystem uh looks pretty exciting. Um because a lot of these companies say they're just they're not investing on future demand. They're investing on the demand that they need right now. Um and I I believe at least for the next few quarters we're going to continue to see this. And um Google increased capex. We also see reports that I I haven't heard but it was reading that Microsoft mentioned that their next year uh capex or or or capix growth is going to continue to be uh steeper. Um so uh the other thing is obviously for them they are making money off these solutions. So not just good for for your chip players or your AI infrastructure players. Uh but like we saw I I think I even posted on on Google on on X, Google's cloud's margin has grown dramatically in just the past year or so. So they're making actual return on investments on these products. So it's not like they're just burning the money for nothing for for nothing, right? So um I I think those are my top raw thoughts. Uh some other cool things they mentioned that in the future Whimo they want to introduce uh Google and Gemini into it. That's going to be pretty fun. Um, imagine being in the Whimo and saying, "Hey, I'm in this city. Take me to a place where one of the most viewed YouTube videos was at." And I'll be like, "Oh, look. This is where." So, so it's it's a great way to kind of um make I guess experiences and travel experiences a little bit fun with both the YouTube video um and that and maybe on your way there you're watching the YouTube video of it. Uh so YouTube can create a massive ecosystem from robo taxis from um YouTube itself and implementing Gemini into it. Yeah, I don't think we heard anything bearish on Google. Cloud amazing operating margins 17 to 23. Um, Whimo growth is incredible. First hundred billion dollar quarter increased capex so very important for all the semiconductor names. And then I I think the most important thing about this is that search is not dead. It's just not dead. It grew another 12% this year. So, it had a couple quarters last year where it was looking like it was weak, but the reality is search is not going anywhere. And this thing wants 300. Like, this thing wants 300 at this point right now at 292. The the I think the most remarkable thing about Google is the fact that it pumped over the past couple months, then it pumped today in the morning before, now pumping after hours. A large cap like this doesn't do that unless the street is so bullish about what they're hearing. And I think that's what we got on the call today.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and I am shocked that the other players are I thought last time I checked Microsoft was down and um Meta was down. Uh I think first with the big beautiful bill um with Meta with Meta. Um I think we might have some analysts come out in the next few hours or the next 24 hours kind of explaining that look it's not that big of a deal right now with what's happening on Meta. Um, and then with Microsoft, again, we didn't listen to the call. So, I'm curious of why Microsoft might have been down a bit, but maybe they were just a little bit too priced to perfection, especially after some of those recent OpenAI news and everything else we're seeing in the overall industry. But long-term, very bullish in my opinion for for the whole ecosystem and for the whole market right now. Um, things are looking good, I think.
>> Yeah. Two things on Microsoft. They took a $3.5 billion hit from OpenAI. So, that's one thing. Number two is uh Street wanted 80.6 six billion and they came in at like 80.1 for guidance for next quarter. So, they're going to beat that number anyway, but it's like it wasn't enough of a guidance beat against the whisper numbers for Azure and that's why it looks like it's selling off a bit. But, I think the Microsoft dip is stupid. The meta dip is really stupid. I mean, like taking away 180 billion in market cap for a 15 billion one-time tax like they have to pay their taxes like they got to pay their taxes, right? So, taking this thing down is kind of dumb, but I think it's giving a lot of people a great opportunity to get into Meta. Uh Meta is now trading at 22 times 2026. That's not really expensive at this level.
>> Is Amazon moving on anything? I know they report earnings tomorrow, but at least we see that positive cloud um market. I wonder how if the market is now excited for Amazon after hours or
>> it's down 1%. I think the market's still waiting for the actual numbers that we're going to get. Obviously, the layoff news is important, but it doesn't look like cloud from GCP or Azure was bad. Maybe Azure wasn't as good as expected even though they still beat EPS by 13%. Cloud was incredible from Google, but nothing that would signal unless Amazon's actually losing business to those guys that Amazon should, you know, not put up good.
>> And I I I wouldn't think that's the case. I don't think anyone's losing market, anybody's losing business to them uh and anybody in this space because we are constrained, right? If you are constrained, you're going to be going to the other player instead. Uh you're not going to wait three months or four months out if someone else can give you the compute. Uh, so I don't I would say at least for Amazon, I don't think they're losing here in the uh AWS market. Um, but to me, Amazon outside of my top favorite, um, Amazon has become one of my favorite Mac 7s. Um, as I think the market might be just underappreciating the AWS growth it can see in the upcoming year or so.
>> Yeah, this was massive across the board, dude. This was massive across the board. Yeah, Google's for PE continues to remain reasonable. Uh, Sundar said, "Cloud is extensive and reliable. Meta outside of this tax thing, you know, this probably wouldn't create that much of an issue for I I didn't love Zuck's answers on some of these questions, but it was, you know, they didn't put up the numbers where anyone should be questioning the strategy. It's more so just a question of this tax thing leading to the gut reaction from the uh from the from the ALOS." And then Microsoft, there might be some things to nitpick at, but like that's the thing. You can nitpick at all these companies, but they all crushed again. They all increased capex again. And if Apple and Amazon do what they need to do tomorrow, it's a relatively likely successful Q3. Trump's meeting Xi in a couple hours. He just tweeted he's excited to meet him. South Korea
>> South Korea's investing 350 billion. He just tweeted. So I mean that like you got a variety of good updates in regards to the macro economy and these three companies really did prove that they need to do. Yeah. And Tanner said, "Outside the OpenAI hit on Microsoft, the combination of OpenAI's conversion to a public benefit corporation, the ongoing nature of our partnership will result in increased volatility. Therefore, going forward, we will provide our outlook excluding any impact from our investments in OpenAI. That could also be why maybe some of the estimates were a little bit lower, which is reasonable for Microsoft to do.
>> And we got crazy. They own Yeah. And they got so much ownership in in in Open AI, right? I mean, if OpenAI just continues to balloon in valuation, eventually it's going to be worth more than than Microsoft at these levels. So then Microsoft itself just has that own asset. That asset itself will be worth more than the company with these current numbers. But um yeah, overall I mean
>> last thing, what was your reaction to Nvidia 212? Like was that just crazy to you or
>> Yeah, I mean uh it's been just a fun day. I mean just Nvidia in general keep killing it. Uh keeps killing it. five trillion dollar company. Uh I'm just looking at more vacations to do throughout the uh throughout the upcoming year hopefully.
>> Are you thinking of selling any here at all or no?
>> No. I mean this is from from what we're seeing in the market here, right? Um we're still early innings. If you're telling me Microsoft is telling me at least for this fiscal year, um there's still going to be compute constraint. Um if you continue to see the innovations in AI, uh a lot of I I did a lot of work. I don't know if I mentioned it here uh but I was doing a lot of work and AI saved me what I think would have caught take took me weeks or months. If I'm doing that I can't imagine what other teams are doing. So um if I was to sell in the AI market or AI sector would be more of my yellow plays. Um but definitely not Nvidia. This is a company that's dominating in all angles. Um maybe not the best return or opposed to those yolo plays but it's all about that risk-to-reward mentality. And to me, Nvidia uh will still be my number one position with no intentions of selling.
>> All right, there we go. Uh thank you everybody for being with me for the uh past nine hours. Appreciate it. It's been a fun day. Jose, thanks for hopping on.
>> Go get some sleep, man.
>> I need to go for a walk. Jose, there's his YouTube right there. Uh BMR did not have earnings today. I think it's next week, so we'll talk about that. Trump is meeting Xi at around 10 p.m. Eastern. in a couple hours. If you're following on X, I'll probably post some updates on that. But we should see what uh what they discuss and we'll probably get an update from Trump and we'll be back tomorrow on the market open and we'll keep going from there. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you to all the mods who were here for I think Tess was here for nine. I don't know how Tess was here for nine hours, but I'm Benny June. Tess Cactus Jack was our Bloomberg all day. Austin, appreciate all you guys. Zold, thank you all for being here. We'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Bye everyone. Have a good one.